Document of               t .
The World Bank                   aS A
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Renort No. 3163a-YU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MORAVA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
January 30, 1981
Agriculture III
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
US 1                                                   Dinars (Din) 27.0
Din 1                                                  US$0.037
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)                                        2.20 pounds
1 metric ton (m ton)                                   1,000 kilograms
1 centimeter (cm)                                      0.39 inch
1 meter (m)                                            1.09 yards
1 kilometer (km)                                       0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)                                         2.47 acres
1 square meter (m2)                                    10.76 square feet
1 square kilometer (km2)                              0.384 square mile
1 liter (1)                                            0.264 gallon
1 hectoliter (hl)                                      100 liters
1 cubic meter (mn3)                                    1.31 cubic yards
ABBREVIATIONS
BCO      -   Basic Cooperative Organization
CA       -   Consortium Agreement among Financiers of the Project
COAL     -   Composite Organization of Associated Labor
ERR      -   Economic Rate of Return
FRR      -   Financial Rate of Return
IB       -   Investbanka - Osnova Banka
ICB      -   International Competitive Bidding
M        -   Million
NPV      -   Net Present Value
SDK      -   Social Accounting Service
SERBIA   -   Serbia Proper in SR Serbia (excluding Autonomous
Provinces of Kosovo and Vojvodina)
SFUR     -   Serbian Fund for Underdeveloped Regions of Serbia Proper
SMA      -   Self-Management Agreement among Participants in the
Project
SV       -   Switching Value
WO       -   Working Organization
YIB      -   Yugoslav Investment Bank
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
*   The currency equivalents given above are those effective in June 1980.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MORAVA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.      THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ................       ..1................. 
A.   Project Background ........................1.......... 
B.   Agriculture in Yugoslavia ............................                2
C.   Bank Strategy in Yugoslavia's Agriculture Sector   .....              3
D.   Agricultural Development Issues in Serbia ....            ........    4
II.      THE PROJECT AREA AND ITS DEVELOPMENT POTENTIAL ............                5
A.    Sectoral Context .....................................               5
B.  Description ................5.                            ;            5
C.   Agriculture and Its Development Potential ....            ........    6
III.      THE PROJECT           ..................................                   9
A.   Project Objectives and Concept .......................                9
B.   Project Description ..................................                9
C.   Status of Design and Implementation Schedule ... ......    12
D.   Cost Estimates .......................................    12
E.   Financing ............................................               14
F.   Disbursements ........................................               14
G.   Procurement ..........................................               15
H.   Retroactive Financing ................................               16
I.   Environmental Effect .................................    16
J. The Role of Women .16
IV.      PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION           .       .16
A.  Institutional Arrangements .16
B.  The Borrower: Investbanka (IB) .17
C.   The Implementing Agency:   Serbian Fund for Under-
developed Regions (SFUR) .18
D.  Participating Organizations (PO) .20
E. On-Lending Procedures .21
F.  On-Lending Terms and Conditions .22
G.  Technical Assistance and Training .23
H. Accounts and Audit .24
I.   Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation ..................    24
V.     PRODUCTION, PRICES, MARKETS AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ... .....    25
A.    Production ...........................................    25
B.   Marketing and Market Prospects .......................    26
C.   Prices ............................................                  26
D. Financial Analysis .27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)                                            Page No.
VI.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION             ..27
A. Benefits .27
B. Economic Evaluation .29
C.   Risk and Uncertainty ............................,.           30
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS .30
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1:      Project Cost and Description of Agroindustry Facilities
ANNEX 2:       Supporting Tables
T 1: List of Bank Loans Channelled through the Yugoslav
Investment Bank (YIB).
T 2: Quantity and Value of Projected Output from
Agroindustries.
T 3: Financial Prices for Main Inputs and Outputs.
T 4: Key Technical Assumptions Underlying Livestock Models.
T 5: Key Technical Assumptions Underlying Horticulture Models.
T 6: Financial Rates of Return for Livestock and Horticulture
Farm Models.
T 7: Key Assumptions Underlying Irrigation Schemes.
T 8: Financial Rates of Return and Sensitivity Analysis for
Agroindustries.
T 9: Key Assumptions Underlying Economic Analysis.
ANNEX 3:      Main Provisions of the Consortium Agreement (CA) among
Financiers of the Project
ANNEX 4:      Main Provisions of the Self-Management Agreement (SMA) among
Participants in the Project
ANNEX 5:      Organization and Staffing of the Project Division within
Investbanka (IB)
ANNEX 6:      Guidelines for Appraisal of Subprojects by Investbanka (IB)
ANNEX 7:      Selected Documents and Working Papers Available in the Project
File
CHARTS
Chart No: WB 22091 Implementation Schedule
Chart No: WB 22090 Project Organization and Institutional Arrangements
MAPS
IBRD Map 15231 Project Area and Location of Proposed Investments



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MORAVA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A.
..                            ~~~~~~~~A. PoetBcgun
1.01     The proposed Yugoslavia Morava Regional Development II Project will
be undertaken in the South Morava and Toplica sub-regions of the Morava
Region which is located in the southern part of Serbia 1/ (IBRD Map No.
15231). The project area is one of the least developed areas in Yugoslavia
since its income per capita ($1100) is only half of Serbia's average and 47%
of the Yugoslav average. 2/ The first Morava Regional Development Project
(Loan 1266-YU) was approved in May 1976 and mainly supported the development
of water supply and sewerage systems and included two small-scale pilot
irrigation schemes (para. 2.11). It also included three studies: (a) ways
to promote economic development of the South Morava and Toplica subregions;
(b) ways to adjust to flood hazards in the Morava Region; and (c) an action
program to improve water quality in the Morava Region. The implementation
of the project, though behind schedule, is proceeding satisfactorily.
1.02     The proposed project has evolved from the first of the above three
studies. The study was carried out by the Serbian Fund for Underdeveloped
Regions of Serbia Proper (SFUR), completed at the end of 1978, and outlined
a long-term investment plan for 20 years (1980-2000) covering all sectors of
the South Morava and Toplica subregions' economy. Since agriculture employs
the largest segment of the population of these subregions and is the least
developed sector, the proposed project has been designed to promote agricul-
tural development. The project was prepared by SFUR with the help of Yugo-
slav consultants (mainly the Institute for Agricultural Economics, Belgrade)
and the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program. The Preparation Report was sub-
mitted to the Bank in December 1979 and, following preparation/preappraisal
missions in February and April 1980, an appraisal mission visited Yugoslavia
1/ The Socialist Republic of Serbia consists of Serbia Proper and the
Autonomous Provinces of Kosovo and Vojvodina. The term Serbia in this
report refers to Serbia Proper only.
2/ World Bank estimate for 1978 using World Bank Atlas methodology.



-2-
in June 1980. The appraisal mission consisted of Messrs. V. Bhargava
(Mission Leader), H. Ochs, E. Schertz, Ms. S. Ganguly (Bank), and C.
Cronberg, V. Patankar and W. Powers (Consultants). Mr. R. Dunning of the
International Trade Center, Geneva, joined the mission and contributed in
defining the export promotion features of the project (para. 4.19). The
mission was assisted by Messrs. J. Srivastava, F. Wright, Ms. A. Trzeciak
(Bank) and Mr. C. Lynn (Consultant) during preappraisal of the project and
in project appraisal analysis in Washington.
B. Agriculture in Yugoslavia
1.03     The agriculture sector in Yugoslavia occupied over one-third of the
population and accounted for about 14% of the GMP in 1978, and has grown at
an average annual rate of about 3% during the period 1968-78. Agricultural
development in Yugoslavia is of crucial importance to: (a) meet an esti-
mated 4% annual increase in domestic consumption requirements; (b) provide
for increases in exports; (c) meet the raw material requirements for expand-
ing the agro-industries subsector; and (d) achieve Yugoslavia's employment
and income objectives primarily through development of the individual sector.
1.04     Agriculture is the only sector of the economy which is predomi-
nanti,y privately owned with about 84% of the country's arable land belonging
to  c      ,iy 26 rmillion (M) individual farmers (average size of holdings, 3.9
ha) w.l- coir;titutc about 95/ of the agricultural labor force.  The indi-
viedu<X] sector exists side-by-side with the social sector factory farms
(Agiool,iyb:Jnats) 1/ which hold about 16% of the arable land and produce about
28% o,f SIC nation's agricultural output.  Yugoslavia's principal strategy
So): (¢ltural  veelopment has been to emphasize growth of social sector
ai-;icu]-ure as the pri.ncipal means to achieve large scale market production
and se] f-sufficiency in Iood.
1, 05    rie dcevclo]Tpwent of the individual sector is sought through
OSfp, i k'i2aiS ;0CfatimiDy of i.ndividual farmers in Basic Cooperative
I/  tlie  .rolAbLnats operate as integrated factory farms engaged in primary
1,rnoduc t-t. 0 F-O processirtg, and distribution and marketing of food
produci-s. As.l Agrokombiniat typically consists of a large number of basic
ul-its, called Bas4c Organizations of Associated Labor (BOAL), which
.l, -iclz  in a self-contained production process such as vineyards,
nt)-ig5n p. Oc's Ding) catering, etc.  Two or more BOALs in similar linked
acti.v-ii(  join to make a Work Organization.  Two or more Work Organiza-
tions join to make a Composite Organization of Associated Labor.  The
total organization is called an Agrokombinat.



-3-
Organizations (BCO). These BCOs 1/ are typically associated with Agro-
kombinats. The BCOs provide farmers with a number of advantages such as:
retention of title to their individual parcels of land; assured markets and
access to the Agrokombinats' technical know-how; credit and inputs; access
to health and pension schemes similar to those of other social sector
organization members; and finally, a means of participating in decisions
that directly affect their welfare such as overall development programs of
the Agrokombinats. Encouraging results have been achieved in cooperation
between the two sectors in the short time since their inception in 1974.
During the period 1973-78, the area under major crops (wheat, maize and
sugar beet) grown by the cooperating farmers and the number of individual
farmers engaged in livestock production on a long-term cooperation basis
increased by 37% and 60% respectively.
1.06.    Yugoslavia's draft Agricultural Development Plan (1981-85) aims at
4.5% per annum agricultural production growth with agricultural production
in the social sector expected to grow at 6% and in the individual sector at
4%. Agroindustries, a priority activity, are expected to grow by 7% per
annum. IThe Plan's strategy is based on continued development of social
sector holdings and increased cooperation with the individual farm sector.
The less rapid growth targeted for the individual sector reflects its
limited absorptive capacity and the difficulties in providing the large
number of individual farmers involved with appropriate inputs and markets.
C. Bank Strategy in Yugoslavia's Agriculture Sector
1.07     It has been part of the Bank's strategy in Yugoslavia for some
years to support the development of primary production in the individual
sector, and of agroindustries in the social sector, that provide outlets for
individual sector production. This strategy is based on: (a) the compara-
tive advantage of the individual sector in labor-intensive products such as
livestock, fruits and vegetables; and (b) the need to emphasize the devel-
opment of the rural individual sector to improve income distribution, alle-
viate pockets of rural poverty, and increase rural productivity, all of
which relate primarily to the lower-income individual farmers. The proposed
project would be the eighth Bank loan for agriculture and agroindustries in
Yugoslavia and, like earlier projects, is consistent with the above Bank
strategy as with the country's own development strategy. None of the
previous projects have been completed in their entirety and therefore no
Project Completion Reports or Performance Audit Reports have yet been issued.
1/ The BCO is used in this report to refer to different forms of basic
organizations which cooperate with individual farmers under provisions
of the Law on Associated Labor. These forms range from BCOs made up
entirely of individual farmers to varying degrees of mix between
individual farmers and social sector farms/enterprises and are referred
to as Basic Cooperative Organizations, Basic Organization of Contract
Farmers, BOAL for Cooperation with Individual Farmers and Zadruga.



-4-
Performance Under Agricultural Credit Projects in Serbia
1.08     The proposed loan will be the first direct Bank loan to Serbia in
the agricultural sector. However, under the First and Second Agricultural
Credit Projects (Loans 1129-YU and 1477-YU), Serbia has received US$22.4 M.
These funds have been almost fully committed, and sub-project implementation
is proceeding satisfactorily. Serbia will also receive US$14.5 M under the
Third Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1801-YU) effective since June 1980.
The project area, however, will not receive any substantial funds from this
allocation. Investbanka (IB), the proposed borrower under this project, is
not a participating bank in the three nationwide agricultural credit
projects.
D. Agricultural Development Issues in Serbia
1.09     Serbia is the largest producer of agricultural commodities in
Yugoslavia. In 1978, it provided 42% of Yugoslavia's fruit, 25% of meat and
24% of cereals and nearly 16% of processed food products. It accounts for
27% of arable land in Yugoslavia, 32% of livestock and 32% of the active
agricultural population; it produces 27% of the nation's agricultural social
product, but accounts for only 17% of marketed production. The productivity
of its agricultural labor force is only 79% of the Yugoslav average. The
individual sector owns 94% of arable land in Serbia, compared to 85% in
Yugoslavia; the relatively stronger dominance of the individual sector is
the single most important factor underlying the low productivity of the
agriculture sector in Serbia compared with Yugoslav averages. A corollary
of the less productive individual sector has been the rural poverty and
income disparities between the social and individual sectors and among
various regions in Serbia.
1.10     The importance of agricultural development and the need to alle-
viate the constraints facing the agriculture sector, particularly among
individual farmers, are recognized and have been addressed in Serbia's draft
Agricultural Development Plan (1981-85) in which agriculture has been
designated as a priority activity. The Plan aims at a 4% per annum agri-
cultural production growth for the period 1981-85 with the agricultural
production in the social sector expected to grow at 7.5% and in the indi-
vidual sector at 3.8%. Agroindustries are expected to grow at 7%. The Plan
strategy is primarily to encourage social sector growth while promoting
increased cooperation between the individual and social sectors, with each
sector drawing on its respective comparative advantages. Thus meat, milk,
fruits and vegetables would be mainly produced by the individual sector; and
industrial crops, cereals, and processed food products mainly by the social
sector. The Plan strategy is sound and is consistent with performance of
the two sectors in the past.



II. THE PROJECT AREA AND ITS DEVELOPMENT POTENTIAL
A. Sectoral Context
201    Trhe project area accounts for 14% of cultivated land, 12% of
orchards, 12% of livestock and 16% of the agricultural population of Serbia;
yet accounts for only about 10% of the cereals, fruit and livestock output
in Serbia. Its contribution to marketed surplus was only 8%. During the
period 1981-85 the project area, relative to Serbia, is expected to achieve
higher rates of growth in livestock and horticulture production. Develop-
ment of the project area is important not only for increased production, but
also to reduce income disparities between the project area and the otiher
parts of the Republic. Accordingly, Serbia's 1981-85 Plan assigns the
highest priority to implementation of the proposed project.
B. Description
Topography, Climate, Land Use and Soils
2.02     The project area (IBRD Map No. 15231) covers about 8,729 km2,
about 75% of which is mountainous. Mean air temperatures are around 100C
but vary from -60C in January to +22°C in July. Spring frosts are
generally not a problem. Annual rainfall varies between 530 and 800 mm and
snow cover can last from 20 to 50 days. Rainfall is poorly distributed as
80% occurs in late autumn, winter, and early spring, while summers are
predominantly dry. Of the total project area, 492,460 ha or 57% is agri-
cultural land, 37% is forest, while the remaining 6% consists of settle-
ments, roads, river beds, etc. While the Morava region in general is prone
to flooding during the rainy season the investments under this project would
mostly be undertaken on well drained areas. Agricultural land use comprises
51% annual crops, 8% orchards and vineyards, and 41% pastures and meadows.
Only about 10% of arable land has high quality soil; the rest is low
fertility soil in classes IV to VIII.
Population, Employment and Incomes
2.03     The project area consists of 13 communes in the South Morava sub-
region and 5 in the Toplica sub-region, populated by 502,000 and 144,700
inhabitants respectively in 1977. Both sub-regions are predominantly agri-
cultural since over 50% of the population depends on agriculture for their
livelihood. However, agriculture contributes only 23% of GMP in South
Morava and 44% in Toplica. Due to the dominance of agricultural households,
per capita income in the majority of commuines is less than 50% of Serbia's
average of US$2,200 per capita. The unemployment rate is high in South
Morava at 13% of the economically active population while it was only 5% for
Toplica subregions in 1975. Underemployment is widespread in rural areas.



- 6 -
The considerable income disparities as well as high unemployment have
contributed to substantial emigration from the project area.
Organization of Agriculture
2.04     Individual farmers own over 97% of arable land, 93% of orchards,
92% of vineyards and almost all the livestock in the project area. Average
farm size is about 4 ha. Farm fragmentation is a serious constraint to
efficient farm management and a typical 4 ha farm has about 2.3 ha of arable
land divided into as many as 10 plots. An average farm family has 5.7
members in the South Morava sub-region with 3.4 active members; and 3.8
members in the Toplica sub-region with 1.9 active members. In contrast to
the individual farming sector, social sector farming is of limited import-
ance in the project area comprising about 50 relatively small estates which
contribute about 11% to agricultural income in the area. The relationship
between the social and individual sectors is complementary with the social
sector supplying inputs and technical assistance and the individual sector
selling its produce to the social sector. Several BCOs (see para 1.05) have
been operating in the project area with good results. Under the project the
number of cooperating farmers will be greatly expanded.
C. Agriculture and its Development Potential
Livestock Production
2.05     In 1979, there were about 210,000 cattle, 240,000 sheep, 170,000
pigs and about 1.5 million chickens in the project area, forming 12% of the
total livestock population of Serbia. There is a considerably underutilized
reproductive potential which, through improvements in management and
nutrition, could serve to expand livestock production in a short period of
time. In addition, on-going artificial insemination and planned cross-
breeding programs offer the opportunities to increase the numbers of higher
productive breeds; and the about 84,000 ha of meadows and 119,000 ha of
pastures in the project area (41% of all agricultural land) have low yields
and offer considerable potential for low cost production of milk, beef,
mutton, and lamb through grassland development.
2.06     Livestock productivity is low in the project area with annual milk
yields of only about 1,400 1 per cow and 20-25 1 per ewe, and 400, 100, and
400 grams daily weight gains for cattle, sheep, and pigs, respectively.
However, wool production, about 2 kgs per sheep per year, and cow fertility
and lambing rates of 75% and 95% respectively, are acceptable though can be
improved. The animal health situation in the project area is good.
Horticultural Production
2.07     The project area has a significant fruit industry which contributes
10% of the total fruit production in Serbia from 12% of its fruit growing



area. About 93% of the horticultural production in the project area is in
the hands of individual farmers who are mostly underemployed and willing to
intensify fruit production, provided steady market and production inputs and
know-how are provided. The average fruit yields on individual farms are
less than half those achieved in the project area's modern, usually social
sector, plantations. Ecological conditions for fruit production in the
project area are excellent, and the area has good potential to increase
fruit production and productivity through the use of modern production
practices. A very limited amount of irrigation is currently being used in
the project area and substantial increases in yields can be achieved with
irrigation in the months of July and August, particularly for apples, sour
cherries, pears and peaches.
2.08     Grape production in the project area amounts to 35,000 tons
annually or 3% of the country's total grape production. Most of the
vineyards are old, and need replacement because of low productivity and the
predominance of grape varieties which are inferior for quality wine
production. Grape production in the project area is in urgent need of
modernization to save it from dying.
2.09     A number of fruit varieties grown in the project area are inferior
in quality and/or poor producers. Improved varieties and growing techniques
have been tried on a commercial scale on social sector farms and on a
limited number of individual farms in the project area; the achievements
to date show much higher productivity than found in traditional orchards.
The project area has nurseries which are capable of producing sufficient
planting stock to support an expansion of modern plantations.
Cereal Production
2.10     About 75% of arable land in the project area is under cereal crops,
mainly maize and wheat. However, the average yield per ha of maize and
wheat are 15% and 40% below the average for Serbia. The low productivity
is in part due to the flooding of arable land, and to lack of use of modern
technology. Increased mechanization and fertilizer application have,
nonetheless, improved yields in recent years and the improving trend is
expected to continue.
Irrigation anid Water Resources
2.11     Lack of efficient water management in the project area is a con-
straint to agricultural development. Problems tied to water constraint are
the minimal use of surface waters for water supply and irrigation, flood
damages, lack of data on ground waters and the polluted condition of the
Toplica River. While the proposed project does not directly adXdress these
natural constraints, they must be recognized as a major characteristic of
the project environment. Much of the work to overcome water constraint is
expected to flow from an on-going Flood Hazard Study and pilot irrigation
schemes financed under the Morava I Project, and from other on-going long-
term water management schemes in the project area. The pilot irrigation
schemes under the Morava I Project are under construction and aim at



- 8 -
demonstrating the feasibility of low cost irrigation systems in the project
area. Although the results from these pilot schemes are not yet available,
three small irrigation schemes have been included in the proposed project
since they concern high value crops, such as orchards and vegetables, which
yield satisfactory financial and economic returns to justify irrigation
costs.
Support Services
2.12     Farmers in the project area are directly supported by a basic agri-
cultural service which is based within the different Working Organizations
in the project area and currently has a total staff of 738, including
agronomists, veterinarians, economists and middle level technicians. This
service assumes direct responsibility for technical assistance, input
supply, and marketing assistance to farmers and has been functioning for
over 20 years. Its costs are covered half by a fund for development of
agricultural services in individual farmer households and half by the
relevant Working Organizations. The level of density of support staff is
low and not conducive to achieve the rapid agricultural development proposed
under the project. In particular, farmers in the remote hilly areas will
need to receive more intensive support services by multi-purpose agents.
Lack of transport, working and housing facilities is particularly evident in
these areas and hinders the employment of sufficiently qualified and
motivated agents there. The project would strengthen the support services
(para. 3.06).
2.13     There are 17 veterinary stations and 3 agricultural trial stations
in the project area, mostly associated in Working Organizations. While the
veterinary stations are well staffed and equipped, the agricultural stations
lack working facilities. The veterinary services are self-financing through
service fees charged, while the costs of agricultural stations are covered
by the respective Kombinats (50%), regional and communal funds (30%) and
trade organizations (20%).
Agroindustries
2.14     In the project area, the agroindustries have so far played a minor
role in development, employing only 4.9% of industrial workers, and con-
tributing only 6.6% of GMP of the project area. Agroindustries include
flour mills, grain storage facilities, bakeries, an animal feed factory, and
limited capacities for fruit and vegetable canning, fruit juice and milk
processing, and slaughterhouses. The processing capacities absorb sub-
stantially less than half the milk, livestock and fruits available for pro-
cessing. Given the strong potential for raw material production in the
project area, agroindustrial capacity expansion is crucial to development.
The main reasons for the insufficient development of agroindustries are:
(a) lack of capital; and (b) poor links between the processing plants and
raw material producers. The proposed agroindustry investments under the
project would produce a diversified range of processed food products for the
domestic and export markets and would stimulate primary production by
individual farmers.



- 9 -
III, THE PROJECT
A.  Pro       
3o01     The project's main objectives are to:  (a) assist in the devel-
opment of the Morava region--one of the less developed rural areas of
Yugoslavia--through increases in productivity, employment, and income of the
individual farm sector which is the poorest and the least developed sector
of the project area; (b) increase production of meat, milk, fruits and
processed food products primarily for the domestic market; (c) increase
exports of processed food products based on primary agricultural production
*          in the project area; (d) contribute to institution building by strengthening
the organizational and project preparation capacities of the regional devel-
opment institutions in the project area; and (e) strengthen the appraisal
and supervision capacity of Invescbanka (IB, the proposed borrower). The
project objectives will be achieved by providing finance for: (a) livestock
and horticultural production on individual farms, with underemployed labor,
to enable farmers to produce for market and earn sufficient income for a
reasonable standard of living; (b) strengthening of technical support
services; and (c) increasing processing capacities to ensure adequate and
steady markets for agricultural products from the project area.
B. Project Description
3.02     The project would consist of 5 components:  (a) livestock produc-
tion; (b) horticulture production; (c) irrigation; (d) support services; and
(e) agroindustries. The borrower under the proposed Bank loan would be IB
which would on-lend to Basic Cooperative Organizations (para. 1.05) for
individual sector investments and to social sector enterprises for imple-
mentation of social sector components under the project. The project com-
ponents are described below;
Livestock Production
3.03     The livestock component is designed to increase productivity, in-
come and employment of about 2,400 individual farmers through sub-loans to
about 755 dairy, 205 cattle-fattening, 865 sheep-fattening, 245 mixed, 210
pig fattening and 120 broiler farms for production of milk, beef, lamb/
mutton, pork and chicken, and to 150 units for honey production.  Sub-loans
would finance construction of farm buildings and the purchase of machinery,
equipment and initial livestock requirements.  Most of the production would
be supplied to processing facilities also financed under the project. A
piglet breeding unit with 1,650 sows would be established in the social
sector to supply about 31,000 piglets per year to individual farmers for
fattening. Cattle and sheep productivity would be increased through:
(a) introduction of improved genetic stock - Simmenthal-type cattle and



- 10 -
Wuerttemberg sheep; and (b) improved feeding and management practices sup-
por;tcd by increased fodder production, mainly maize silage, lucerne cul.iva-
t'ou, and pasture and meadow improvement on farms financed under the project.
I- rved gens:tic stock would be available as a result of on-going artificial
in.   ;ation and cross-breeding programs in the project area and import of a
imi:ed ntumber of breeding s^ws and boars under the project.  Technical
ssiLtanre would be nade available by support services which would be
Etrenotiiened under the p nject (para. 3.06).  Successfully proven intensive
cORUL  ial tecl-enology already practiced by the social sector in the project
wea wonl  also be applied to pig and chicken production by the individual
sector.
4.0/l   tlrT  horti uIture component is designed to.  (a) increase the pro-
(;u)(r   , nk,  , iIIQI r-aiployment of about 6,470 individual farmers through
Kl3c piovi-sioii of sub-loans for the establishment of 3,650 ha of new, rainfed
fJ;t pl3  tml ;C)Io,s cmrlp rled of 1,300 ha of sour cherries, 780 ha of plums,
' ' o  '',  >:   f'}h3Of apples, 85 ha of quince, 100 ha of pears, 170
In;' n:iJ 'mc"l'lt.Ss m O hao  black currants, 505 ha of blackberries, and 1,100
ba a     fiOnC   vincyards- and (b) increase fruit production and provide
cnp)ovn,tewnt opOl-turoitires thnough establishment of about 220 ha orchards and
200 ha vi nov  i      heO social sector.  The incremental output of fruits and
grapes would bh          'c)  to the fruit processing industries and wineries
which are pay- cc  , V b       blished or modernized/expanded under the proj-
cCt.  A, `  im' t pli,tin gs will be of moderately high densities.  Modern
productioni uanagenrnent system-ns similar to those applied on a limited number
of recent Plantations cin the project area would be introduced.  The invest-
-   proposzc' wi 31 rv l  a major beginning for developing modern and high
½cIruCLivnty ahori coluture in the project area.  A novel feature of this
-omponent   13 be land consolidation to establish block orchards and vine-
-o?rds C cOinsI Si rfg of typ-ically 10 to 50 ha involving 20 to 100 farmers.  This
'o:uld inor-oe tbe efficie.-cy of establishing the new plantings, carrying out
-t control  harvesting and produce-handling and providing support ser-
Vices.  Grouls for the first two years of the planting program have already
;¢ en formnede
lUrigation
3e05     The iirrigation component of the project has been designed to
iTnprove the econornic conditions of about 2,130 individual farmers through
providing sub-loans for three schemes to irrigate about 930 ha.  Sufficient
wot-er for irrigation is assured from nearby existing dams and a power
orol. r T he sub-loans would finance investments for civil works, including
i;rigctioro a.-d drainage systemis, access roads, and improvement of stream
channels and ecQab]-shnT.eo-  of about 450 ha of high density fruit tree plant-
ings in the ir-rigated -.s.  To derive maximum benefits, farmers will pro-
duce both fruils anc    etables in the areas irrigated.  The Agrokombinats
in the project area waniid inmplement the irrigation schemes and recover costs
from individual farmers (para. 4.14(d)>>



- 11 -
Support Services
3.06     The support services component is designed to provide technical
assistance to farmers undertaking livestock and horticulture production
activities under the project, as well as to other farmers in the project
area. For this purpose the existing basic agricultural service and agri-
cultural and veterinary stations in the project area (para. 2.10) would be
strengthened under the project. A basic agricultural service team consist-
ing of 1 agronomist and 2 agricultural technicians would become responsible
for implementation and close supervisiort of about 60 livestock farms or
230 ha of fruit plantations or vineyards; and agricu'ltural and veterinary
stations would be strengthened by 20 staff each. In addition, at the sub-
regional level, the 3 major Agrokombinats in the project area would estab-
lish a Development Service to provide support to extension agents,
coordinate development and training programs and elaborate new investment
programs. This would require the employment of 20 university degree staff.
Under the project a total of 250 support service staff would thus be hired
over a four year period. In addition, the project would finance required
buildings, laboratory and office equipment, farm machinery and vehicles and,
to alleviate housing constraints in remote areas, would construct apartments
for 62 support staff. SFUR would be responsible for arranging the imple-
mentation of this component (para. 4.19(d)).
Agroindustries
3.07     Subloans would be provided to finance investments in construction
or reconstruction of the following 40 agro-industrial facilities (a detailed
description of these agroindustries is in Annex l)e (a) two milk processing
plants to produce pasteurized milk, yoghurt, sour cream, butter, and cheese;
(b) three fruit processing plants to produce fruit juices, fruit salads,
pasteurized fruits and candied fruits; (c) two wineries to produce high
quality wine (d) two dehydration plants to produce dehydrated fruits
vegetables and herbs; (e) a cold store with freezing tunnel to produce
frozen fruits for export; (f) two meat processing plants to produce beef,
pork, mutton, lamb, chicken and processed meat products; (g) a livestock
feed mill to produce concentrate feed to support livestock development under
the project; and (h) a hand-made carpet making facility to produce tradi-
tional carpets and tapestries made by women of the project area. In case,
during implementation of the project, some of the agroindustries are no
longer financially viable on the basis of TB appraisal, the respective ear-
marked funds can be used for alternative agro-industrial development with
the Bank's agreement. The items to be financed would typically include:
technical assistance for design and operation of the plants and, in some
cases, for marketing of goods abroad and at home (para. 4.19); purchase of
raw material collection facilities and transport equipment; purchase of food
processing equipment; construction and reconstruction of buildings; and
permanent working capital requirements.



- 12 -
C. Status of Design and Implementation Schedule
3.08     The project is in an advanced stage of preparation and project
implementation can start immediately following approval of the proposed Bank
loan. In order to avoid loss of one growing season, the Bank has agreed
that the Investor can start limited preliminary work such as land prepara-
tion and planting of seedlings. Completion of all project investments is
projected for December 1985. Most of the individual farmers and Basic
Organizations participating under the livestock, horticulture and irrigation
components of the project have been identified and building designs and
technology packages have been developed.  Out of 14 agroindustry facilities
to be financed under the project, bids have already been invited (in accord-
ance with Bank Guidelines for ICB) for procurement of 5 facilities on a
turn-key contract basis and for procurement of equipment for another 7
facilities. The contracts are expected to be signed in March 1981 shortly
after signing of the Bank loan. For the remaining 2 agroindustries (a milk
processing and a dehydration plant) design consultants have been appointed
and bids are expected to be invited for equipment procurement which is
expected to be finalized by September 1981. Timing of procurement actions
for agroindustries is critical to avoid loss of one processing season. The
implementation schedule of project components is shown on Chart WB No. 22091.
D. Cost Estimates
3.09     Total project cost, including physical and price contingencies, but
excluding interest during construction, is estimated at Din. 6,465 M (about
US$239.4 M) of which Din. 2,448 M (US$90.7 M) or 38% of the total project
CUSL WOUld De tne roreign excnange componen. ine cost escimates include
import duties and taxes estimated at Din. 200 M (US$7.4 M). The unit costs
are based on estimates obtained, in May 1980, from local and foreign
suppliers of equipment and civil works and have been updated to reflect the
costs that would prevail in early 1981. Cost estimates are given on page
13. A physical contingency of 8% of base cost, and an average price con-
tingency 1/ of 23% on base cost plus physical contingencies, have been
included in the cost estimate. Interest during construction on the proposed
1/ Price contingencies have been calculated at the following expected
prices increases, expressed in % annual increase:
Equipment and other Items         Civil Works
International    Domestic           Domestic
1981                  9.0            15.0              18.0
1982                  8.0           12.0               14.0
1983-85               7.0           10.0               12.0



- 13 -
Bank loan would add an additional US$24.0 M to the foreign exchange require-
ments of the project, but would not be financed from the Bank loan; it is
expected that about US$17.0 M will be covered from internal cash generation
of subborrowers, with the balance of about US$7.0 M to be financed from
other sources. Details on the cost estimates are shown below.
A. PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
Project                 Cost in Din. Million              Cost in US$ '000
Component            Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total   FE%
Livestock
Production           787.7    404.4  1,192.1   29,173   14,979   44,152    34
Horticulture
Production           606.8    313.7    920.5   22,476   11,619   34,095    34
Irrigation            196.5      71.8    268.3    7,277    2,659    9,936    27
Support Services       73.2      34.5    107.7    2,712    1,276    3,988    32
Agroindustries      1,358.9  1,020.5  2,379.4   50,330   37,797   88,127    43
Total Base Cost   3,023.1  1,844.9  4,868.0  111,968   68,330  180,298    38
Physical Contin-
gencies (8%)         232.6    148.6    381.2    8,614    5,504   14,118    38
Price Contin-
gencies (23%)       760.9    454.6  1,215.5   28,180   16,837   45,017    38
Total Cost with
Contingencies    4,016.6  2,448.1  6,464.7  148,762   90,671  239,433    38
Interest During
Construc-
tion (IDC) /1       675.0    648.0  1,323.0   25,000   24,000   49,000    52
Total Project
Financial
Requirements      4,691.6  3,096.1  7,787.7  173,762  114,671  288,433    40
B. PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Total        Interest       Total Project   % Share
Project        During           Financial      in Funds
Cost       Construction      Requirements   Required
----------------us$ Millions-----------
1. Total Project
Financial
Requirements            239.4           49.0            288.4            100
2. Funding Sources
a.   IBRD                87.0            0.0             87.0             30
b.   SFUR                71.8            4.5             76.3             27
c.   Investbanka         24.0             1.5            25.5              9
d.   Local Banks
and Sub-
borrowers         56.6            43.0            99.6             34
/1 To be financed by subborrowers.



- 14 -
E. Financing
3.10     The proposed Bank loan of US$87.0 million would finance most of the
foreign exchange cost of project equipment and materials, civil works and
support services and would be made to IB for 15 years, including 3 years of
grace. IB would on-lend the loan proceeds to the sub-borrowers, in accord-
ance with the terms and procedures described in paras. 4.14 to 4.20. The
financing plan is shown on page 13. The Bank loan would be repaid on the
basis of an adjustable repayment schedule reflecting the composite repay-
ments of sub-loans by the sub-borrowers. Assurances on the above conditions
were obtained during negotiations. A Consortium Agreement (CA) among local
banks in the project area, SFUR, and IB is being finalized and would be con-
cluded to ensure availability of local funds for the project (see Annex 3
for the main provisions of the CA). The signing of CA would be a condition
for effectiveness of the proposed loan.
F. Disbursements
3.11     Disbursements of the proposed Bank loan of US$87 million would
extend over five years and would be made against 100% of foreign expendi-
tures and 50% of the amounts disbursed by Investbanka on account of local
expenditures in both instances subject to a miximum of 36% of the total
estimated cost of respective subprojects (see also para. 4.16). The Bank
loan would be divided in the following manner:
(a)  Sub-loans to Individual Farmers under Livestock and Horticulture
Components:  US$34.5M.
(b)  Sub-loans to the Social Sector for Livestock, Horticulture, Irriga-
tion, Support Services and Agroindustries: US$52.5 M.
3.12     Disbursement requests would be supported by full documentation in
the case of sub-loans for agroindustries, social sector primary production
and support services. For sub-loans for irrigation and for the individual
sector, the Bank would disburse against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs),
since they involve on-lending for small borrowers by IB and would finance
small and numerous local expenditures. IB is considered capable of using
SOE procedure and assurances were obtained, during negotiations, for
independent audit of procedures for preparing and submitting SOEs (see para.
4.21). The documentation in support of SOEs would be retained by IB and
would be available for inspection by the Bank during the course of project
implementation. Assurances on these disbursement procedures were obtained
during negotiations.
3.13     The preparation stage of the project is such that disbursements
would start immediately following loan effectiveness. The schedule of
disbursements is estimated as follows:



- 15 -
--------US$ M             illion--------------
Bank FY      FY82      FY83     FY84      FY85      FY86
Annual                                  11.0      27.0      27.0      16.0       6.0
Cumulative                              11.0      38.0      65.0      81.0      87.0
G. Procurement
3.14     Agroindustrial plants and equipment, estimated to cost about
US$54 M, would be procured following International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
in accordance with the Bank guidelines of March 1977. This would consist
of; (a) agroindustries with an estimated cost of US$24 M, including turn-
key construction and equipping of a poultry processing plant, a livestock
feed mill, a cold store and a dehydration plant; and (b) equipment with an
estimated cost of US$30 M for milk, meat and fruit juice processing, a
dehydration plant, wineries and drip irrigation. Bids have already been
invited for most of these facilities with the exception of a dehydration and
a milk processing plant (para. 3.08). Domestic manufacturers would receive
a 15% margin of preference or the actual level of import duty, whichever is
less in bid comparisons. Contracts for the procurement of equipment for the
processing plants would include provisions under which equipment suppliers
would furnish erection supervisors, guarantee performance and train local
staff in operation and maintenance of the equipment. It is estimated that
out of about US$54 M, foreign suppliers would be awarded contracts valued at
about US$30 M (56%). Procurement actions so far have been taken in accord-
ance with the above procedures, and during negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the procurement arrangements outlined above would be followed
for further procurement under the project.
3.15     ICB would not be suitable for works and equipment connected with
other project components valued at US$185.4 M; namely, the livestock,
horticulture, irrigation (except drip equipment), support services and
carpet factory components of the project and the civil works for processing
plants included under item (b) of para. 3.14. Works and equipment involved
are not suitable for international procurement as they are unlikely to be
attractive to foreign contractors and suppliers due to the dispersion of
investors, wide differences in the type of construction and equipment
required, phasing of contracts over 4 years, and relatively small size of
each contract. Procurement of these components would be done through
existing commercial channels or local procurement procedures and would be
supervised by IB. Sufficient commercial channels and civil work contractors
are available in Yugoslavia to provide adequate competition for the supply
of goods and civil works needed under these components.



- 16 -
H. Retroactive Financing
3.16     The project is in an advanced stage of preparation.  In order to
avoid loss of one growing season and a processing season it was necessary to
start preliminary works under the horticulture component and appoint consul-
tants for agroindustries (para. 3.08). Retroactive financing of these
expenditures up to an amount of US$1.0 M is recommended under the project.
I. Environmental Effect
3.17     The project is not expected to have any significant adverse
environmental effect on the project area. The subborrowers for agroindustry
investments would be required to have adequate effluent treatment facilities.
J. Role of Women
3.18     Yugoslavia has made considerable progress with respect to ensuring
equal opportunities for women. In the institutions with which the Bank
would be involved in the proposed project, there are many women among the
professional staff. It is expected that women will benefit as much as men
from the increased employment opportunities in the social sector components
of the project. Women are expected to gain more than half of the employment
opportunities created under the agroindustries component of the project and
would participate significantly in livestock and horticulture production on
individual farms.
IV. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Institutional Arrangements
4.01     The borrower of the proposed loan would be IB, while SFUR would be
the project implementation agency. The Bank would sign a project agreement
with SFUR which would detail its responsibilities and obligations under the
project. A Consortium Agreement (CA) among local banks, IB and SFUR would
be concluded, prior to effectiveness of the proposed loan, to ensure funds
needed for the project (para. 3.10). The project investments would be
carried out by three Agrokombinats, and several other Basic Organizations
which exist in the project area. The lending to individual farmers will be
done through BCOs. A Self-Management Agreement (SMA) among all participants
of the project would specify their responsibilities and obligations under
the project (see Annex 4 for main provisions of the SMA). SFUR and IB would
enter into a Subsidiary Agreement (SA) which would define their relationship



- 17 -
under the Project (para. 4.06). Drafts of CA, SMA and SA have been dis-
cussed among the likely signatories as well as with the Bank. Assurances
were obtained during negotiation that signing of CA, SMA and SA, satis-
factory to the Bank, would be conditions for effectiveness of the proposed
loan. These institutional arrangements are shown in Chart WB 22090.
B. The Borrower: Investbanka (IB)
4.02      IB commenced operations on January 1, 1978 under the new Banking
Law, as the legal successor of the Yugoslav Investment Bank (YIB) and the
Belgrade Bank. IB is a basic bank. It can carry out all types of credit
and banking operations in Yugoslavia and is empowered to borrow abroad. It
has associated itself with 18 other basic banks to form the Associated
Belgrade Bank, and together they constitute the largest banking system in
Yugoslavia. Although IB is not a borrower under previous Bank loans, its
predecessor, YIB, was the borrower under eleven Bank loans for a total of
$345 million during 1961-70.  During the 1970's, none of the Bank loans to
Yugoslavia were channelled through YIB because: (a) banking reforms in
Yugoslavia decentralized power to regionalized banks and virtually elimi-
nated YIB as a central investment bank; and (b) the Bank in 1977 began
DFC-type lending to the newly formed regional banks at the request of the
Government. In 1968, the Bank did consider a line of credit to YIB, but
because of negative findings by a Bank appraisal mission regarding the suit-
ability of YIB for DFC-type projects, the proposal was abandoned. This
decision was questioned by the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department (OED)
in its PPAR No. SECM76-156 of March 11, 1976, which argued that the Bank's
decision excluded YIB from the institution-building benefits associated with
DFC lending. In this project, the close involvement of IB in the appraisal
process, together with its subproject appraisal, implementation, and super-
visory responsibilities, are expected to result in significant institution-
building benefits. In fact, experience gained with this project is already
being applied in the preparation of similar new projects. Under the proj-
ect, IB is expected to mobilize and channel financial resources (its own and
those of other local banks) which, in absence of the project, would most
likely not be made available in the same amount during the period covered by
the project.
4.03     IB, as a major source of credit in Serbia in most sectors, accounts
for over 45% of on-going Republic investments and, taken together with all
its associated work organizations, accounts for 52% of total Republic income
and 18% of total national income. It provides a major portion of the
financing for the transport, power, iron and steel, machine building, basic
chemical, and water economy industries. As was the case with its prede-
cessors, IB's agricultural activities absorb a low proportion of lending; in
terms of volume, nonetheless, agriculture receives an important share of
loans approved. Overall, IB's growth rates are continuing the upward trends
of its predecessors, although in 1979 the high inflation rate cancelled out
any real growth, as may be the case in 1980 as well. The relationship



- 18 -
between IB's long- and short-term portfolios has been about 8 to 1, with
long-term loans constituting about 75% of total assets. Operating results
reflect the predominantly long-term structure, with financial expenses
absorbing more than 80% of total operating income. Administrative costs
have been relatively low compared with other Yugoslav banks, showing good
control. Low returns on Net Worth and Total Assets are consistent with
federal policy to keep income at levels just sufficient to meet legal obli-
gations, salaries, and expenses. IB's liquidity level is low, but no
special measures are being proposed to alter this position, because:
(a) specific legal reserve requirements exist to ensure the maintenance of
sufficient liquidity; (b) lB's members, among whom are the largest enter-
prises in Yugoslavia, have unlimited liability for its obligations; (c) the
availability of IB's 10% contribution to the proposed project will not be
affected by liquidity levels as it represents only 0.5% of total projected
assets of Din. 136.2 billion (US$5 billion) for 1980 and since specific
assurances were obtained on the financing plan; and (d) on the basis of the
managerial and operational performance of its predecessor institutions and
its own performance over its first almost three full years of operation, IB
is considered a sound institution, creditworthy for Bank lending.
4.04     IB is managed by an Executive Board drawn from an Assembly of all
its members (enterprises). Credit committees drawn from the Assembly are
responsible for loan approvals. Day-to-day operations are carried out by a
collective management board with a President and several Deputies. IB is
organized along sectoral and territorial lines. In 1980, it employed 2,961
staff, of which around 20% had post-secondary training, and it had 23 busi-
ness units (branch banks) and 61 sub-offices. Staff come mainly from its
two predecessor institutions, and, therefore, some of them have been exposed
to World Bank policies and procedures from the days when YIB was a Bank
borrower. To perform its responsibilities under this project, and for
future such projects (para 6.05), IB has established a Project Operations
Division. A staffing list for this Division has been agreed with IB (Annex
5) and 9 out of the proposed 15 staff members have already been assigned,
including the Director of the Division. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the Division would continue to operate in IB and that it
would be adequately staffed and responsible for all sub-loans under the
project. Greater detail on the organization, lending policies and proce-
dures, and financial situation of IB is provided in Working Paper No. 10.
IB's specific undertakings under the loan are summarized in para. 7.02.
C. The Implementing Agency: Serbian Fund for Underdeveloped
Regions (SFUR)
4.05     SFUR was created as a legal entity in 1961 to stimulate and support
the accelerated development of economic activities in the underdeveloped



- 19 -
regions of S.R. Serbia. More than 80% of its total resources, which in 1979
amounted to Din. 1,526.2 M (US$56.5 M) are derived from contributions by
social sector organizations in Serbia which are legally obliged to contri-
bute 0.5% of their annual gross social product for the development of less
developed areas of Serbia. SFUR supports enterprises in less developed
areas directly through loans or joint venture participations, or indirectly
through interest rate subsidies and grants. SFUR is managed through an
Assembly, made up of 51 delegates elected by municipal and regional assemb-
lies and the Assembly of Serbia. SFUR's Assembly elects an Executive Com-
mittee, which consists of 17 members and is responsible for all policies and
operations of SFUR, and appoints its Director. The Director of SFUR runs
day to day operations and is assisted by a Deputy Director, four economists,
and six engineers.
4.06     SFUR has entered into a contract with IB under which IB:  (a)
carries out appraisal, supervision and recovery of all sub-loans made by
SFUR; (b) keeps records on SFUR funds; (c) disburses and receives SFUR
funds; and (d) provides selected administrative and support services. This
arrangement allows SFUR to concentrate on its development functions while
retaining authority on all loan approvals. IB receives a commission of
0.14% on gross funds handled during the year. This relationship between IB
and SFUR has worked satisfactorily in the past and will be continued under
the project through a Subsidiary Agreement (SA) which would be concluded
prior to effectiveness of the Bank loan. Assurances to this effect were
obtained during negotiations. The draft SA and details of SFUR's organiza-
tion, operations and finances are available in Working Paper No. 11.
4.07     SFUR would be responsible under the project to:  (a) mobilize and
ensure participant commitment for project implementation, principally by
means of the SMA; (b) ensure timely project implementation by organizing
Regional Coordination Units (para. 4.08); (c) review progress in project
implementation on the basis of monitoring and evaluation arrangements agreed
for the project (para. 4.22-4.24) and take appropriate remedial actions; (d)
combine its funds with funds from the Bank, IB, and local banks to finance
investments under the project and provide funds together with IB and local
banks, if needed, to cover cost over-runs under the project; (e) adjust the
targets and quotas between the organizations participating in the project if
needed; (f) consult the Bank concerning any major reorganizations of
Participating Organizations (POs) under the project which may affect project
implementation; and (g) assist the POs in the project implementation.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that SFUR would carry out these
responsibilities.
4.08     SFUR's performance in managing thorough project preparation and in
mobilizing Government and participant commitment so far has been excellent.
For project implementation SFUR has appointed a Senior Advisor to work on a
full-time basis. In addition, coordination units, one for the South Morava
sub-region and one for the Toplica sub-region, would be established and
located in the respective Regional Chambers of Economy. Regional coor-
dinators have already been designated and are active in assisting POs. At
the next level of implementation, coordination units would be set up at the



- 20 -
three major participating Agrokombinants. The above institutional arrange-
ments are considered satisfactory in view of the excellent performance
already witnessed during the preparation and appraisal of the project.
D. Participating Organization (PO)
4.09     The three Agrokombinats AIK Leskovac, WO Delises and WO Prokupac
(through 31 of their constituent basic organizations), and 21 other Basic
Organizations (BOAL's) existing in the project area but not associated with
the above three Agrokombinats, would be responsible for carrying out the
individual sub-project investments.
4.10     AIK Leskovac is a Composite Organization of Associated Labor
(COAL) 1/ engaged in a wide variety of activities which range from coopera-
tion with individual farmers to agricultural production, fruit, milk and
meat processing and retailing food and other products in the project area.
The number of personnel employed reached 2,486 in 1979. Its gross revenue
amounted to Din 2,619 M in 1979 and net income before taxation to Din
458 M. It has 34 basic organizations, of which 18 would participate in this
project. AIK Leskovac would be responsible for implementing about 21% of
total investments under the project.
4.11     W.O. Delises is a working organization in COAL Vocar Coop, Belgrade
and is engaged in the production of fruit and vegetables in cooperation with
individual farmers and social sector plantations, production of alcoholic
and nonalcoholic beverages and mineral waters, production and processing of
fruits and hotel and catering services. In 1979, the working organization
employed 1,435 employees, had a gross revenue of Din 913 M, and net income
of Din 341 M. It consists of 7 basic organizations, which all would partic-
ipate in the project. W.O. Delises would be responsible for implementing
about 19% of total investments under the project.
4.12     W.O. Prokupac is engaged in the production of fruits in cooperation
with individual farmers, production of seedlings for orchards, transport
services, and production of mineral waters and brandy. The organization has
140 shops for wholesale and retail trade and a catering organization in the
Belgrade area. In 1979, the working organization employed 2,078 employees
and, during the last three years, had gross revenues of Din 2,160 M and a
net income of Din 182 M. It consists of 17 basic organizations, six of
which would participate in the project. W.O. Prokupac would be responsible
for implementing about 13% of total investments under the project.
4.13     Other Organizations.  In addition to the main Agrokombinats
described above, another 21 BOALs (Chart WB No. 22090) would participate in
1/ For a description of Agrokombinat please see paragraph 1.04.



- 21 -
the project to expand their on-going activities. These other organizations
would be responsible for implementing about 47% of total investments under
the project.
E. On-Lending Procedures
4.14     Appraisal Criteria.  The POs under the project would submit loan
applications simultaneously to IB, SFUR and local banks for approval.
Separate loan applications are necessary since,under local regulations, the
credit board of each financier must approve loans. However, to avoid
duplication of work and speed-up sub-loan approval, it has been agreed that
IB alone would appraise each sub-project and would make the appraisal report
available to SFUR and relevant local banks. Detailed appraisal guidelines
and methodology have been developed and agreed between the Bank, local
banks, IB and SFUR (Annex 6). IB would make sub-loans in accordance with
these guidelines and would ensure that; (a) sub-projects are technically
feasible, have a minimum 12% financial rate of return (in constant prices),
and would generate sufficient cash flow to cover debt service, legal claims,
and reinvestment needs; (b) adequate and continuing technical assistance and
market outlets are assured; (c) for lending to individual farmers through
BCOs, the cooperation agreements are satisfactory; (d) for lending for the
irrigation and support service components, the beneficiaries of which are
individual farmers, the relevant BCOs or BOALs have made adequate arrange-
ments to provide extension services to the individual farmers and will
stipulate sufficient service charges to recover costs; (e) adequate
organizational and staffing arrangements are made for the implementation of
the sub-projects, including the technical assistance and other provisions
described in para. 4.19; (f) for lending to agroindustries, satisfactory raw
material supply and market prospects exist and at least 50% of processing
capacities would be available for the use of production from individual
farmers; (g) the necessary amount of seasonal credit would be made available
for the sub-projects; and (h) appropriate attention be given to the economic
impact of sub-projects, including employment, income, and import/export
effects. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that IB would follow
the above criteria in appraising subprojects.
4.15     Free Limit.  Eleven out of 14 agroindustry investments were fully
appraised by the Bank and found financially viable and technically feasible;
a further review by the Bank will not be necessary unless there is a major
change in design of subprojects and/or investment costs increase by more
than 20% of the appraisal estimate, including contingencies. For the
remaining 3 agroindustries, namely: (a) a meat processing plant at
Leskovac; (b) a milk processing plant at Zitoradje; and (c) a dehydration
plant in AIK Leskovac, IB would, prior to approving the sub-loan submit the
subproject appraisal report to the Bank for review and approval. Sub-loans
under other components of the project would be made by IB in accordance with
the methodology already agreed with by the Bank (para. 4.14) and prior
review by the Bank is not considered necessary. All subproject appraisal



- 22 -
reports would be available for inspection by the Bank on request and/or
during project supervision to ensure that agreed methodologies are
followed. All sub-loan approvals would be reported to the Bank at quarterly
intervals. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that IB would
follow the above procedures.
F. On-Lending Terms and Conditions
4.16     The terms of sub-loans under the project would be related to the
cash flow projections of the investment. The repayment period of individual
and social sector sub-loans for orchards, vineyards and irrigation would
range up to 15 years, including a grace period of up to five years, while
livestock sub-projects will normally not exceed 13 years, including a grace
period of 3 years. For agroindustry sub-projects, repayment periods would
normally not exceed 13 years, including grace periods of up to three years,
except in cases where co-financing from foreign sources is involved, in
which case, repayment and grace periods may be extended to 15 and 5 years
respectively. To encourage Yugoslavs to seek co-financing for some of the
sub-projects, no sub-loan would exceed 36% of its total estimated cost
unless otherwise agreed with the Bank. Sub-borrowers would normally be
required to contribute 20% of total investment costs. It is likely that
some of the sub-borrowers may not have necessary own resources to contribute
the required 20%. In such cases the SFUR and IB would determine the minimum
amount of subborrower contribution. In accordance with the Yugoslav laws,
the SFUR contribution to a subproject would be treated as subborrower con-
tribution.
4.17     The interest rates for on-lending under the project would be as
follows: (a) for Bank funds the on-lending rate to be charged by the banks
will be a minimum of 11% with social sector sub-borrowers bearing the
foreign exchange risk (the foreign exchange risk on loans to individual
farmers would be borne by the Serbian Government, as is the case in previous
Bank loans for agriculture in Yugoslavia). The on-lending rate on the Bank
funds is in line with the average cost of long-term foreign exchange
resources in Yugoslavia and in the international capital markets; (b) for
the portion of domestic funds provided from resources of the local banks,
interest rate would be a minimum of 10%; and (c) for the portion of domestic
funds which are provided from SFUR funds, the interest rate would be between
4 and 5%. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that: (i) IB would
apply the above on-lending terms and conditions to sub-loans made under the
project; and (ii) in the event that the permitted lending rates on resources
of local banks (item b above) are increased the lending rates for sub-loans
under this project would be correspondingly increased.
4.18     The above on-lending rates were arrived at after giving due con-
sideration to the recently completed study on the role of interest rates in
the Yugoslav economy, the Bank's policy in relation to real interest rates,
and specific country considerations, and are in line with the rates agreed
for the recent industrial credit project approved by the Bank. The
on-lending rate for Bank funds represents no change in the Bank position,
and is posiLive in real terms taking account of international inflation



- 23 -
rates and the fact that social sector subborrowers will bear the foreign
exchange risk. The proposed on-lending rates for domestic funds represent a
modification of the previous policy. Under the previous Bank loans for
agricultural and industrial credit projects, a floor rate of 6% was speci-
fied on domestic funds both from local banks' own resources and from
specially earmarked funds. The onlending rate of 10% proposed on local
banks own resources is higher than the current minimum level of 7% charged
by the banks on their own resources and embodies the principle of moving
upwards the interest rates on the Yugoslav banks' own resources. No floor
rate is proposed on SFUR funds in acknowledgement of the Yugoslav principle
of directing specially earmarked low cost funds to priority projects. The
mobilization and allocation of specially earmarked funds are interest
in-elastic and are done to meet specific social objectives and therefore no
floor rates would apply to such funds. The annual rate of inflation in
Yugoslavia has varied considerably over the last 4 years averaging about 14%
in the period 1976-79. While inflation increased sharply in 1979 and 1980,
the projected annual rate of inflation for the next 3 years is estimated to
be 16%. Although the proposed on-lending rate on local funds would still
not achieve a positive real rate, it is about 3% higher than the current
minimum charged by Yugoslav banks. Efforts to pursue an objective of
increasing domestic interest rates will continue through dialogue with the
Yugoslav authorities. Assurances were obtained under the recently approved
industrial credit project to the effect that the responsible Yugoslav
authorities would review with the Bank, at least annually, the interest rate
policy of Yugoslavia in the light of prevailing market conditions.
G. Technical Assistance and Training
4.19     To assist the POs in project implementation the following technical
assistance provisions would be included in the project: (a) AIK Leskovac
(for a meat processing plant and a dehydration plant) and W.0. Delises (for
a milk processing plant and a fruit juice processing plant) would engage
internationally experienced design and engineering consultants to determine
optimum product mix and production facilities, prepare feasibility studies,
prepare compatible tender documents and help in evaluation of bids; (b) AIK
Leskovac would engage experienced consultants to assist in export marketing
of the products from a cold store and a dehydration facility included in the
project. AIK Leskovac is finalizing a contract with the International Trade
Center, Geneva, to obtain this assistance; (c) SFUR would engage an inter-
nationally experienced consulting organization to work with a Yugoslav
institute (to be designated by SFUR) to design a cost accounting system to
be used by the agroindustries to be financed under the project. The system
would provide for allocation of production costs to individual products and
for an analysis of individual product margins contribution to overall
profitability. The purpose of this system would be to equip the investors
to undertake periodic review of the market position of individual products
and the relationship to margin contribution since the financial viability of



- 24 -
these investments depends on constant care in monitoring the project margins
(para. 5.08); and (d) SFUR would arrange (i) with the Institute for Applica-
tion of Science in Agriculture, Belgrade to prepare, by August 31, 1981, a
detailed plan, satisfactory to the Bank, for support services to be provided
to the individual farmers in the project area, including those financed
under the livestock and horticulture components of the project, and (ii)
implement the plan through the POs. Assurances were obtained from IB
during negotiations that it would, prior to approving the respective sub-
loans, ensure that the above provisions would be followed by the concerned
POs. The estimated average cost per man-month of consultant services is
estimated to be US$10,000 and an estimated 24 man-months of consultant ser-
vices are included in the project. The average cost per man-month includes
personnel cost, travel cost and subsistence expenses.
4.20     Training provisions for staff of different participating organiza-
tions under the agroindustries and support services components have been
included in the investment cost estimates. The total training thus included
is estimated to be 200 man-months at an average cost of US$1,300 per man-
month in Yugoslavia and of 400 man-months abroad at US$2,600 per man-month.
H. Accounts and Audit
4.21     IB would maintain separate accounts for sub-loan disbursements
under the project. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that IB
would arrange with the Social Accounting Service of Yugoslavia (SDK) to have
its account audited according to internationally accepted standards and
would submit its audited accounts to the Bank within six months of the close
of each fiscal year. SFUR is not expected to receive any funds under the
project and, therefore, no audit arrangements for it are considered neces-
sary. Assurances were also obtained from IB that the auditors will give a
separate opinion as to whether satisfactory procedures are in operation at
IB to ensure that the withdrawals made on the basis of Statements of
Expenditures (para. 3.12) have been used for the purpose for which they are
provided.
I. Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
4.22     Monitoring.  Monitoring of the project during implementation will
be done by IB through field supervision of sub-projects and through review
of key indicators such as the number of sub-projects under preparation,
sub-loan approvals and farmers financed, and the status of commitments,
disbursements, loan recoveries, repayment rescheduling, and field
supervisions.
4.23     Reporting.  IB would provide quarterly progress reports to the Bank
in an agreed format in line with the similar reporting requirements in other
Bank financed Yugoslav projects.



- 25 -
4.24     Evaluation and Completion Reports.  IB will carry out the on-going
evaluation of investments to be financed under the project through specially
contracted Yugoslav consultants. The consultants would collect and analyse
data on costs, benefits and financial viability of main investments on the
basis of suitable sampling. Annual evaluation reports will be submitted by
IB to SFUR and the Bank. These reports will help IB in loan approvals and
supervision as well as in the preparation of the project completion report.
The annual cost of this evaluation system is expected to be Dinar 1 M. In
constant prices over an 8 year development period, the total cost is
estimated to be Din 8 M or US$0.3 M. This cost will be borne by IB. A
similar evaluation system has been established for Bank-financed Agri-
cultural Credit Projects in Yugoslavia (Loans 1129, 1477 and 1801) and is
operating successfully. IB would also prepare a project completion report
not later than 6 months after the closing date.
4.25     Assurance was obtained from IB that it would:  (a) engage by
September 1, 1981 qualified and experienced consultants on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank to carry out the evaluation of project
benefits; (b) follow the monitoring and evaluation procedures outlined in
paras. 4.22 to 4.24 above; and (c) submit to the Bank the following
reports; (i) quarterly progress reports; (ii) annual evaluation reports;
and (iii) a project completion report.
V.  PRODUCTION, PRICES, MARKETS, AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Production
5.01     As a result of investments in livestock and horticultural
production, irrigation and support services under the project, farmers would
be able to intensify production, raise yields and shift to higher value
activities. The project would thus induce annually the following quantities
of incremental output of primary agricultural products, valued at Din. 1,600 M
(US$59 M):
Incremental Production   Existing Output in
Product        Unit            at Full Development        Project Area (1979)
(1990)
Fruits        Tons                      68,770                     50,000
Cattle        Tons l.w.                  4,860                      8,650
Sheep         Tons l.w.                  3,534                      2,130
Pigs          Tons l.w.                  3,616                     10,520
Broilers      Tons l.w.                  5,100                      5,929
Milk          '000 liter                16,657                     37,000
Wool          Tons                         372                        N/A
Honey         Tons                         180                        N/A
N/A = Not available



- 26 -
5.02     As a result of investment in 14 agroindustries, a substantial
increase in the production of processed products would be obtained; the
estimated output at full development is presented in Table T2. The total
value of annual incremental output from agroindustries is estimated to be
about Din 3,568 M (US$132 M) at May 1980 prices. The above estimates are
based on the product assortment as foreseen in the feasibility studies and
consistent with market opportunities, and are subject to variations with
changing market conditions.
B. Marketing and Market Prospects
5.03     Market prospects for incremental production under the project have
been analyzed in considerable detail during project appraisal and results
are presented in Working Paper No. 4. The market analysis shows that good
market opportunities exist for the production expected under the project in
view of export market requirements and future incremental domestic demand
due to: (a) existing gaps in production and demand, and (b) expected
increases in consumption based on population growth of 0.6-1% per year and
growth in real per capita incomes of 3.3% annually during the life of the
project.
5.04     The incremental output of meat and meat products, milk, yoghurt,
and sour cream would be mostly consumed in the project area where sufficient
demand exists.  Most of the incremental output of cheese and wine, and about
50% of fruit juices, and other processed fruit products would be sold on the
domestic market (the other 50% would be exported); the quantity to be sold
is small in relation to the target market and marketing is not expected to
be a problem.  About 4,000 hl of high quality wine output of the project
would be exported annually; the export market for high quality Yugoslav
wines is good and a recent agreement between Yugoslavia and the EEC allows
for tariff quotas of 12,000 hl/year of wine exports. Incremental output of
1,600 tons of fruit concentrate and 1,060 tons of fruit juices would be
exported to the Federal Republic of Germany, and a contract for export has
already been made between the Yugoslav investor and a firm in Germany.
Total production of pasteurized, frozen and dehydrated fruits as well as
vegetables will be exported. These products enjoy a strong demand in
Western Europe and the quantities to be exported are a small proportion of
total imports of such products in Western Europe. The technical assistance
envisaged under the project would help in realising the exports (para.
4.19). The market prospects for incremental production under the project,
thus appear good.
C. Prices
5.05     Financial prices used in this report are based on farmgate prices
for primary products and ex-factory wholesale prices of processed products
during mid-1980 (Table T3).



- 27 -
D. Financial Analysis
5.06     Livestock and Horticulture Production.  A wide range of investments
would be financed under the project and their composition is fairly well
known in view of the advanced state of project preparation (para. 3.08).
The financial analysis has been carried out through illustrative models for
each of the typical 21 investment types to be financed under the livestock
and horticulture components of the project. Actual investments would, of
course, differ from the models since they would be of different sizes and
local conditions would vary. The underlying assumptions as to changes in
cropping patterns, yields and input requirements are presented in Tables T4
and T5 and are based on interviews with farmers and operational experience
obtained under similar Bank financed agriculture projects in Yugoslavia.
The Financial Rates of Return (FRR, Table T6) for the 21 investment types
vary between 12 and 32% with the exception of broiler farms and plum
orchards which have an FRR of only 10%. The latter two investments have
been included in the project since the low FRR is due to a temporary distor-
tion in price relationships as a result of the recent Dinar devaluation; the
financial viability of these investments will be reexamined by IB prior to
approving subloans and only investments with an FRR of at least 12% will be
financed under the project (para 4.14 a). Details of farm models are in
Working Papers 5 and 6.
5.07     Irrigation.  Financial  analysis of the three minor irrigation
schemes to be financed under the project has been based on appraisal of
their feasibility studies. Key assumptions relating to technical features
and cropping patterns are given in Table T7 and details are in Working Paper
No. 8. Based on these assumptions the FRR's for the three schemes are
estimated to be 21%, 26% and 31% respectively.
5.08     Agroindustries.  Detailed feasibility studies for agroindustry
investments included in the project have been carried out and provide the
basis for financial analysis. For each of the 14 agroindustries, projec-
tions have been made of the investment and operating costs, revenues and
cash-flows; details are available in Working Papers 9.1 to 9.15. Table T8
presents for each of the agroindustry investments the FRR and the key
operating assumptions; FRRs range from 13 to 33%. The investments are
sensitive to changes in operating costs and revenues but relatively insensi-
tive to construction delays, cost overruns of up to 20% and slow build-up of
capacity utilization.
VI. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
A. Benefits
6.01     General.  The project investments are designed to make a wide
impact on the development of the South Morava and Toplica sub-regions of the



- 28 -
Morava Region through development of agriculture - the sector which contains
the poorest and the least developed segments of the Region's population.
Project benefits would derive from: (a) improved productivity and incomes
of individual farmers through investments in livestock and horticultural
production in which the individual farmers have a comparative advantage due
to the labor intensive nature of these operations; (b) increased employment
opportunities created through establishment of agroindustries and through
reduction of un- and underemployment at individual farms; (c) increased
production of meat, milk, fruit, vegetables, and processed food products to
meet rapidly increasing consumer demand for high quality and processed food
products; (d) increased export of processed food products from the area; and
(e) strengthening of the development institutions in the project area. The
returns from project investments to the economy are expected to be
substantial and their overall Economic Rate of Return (ERR) has been
estimated at 25%.
6.02     Beneficiaries.  Direct beneficiaries of the project would total
about 11,000 individual farm families who would receive sub-loans for live-
stock, horticulture, and irrigation development. About one-third of direct
beneficiaries in the project area are expected to belong to the target group
with per capita incomes below US$510. The incomes of the direct benefici-
aries are expected to increase by 50% to 120% as compared to the pre-project
incomes. The investments under the agroindustries and the support services
components of the project would result in indirect benefits to an estimated
additional 31,000 families by providing steady market outlets for their
production as well as inputs and services.
6.03     Employment.  The project's contribution to employment would be
substantial. At full development the project investments would result in
1,710 permanent full time jobs, 2,460 man-year 1/ increase in employment of
hired seasonal labor, and 3,520 man-years of increased family labor
requirements on participating farms which would reduce underemployment and
pressure to migrate from the project area.
6.04     Production and Foreign Exchange Effects.  Most of the incremental
production due to the project would be used to satisfy domestic consumption
needs. However, part of the incremental output valued at US$12 M annually
or US$240 M over the 20-year life of the project would be exported,
resulting in foreign exchange earnings - one of Yugoslavia's highest-ranking
needs.
6.05     Institution Building Effects.  The project's non-quantifiable
benefits would include: (a) the institutional development of IB, SFUR and
POs through provision of training and through experience gained in
preparing, implementing, and evaluating a regional development project of
this size and scope; (b) fostering of increased cooperation between the
1/ A man-year treated equal to 200 working days.



- 29 -
individual and social sectors; and (c) use of this project design as the
model for similar regional development projects in other parts of Yugo-
slavia. In fact this latter effect is already beginning to be felt, since
SFUR has started work on a similar regional development project in the
Adrena River Basin and, at a recent conference of representatives of less
developed areas of Yugoslavia, a great deal of interest was expressed in the
institutional and other design features of the project.
B. Economic Evaluation
6.06     Economic evaluation of the project has been done using internal ERR
and Net Present Value (NPV) estimations. Benefits quantified include gross
revenues from sales of incremental output from project investments. Bene-
fits from the support services component of the project were not quantified
directly, but accrue to all other components of the project. Hence, the
cost of the support services component has been included in the total eco-
nomic cost for the project. Costs quantified include all capital and
operating costs, excluding price contingencies. The financial revenues and
costs have been converted into economic costs and benefits by: (a) elimi-
nating transfer payments (taxes, subsidies, and debt services); and (b)
expressing them in terms of border values using (i) international equivalent
prices for traded goods adjusted for quality differentials and transporta-
tion, and (ii) appropriate conversion factors for non-traded inputs and out-
puts. The price and conversion factors used in the economic analysis are
consistent with those used in previous projects in Yugoslavia and are
presented in Table T9.
6.07     ERR and NPV for all components of the project, except the support
services component (para. 6.06), and their sensitivity to selected cost and
benefit variables and implementation delays are presented below:
% of     ERR               Invest-   Operating
Total    in      NPV /a   ment          Cost        Revenue
Component           Cost       %     Din M    SV/b           SV           SV
Agroindustries       51       32      3425.0      175        18          -14
Livestock            24       14       416.5      49          8           -6
Horticulture         20       22      1256.5     200        139          -41
Irrigation            5       26      463.0      218        153          -44
Total               100       25      5561.0     152         22          -10
/a At discount rate of 9%.
/b Switching value = Percentage change which reduces the NPV to zero.



- 30 -
6.08     Because the livestock component appeared to be particularly sensi-
tive to variations of revenues and costs, further sensitivity analysis was
undertaken. Switching values were calculated for key parameters and show
that a decrease in milk price by 97%, or a decrease in meat prices by
25-40%, or an increase in shadow wage rates by 118%, or an increase in con-
centrate feed prices by 21% will be necessary to reduce the ERR of the live-
stock component to 9%, i.e. equal to a discount rate of 9%. As can be seen,
a substantial sensitivity is found for all revenue parameters and to changes
in concentrate feed prices which is typical of livestock operations. To
make sure that proposed investments for livestock production, to be financed
under the project, have a minimum economic rate of return of 9% (Annex 6,
para 4), IB will annually update the typical farm models on the basis of the
prices and economics of livestock production, which are to be monitored as
part of evaluation arrangements for the project (para. 4.24).
C. Risk and Uncertainty
6.09     The institutional arrangements for the project are well in place
and the project is in an advanced state of preparation. All investors have
been identified and major procurement actions have been nearly completed.
The risk of implementation delays is minimal. Two possible future uncer-
tainties faced by the project are: (i) raw material and market shortage;
and (ii) lack of farmer response for some investments due to drastic changes
in input/output ratios. The detailed analysis and identification of farmers
done during the preparation and appraisal of the project should reduce these
uncertainties. The current economic stabilization measures in Yugoslavia
have, in some instances, adversely affected timely availability of local
funds for Bank financed on-going agricultural projects and similar difficul-
ties could transpire under the proposed project causing implementation
delays. However, the Consortium Agreement proposed under the project is
expected to minimize such difficulties. Thus, no significant risk or
uncertainty is foreseen for the project.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01     During negotiations, assurances were obtained from IB that it would:
(i) implement the project as described in paras. 3.02 through 3.07;
(ii) follow the financing and disbursement procedures outlined in
paras. 3.10 to 3.12;
(iii)  follow the procurement procedures outlined in paras. 3.14 to
3.15;



- 31 -
(iv)  conclude, prior to effectiveness of the loan, a Consortium
Agreement with local Yugoslav banks and SFUR to provide funds
needed for the project (para. 3.10);
(v)  continue to maintain an adequately staffed Project Department
to carry out its responsibilities under the project (para.
4.04);
(vi)  follow on-lending procedures and terms and conditions
described in paras. 4.14 through 4.20; and
(vii)  follow the auditing, accounting and progress reporting
requirements described in paras. 4.21 and 4.25.
7.02     Assurances were obtained during negotiations from SFUR that it
would:
(i)  implement the project as described in paras. 3.02 through 3.07
and participate in financing about 30% of the project costs
(para. 3.10);
(ii)  organize, prior to effectiveness of the loan, a signing of
Self Management Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, among all
institutions participating in implementation of the project
(para. 4.01);
(iii)  enter, prior to effectiveness of the loan, into a Subsidiary
Agreement with IB, for implementation of the project (para.
4.06);
(iv)  carry out its responsibilities under the project as described
in para. 4.07 and 4.19.
7.03     The following would be the conditions for making the proposed loan
effective:
(i)  signing of a Consortium Agreement between IB, SFUR and local
banks to provide funds needed for the project (para. 3.10);
(ii)  signing of a Self-Management Agreement among all participants
under the project (para. 4.01); and
(iii)  signing of a Subsidiary Agreement between IB and SFUR for
realization of project (para. 4.01).
7.04     Subject to these agreements, the project is suitable for a Bank
loan of US$87 M equivalent with a term of 15 years, including a 3 year grace
period.



- 32 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MORAVA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Project Cost and Description of Agroindustry Facilities
A. Project Cost Estimates
1.       Project cost estimates for investments to be financed under the
project are presented in the following tables attached to this Annex:
Table                     Description
1                       Total, Foreign and Local Project Costs
2                       Annual Phasing of Project Costs
3                       Project Cost Including Physical and
Price Contingencies
4                        Number of Individual Farmers and
Facilities to be Financed
2.       The base cost estimates for the project are the expected costs of
the project at end of December 1980. These have been arrived at by
adjusting the project cost at May 1980 prices upwards and by taking account
of devaluation and inflation for the remainder of 1980.
3.       Physical contingencies at a rate of 10% for the irrigation, support
services and agroindustries components, and 5% for other components have
been included in the project costs.
4.       Price contingencies have been calculated on the base cost plus the
physical contingencies, at the following expected price increases (in %
annually):
Equipment and other Items                          Domestic
International    Domestic                        Civil Works
1981          9.0             15.0                             18.0
1982          8.0             12.0                            14.0
1983          7.0             10.0                            12.0
1984          7.0             10.0                            12.0
1985          7.0             10.0                            12.0



- 33 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 3
B. Description of Agroindustry Facilities
5.       A new Milk Processing Plant would be established in Blace town with
a capacity to collect and process 18,250 kl of milk annually into 7,220 kl
pasteurized milk, 4,160 kl yoghurt, 330 kl sour cream, 730 tons cheese and
66 tons butter annually - all for consumption in project area.
6.       A new Milk Processing Plant would be established in Zitoradje town
with a capacity to collect and process 18,000 kl of milk, 920 tons of second
class cheese and 160 tons of hazelnuts annually into 5,400 kl pasteurized
milk, 3,400 kl of yoghurt, 230 tons Gouda (local variety) cheese, 2,000 tons
processed cheese slices and 1,500 tons of milk, hazelnut and cacao based
creamy food desserts - all products meant for domestic consumption in
Yugoslavia. The investment includes technical assistance from an inter-
nationally experienced consulting firm to analyze market and financial
feasibility of creamy foods and design the plant.
7.       Expansion of a Fruit Juice Processing Plant located in Vladicin Han
town, by addition of packing lines and fruit juice storage facilities to the
existing plant which would process 37,000 tons of fruit, produced in project
area, into: (a) 1,362 tons of fruit juice concentrate and 1,063 tons basic
juices for export; and (b) 29,403 tons of basic fruit juices and fruit
nectar and 842 tons semiconcentrate fruit nectar for domestic consumption.
The investment would include technical assistance from an internationally
experienced consulting firm to analyze the market for juice packs, recommend
packaging types and design the plant.
8.       A Candy Fruit Plant would be established in Prokulpje town with a
capacity to process about 320 tons of prepared and temporarily preserved
local fruits into 620 tons of finished product of candied fruits.
9.       A new Plant for Fruit Salads, Compotes and pasteurized Fruits would
be established in Prokuplje town with a capacity to process about 5,600 tons
of locally produced fruits into about 3,800 tons of fruit salads and com-
potes for domestic consumption and about 2,500 tons of pasteurized fruits
for export.
10.      An existing Winery at Vlasotince town would be reconstructed,
modernized and expanded to process about 9,600 tons of locally produced
grapes into about 1,400 tons of high quality wine, 5,200 tons of medium
quality wine and 400 tons of spirits.
11.      An existing Winery at Vranje town would be reconstructed, modern-
ized and expanded to process about 7,400 tons of locally produced grapes
into about 4,320 tons of high quality wine and 480 tons of ordinary wine.



- 34 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 3
12.      A new Dehydration Plant would be established in Medvedja town to
process about 4,100 tons of fresh fruit and mushrooms, cultivated as well as
collected from forests, into about 115 tons of dehydrated mushrooms and dog-
rose berries and about 1,900 tons of chilled fruits. About 84% of the
produce would be exported.
13.      A new Dehydration Plant would be established by Agrokombinat
Leskovac, at a location to be decided, to process about 14,000 tons of
fruits and vegetables into about 2,000 tons of dehydrated products. About
30% of the finished products would be exported. The investment would also
include technical assistance from: (a) The International Trade Center,
Geneva, in export marketing of finished product; and (b) an internationally
experienced engineering consulting firm to design the plant.
14.      A new Cold Store with Freezing Tunnel would be established at
Leskovac town, with 3,000 ton cold storage capacity annually, adjacent to an
existing cold storage facility of 5,000 ton capacity, which would be partly
reconstructed under the project. When completed the facilities would
produce about 7,100 tons of Individually Quick Frozen (IQF) fruit and
vegetables. The entire produce would be exported. The investment also
includes technical assistance from the International Trade Center, Geneva,
to help in export marketing of finished products.
15.      A new Meat Processing Plant would be established in Leskovac town
to slaughter and process annually about 20,000 cattle, 40,000 pigs, and
20,000 lambs at about 10,000 tons (liveweight) annually to produce about
1,200 tons carcass meat, 1,600 tons primal cuts of meat, and about 2,400
tons of processed meats, mostly sausages. The investment includes technical
assistance from an internationally experienced Yugoslav consulting firm to
analyze raw material availability, analyze product mix in relation to size
of market, and design the plant compatable with raw material and product mix.
16.      A new Poultry Slaughterhouse would be established in Vranjska Banja
town to slaughter 5 million birds per year to produce 6,500 tons of chicken
meat per year.
17.      A new Livestock Feed Mill would be established in Vranjska Banja
town with capacity to produce about 75,000 tons of livestock feed for
cattle, poultry, pigs and sheep. The mill would produce feed to support
livestock production being financed under the project and would also meet
project areas needs outside this project.
18.      A new Hand Made Carpet Making facility would be established in
Kursumlija town with capacity to produce annually about 3,800 m2 of hand
made carpets, 3,600 m2 kilims (small rugs), and 9,600 pieces of tapestry.
The facility would use the wool from areas surrounding it and would employ
directly 144 women workers in the facility and an additional 300 women in
their homes to make kilims and tapestry on a contractual basis.



Table L
- 35 -
T~otal. Foreign and
AF'PRAISAL OF                  Local Project Costs
MORAVA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT 1I PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
COST IN DIN-ODD                      COST,IN USS-000
(.30)        (31)          (32)         (33)       (34)       (35)      (03)
TOTAL       FOREIGN        LOCAL        TOTAL    FOREIGN    LOCAL    FEP
I. PRIMARY AGRICULTURAL F'RODUCTION
A. LIVESTOCK COMPONENT (INDIVIDUAL SECTOR)
DAIRY FARMS                           234,927        84,574       150.353       8.701      3,132      5.569      36
HILL MIXED FARMS                        89,207       24,086        65.121       3.304        892      2.412    27
F'IG FATTENINS FARMS                   68,797        21.327        47.470       2,548        790      1,758    31
PIGLET BREEDING FARMS                  169.538       66,120       103.418       6,279      2,449      3,830    39
BROILER FARMS                         103.176        33,016        70,160       3,821      1,223      2.598      32
SHEEP FARMS                           371,030       126,150       244.880      13,742      4,672      9.070    34
CATTLE FATTENING FARMS                129,148        43,910        85,238       4,783      1,626      3,157    34
BEE REEPING UNITS                       26.280        5,256        210024         973        195         778    20
SUB-TOTAL.A.                        1,192,103       404,439       787,664      44,152     14,979    29.173       34
B. RAINFED ORCHARD COMPONENT (INDIVIDUAL SECTOR)
SOUR CHERRY ORCHARDS                  182.431        58,378       124.053       6,757      2,162      4,595      32
PLUM ORCHARDS                          102,360       32,755        69.605       3.791      1,213      2.578    32
F'EACH ORCHARDS                         33,374       10,680        22.694       1,236        396         840    32
APPLE ORCHARDS                          37,012       11,104        25,908       1,371        411         960    30
DIUINCE ORCHARDS                        11,683        3,739         7.944         433        138         295    32
PEAR ORCHARDiS                          21,282        6,810        14.472         788        252         536    32
WALNUT                                  21.982        7,034        14,948         814        261         553    32
BLAChBERRiFS ORCHARDS                  112.106       35.874        76,232       4,152      1,329      2,823      32
BLACR CURRANT                           34,151       10,245        23,906       1,265        379         886    30
SUB--TOTAL.B.                         556,381       176,619       379,762     20,607       6,541     14.066      32
C. RAINFED ORCHARD COMPONENT (SOCIAL SECTOR)
SOUR CHERRY ORCHARDS                    17.735        6,030        11,705         657        223         434    34
BLACKBERRY ORCHARDS                     14,494        4,928         9.S66         537        183         354    34
YUB-TrTAL.C.                           32.229        10,958        21,271      1,194         406         788    34
D. VINEYARD COMPONENT
SINEYARDS-INDIVIDUAL SECTOR           288,525       109,640       178,885     10,686       4,061      6,625    3B
VINEYARDS-SOCIAL SECTOR                 43,432       16,504        26,928       1,609        611         998    38
SUB-TOTAL.D.                          331,957       126,144       205,813      12,295      4,672      7,623    38
r. IRRIGATION COMFONENT (INDIVIDUAL SECTOR)
ROJNIK AREA SCHEME                    116,501        30,290        86,211      4,315       1,122      3,193    26
MARURICA AREA SCHEME                    98,743       26.661        72,082       3,657        987      2,670    27
ORAOVICA AREA SCHEME                    53,026       14.847        38,179       1,964        550      1.414    28
SUB-TCTAL.E.                          26 8270        71,798       196,472       9,936      2,659      7.277    27
F. SUPPORT SERVICES COMPONENT (SOCIAL SECTOR)
BUILDING AND EQUIPMENT COST           107.697        34,463        73.234       3.989      1,276      2,713    32
SUB-TOTAL.F.                          107,697        34,463        73,234       3,989      1,276      2,713    32
TOTAL I (AAB+C+D+E+F)               2,488,637       824,421    1,664,216       92,172    30,534    61,638        33
lI.AGRO-INDUSTRIES COMPONENT (SOCIAL SECTOR)
----------------------------------------
PROKUPAC CANDY FRUIT PLANT              86.340       49,214        37.126       3.198      1,823       1.375    57
FROKUPAC FRUIT SALAD PLANT             187,200       71,136       116.064       6,933      2,635      4,298      38
MEDVEDJA DEHYDtRATION PLANT            41,584        11,644        29,940       1,540        431      1.109    28
VUCJE DEHYDRATION PLANT                121,407       53,419        67.988       4,497      1,978      2.519      44
LESROVAC COLD STORE                   166,156        56,493       109,663       6.154      2,092      4,062    34
DELISES FRUIT JIJICE PLANT            410,116       205,058       205.058      15,189      7,595       7,594     50
VLASOTINCE WINERY                     136.078        57,153        78.925       5,040      2,117      2,923    42
VRANJE WINERY                          1053260       54,735        50.525       3.899      2,027       1.872    52
BLACE DAIRY PLANT                     221,708        88,683       133.025       8,211      3,285      4,926    40
DAIRY AND CREAMY FOOD PLANT           296,807       139,499       157,308      10.993      5,167      5,826    47
POUTRY SLAUGHTERHOUSE                 136.426        53.206        83,220       5,053      1,971       3,082    39
LIVESTOCK FEED MILL                   143.430        58,806        84.624       5,312      2,178       3.134     41
LIVESTOCK SLAUGHTERHOUSE              303,919       t15,489       188.430      11,256      4,277       6,979     38
HANDMADE CARPET FACILITY                22,989        5,977        17,012        8B1         221         630    26
TOTAL II                            2,379,420    1,020,512   1,358,908        88,127    37,797       50,330      43
TOTAL BASE COST (1+II)              4,868,057    1,844,933   3,023,124    180,298    68,331    111.967           38
==========  ==========  z==========  ===-===  ========  =====-=  ====
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                 381,175      148,588       232.587      04,118      5,503       8,615    39
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                 1,215,455       454,591       760,864      45,017     16,837    28.180    37
TOTAL COST WITH CONTINGENCIES   6,464,687   2,448,112   4,016,571    239,433              90,671   148.762    38
NOTE. 1 US$= 27 DINARS



36 -                                   ANNEX
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF                                 Annual Phaing of
MORAVA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT II FROJECT                         Prn1t Costs
YUGOSLAVIA
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
COST IN DINAR-000
(0))        (25)         (26)          (27)         (28)       (29)        (30)
UNIT        YEARI        YEAR2        YEAR3         YEAR4      YEARS       TOTAL
I. PRIMARY AGRICULTURAL FRODUCTION
A. LIVESTOCK COMPONENT (INDIVIDUAL SECTOR)
DAIRY FARMS                       FARM           73,444      70,116         29,688      55,259      6,420      234,927
HILL MIXED FARMS                  FARK           26,905       25,936        22,483      12,696       1,t17       89,207
FIG FATTENING FARMS               FARM            2,963      32,917         32,917            0          0       68,797
PIGLET BREEDIING FARMS            FARM          164,596        4,939              3           0          0      169,538
BROILER FARMS                     FARM           51,588      51,588              0            0          0      103,176
SHEEP FARMS                       FARM          127,337    120,999          72,210      44,605      5,879       371,030
CATTLE FATTENING PARKS            FARM           38,808      39,444         30,538      20,358           0      129,148
BEE KEEPING UNITS                 UNIT            8,760       17,520              0           0          0       26,280
SUB-TOTAL.A.                                    494,401    363,459         187,839    132,918    13,486   1,192,103
B. RAINFED ORCHARD COMPONENT (INDIVIDUAL SECTOR)
SOUR CHERRY ORCHARDS              HECTARE        11,649      44,276         48,609      50,108    27,789       182,431
F'LUM ORCHARDS                    HECTARE         7,237      24,971         25,760      27,188    17,204        102,360
FEACH ORCHARDS                    HECTARE         2,045       8,339          9,695       8,319      4,976        33,374
AFPLE ORCHARDS                    HECTARE         2,901      10,688         10,791       6,255      4,173        37,012
QUINCE ORCHARDS                   HECTARE            135       1,716         4,629       3,482      1,721        11,683
LEAR ORCHARDS                     HECTARE         2,690      12,523          3,721       2,348           0      21,282
WALNUT                            HECTARE         1,399        5,093         5,381       5,748      4,361        21,982
BLACKRERRIES ORCHARDS             HECTARE         5.407      28,297         33,055      25,309    20,038        112,106
BLACK CLURRANT                    HECTARE         2,636      12,670          7,526       5,751      5,568        34,151
SUB-TOTAL.B.                                     36,103    148,773         149,167    136.508    85,830        556,381
C. RAINFED ORCHARD COMPONENT (SOCIAL SECTOR)
YOUR CHERRY ORCHARDS              HECTARE         2.152       7,123          4,097       3,533        830        17,735
BLACKBFRRY ORCHARDS               HECTARE            138       2.534         2,_335      3,840      5,247        14,494
SUB-TOTAL.C.                                      2,690       9,657          6,432       7,373      6,077        32,229
jl, VINEYARD COMPONENT
VINEYARDS-INDIVIDUAL SECTOR    HECTARE            3,610      26,148         68,421      96,955    93,391       288,525
vINEYARDS-SOCIAL SECTOR           HECTARE            408       3,483         7,213      13,861    18,467         43,432
SUB-TOTAL.D.                                      4,018      29,631         75,634    110,816   ltl,858         331,957
E. IRRIGATION COMPONENT (INDIVIDUAL SECTOR)
FOjNIK AREA SCHEME                SCHEME         34,16S      62,017         15,719       4,600           0     116,501
MASURICA AREA SCHEME              SCHEME         30,411      49,775         15,130       3,427           0       98,743
ORAOVICA AREA SCHEME              SCHEME         15,462      26,960          9,334       1,270           0      53,026
SUB--TOTAL.E.                                    80.038    138.752          40,183       9,297           0     268,270
F. SUPPORT SERVICES COMPONENT (SOCIAL SECTOR)
RUILGING AND EGUIPMENT COST    SCHEME            49,583      33,181         17,312       7,621           0     107,697
SUB-TOTAL,FP                                     49,583      33,181         17,312       7,621           0      107,697
TOTAL I (A+B+C+DHE+F)                           666,833    723,453         476,567    404,533   217,251   2,488,637
II,AGRO-INDUSTRIES COMPONENT (SOCIAL SECTOR)
FROKUPAC CANDY FRUIT PLANT        FACTORY        16,482      60,561          9,297            0          0      86,340
PROKUPAC FRUIT SALAD PLANT        FACTORY        60,105      83,217         43,878            0          0     187,200
MEDVEDJA DEHYDRATION PLANT        FACTORY        21,791       14,856         4,937            0          0       41,584
VUCJE DEHYDRATION PLANT           FACTORY        29,720      75,787         15,900            0          0     121,407
LESROVAC COLD STORE               FACTORY        78,221      47,340         40,595            0          0     166,156
DELISES FRUIT JUICE PLANT         FACTORY       146,434    157,695         105,987            0          0     410,116
VLASOTINCE WINERY                 FACTORY        88,320       14,288        33,470            0          0      136,078
VRANJE WINERY                     FACTORY        34,603      47,228         23,429            0          0     105,260
BLACE DAIRY PLANT                 FACTORY       100,230    108,090          13,388            0          0     221,708
DAIRY AND CREAKY FOODl PLANT    FACTORY         139,607    127,363          29,837            0          0     296,807
FOUTRY SLAUGHTERHOUSE             FACTORY        72,753      52,516         11,157            0          0      136,426
LIVESTOCK FEED MILL               FACTORY        47,281      87,241          8,904            0          0     143,430
LIVESTOCK SLAUGHTERHOUSE          FACTORY       133,243    130,513          40,163            0          0     303,919
HANDMADE CARFET FACILITY          FACTORY        18,820       4,169              0            0          0      22,989
TOTAL II                                        9B7.610  1,010,868         380,942            0          0   2,379,420
TOTAL BASE COST (IlII)                        1,654,443  1,734,321         857,509    404,533   217,251   4,868,057
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                          138,582    145,860          64,799      21,072    10,862       381,175
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                             269,967      377,284       278,176    177,269   112,759   1,215,455
TOTAL COST WITH CONTINGENCIES                 2,062,992  2,257,465    1,200,484    602,874   340,872   6,464,687
NOTE. 1 USR= 27 DINARS



_37 -                               ANNEXI1
Table 3
AFFRAISAL OF
MORAVA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT                   Project Cost Including
YUGOSLAVIA                               Phvsical and Price
ContLoaencies
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
COST WITH PRICE CDNT.4DIN-000)
--------------------------------------------------------__-------------------__---------------
(44)          (45)        (46)         (47)        (48)       (49)          (50)          (51)       (03)
TOTAL COST  TOTAL COST  FOREtGN COST
YEARI        YEAR2        YEAR3        YEAR4      YEAR5   IN DIN 000   IN US$000    IN US$000    FEf
1. FRIMARY AGRICULTURAL FRODUCTION
A. LIVESTOCK COMPONENT (INDIVIDUAL SECTOR)
DAIRY FARMS                           88,021        88,535       42,836        84,131   10,073       313,596      11,615          4,181       36
HILL MI1XED FARMS                     32,279        32,795       31,365        19,311    1,863       117,613        4,356         1,176       27
FIG FATTENING FARMS                    3,650        43,319       48,749              0        0       95,719       3,545          1,099       31
PIGLFT BREEDING FARMS                196,638          6,098           4              0         0     202,740        7,509         2,929       39
BROILER FARMS                         63,454        67,723            0              0        0      131,177        4,858         1,555       32
SHEEP FARMS                          114,668       194,971    102,320          69,706    9,224       490,889       18,181         6.182       34
CATTLE FATTENING FARMS                47,684        51,705       44,961        33,392          0     177,742        6,583         2,238       34
BEE iEFPING UNITS                     10,302        21,634            0              0        0       31,936        1,183           237       20
SUB-TOTAL,A.                         596,697       466,780    270,235         206,540   21,160   1,561,412         57,830        19,597       34
B. RAINFEE ORCHARD COMPONENT (INDIVIDUAL SECTOR)
SOUR CHERRY ORCHARDS                  13,700        54,672       65,392        72,802   43,601       250,167        9,265         2,965       32
PLUM ORCHARDS                          8,510         30,835      34,654        39,500   26,993       140,492        5,203         1,665       32
FEACH ORCHARDS                         2,405         10,297      03,041        12,087    7,806        45,636        1,690           541       32
APPI F ORCHARDS                        3,417         13,445      14,516        11,994    6,548        49,920        1,849           555       30
QUINCE ORCHARDS                           158         2,119       6,227         5,059    2,702        16,265          602           193       32
FEAR ORCHARDS                          3.164        15,463        5,006         3,411         0       27,044        1,002           321       32
WALNUT                                 1,645          6,289       7,239         8,352    6,842        30,367        1,125           360       32
BLACNBERRIES ORCHAREDS                 6,358        34,941       44,468        36,770   31,440       153,977        5,703         1,825       32
BLACK CURRANT                -         3,100         15,646      10,124         8,355    8,737        45,962        1,702           511       30
SUB-TOTAL.B.                          42,457        183,707    200,667        198,330  134,669       759,830       28,141         8,936       32
C. RAINPFEL ORCHARD COMFONENT (SOCIAL RECTOR)
SOUR CHERRY ORCHARDS                   2,530         8.795        5,512         5,034    1,302        23,273          862           293       34
BLACKBERRY ORCHARDS                      633          3,129       3,142         5,579    8,232        20,715          767           261       34
SUB-TOTAL.C.                           3,163         11,924       8,654        10,713    9,534        43,988        1,629           554       34
P. VINEYARS, COMPONENT
VINEYARDS--INDIVIDUAL SECTOR           4,246        32.287      92,044        140,865  146,533       415,975      15,406          5,854       38
VINEYARDS-SOCIAL SECTOR                  480         4,301        9,704        20,138   28,976        63,599        2,356           895       38
iUB-TOTAL.D.                           4,726         36,588    101,748        161,003  175,509       479,574       17,762         6,749       38
E. IRRIGATION COMFONENT (INDIVIDUAL SECTOR)
EOJNIR AREA SCHEME                    42,205        80,226       22,153         7,002         0      151,586       5,614          1,460       26
MAStlRICA AREA SCHEME                 37,795         64,405      21.340         5,217          0     128,757        4,769         1.288       27
ORAOYICA AREA SCHEME                  19.168         34,875      13,t55         1,933          0      69,131        2,560           717       28
SUB-TOTAL.E.                          99,168        179,506      56,648        14,152         0      349,474       12,943         3,465       27
F. SUPFPORT SERVICES COMPONENT (SOCIAL SECTOR)
BUILDING AND EQUIFMENT COST           61,609        43,619       25,665        12,136          0     143,029        5,297         1,695       32
SUB--TOTAL.F.                         61,609        43,619       25,665        12,136          0     143,029       59,297         1,695       32
TOTAL I  AAB+C+tD+E+F)               807,820       922,124    663,617         602,874  340,872   3,337,307    123,602            40,996       33
II.AGRO-INDUSTRIES COMFONENT (SOCIAL SECTOR)
PROKUPAC CANDY FRUIT PLANT            21,221         78,991      13,103              0         0     113,315        4,197         2,392       57
FROSUPAC FRUIT SALAD PLANT            77,678       110,230       61,837              0         0     249,745        9,250         3,515       38
MEDVEDJA DEHYDRATION FLANT            28,166         19,693       6,958              0         0      54,817        2,030           568       28
VUCJE DEHYDRATION PLANT               38,220         98,543      22,408              0         0     159,171        5,895         2,594       44
LESKOVAC COLD' STORE                 100,032         61,239      57,211              0         0     218,482        8,092         2,751       34
DELISES FRUIT JUICE PLANT            185,115        205,488     149,370              0         0     539,973       19,999        10,000       50
VLASOTINCE WINERY                    110,291         18,483      47,169              0         0     175,943        6,516         2,737       42
VRANSJE WINERY                        43,348         62,089      33,019              0         0     138,456        5,128         2,667       52
BLACE DAIRY FLANT                    127,411        144,463      18,868              0         0     290,742       10,768         4,307       40
DAIRY AND CREAMY FOOD PLANT          176,587        170,404      42,050              0         0     389,041       14,409         6,772       47
FOUTRY SLAUGHTERHOUSE                 93,051         70,592      15,723              0         0     179,366        6,643         2,591       39
LIVESTOCK FEED MILL                   60,927        114,850      12,548              0         0     188,325        6,975         2,860       41
LIVESTOCK SLAUGHTERHOUSE             169,078        174,883      56,603              0         0     400,564       14,836         5,638       38
HANHMATIE CARPET FACILITY             24,047          5,393           0              0         0      29,440        1,090           283       26
TOTAL II                           1,255,172    1,335,341       536,867              0         0   3,127,380      115,828        49,675       43
IOTAL BASE COST (1+11)             2,062,992    2,257,465   *200,484          602,874  340,872   6,464,687       239,430         90,671       38
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                      0             0           0              0         0            0           0              0      39
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                         0             0           0              0         0            0           0              0      37
TOTAL COST WITH CONTINGENCIES   2,062,992        2,207,465   *200,484         602,874  340,872   6,464,687        239,430        90,671       38
NOTE. I USS= 27 DINARS



-38-                                  ANNZr1
APPRAISAL OF                                 Table 4
MORAVA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA                                 Number of Individua1Farms
and Faecilities to be Financed
PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
NUMBER OF UNITS
-------------------------------------------
(01)          (02)        (03)    (19)       (20)      (21)      (22)      (23)
UNIT BASE COST
UNIT         DIN 000       FE%   YEARL    YEAR2    YEAR3    YEAR4    TOTAL
r[. PRIMARY AGRICULTURAL fsROIIUCTION
A. LIVESTOCK COMPONENT (INrIVIrDUAL SECTOR)
DAIRY FARMS                       FARM             334.170       36       235       193       171       154       753
HILL MIXED FARMS                  FARM             342.537       27        84        70        61      - 32       247
PIG FATTENING FARMS               FARM             310.542       31         9       100       100         0       209
FPIGLET BREEDING FARMS            FARM                .000       39         1         0         0         0          1
BROILER FARMS                     FARM             811.125       32        60        60         0         0       120
SHEEFP FARMS                      FARM             605.230       34       346       271       151.       96       864
CATTLE FATTENING FARMS            FARM             600.180       34        61        62        48        32       203
BEE KEEPING UNITS                 UNIT             165.280       20        50       100         0         0       150
SUB-TOTAL.A.                                                     34       846       856       531       314    2,547
B. RAINFED ORCHARD COMPONENT (INDIVIDUAL SECTOR)
SOUR CHERRY ORCHARDS              HECTARE          142.526       32       433       359       359       149    1,300
FLUM ORCHARfDS                    HECTARE          135.368       32       198       190       120         0       508
FEACH ORCHARDS                    HECTARE          144.040       32        76        80        51        26       233
AFFLE ORCHARDS                    HECTARE          153.017       30       108        80        35        15       238
RUINCE ORCHARDS                   HECTARE          136.507       32         5        50        30         0        85
PEAR ORCHARDS                     HECTARE          200.762       32       100         0         0         0       100
WALNUT                            HECTARE          132.840       32        52        43        39        37       171
BLACKBERRIES ORCHARDS             HECTARE          223.354       32       201       105       113        84       503
BLACK CURRANT                     HECTARE          132.583       30        98        57        39        49.      243
SUB-TOTAL.B.                                                     32    1,271        964       786       360    3,381
C. RAINFED ORCHARD COMPONENT (SOCIAL SECTOR)
SOUR CHERRY ORCHARDS              HECTARE          113.753       34       100        25        25         0       150
BL-ACKBERRY ORCHARDS              HECTARE          223.364       34        20         0        25        25        70
SUB-TOTAL.C.                                                     34       120        25        50        25       220
Di. VINEYARD COMPONENT
VINEYARDS-INDIVIDUAL SECTOR    HECTARE             296.103       38       120       320       330       330    1,100
VINEYARDS-SOCIAL SECTOR           HECTARE          260.139       38        25        25        75        75       200
SUB-TOTAL.D.                                                     38       145       345       405       405    1,300
E. IRRIGATION COMFONENT (INDIVIDUAL SECTOR)
BOJNIK AREA SCHEME                SCHEME                         26         1         0         0         0         1
MASURICA AREA SCHEME              SCHEME                         27         1         0         0         0          1
ORAOVICA AREA SCHEME              SCHEME                         28         1         0         0         0         1
SUB-TOTAL. E.                                                    27         3         0         0         0         3
F. SUPFORT SERVICES COMPONENT  SOCIAL SECTOR)
BUILDING AND EGUIPMENT COST    SCHEME                            32         1         0         0         0          1
SUB-TOTAL. F.                                                    32         1         0         0         0         1
TOTAL I (A+B+C+D+E+F)                                            33    2,386    2,190    1,772    1,104    7,452
II.AGRO-INDUSTRIES COMF'ONENT (SOCIAL SECTOR)
PROKUFAC CANDY FRUIT FLANT        FACTORY                        57         t         0         0         0         1
FROKUFAC FRUIT SALAD FL ANT       FACTORY                        38         1         0                             1
MEDVEDJA DEHYDRATION F'LANT       FACTORY                        28         1         0         0         0         1
VUCJE TOEHYDRATION PLANT          FACTORY                        44         1         0         0         0         1
LESKOVAC COLD STORE               7CF rtRY                       34         1         0         0         0
DELISES FRUIT JUICE PLANr         FACTORY                        50         1         0         0         0         1
VLASOTINCE WINERY                 FACTO1F (                      42         1         0         0         0         1
VRANJE WINERY                     FACTORY                        52         1         0         0         0         1
BLACE DAIRY -C] AT                FACTORY                        40         1         0         0         0         1
DAIR" AND' CREAMY FOODD PLANT    FACTORY                         47         1         0         0         0         1
POUTRY SLAUGHTERHOUSE             FACTORY                        39         1         0         0         0         1
LIVESTOCK FEED MILL               FACTORY                        41         1         0         0         0         1
LIVESTOCK SLAUGHTERHOflUF         FACTORY                        38         1         0         0         0         1
HANDMADE CrRFET FACILITY          FACTORY                        26         1         0         0         0         1
TOTAL II                                                         43        14         0         0         0        14



ANNEX 2
Table T-1
Table T-1:     List of Bank Loans Channelled Through The
Yugoslav Investment Bank (YIB)
LOAN                  PROJECT                                     AMOUNT                BOARD APPROVAL         CLOSING DATE
AS BORROWER                                                   (US$ millions)                DATE
277                   Power (SENJ)                                30.0                    02/23/61               01/31/68
318                   Power (BAJINA BASTA)                        30.0                    07/11/62               12/31/68
344                   Highways I                                  35.0                    06/21/63               07/31/66
361                   Railways I                                  35.0                    10/28/63               12/31/67
395                   Railways II                                 70.0                    12/11/64               03/31/73
485                   Highways II                                 10.0                    02/24/67               03/31/71
504                   Industry I                                  10.5                    07/18/67               04/30/72
531                   Belgrade - Bar Railway                      50.0                    03/22/68               12/31/75
554                   Industry II                                 16.0                    08/15/68               10/31173
654                    Industry III                               18.5                    01/27/70               07/31/74
657                   Telecommunications I                        40.0                    02/17/70               03/31/76
TOTAL                                                            345.0
AS AGENT FOR SR YUGOSLAVIA
608                    Highways III                               30.0                    05/27/69               08/31/74
67Q                   Fighways IV                                 40.0                    05/19/70               12/31/75



-40                                            ANNEX 2
TABLE T-2
TABLE T-2:        Quantity and Value of Projected Output from Agro - Industries
Full Development                    Annual  Exports*
Units     Quantity    Value(OOO Din)         Quantity(Tons)  Value (000 Din)
Candied Fruits                                tons          621         65,093
Fruit Salad                                    tons       2,500         76,875                    -                -
Fruit Compotes                                 tons       1,332         28,330                   216             3,350
Pasteurized fruit                              tons       2,500         61,011                2,500             49,143
Dried Mushrooms & dried dog rose berries    tons            115         30,652                    45            28,552
Chilled Fruits                                 tons       1,900         39,243                 1,650            29,838
Onion, paprika chips, celery & parsley cubes.tons           325         17,992                   325            17,992
Potato, onion, celery, parsley powder/cubes tons            875         62,650                    -
Dried Fruits                                   tons         890         41,186                   300             7,196
Pasteurized Milk                          '000 liters   12,582         120,783                    -                -
Yoghurt                                   '000 liters    7,509         126,182
Sour Cream & Whey                         '000 liters   12,265          17,118
Cheese                                        tons        2,961        249,612
Creamy Food                                   tons        1,500        154,300                    -                -
Butter                                        tons           66          5,724                    _                _
Carcass Meat                                  tons        1,265        112,362                   -                 -
Packaged Meat cuts                            tons        1,596        145,526                    _                _
Processed Meat                                tons        2,392        193,762                    -                -
Poultry meat                                   tons-       1,152        25,498                    -                -
Chicken meat                                   tons       6,478        294,235                    -                -
Inedible products (poultry)                   tons        2,196          3,314                   _                _
Livestock Feed                                 tons       75.000       514,784                    -                -
Frozen Fruits                                 tons          -          158,800                7,200             155,041
Bottled Fruit Juices                           tons       15,075       241,068                    -                -
Fruit Nectars                                 tons        14,181       301,428                    -                -
Fruit Juice Concentrate                        to"         2,009        114,994                  390             24,998
l'asic Juice                                   to"         1,045         19,315                  700             12,511
High quality wine                             tons        1,400         40,300                    -                 -
Medium quality wine                           tons        5,200        119,600
Wine Merlo                                    tons        1,135         41,720.                   - 
Quality & bulk wine                           tons        3,672         83,821                    -                 -
By-Products                                                             31,778
Carpets                                   sq. meter       2,660         15,960                   -                  -
Kilims (lst & 2nd quality)                sq. meter       2,520          1,944
Tapestries                                  piece         6,720         11,520                    -                 -
TOTAL                                                        3 568 480                                  329,221
* Exports of processed meat products & wines are also likely.



- 41 -                           ANNEX 2
TABLE T-3
Li
Table T-3: Financial Prices for Main Inputs and Outputs
1.  Livestock                      Unit         Price in Dinars per Unit
Cattle                          kg.                   48
Sheep                           kg.                   53
Milk                           litre                   7.8   /2
Wool                            kg.                 35 - 60
Cereal                          kg.                   4.5
Finished steers                 kg.                   45
Finished pigs                   kg.                   39
Broilers                        kg.                   28
Cull boars/cull sows            kg.                   35
Piglets                         kg.                   63
Breeding gilt                   kg.                   60
Cull gilt                       kg.                   39
2. Fruits
Orchards average farm gate                            6.5
Grapes delivered winery                               8.5
3. Inputs
Heifers/young cows             Head                40,000
Rams                           Head                10,000
Hogget/young ewe               Head                 2,000
Weaner Pig                      Kg.                     63
Day-old-chicks                  Kg.                   7.5
Boars and gilts                 Kg.                    7.8
Male calf                       Kg.                     52   /3
Concentrate feed                Kg.                4.5 - 8.2
NPR  14:14:14                   Kg.                   5.00
Nitrogen                        Kg.                    3.5
Phosphate                       Kg.                   4.6
Potash                          Kg.                   2.4
Family Labor                    Day                   220
Hired Labor                     Day                   220
/1
liveweight- farmgate or atvillage collection centre.
/2
depending on quality.
/3
depending on requirement of species of livestock.



-42 -                                                  ANNEX 2
Table T-4
Table T-4:  Key_ Technical As_mntiotUndarlVinLiveat6q* lodels /1
Without                   With
Category                                              Project                   Project
1.  Dairy Farm: 6 ha - 5 cows
-  Calving Rate                                                        78%                      80%
-  Msortality Rate - Calves                                             8%                       6%
-  Mortality Rate - Adults                                              3%                       2%
-  Culling R,ate - Cows                                               14%                       16%
-  Milk Production - Cow/year                                       1,800 1                   3,500 1
Cull Cow   - weight                                                450 kg                   650 kg
-  Cattle Breed                                                     Local                    Simmenthal
-  Conc rntrate Feed - Cow/year                                       400 kg                    500 kg
-  M  ;>e Silage                                                       0.2 ha                   1.0 ha
1i-yQvcd Giassland                                                 -                       3.2 ha
2,  Th _ XY erm  12.5 ha - 100 Ewes
-r- ing Rate                                                       90%                      95%
-  T g-w ilag Ratio                                                  100%                     115%
-  ,*.l. -   y Rate - Lambs                                             6%                       4%
'-lortaiity Rate - Adults                                          3%                        2%
aLllilog Rate - Ewes                                               20%                      25%
--Y1-1  Production - Ewe/year                                          30 1                     55  1
Fw -C  weight                                                      40 kg                    48 kg
-  Wsol Production - Ewe/year                                         1.7 kg                    2.8 kg
-  Sheep B£ eed                                                     Local                    Wuerttetberg
C-'onentrate Feed - Ewe/year                                       30 kg                    75 kg
--  Iapc,-:'ceci Crassland                                             -                        4 ha
- CoianauiLa Pasture
3.  CatUl c:I t ening Farm : 40 Steers per Batch                      With Project
Welght at Purchase                                                120 kg
weikht at Sale                                                    420 kg
Da~i v Weight--gain                                               1.1 kg
-   ,tches per year                                                  1.2
-  .ettle Breed,                                                 Simmenthal-type
Coc,c;Litrate Feed per kg
Og t.--gain                                                4.5 kg
--  : h.5  Iaze Silage and 2 ha improved grassland
Coj, a Stalks and Farm Offal
4.  }F   tning Farm : 60  igs per Batch
--  Wght of Piglet                                                 25 kg
P.At-t,ht et coale                                                100 kg
- D'r' y    ~WsJh- cF11                                              570 gr
-   Bs.1,c.'. 'per year                                           2.75
Pig Bxeed                                                        Large White-type
* oed Conversion Ratio                                          3.6:1
i.-tchen Waste and Farm Offal
5.  broH,j,   Fattening Farm : 5,000 Birds per Batch
-  Weight at Sale                                                    1.7 kg
-  Feed C'lnversion Ratio                                            2.4: 1
-  Batches per Year                                                     5
6.  Bec-keejieg Ulrit : 40 l3ee hives
-  Honey Production - Hive/year                                       30 kg
7.  Social Sector Piglet Breeding Unit: 1,650 Sows
-  Pigs Weaned Sow/Year                                              19.5
-  Culling Rate - Sows                                                 37%
-  Feed/Sow/Year                                                     1.1 ton
-  Pig Breed                                                         Large White-type
/1   For further details please see Working Paper No. 6.



ANNEX 2
Table T-5
Table T-5: Ke Technical Assumptions Underlving Hortictulture Models (per ha) /1
Trees No. -     -            At Full Development - - -- - - - - - -
Project       Yield        Labor        Production Cost
Category                                                Year         (Ton)   (Working Days)      (Dinar '000)
A. Individual Sector (Rainfed)
-',8our Cherry                                    666            10           15         170                  33.4
- Plum                                            500            10           12           52                 24.3
- Peach                                           500            10            15          50                 30.3
- Apple.                                          500            10            15          50                 31.8
- Quince                                          500            10            16          50                 33.0
- Pear                                          1,250            10            20          50                 31.2
- Walnut                                          178            10             3          50                 27.3
- Black Berry                                   3,333             9            12        170                  47.8
- Black Currant                                 3,333            10            10         140                 48.8
- Grape                                         3,333              9           13          60                 33.2
B. Social Sector (Rainfed)
- Sour Cherry                                     833            10            16        170                  80.0
- Black Berry                                   3,333              9          12         140                  53.7
- Grape                                         3,333             9            15          60                 44.0
C. Individual Sector (Irrigated)
--Apple                                         2,777              7           50          75                 75.8
- Peach                                           666              7           28          60                 55.5
- Pear                                          2,777              7           46          73                 76.1
- Apricot                                         666              7           20          60                 61.3
- Black Berry                                   2,222              7           22        236                  95.3
- Black Currants                                2,222              6           16         192                 83.3
/1  For further details please see Working Paper No. 5.



ANNEX 2
Table T-6
Table T-6: Financial Rates of Return for Livestock and Horticulture Farm Models
Full Development
Annual          Debt  Service
Investment       Financial       Net Income       as percentage of
Unit Size Capacity        Costs      Rate of Return    (000 Din.)         Annual Net Income/i
Livestock
Dairy Farm                       6 ha. - 5 cows            353             13                126                 49
Sheep breeding/
fattening farm                  12.5 ha.                  425             18                173                *42
Hill mixed farm                  13.4 ha.-3 cows
& 50 ewes               360             15               133                  46
Cattle fattening farm           40 head per batch          630             15                 85                 51
Pig fattening farm               60 pigs per batch         326             28                 82                 69
Broiler farm                     5000 birds per batch      904             10*               109                 57
Bee-keeping                      40 bee-hive unit          174             18                 37                 58
Social Sector Piglet
breeding                        1650 sows             128,842             14            20,031                 106
Horticulture - Individual
Sector
Sour Cherry Orchard             666 trees per ha.          141             28                147                 15           4
Plum Orchard                     500 trees per ha.          135             10*               36                 58
Apple Orchard                    500 trees per ha.         153             18                 81                 29
Peach Orchard                   500 trees per ha.          143             21                 90                 25
Quince  Orchard                 500 trees per ha.          136             21                 87                 24
Pear Orchard                    500 trees per ha.          200             27                139                 22
Walnut Orchard                   500 trees per ha.          133            26                123                  17
Blackberries Orchard          3,333 plants per ha.         223             25                154                 21
Blackcurrant Orchard           3,333 plants per ha.        132             32                141                  12
Grape Orchard                 3,333 vines per ha.          295             14                 77                 60
Horticulture-Social Sector
Sourcherry Orchard              833 plants per ha.         113             26                112                 16
.Blackberry Orchard            3,333 plants per ha.         223             23                147                 20
Vineyard Orchard              3,333 vines per ha.          260             16                 84                 66
* FRR is below minimum acceptable level of 12%.  However, this is considered a temporary situation due to
devaluation of the Dinar.  Prior to approving sub-loans for these investments, Investbanks shall assess the
financial viaLility again.
/1 The percentage shown is in constant terms; the nominal ret-rss wo mpected to be higher whore s the debt
service vould remait constant. Thb return to equity is r4eh blgebr then the F2R showa ud, hehrefofa, tha
farmers have financial incentive for the invesetmeat  and vill have the means to repay the sub-lcm.



Annex 2
- 45 -                           Table T-7
Table T-7:    Key Assumptions Underlying
Irrigation Schemes
------Schemes---
Features               BOJNIK           ORAOVICA            MASURICA
l.     a tlanned fo
srriRation (ha)          195              205                 530
2. Number of farmers
inh±flgani               325              552                1250
3. Present Crop
Areas (ha)
Cereals                185              100                 320
Vegetables              10               20                  52
Tobacco                 -                45
Lucerne and
Meadow                                 60                 158
4. Future Crop
Areas (ha)
Orchards               195              100                 180
Vegetables              -               105                 130
Lucerne                                  -                  220
5. Scheme for
Irrigation            Pipeline sup-   Pipeline sup-        Supplies from
ply from sto-   ply from sto-       existing power
rage. Drip       rage. Drip         canal.  Drip irri-
irrigation in   irrigation for    gation for orchards
entire area      orchards and       and sprinkler for
without pump-   sprinkler for       others. No pumping.
ing.             vegetables. No
pumping.
6.  Investment Cost
(Million Dinar)        124.03            55.89               111.93
7. 0 & M Cost
(Million Din/yr)         3.06             2.19                 2.52
8. Net Value of Pre-
sent Produce
(Million Dinar)          1.01             2.10                 3.88
9. Net Value of Future
produce at Full Deve-
lopment(Million DinTyr) 67.68            50.16                79.11
10.  Rate of Return           21%             31%                  26%



*S2vqw  ~        -;iinia
'I  r'~~~~~~~~. ~~al                 Rateof
~~~*vA*~~~~~~~~ ,~~~~ ~~~ate                               T kc~ate  T% ~,    f   Retu~rn at
~ iaL   of Return at    Retzm ,ri.         SIlow Bu-ld
is,                                                                                             t          u U, t a, t ica< .nt ViM   ~i~s 
~~ d~c~~ Fr~~i~It  ~~  hI ~0                                               iL2        ~13         1I]'                        14
Pirv"it  sal&cd PI'miL /2         18                45                 7713    3                 s1                                    14
~~ v~O~~ ~&~iy  ~~   PY.,,ut/3  33           189                 54          2', 21    29           2                           27
19           so                1350          1     2      4                                      3   4-
* asl~~~c    iYrr   is         22                                  7,5           517                   II_                          "
D2iL~~ Ft ~it   ix  1K_-~~tt. I?  27         7                3K          1H   I, 
Cg.od ~tragiv/LeaLkcy      9 h    27               130                             4K1~         23 
~ijk Proc0 Pla'ut ~iI /9   13S                      6                 970.9                     9                     1                2
Milk Proc. Plant-ZitormdLe/10 28                   123                62           21 13    23            17           22              23
Poultry Slaughterhouse  /11   14                    15                94            3    -       5         -           11             14
Livestock Feed Mill  /12          14                17                90          -15    -    -9                       12              13
Leskovac Slaughterhouse  /13   18                   43                81           10   -2    11            3          14              15
Dehydration Plant - AIX(          24                99                63           21   17    22          20           20              22
Leskovac



ANNEX 2
- 47 -                     TABLE T-8
Page 2 of 2
FOOTNOTES:
(a)   The FRR on the base case is based on the following assumptions:
i) Construction is assumed to be completed in 2 years, except in
Planinka Carpet Plant,   where construction of plant will take
1 year.
ii) Capacity utilization in the hasp case is expected to develop as follows:
/1   80% in year 3 and full capacity in year 4.
i  /2   60% in year 3, 85% in year 4, and 100% in year 5.
/3   60% in year 3, 100% in year 4.
/4   75% in year 3, 86% in year 4, 94% in year 5,
97% in year 6, 100% in year 7.
/5   64%, 74%, 82%, 94% in years 3 to 6, and 100% in year 7.
/6   70% in year 2 and full capacity in year 3.
/7   60% in year 3, 80% in year 4, and 100% in year 5.
/8   60% in year 3, 80% in year 4, and full capcity in
year 5.
/9   30% in year 2, 85% in year 3, and 100% in year 4.
/10   30% in year 2, 85% in year 3, and 100% in year 4.
/11   30% in year 2, 80% in year 3, and  100% in year 4.
/12   49% in year 3, 73% in year 4, and 100% in year 5.
/13   60% in year 3, 85% in year 4, and 100% in year 5.
iii) Cash flow based on a 20 year period including the construction period.
iv) All prices assumed constant throughout life of investment.
v) All debt service calculations have been excluded and therefore the FRR
is on the investment.
(b)   Cost Overrun point indicates that the investment costs will have to
increase by the indicated percentage before the rate of return will
drop to 12% in the base case.
(c)   Break-even capacity depicts the minimum capacity utilization necessary,
on average during the 20 year life of the plant, to achieve 12% financial
rate of return on base case.
(d)   The numbers given show the sensitivity of base case FRR to the 1 year
delay in construction i.e. 3 year construction period instead of 2 years
assumed in base case (a.i above).
(e)   The numbers given show the sensitivity of the bas, case FRR to slower
than expected (a.ii above) capacity utilization.For example 40% in
year 3, 60% in year 4, 80% in year 5 and full capacity in year 6 instead
of base case capacity utilization as in /1.



- 48 -
ANNEX 2
TABLE T-9
TABLE T-9: Key Assumptions Underlying Economic Analysis           Page 1 of 3
Price in Dinars Per Unit
A. Economic Prices:                        Unit          Financial   Economic
Cattle                                   kg.             48          39.15
Milk                                    litre            7.8          6.6  /2
Finished steers                          kg.             45          39.15 /3
Finished pigs                            kg.             39          35.1  /4
Broilers                                 kg.             28          30.88 T5
Cull boars/cull sows                     kg.             35          31.5  /6
Piglets                                  kg.             63          56.7  /7
Breeding gilt                            kg.             60          54.0  /8
Cull gilt                                kg.             39          35.1  /9
Heifers/young cows                      head           40,000      22,023  /10
Weaner Pig                               kg.             63          56.7  /11
Day-old-chicks                           kg.             7.5          8.27 /12
Boars and gilts                          kg.             7.81        19.5  /13
Ma'le calf                               kg.             52          39.15 /14
Concentrate Feed                         kg.           4.5-8.2    4.59,4.68
4.95,5.35
5.95    /15
FerwiJizers:NPK 14:14:14                 kg.             5.00        5.88  /16
Nitrogen                    kg.             3.5         6.38  7l-t1
Phosphate                   kg.             4.6         7.14  7i8
Potash                      kg.             2.4         4.12  /19
B. Conversion Factors:
Standard                     0.926
Consumption                  0.932
Intermediaries               0.927
Equipment                    0.914
Transport                    0.816
Construction                 0.803
Investment                   0.862
Shadow 'wage' rate:
(a) unskilled rural labor  /1   40
(percentage of market
wage rate)
(b) semi-skilled rural
labor /2                      80
/1  Appears in horticulture component mainly
/2  Predominant in other components



LNNEX 2
Table T 9
- 49                       Page 2 of 3
FOOTNOTES TO TABLE T 9
All operating and investment inputs, other than the ones given in Section A
are treated as non-tradeables; and the conversion factors given in Section B
have been used.
/1   Export parity price of beef, from Yugoslavia, for years '76, '77, and
'78 is adjusted by World Bank index of international inflation, to
obtain price in 1980 constant dollars i.e. $2.70 per kg. This price
is assumed constant in real terms through life of project, since it
is above the world price and is not expected to increase substantially.
So, taking $2.70 per kg. as the value (f.o.b.) for Yugoslavia for 1990
and assuming 208 kg. as the weight per head for shipped carcass, value
per headat $561.6 is obtained. From this value, export packing costs
($20 per head) are deducted, to obtain value ex-slaughter ($541.6 per
head); and then less transport and slaughter costs ($17 per head) and
plus recoveries ($55 per head) value ex-farm (liveweight - 400 kg.)
is obtained.
/2   Taken at local price less federal and republic premia.
13   Same economic price per kg. as cattle.
/4   Export parity price (Yugoslavia Trade Statistics) for pork at constant
1980 prices has been adjusted for export packing costs,transport, and
weight (i.e., shipped carcass weight and liveweight).
/5   Valued at 88% of the Financial price of fat pig; 88% was obtained as a
result of the historical relationship between price of pork and poultry.
/6 , /7, /8, /9 Valued at same ratio with fat pig as in Financial prices.
/ 0 Assumed a 25% premium over the economic price of cattle to reflect
higher value for breeding purposes.
/11 Valued at same ratio with fat pig as in Financial prices.
/12 Same ratio as financial to economic price of broiler.
/13 Import parity price for boars and gilts. And for domestic gilts,
25% quality discount has been made.
/14 Same economic price per kg. as cattle.
/15 Economic price calculated by converting financial operating costs
of Livestock Feed Mill, to be financed under the project to economic
costs - using export parity price for maize and import parity for
soya meal and fish meal, and appropriate conversion factors for all
other operating costs. World Bank indicator prices of maize have



ANNEX 2
Table T-9
_50 -                       Page 3 of 3
been adjusted for Yugoslavia quality exports. Then, less port hand-
Jirig and internal transport gave feed mill gate value.  For soya-
meal and fishmeal too, World Bank indicator prices for 5 years, at
constant 1980 dollars have been used. Both being imports, port
h ir6lig and internal tranport costs have been added; and after making
a fS rther adjustment for packing, feed mill gate value is obtained.
kIhe average economic prices of concentrate feed are then adjusted
according to the financial prices of concentrate feed required by
each speciers of livestock.
/16 Weighted average of the economic prices for nitrogen, phosphate
ai1d potash.
/17, lp'8 /L9' World Bank indicator prices as projected in 1990 have
beeni used. Nitrogen i.e., treated at export parity; and phosphate
ar.d potash at import parity.  Adjustment for port charges, internlal
f-reight and bagging have been made to obtain ex-factory value of
bagged prodtucts.



- 51 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MORAVA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Main Provisions of Consortium Agreement (CA)
Among Financiers of the Project
A.       The purpose of the proposed Consortium Agreement (CA) 1/ is to
ensure sufficient domestic resources for financing of the Morava Regional
Development II Project and set forth the procedures to be used in approving
sub-loans to investors under the Project. The signatories of the CA would
be local banks (from the territory of the Socialist Republic of Serbia) and
SFUR. The banks which have so far agreed to provide funds are: IB; Yugo-
banka through its basic banks in Leskovac, Vranje, Prokuplje and Belgrade;
Beobanka, Belgrade; and Agrobanka basic bank Belgrade. Other banks may
join. The draft of CA has been prepared by a committee of representatives
from the local banks and the final CA would be signed prior to loan effec-
tiveness. The draft CA has been reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory.
B.       The main provisions of the CA are as follows:
1.   signatories undertake to combine their funds with the funds
from SFUR and the World Bank, for implementation of the Morava
II Project;
2.   local banks would, within 20 days of receipt of loan applica-
tions from investors, submit them to IB, together with a
resolution from its competent body to provide its share of
financing;
3.   SFUR would receive a copy of loan applications from investors
and provide IB with a resolution from its competent bodies to
provide its share in financing;
4.   IB would appraise and approve sub-loans within 45 days of
receipt for social sector investments, and 20 days, for
individual sector investments, in accordance with the
provisions of the loan agreement with the Bank; and
5.   signatories agree to nominate IB to handle disbursements,
procurement, supervision and recovery of sub-loans.
1/ A copy of the CA is available in Working Paper No. 12 in the Project
File, Volum V.



- 52 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MORAVA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Main Provisions of the Self-Management Agreement (SMA)
Among Participants in the Project
A.       The purpose of the proposed Self-Management Agreement (SMA) 1/ is
to define, in a general way, the mutual rights, obligations, and responsi-
bilities of the large number of organizations involved in realization of the
Morava Regional Development II Project in Yugoslavia. The draft SMA has
been finalized and would be signed prior to loan effectiveness. The signa-
tories of the SMA would include: (a) organizations of associated labor, the
investors under the project; (b) SFUR, the project implementation agency;
(c) IB, the proposed borrower; (d) other local banks; (e) Economic Chambers
and Cooperative Associations; (f) inter-commune regional communities (local
government bodies); (g) scientific organizations such as the Institutes for
Agricultural and Industrial Economics, and for Applied Science; (h) special-
ized organizations such as Jugoprojekt and Energoprojekt specialized in
engineering and construction; and (i) trade organizations. The idea of the
SMA has been originated by the Executive Council of the Republic of Serbia
to ensure smooth realization of the Morava II Project. The draft SMA has
been reviewed by the World Bank and found satisfactory.
B.       The main provisions of the SMA are as follows;
1.   The investors are obliged to carry out their respective
investments under the project on a timely basis in accordance
with the provisions in the Feasibility Studies, Preparation
Report and the Loan Agreement with the World Bank;
2.   Investors and Cooperative Associations are obliged to organize
the investments by the individual farmers under the project;
3.   SFUR is obliged to coordinate all business related to prepara-
tion for realization of the project, to monitor the project
implementation and to take remedial action as needed;
4.   The Economic Chambers and Cooperative Associations are obliged
to take needed measures to ensure that organizational infra-
structure exists for implementation of the project;
1/ A copy of the SMA is available in Working Paper No. 12 in the Project
File, Volume V.



- 53 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
5.   The Regional Economic Chambers at Nis and Leskovac are obliged
to: (a) stimulate cooperation among production, trade and
scientific organizations involved in the project; and (b) help
in organizing cooperative organizations of individual farmers
to carry out the investments;
6.   The Inter-Commune Regional Communities are obliged to:  (a)
include project investments, on a priority basis, in the
commune and Republic's socio-economic plans; and (b) to take
all necessary measures to approve the sites and conditions
necessary for speedy implementation of the project;
7.   The scientific and specialized organizations are obliged to
continue their current cooperation in the realization of the
project;
8.   Investors authorize the SFUR and IB to conclude an Agreement
with the World Bank;
9.   The signatories to the SMA agree on sources and amount of
financing for implementation of the project;
10.   The "Green Plan" funds would be combined with other sources of
funds for financing of individual farmers;
11.   The signatories of SMA authorize SFUR, local banks and the
regional economic chamber to determine the project implementa-
tion schedule and agree to abide by it;
12.   Signatories of SMA agree that IB would be the borrower from
the World Bank;
13.   Signatories of SMA agree to form a Coordination Committee for
the project. The members of the Committee would be: 1 dele-
gate each from SFUR, IB, the Economic Chambers of Serbia,
Leskovac, and Nis, and the Institutes of Agricultural
Economics and Application of Science; 5 delegates each from
the coordination bodies set up at the Regional Chambers at Nis
and Leskovac from among the delegates of the participating
organizations;
14.   Signatories of SMA agree to form an Executive Committee com-
prised of a Director of SFUR and 1 respresentative each from
IB, Regional Chambers of Commerce, and three Agrokombinats.
The Executive Committee will formulate proposals for con-
sideration by the full Coordination Committee and implement
its decisions;



-.54 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
15.   Signatories of SMA agree that the Institute for the Applica-
tion of Science in Agriculture, Belgrade would be responsible
for implementation and development of specialized agricultural
services under the project; and
16.   Disputes under the SMA would be resolved by an Arbitration
Committee consisting of 2 representatives each of the parties
to dispute and a chairman selected from outside.



- 55-
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MORAVA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Organization and Staffing of the Project
Division within Investbanka (IB)
Investbanka (IB), being responsible as Borrower and on-lender under
the Project, for sub-loan appraisal, approval, supervision, repayment and
monitoring, has already taken steps to organize a Projects Division to carry
out its responsibilities under the Project. IB has assigned 9 staff members
to this Division and would increase the staff as project implementation
speeds up. The Division would eventually have two departments, one for
preparation and appraisal activities and the other for supervision of imple-
mentation and disbursements. Proposed staffing and status of vacancies for
the new Division are as follows. The detailed job descriptions are given in
Working Paper No. 10 in Project File Volume V.
Projects Division: Staffing List
Position              No. of Posts   Specialization  Experience  To be filled by
(years)         (date)
Division Manager*            1       Economist               5         Filled
Senior Advisor*              3       Economist,              5         All filled
agronomist
Advisor                      1       Economist, live-        5         Filled
stock specialist,
agronomist
Advisor                      1       Lawyer                  5         Need for this
post is still
an open ques-
tion
Project Economist            5       Economist             1-3         3 filled
12/31/1981
Assistant Project            2        Intermediate           1         1 filled
Economist                          specialist training               12/31/1981
in economics
Secretary                    1       Shorthand and            -        12/31/1981
typing
Translator                   1       English                  -        12/31/1980
TOTAL POSITIONS             15 of which 9 vacant
*Requires active knowledge of English and a University degree.



- 56 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MORAVA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Guidelines for Appraisal of Sub-projects
by Investbanka (IB)
1.       IB would appraise the sub-projects, submitted to it for financing
under the project, in accordance with general guidelines presented below.
On the basis of these guidelines, IB has developed detailed appraisal
methodologies to be used for sub-projects in the Individual Sector as well
as in the Social Sector; these are available in Working Paper No. 10.
Social Sector Sub-Projects
2.       IB would prepare a detailed sub-project appraisal report for each
investment project, taking into account the following: (a) at least 50% of
sub-project processing capacities would be available for the use of produc-
tion from individual farmers; (b) sub-projects provide satisfactory finan-
cial and economic rates of return on the basis of detailed and realistic
cost and benefit estimates, and would generate sufficient cash flow to cover
debt service, legal claims, compulsory allocations to enterprise funds, and
reinvestment needs. Sub-projects would have a minimum financial and eco-
nomic rate of return of 12% in constant Dinars; (c) sub-projects are tech-
nically feasible; (d) sub-borrowers are creditworthy, and their organiza-
tion, management, and financial structure are satisfactory for sub-project
implementation; (e) the necessary amount of seasonal credit would be avail-
able for the sub-project; (f) appropriate attention is given to the economic
impact of sub-projects, including employment, income, and import/export
effects; and (g) the necessary amount of long-term credit to finance
permanent working capital requirements would be available for the
sub-project.
3.       In preparing the sub-project appraisal reports, IB is expected to
make extensive use of the World Bank Appraisal mission Working Papers. An
outline of the subjects to be covered in each sub-project appraisal report
follows;
I.   Summary and Conclusions
(essential elements of sub-projects, purpose, size, benefits, total
value, main components and stages, period of investment, financial
and economic results, conclusions)
II.   Introduction
III.   Investor
(background information and analysis)
IV.   Conditions for sub-project implementation
(social, economic, environmental)



- 57 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
V.   Sub-project
(description, purpose, capacities, technical aspects,
procurement, implementation schedule)
VI.   Raw Materials Supply
VII.   Marketing
VIII.   Financing
IX.   Organization
X.   Economic and Financial Effects of Investment in the sub-project
Individual Sector Sub-projects
4.       For the individual sector, a simplified appraisal methodology would
be used. The present practice, under Bank-financed agriculture projects in
Yugoslavia, is to examine the production and financial viability aspects of
individual sector sub-projects by preparing detailed farm budgets, cash-
flows and investment projections for each sub-project. The simplification
proposed under this project is to examine the production and financial
viability aspects of the individual sector sub-projects for primary agri-
cultural production by relating them to typical farm models developed during
appraisal of the Morava II Project. Thus, it would not be necessary to
prepare farm models for each sub-loan request. The resultant savings in
time are expected to be substantial. IB would update, at least annually,
the general farm models, in collaboration with the Agricultural Institutes,
to take account of price changes and experience gained from monitoring and
evaluation during project implementation, and will make sure that invest-
ments financed have an Economic Rate of Return of at least 9%. After some
experience with this format, we hope to be able to apply it to other Bank-
financed projects in Yugoslavia.
5.       IB would prepare a brief (1 page) appraisal report for each
Individual Sector Sub-project for primary agricultural production, which
would comment on the following:
(a)  creditworthiness of the loan applicant in accordance with the
Yugoslav regulations;
(b)  adequacy of technical assistance provisions for helping the
individual farmers in implementing the investment;
(c)  adequacy of marketing arrangements;
(d)  reasonableness of investment cost estimates; and
(e)  expected range of financial rate of return, by comparing it to the
typical farm model valid for the current year.



- 58 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MORAVA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Selected Documents and Working Papers Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies on Socialist Republic of Serbia
A-1 Agriculture related sections of the Social Plan of SR Serbia
1976-80.
A-2 Agriculture related sections of Resolutions on the Policy of
Implementing the Social Plan of SR Serbia, 1980.
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B-1  Study on Long-Term Development of South Morava Region, Final Report
March 1978. Ekonomski Institute, Beograd.
B-2 Study on Long-Term Development of Toplica Sub-Region. Final Report
March 1978. Institute za Ekomiku Industrije, Beograd.
B-3 Long-Term Development of South Morava Region and Toplica
Sub-Region, April 1979. Institute za Ekonomiku Industrije, Beograd.
4 volume report.
Volume 1:  Project Area
Volume 2:  Conditions and Possibilities for Production,
Processing and Marketing of Vegetables
Volume 3:  Conditions and Possibilities for Production,
Processing and Marketing of Grapes
Volume 4:  Conditions and Possibilities for Production,
Procesing and Marketing of Fruits
B-4 Yugoslavia. Second Morava Regional Development Project. Report of
Reconnaissance Mission. February 2, 1979. Issued by FAO/WB
Cooperative Program, Rome.
B-5 Project Preparation Report. South Morava/Toplica Agricultural and
Agroindustrial Project. Yugoslavia, November 1979.
Agricultural Economic Institute, Beograd. 4 volumes.
Volume 1:  Main Report
Volume 2:  Project Area; Institutions and Services; and
Markets and Prices
Volume 3:  Investments on Individual Farms; Investments in
the Social Sector; Greenhouse Establishment;
Volume 4:  Agroindustry Investments; Agricultural Support
Services; Summary Tables; and Benefits and
Economic Rate of Return



- 59 -                    ANNEX 7
Page z of 2
C.  World Bank Appraisal Mission Working Papers
Volume 1
C-1     Working Paper No. 1:  Project Area.
C-2     Working Paper No. 2:  Detailed Project Description, Costs and
financing.
C-3     Working Paper No. 3:  Financial and Economic Analyses.
Volume 2
C-4     Working Paper No. 4:  Market Analysis.
Volume 3
C-5     Working Paper No. 5:  Horticulture Production Component.
C-6     Working Paper No. 6:  Livestock Production Component.
C-7     Working Paper No. 7:  Support Services Component.
C-8     Working Paper No. 8:  Irrigation Component.
Volume 4
C-9     Working Paper No. 9:  Agroindustry Component.
Volume 5
C-10    Working Paper No. 10: Investbanka: The Borrower.
C-ll    Working Paper No. 11: Serbian Fund For Less Developed Regions
(SFUR): The Project Implementing Agency.
C-12    Working Paper No. 12: Self Management Agreement, Consortium
Agreement, and Subsidiary Agreement.



- 60 
YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF
MORAVA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT If PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1980                         1981                          1982                          1983                           1994
DESCRIPTION                                                                                JiF0MATIJTJAS~1140   jFMlrjMrj  rFISGIIVT~J
1   ROJECT MANAGEMENT                                                                     FOEMA J
-Appoint-ten.f Adosr--SFUR
-App.mt,r-et.f
PoetUnit (115 Staff I
-Appoi `mt-t 012 Regwotl
Field Support Staff 1248 Stalff)
2. PR IMARY AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION 
d irdi-orl Secto Livetock IFors
Fy    I  -      795 Fars -                                           W  
Fy  II  -      856 Fart-                                                                                                ur
PY  III         531 Fars.-W  
Fy  IV   -      314 Frm-                                                                                                                       I I     SW A      
-  Idwid-cu  Secto F trtt Plo.ntticts                                                                                        I
PY    I  -   1,3420 h.                                                  17 
PY  II  -       972 h.
Fy  III  -     856 he                                                                                  U, 4WAII
FT  IV   -      480 to1W                                                                                                                        r              r
PY   II  -      3200h.
FTyli   -       330 h.                                                                                          ~
PT  IV   -      330 lhe                                                                                                                                     
-SocaI Sector FruIt Plerrtti-n
Py   I  -       1205 h.W1
FT   II          25h.I 
Py  III  -       SO0 
PY  IV-          255 h.!iIE
Social Secto vi-esaros
Fy   I  -       145haV   W                               A             n
Fy   I I        345h.                               1.
PY  IV  -       405 ha                                                              [
PM I-   195 ha                               Vd APjdP 
FT   I I  -     205 h.a                                 Id           W     
PY  III  -      530 to                                        WAjIAW 
I3. AG3RO-IN0lUSTRIES                                                   W          ~        
-   ~dd Flats PI-  -   cokplje                    'AW1111 W WA    P.Wllll~   FW
-  F-ait Soad Floss - ProlcuPIj.                   I        AWAM  "WA  OFAW  *FA
FlPa-t for Pr-csmig Fruit,
Vegetables cod Foret Froducts                     9
F lo,tr for Dehydration 01 Fruits 
-td Vegetablo,                                       "WAllll WA FWI
-Cold Storage -nd Fremig
T.rire - Lesk.-a                             PW11111 OWAsV WAW  'F'I              I
-  -F   Viodicin P vas (D.WA WAIi- ) 
-  OASi-er - Viasotmoc                             IW"       V .  'AWAO OWA V        W
Wi-yr - V-oje                                                AsW
-Milk FPoossumg PW-t -.mr-,.I4                                           W                                                    -
-MilkP PrcesigPan-  ac
Plnt - Zitotodje .W                                                            A    W
P- Po,ty Sloughttrnh.- - Vrutkt                                                            n      m                    
Livestock Feed Mlilk - V rn-kAJ W JfW
Sa-gh-hrou- - Loskucac                                           dWIW  AIM                                                                                m A1
-Hand -mde Carper F-oscy                                          I       
K- Krr,mK                                          F5r~ U'W2111A WA
Piglet Bresding Utit - -tsk....                 Ii      dOAVfE!dWA EE.-
KEY:
Py        Project Meat
9UwllllnwA    Appr-.1 of SuIblon-. Preparation of Deour.e-t, PieaI Design,
Adveseit coo -  Ealuati-n of Tender D-cu-ete. Award and
Signing of Controc
=Contr-tion and Irertallti-n of Egaloment and Staff Appoint-ent                                                   VV.,1d Bank  22091



- 61 -
YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF
MORAVA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT 11 PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
SFUFR PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION                                           INVES SANKA  BORROWERi                                              LOCAL BANKS
AGENCY
-   - - -7                                                       Ni
AA A OR     ORGN        O   -SUBSDIARY    OT -ER PAR TICI                                   CONSORTIUM ORGNIATN  BW G    GbNkI  Ot
AGREEMENT             -A3 S-io,rAd0- o... AGG ouMENT Wk                                         V-oelr  PPCulrC                      a
A2I.P tnnFmkSa CmFa- 1 Dair                                                                         I
t--      _ -  -  -  _         - S Projact E.--%ls                                           Ag,.IR,,ka B.lBr.d.
2 AGit-, P at 02 t PlantaiO5                                                                            F
FIEGGOPiglet -nedng UrNUIT                                                             _ _REGIONA_ _NATINUNtT
AG Ulnin. Leahooan                                                             -   70 IS. SheeOTH MRAVAAT  p FermIeA 200 NaS TOW VNenta- 41.SepFn
-  t551.S. Dairy Farm,                                                         -  3015 trill Minad Fannrad- .1                gOAL.  P.rdkps. Prkuie-HISCalFotntFr
AGR0KMBINoaA,LTk-AK-LEKVC                     WRKNomAIZTO     DLIE                           TE  PATCPAIGORAIATOIaONS Fui.WOntRKoING0  0 CRAtlFaNIZAIN Farina                                    PAGRTIpCIPATINGg  OGNZAIN
-  rig 0,1G. Fruit Plantationsh.L   gri.i,fl.-i-                                    OALA. Napraa-Rdoal.[rad                        WO 40d0 ka,Fri P,kl,nain                        PK0h  .S  tiPinain
000 MoIamInet i-egkoa F- . MPSd   -                                    -df                         6 I.S. Darp Far.--5  hAL D1.0   Pr.neparda1 S I Sut Plont F-.0   F.ay1
177h5. SiuF-rhue P-.-Pr                                mPIrSCSry35 - O  I.S. Sheep Farm                                                       -e0...,,iP.                                     OA L Nitoradk, Ziuaned
WOS HIadnl   Dhono                                Z-Kli(0,0  -D ra32 ih. Hi.F,lPlM..a                                  - Farm,. Pk.l.                                                        -   50I  .SPigFatteing-Fant
REGIONALCOORDINATlON       ROAL Rae,.ii
UlR,r, L.k.-                      70 I.S. Sh.X  F.-                              20 0Bh.r IS. Inniaatdon iooroiniho
150I.S.D.iryF.-                                                           3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  410 1SHill M,oad Far.-BAP,kWP.upj
WO M_.k.r.L.k-                                                                        450 -=5h. I/S. Fruit Pia io *a                                                               w 
iito/-~ ~         ~              ~~~ ~ ~~~~~                                                         ~               ~~~~~~~ lO IS.' Shee Farm.+ 
WO 176cl hi,  j -.S F380 Pa  SFrit la-.                                                         BOAL N3rprldko- 8.1dlio                            400 h.d ].S. F. Pro-up.l .                   FK Ku5m0   J h.  su  ija .
WO-M-I-ibl-, L         k - 15m156mante5CoordinatIon Chan                                                S. 500-. he OOK  Soop  Vineyard.                                                        -t
_ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~ . 200cdsO Sealternn   ars_ss  lkad  neyFodtf                             -  1C7 IrS airO Retahlltai                        AAL                                        Leekonanuie     1     CtTF;sesig  zm
S S. Sl..9h,,r ho...tlon (10                    Z;tOY-)dis iB0 000 ILDSyl                    - 324 ha I Shp Fruit                                                                            BOALtsationt  ZBOALdj. 4000 1.0. Fu  P a   B nete
- 55 Pi3letBNtdingunl? ~ ~ ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       SOA WOJW-pricrad. Oraienw                                                                    woLolprY*Ip  - si haet riP8nzt
15015 Hlft-                                                                                     10rs  - I301 S. Hilt Mwl ti F.-mK            BOAL Prokuw Prokupljx                           -    91 l S. Ptig F. tt ning F7 Hm
1SL N7BAEMN  AGEEEN   SMA S                                                           4ri00ata sBA  N;t IS.-Fruit P grtdtnn          -   0                                  P1SFlOPlntot-gOh S    ri lnai
WOMg>2kimbinat Letjktvac                                               ~~~~~~~~- B3IS15 aineyFard.                                                            ProCuRerYrd     S   ayPatl000Dy
SSSugtoStoed It y OFU0  I/er   -, Loca  Iak  Al noriopain                           BOALs VBOraAL Vrtornld 17%r
WO                         Organtution                                                                    10n IriBr  Seloa CHillar ortt -em -.5  Binr IEBPpanelong
- S S C.1d Si- e C ad F      Nitg end-l                                                        PT!K Pusrn.  ka
BOALSRta  oji
Scarce en Aar,ou,rne. Tred Orgen,eaion,_- 9P 190 Dairy Farms                                                            PRETSAEO   IFRN    ATCPTN
2n8 n19. Fruit Plantation,
1 9B h.   I.S. uio  ("B.,.ik")
WO Pin"Fo          a T PR-oie
2     e I and S FHill   Produ F n
00 SB .IS    F,ru iI PranetlBnj
KEY:                                                                          OZZ P-U.  PNl@Y2
- 120 IS. Shrop Farms
L.,idi g Ch.-nl. for S.bl.-n                                          WO Vi..sa   lstit          
___   ImplemLnt-i-nC=dnto Chin-li                                     - 500 h. I B Vinty2ards                                          
1S   1,=idlYid-a S-tr                                          -S SWnrR.9         il7to                                                                  I   aky 
55S =S..c.IS.-to                                               WO V1.,m  - Prtd.., S.,diiil-a/2t
1 30 I.S. Sh..p F-.s 
- 0.0 FB Hill Mi.N0 F-OYsrh
-  0  aI SFrutPattosten
BOA L Poljop   l,rd  Vr-m                                                    47%        \     O  .ll-t
-   G.l oultiry Siaumer 1u%
-5 m Ill ion   Mirtds/Veri
A SELF MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT'~SMAI                                             4    h:0hIS. Frui,Pl.,,, s .W    Bn   2
-100 hS.1 Vln yrds                                                                  Pou  
I S,9-ed bY SFUR, I B L-Ia B-nk. All F.rticpatImS                             BOAL Via--., V.nl                                                                   { 
Ognato  mProj.c Ragi-nl Chamb r..o                                  - S.S. Wiw,r E.p-ni-o
Com--c Nin -d 1--k-, R.p.bli. ..d                                          0TN  G-rjaSall ni
Loc, G-Yr-1 nA.thrte .....     tt .. o                                     BOAL Zdrua- 1,10di.la
-cl ;,ad A,rcutu   TrdOgm6in                                                   0 I.S. OiryP F.-                                          PERCENTSHAREOFOIFFERtENTPARTICIPATING
E.d Exp  Or3ni aion                                                      - 6I0  S. S h,   F.-m                                               ORGAhNIZATIONS IN 7OTAL PROJECT COBT
2 SMIA -eold -.sr. comtmn  o Pr.,..,-   20 I.B Hill Mi..d F.m-
Iml    .,na ion d cif, Ri,h,,i -d Obtig.,-ns                           243 h. I S Fruiti PlInt,,, n
_S.S PI-n f.r ProW,,ig of F,.,,,
V       ,gtbe -nd FortA Prod.-t
VVO Zlinprdikt Vr-nk. B.,ij.
-  2019S B-oll, "     rm
- SS Fkd Mill 175 00 t/Y ...I
9 9. Poultt Slagt ...h-h..
IS milion bird./Ykgr)
World Bn-1,-22090






15                                21,ShSa ha Yeh 15.5Sl '-eMhS,Ssh,Sse.A
<~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eTts~ s eea A, -.,."-= ,,.'.'"h4'.'hhh&',,'YOr.e'e'h'
> !   <    < <   X  Ajs fo}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>h-
D ;                                                                                                                    b-   ,-,1 / 1h  ,,I 8-c} !fr ogt 9 trl Tvat
Ku.rsumRs
-APPRAISAL OF MORAVA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT,    :    .r:    T:-                                                                                              ;eo                             4-
FIREGIDNAL COOBDINATION UNITS       -    PRIMAFIA RDADS          ilI .                       .S|w                                             -      -         ''=,t           D
A    AGRDOICMBINATS                        SECONDSARY ROADS \.1>       =  
*    AGRIICULTLRALSTATIOS!S         ___  TRAILS '\' ,.. -:!}Ul t  
A ETERIYAIITAARlcULTURALSTATln IOS---   RAILW AYS                  ,J                                     f               
PRIMARY AGRUICULTU RAL PRSDUCTISN _--S-RGG ONAY ,t0 5JRA A     D
+   DAIRY FARMS                                                    r.=          SEv\                                                    fi>
A DAIRY!SHEEP FARMS           _           _INTARNAT SISAL rOuNDARY    Srnj, = i 
tt  CATTLE FATTENSING                                             *r               f    A        .~>ik    lnc                         S \   
6!  MRSIER FATTENINGS                                                                    /                            
-4330  ,   IRDNEYPRDDU1CTION S^,9}/t~9 
OW RCHARDS                                                                               ;~                                                                               D Qt_o_ ~+3s1iegrcac
-AGRD SNDUSTRY SODPRSIECTS                S                      > \ Bu0                                        (n\ ac
COLDOSTORE ANS FRFEZIN RTRUNNEL     ,j(       ,            t_J                                              t X0                       
55  FRIITANSoESETArLEPRSCESIssNGr .>      , f,/roET :;  . -,v?-J
igSLAUGHTERHODUSE                2;5    :i:   ,Q;*  t;   S*       
O  PO LTRTSLAOSS,TERROS X7F -PSeS                                                                                                                      * _ j- A UNYINIA 
H   s -;   J  H  LLY  REGI ONS   .                                         IR            IC                                                           '-      IT  HUNKGARY)Fbt     > g l    ;
0   FEEDM ILL u  REG ON                                    ( |                                                                                         |   -   - 5' L AL     W  sI_ C N ^ l x
PT  AVG0                                                                                                                       'Ru;0M 1f   [  :  ;  -  - >    sj
CARPET FACTORY                                                                                                        F'  ' 055'ASIA         5'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tnc
Lebone~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
vi~                           4 S-
0  P AIRS~~~~~11POJC                                                                                 vcdi'
RF]   REGIONALS  *D ATTUNNIT             PRINsRY RADS 
A -   AGAKUMINATh ECONDAY ROAD
AG.sRICUTANDAL hSTATIONS               TRAILS                                                                                                                                      4I~
2    -3  2R V5'-                                                                                                                                        -



