LOAN NUMBER 1951 YU
[DOCUMENTJ
Loan Agreement
(Morava Regional Development II Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
OSNOVNA PRIVREDNO - INVESTICIONA
BANKA U BEOGRADU - INVESTBANKA
Dated                              , 1981


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1951 YU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      Ac, 1981, between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and OSNOVNA PRIVREDNO - INVESTICIONA BANKA U
BEOGRADU - INVESTBANKA (hereinafter called the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by making the Loan as
hereinafter provided;
(B) by an agreement, known as the "Self-Management Agreement
on Mutual Rights, Obligations and Responsibilities for the
Realization of the Morava Regional Development II Project"
(hereinafter called the Project SMA) and to be entered into
inter alia by the Borrower, the Republifki Fond za Podsticaj
Br9eg Razvoja Privredno Nedovoljno Razvijenih Podru6ja - SR
Srbije (hereinafter called SFUR), local banks (in addition
to the Borrower) operating in the Project Area (as hereinafter
defined) and organizations of associated labor concerned with the
Project, such entities will undertake certain obligations with
respect to the carrying out of the Project;
(C) by an agreement, known as the "Agreement on Conducting
Business and Providing Funds for the Realization of the Morava
Regional Development II Project" (hereinafter called the Project
Consortium Agreement) and to be entered into, pursuant to the
Project SMA, among the Borrower, SFUR and local banks (in addition
to the Borrower) operating in the Project Area, such entities will
undertake certain obligations with respect to the financing of the
Project;
(D) by an agreement, known as the "Project Subsidiary
Agreement" and to be entered into between the Borrower and SFUR,
the Borrower and SFUR will define their respective responsibi-
lities with respect to the carrying out of the Project;
(E) the Borrower has undertaken to use its best endeavors to
secure all foreign exchange resources (in addition to the Loan)
which may, from time to time, be required for the Project; and
(F) the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (herein-
after called the Guarantor), in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
guarantee the Loan upon the terms and conditions set forth in a
guarantee agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor
and the Bank.


﻿-2-
WHEREAS, the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and SFUR;
NOW THEREFORE the parti.!s hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modification thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions), namely, that the following subparagraph (d) is added
to Section 3.04 of the General Conditions:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and
the application of such prepayment in addition to, or in
substitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of
Section 3.04."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Bank and SFUR of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the Project
Agreement.
(b) "Self-Management Agreement of the Borrower" means the
Self-Management Agreement of the Borrower dated December 26,
1977, as may be amended from time to time.
(c) "Statute of the Borrower" means the sta.ute of the
Borrower, dated December 26, 1977, as may be amended from time
to time.


﻿(d) "SFUR Legislation" means collectively the laws and
decrees of the Socialist Republic of Serbia dated March 31, 1977
governing the activities of SFUR, as may be amended from time to
time.
(e) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made
by the Borrower (for its own account and/or for the account of any
party to the Project Consortium Agreement and/or the Project
Subsidiary Agreement) (1) out of its own funds and/or out of the
funds to be provided under the Project Consortium Agreement
and/or the Project Subsidiary Agreement and (2) out of the
proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section 3.02 (a) of this
Agreement.
(f) "Sub-borrower" means an eligible investor benefitting
from a Sub-loan who may be either: (i) an Individual Sub-borrower
who is an individual farmer sub-borrowing through a social sector
organizaLion or an individual farmer directly sub-borrowing; or
(ii) a Social Sector Sub-borrower which may be any form of social
sector organization.
(g) "Investment Project" means a specific investment project
to be carried out by a Sub-borrower utilizing the proceeds of a
Sub-loan.
(h) "Statement of Operations and Policies for the Project"
means the statement of lending and investment operations and
policies for the Project set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agree-
ment, as such statement may be amended from time to time with the
prior approval of the Bank.
(i) "Project   Operations   Division" means    the Project
operations division established by the Borrower, as provided in
Section 3.01 hereof.
(j) "Dinar" means the currency of the Guarantor.
(k) "Social Accounting Service" means the Slufba Dru9tvenog
Knjigovodstva referred to in paragraph (5) of Article 281 of the
Guarantor's Constitution.
(1) "Project area" means the area described in the pre-
amble to Schedule 2 hereto.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighty-
seven million dollars ($87,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time, for amounts disbursed (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, for disbursements required to be made) by the Borrower
under Sub-loans in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Loan Agreement pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 5 hereto.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1986 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of nine and three-fifths per cent (9-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement as such Schedule
shall be amended from time to time by the Bank to the extent


﻿-5-
required to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the
aggregate of the respective amortization schedules applicable to
the Sub-loans which have been approved or authorized for with-
drawals from the Loan Account under Section 2.02 of this Agree-
ment; and (ii) take into account any cancellation pursuant to
Article VI of the General Conditions and any repayments made by
the Borrower under Section 2.09 of this Agreement; provided that
repayments due hereunder shall be made on March 1 and September 1
in each year. Such amendments of said Schedule 3 shall include
amendments to the table of premiums on prepayment, if necessary.
(b) The amortization schedule applicable to each Sub-loan
shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, and, unless the
T)ank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree (i) shall not extend
beyond fifteen years from the date hereof, and (ii) shall provide
for approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, aggregate
payments of principal and interest or approximately equal semi-
annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
(c) The Borrower shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior
approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by the
Borrower in respect of the repayment provisions of any Sub-loan.
Section 2.09. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree:
(a) If a Sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid
to the Borrower in advance of maturity or if a Sub-loan or any
part thereof shall be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise
disposed of for value by the Borrower, the Borrower shall promptly
notify the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the next following
interest payment date, together with the premiums specified in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement or in any amendment thereof under
Section 2.08 (a) of this Agreement, the amount withdrawn from the
Loan Account in respect of such Sub-loan or part thereof and not
theretofore repaid to the Bank.
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied
by the Bank, to the maturity or maturities of the Loan in amounts
corresponding to the outstanding amounts of the maturity or
maturities of the Sub-loan so repaid or disposed of.
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.04 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of
this Section.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall, in conjunction with
SFUR, carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency, in
conformity with appropriate agricultural, technical, adminis-
trative and financial policies and practices and in accordance
with the Statement of Operations and Policies for the Project. To
that end, the Borrower shall maintain under arrangements satis-
factory to the Bank, a Project Operations Division staffed in a
way appropriate to enable the Borrower to fulfill its obligations
set out in Schedule 5 hereto, such Division to be headed by an
experienced and duly qualified director and to comprise inter alia
experienced and duly qualified agronomists, livestock specialists,
economists, procurement specialists, marketing specialists and
financial analysts.
(b) The Borrower shall enter into the Project SMA, the
Project Consortium Agreement and the Project Subsidiary Agreement,
all on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan by the Borrower will be
made on financial terms and conditions consistent with the State-
ment of Operations and Policies for the Project and on the follow-
ing terms and conditions, which are in addition to those referred
to above, whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written contract
with the Sub-borrower or by other appropriate legal means,
rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank and the
Borrower, including, in the case of any such Sub-loan, the right
of the Borrower to: (i) require the Sub-borrower to carry out its
Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with appropriate agricultural, technical, adminis-
trative and financial policies and practices and to maintain
adequate records; (ii) require that: (1) the goods and services
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured
in accordance with Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (2) the proceeds
of any Sub-loan financed out of the Loan shall not be expended
for goods produced in, or services supplied from, any country
which is not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland); and
(3) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the
carrying out of an I.nvestment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself
or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so
request, such goods and the sites, works, buildings, property,


﻿-7-
equipment and construction included in any Investment Project, the
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents; (iv)
require that: (1) the Sub-borrower shall take out and maintain
with responsible insurers such insuraince, against such risks and
in such amounts, as shall be consistent with appropriate business
practice; and (2) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such
insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-
portation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to the place of use or installation, any indemnity
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the
Sub-borrower to replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such
information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably request
relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations
and financial condition of the Sub-borrower; (vi) suspend or
terminate the right of the Sub-borrower to the use of the proceeds
of the Loan upon failure by such Sub-borrower to perform its
obligations under its contract with the Borrower and, in appro-
priate cases, to premature the Sub-loan; and (vii) require
(A) any of the Social Sector Sub-borrowers: (1) to have its
accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
prepared in accordance with the appropriate accounting principles
which are consistently applied by the Social Accounting Service or
another competent and experienced independent accounting organi-
zation; (2) to furnish to the Borrower as soon as available but
in any case not lrter than six months after the end of each such
year, certified copies of its financial statements for each such
year as so audiced; and (3) to furnish to the Borrower such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
the Social Sector Sub-borrower as the Borrower shall from time to
time reasonably request and (B) any Social Sector Sub-borrower
designated from time to time by the Bank to employ qualified and
experienced consultants for purposes agreed with the Bank and on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights, in relation to
each Investment Project, in such manner as to: (i) protect the
interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes
of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause SFUR to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations therein


﻿-8-
set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable SFUR to perform such obliga-
tions, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Project
SMA, the Project Consortium Agreement and the Project Subsidiary
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Bor-
rower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and
the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive any
such agreement or any provision thereof in such a way as to
materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall arrange for the Project
Operations Division: (i) to maintain records adequate to record
the progress of each Investment Project (including the cost
thereof, the amount of financing provided by the Borrower, dis-
bursements, repayments, interest and other charges on such financ-
ing, including the Sub-loan therefor); (ii) to furnish to the
Bank, in cooperation with SFUR, quarterly reports on the imple-
mentation of all aspects of the Project (including any pertinent
general information on agriculture and economic policy measures
affecting the implementation of the Project, the issues arising
from such policy measures and the possible remedial actions
required therefor), in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request and within 45 days of the close of the quarter concerned;
and (iii) to ensure adequate technical and financial supervision
of each Investment Project during and after its completion in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 hereto.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the Project, and its
procedures, operations and records, the Investment Projects, the
Project Operations Division and the Sub-loans.
(b) The Borrower shall evaluate yearly, until the completion
of the Project and in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Bank, the benefits derived from the Investment Projects; in order
to assist the Borrower in discharging said obligations, the
Borrower shall:
(i) by September 1, 1981 (or such other date as the
Bank may agree), employ consultants whose


﻿-9-
qualifications, experience, and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank; and
(ii) submit to the Bank by April 30 of each year
an evaluation report of such benefits, such reports
to be prepared according to a format acceptable to
the Bank and the first of such reports to be
submitted to the Bank by April 30, 1982 (or such
later date as the Bank may agree).
(c) Upon approval of the award by the Borrower of any
contract for goods or services to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose among the Borrower,
the Bank and SFUR, the Borrower shall, in cooperation with SFUR,
prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution
and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Bor-
rower, the Bank and SFUR, of their respective obligations under
the Loan and Project Agreements and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times conduct its
business and operations in accordance with appropriate adminis-
trative and financial policies and practices, under the supervi-
sion of qualified and experienced management and staff, and in
accordance with its Self-Management Agreement and its Statute.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower, in conjunction with SFUR, un-
conditionally undertakes, whenever there is reasonable cause to


﻿- 10 -
believe that the funds available to any of the Sub-borrowers will
be inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the
carrying out of any of the Investment Projects, to make arrange-
ments satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide, or cause to
be provided, any such Sub-borrower with such funds in foreign or
local currencies as needed to meet such expenditures.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the progress of all Parts of the Project and
its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to establish and
maintain separate accounts for the Project and shall record in
such accounts all amounts disbursed or received for or in connec-
tion with the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrowals are requested from the Loan Account with respect to
Categories (1) and (3) of the table set out in paragraph 1 of
Schedule I hereto on the basis of certificates of expenditures,
and shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to examine
such records.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) and its records supporting
certificates of expenditures referred to in Section 5.03 (b)
hereof for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied, by the Social
Accounting Service or another competent and experienced inde-
pendent auditing organization acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish
to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than
six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors (including an analysis
of the quality of the Borrower's portfolio), of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including
a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of such certifi-
cates of expenditures showing whether the proceeds of the Loan
withdrawn from the Loan Account with respect to Categories (1) and
(3) of the table set out in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 hereto, on
the basis of such certificates, have been used for the purpose for


﻿- 11 -
which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
the BoLrower and the audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 5.05. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower, as security for any debt, such lien will equally
and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan and that in the creation of any
such lien express provision will be made to that effect at no cost
to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on
any assets of the Borrower, as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfac-
tory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that
the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.06. The Borrower shall maintain arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank to protect itself against the risk of
losses resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between the
currencies (including Dinars) used in its lending and borrowing
operations for the purpose of carrying out the Project and ser-
vicing the Loan, such arrangements to provide, in particular,
adequate protection for the Borrower against the foreign exchange
risks on Sub-loan repayments accruing earlier than the amortiza-
tion payments of the Loan.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:


﻿- 12 -
(a) Any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable.
(b) A change shall have been made in the Self-Management
Agreement or Statute of the Borrower, or in the SFUR Legislation,
which would materially and adversely affect the financial condi-
tion or operations of the Borrower or SFUR or the carrying out of
the Project.
(c) SFUR shall have become unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by SFUR
or by others whereby any of the property of SFUR shall or may be
distributed among its creditors.
(d) The Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of SFUR or for the suspension of its operations.
(e) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that SFUR will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(f) SFUR shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation of SFUR under the Project Agreement.
(g) The Project SMA or the Project Consortium Agreement
or the Project Subsidiary Agreement shall have been amended,
repealed, waived, abrogated, or suspended in such a way as to
materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the Project.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Any event specified in paragraph (f) of Section 6.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and the Guarantor.
(b) Any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d)
or (g) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Project SMA, the Project Consortium Agreement and
the Project Subsidiary Agreement have all been authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, all parties
concerned, as provided in Section 3.01 (b) hereof.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that (i) the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and
delivered on behalf of SFUR and is legally binding upon SFUR in
accordance with its terms and (ii) the Project SMA, the Project
Consortium Agreement and the Project Subsidiary Agreement have all
been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of, all parties concerned (as provided in Section 3.01 (b)
hereof) and are legally binding upon such parties in accordance
with their respective terms.
Section 7.03. The dateA   2   14, lCl9: , is hereby speci-
fied for the purpose of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿- 14 -
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
OSNOVNA PRIVREDNO - INVESTICIONA
BANKA U BECGRADU - INVESTBANKA
Terazije 7 - 9
11000 Beograd
Yugoslavia
Cable address:                      Telex:
INVESTBANKA                      11147 YU INVESB or
Beograd                          11837 YU INVESB
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By   5
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
OSNOVNA PRIVREDNO - INVESTICIONA
BANKA U BEOGRADU - INVESTBANKA
Authorized Representative


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Sub-loans made by             34,520,000    ( 100% of for-
the Borrower for                            ( eign expendi-
Parts A (a) and B (a)                       ( tures and 50%
of the Project                              ( of the amounts
( disbursed by
(2) Sub-loans made by              4,150,000    ( the Borrower on
the Borrower for                            ( account of
Parts A (b) and B (b)                       ( local expendi-
of the Project                              ( tures, in both
( instances sub-
(3) Sub-loans made by               4,670,000   ( ject to a max-
the Borrower for                            ( imum of 36% of
Part C of the                               ( the total es-
Project                                     ( timated cost
( of the Invest-
(4) Sub-loans made by             41,770,000    ( ment Project
the Borrower for                            ( concerned
Part D of the                               (
Project                                     (
(5) Sub-loans made by              1,890,000    (
the Borrower for                            (
Part E of the                               (
Project                                     (
TOTAL               87,000,000


﻿- 16 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods and services, or on
the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $1,000,000, may be made in respect of all Categories on account
of payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
July 1, 1980.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the*estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿- 17 -
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, b: -otice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.
7.   Withdrawals for expenditures under Categories (1) and (3) of
the table set out in paragraph 1 of this Schedule shall be made on
the basis of certificates of expenditures.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main objectives of the Project are to: (i) assist in
the development of an area covering about 8,730 km2 and com-
prising 13 communes in the southern part of the Morava region and
5 communes in the Toplica part of the same region (the "Project
Area"); (ii) increase the production of meat, milk, fruits and
processed food products in the Project Area as well as the exports
of said processed food products; (iii) contribute to institution
building in the Project Area by strengthening the organizational
and project preparation capacities of the regional development
institutions in such area; and (iv) strengthen the appraisal and
supervision capacity of the Borrower.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Livestock Production
This Part consists of a program of Sub-loans to be made by
the Borrower to Sub-borrowers to finance investments as follows:
(a)  Individual Sub-borrowers
Sub-loans to Individual Sub-borrowers to finance the
construction of farm buildings and the purchase of
machinery, equipment and initial livestock requirements
for about 2,400 individual farms and about 150 honey
production units in the Project Area.
(b) Social Sector Sub-borrower
Sub-loan to the Social Sector Sub-borrower known as AIK
Laskovac to fiaance a piglet breeding unit with about
1,650 sows in the Project Area.
Part B:   Horticulture Production
This Part consists of a program of Sub-loans to be made by
the Borrower to Sub-borrowers to finance investments as follows:
(a) Individual Sub-borrowers
Sub-loans to Individual Sub-borrowers to finance the
establishment of about 3,650 ha of new rainfed fruit


﻿- 19 -
plantations and about 1,100 ha of rainfed vineyards for
about 6,470 individual farms in the Project Area.
(b) Social Sector Sub-borrowers
Sub-loans to Social Sector Sub-borrowers to finance
about 220 ha of orchards and about 200 ha of vineyards
in the Project Area.
Part C:   Irrigation
This Part consists of a program of Sub-loans to be made by
the Borrower to Social Sector Sub-borrowers to finance irrigation
and drainage systems, for about 930 ha, as well as access roads
and the improvement of stream channels in three portions of the
Project Area and, subsequently, the establishment of about 480 ha
of high density fruit tree plantings and about 240 ha of vegetable
production and about 210 ha of crop production in the irrigated
portions of the Project Area for about 2,130 individual farms.
Part D:   Agroindustries
This Part consists of a program of Sub-loans to be made by
the Borrower to Social Sector Sub-borrowers to finance technical
assistance, purchase of raw materials, collection and transport
facilities and food processing equipment, construction and
reconstruction of buildings and permanent working capital require-
ments for about 14 plants, wineries, cold stores, mills and/or
facilities acceptable to the Bank, to be constructed or recon-
structed in the Project Area for processing milk, meat, fruit and
vegetables or for making livestock feed and carpets, as the case
may be.
Part E:   Support Services
This Part aims at strengthening the existing basic agricul-
tural services and agricultural and veterinary stations in the
Project Area, through inter alia: (1) the provision of additional
experienced and qualified staff in sufficient numbers, and (2) a
program of Sub-loans to be made by the Borrower to Social Sector
Sub-borrowers to finance the training and housing facilities for
the staff of such stations, the purchase of laboratory and office
equipment, farm machinery, genetic stock and vehicles and study


﻿- 20 -
tours and fellowships in Yugoslavia and abroad for the key per-
sonnel of such stations.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule*
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)**
September 1, 1984                                 271,870
March 1, 1985                                     543,750
September 1, 1985                               1,223,430
March 1, 1986                                   1,903,120
September 1, 1986                               2,582,810
March 1, 1987                                   3,298,260
September 1, 1987                              3,751,380
March 1, 1988                                   4,231,150
September 1, 1988                              4,401,170
March 1, 1989                                   4,582,320
September 1, 1989                              4,582,320
March 1, 1990                                   4,582,320
September 1, 1990                              4,582,320
March 1, 1991                                   4,582,320
September 1, 1991                              4,582,320
March 1, 1992                                   4,582,320
September 1, 1992                              4,582,320
March 1, 1993                                   4,582,320
September 1, 1993                              4.582,320
March 1, 1994                                   4,582,320
September 1, 1994                              4,310,440
March 1, 1995                                   4,038,570
September 1, 1995                              3,358,880
March 1, 1996                                   2,679,650
*    The Amortization Schedule is subject to amendment pursuant
to the provisions of Section 2.08 of the Loan Agreement.
**   To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable
in a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.04), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 22 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions or to Section 2.09 (a) of the Loan
Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years                             1.90%
bef ore maturity
More than three years but not                         3.85%
more than six years before
maturity
More than six years but not                           7.05%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                        8*30%
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years                              9.60%
before maturity


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, and in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender or prequalification documents relating there-
to, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form
and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
questi-n. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   (a) Contracts for the procurement of equipment included in
Part D of the Project will include provisions to the effect that
the suppliers of equipment will (i) furnish erection supervisors,
(ii) provide warranties as co the performance of such equipment,
and (iii) train local personnel in the operation and maintenance
thereof.
(b) The processing plants included in Part D of the Project
shall be procured on a "turnkey contract" basis or according to
other procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other


﻿- 24 -
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Yugoslavia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Yugoslavia if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Yugoslavia equal to at least 20%
of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.


﻿- 25 -
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for goods and works included in Parts A, B, C and E
of the Project may be awarded according to local procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
2.   All works included in Part D of the Project, to the extent
that they are not covered by a turnkey contract referred to in
Part A.3 (b) above, may be procured on the basis of local pro-
cedures acceptable to the Bank.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts referred to in Part A.3 (b)
above and to all contracts for goods included in Part D of the
Project and not covered by the foregoing contracts:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.


﻿- 26 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall, if specifically requested by the
Bank, furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior
to the submission to the Bank of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract,
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis
of the respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 5
Statement of Operations and
Policies for the Project
1.   Project Operations Division Responsibility
The Project Operations Division shall, in accordance with the
policies and procedures outlined in this Schedule, continue to
review proposed Investment Projects and Sub-loans and make appro-
priate recommeudations thereon to the Borrower prior to the
approval by the Borrower of any application or request to the Bank
for approval or withdrawal in respect of such Sub-loans.
2.   Sub-loan Processing
(A) Registration
Each Investment Project shall be registered with the
Borrower upon receipt of the application therefor made by
a Sub-borrower to the Borrower.
(B) Appraisal and Eligibility
(i) Sub-loans to Social Sector Sub-borrowers
The Borrower shall prepare an appraisal report for
each Investment Project, taking into account,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
following:
(a) the technical feasibility, financial viabi-
lity, commercial soundness, economic justi-
fication and availability of markets;
(b) at least 50% of processing capacities to be
available for the individual sector produc-
tion;
(c) the generation of sufficient cash flow to
cover debt service, legal claims, legally
required allocations to the enterprise's
depreciation, reserve, and reinvestment needs
and to achieve financial and economic rates of
return of at least 12%; if the financial or
the economic rate of return is calculated to


﻿- 28 -
be less than 12%, additional justification
will be required;
(d) the creditworthiness of the Sub-borrower; and
(e) appropriate consideration given to the choice
of technology, with preference accorded to
more labor-intensive methods as opposed to
capital-intensive and automated technology and
to the consequences of such a choice on the
investment cost of Investment Projects.
(ii) Sub-loans to Individual Sub-borrowers
The Borrower shall prepare a brief appraisal
for each Investment Project, taking into account
the following:
(a) technical feasibility, financial viability,
commercial soundness, economic justification
and availability of market outlets;
(b) the creditworthiness of the Sub-borrower;
(c) adequacy of the mutual agreements between
individual farmers and their own cooperatives
or social sector organizations; and
(d) adequacy of the arrangements for the provision
of extension services to individual farmers
and the recovery of service charges.
(C) Review of Investment Projects and Approvals
of Sub-loans
On the basis of the appraisal referred to above in
paragraphs B (i) and (ii), Investment Projects shall be
reviewed and the proposed Sub-loans therefor shall be
approved as follows:
(i) with respect to certain Investment Projects
designated from time to time by the Bank and
included in Part D of the Project, the Borrower


﻿- 29 -
shall not approve a Sub-loan before the Bank has
reviewed the Investment Project and the appraisal
report pertaining thereto and has given its
approval to it;
(ii) with respect to other investments under the
Project, the Borrower shall review each Investment
Project submitted to it and shall have the right to
give or withhold its approval for a Sub-loan to be
made, provided that the Borrower shall: (1) in the
case of Investment Projects under Part D of the
Project, obtain the prior approval of the Bank
before approving the Sub-loan in case where (AA)
the updated investment costs, as updated at the
time of such Sub-loan final review by the Borrower,
shall exceed by more than 20% the investment costs
(including price and physical contingencies)
estimated during appraisal of the Investment
Project, or (BB) a major change in the design of
the Investment Project shall occur and (2) not
approve a Sub-loan, in the case of Investment
Projects under Part E of the Project, until the
obligations of SFUR under Section 2.04 (b) of the
Project Agreement have been fulfilled; and
(iii) as part of the review of an Investment Project and
prior to approving any Sub-loan, the Borrower
shall ensure that:    - V
(a) contributions to Sub-loans are available as
set forth in paragraph 3 (A) hereunaer as and
when required to enable the Sub-borrower to
carry out its Investment Project in a timely
manner;
(b) adequate arrangements are made to make
available to Sub-borrowers seasonal credits in
amounts sufficient to enable the Sub-borrowers
to realize the potential of the investments
included in their Investment Projects;
(c) the amount of the proceeds of the Loan used
for a given Investment Project shall not
exceed 36% of the estimated costs thereof;
and


﻿- 30 -
(d) the requirements (as and when applicable) set
out in Section 3.02 (a) (i), (ii), (iv) and
(vii) of the Loan Agreement are fulfilled.
(D) Notification
(i) With respect to a Sub-loan included in the above
sub-paragraph (C) (ii), the Borrower shall promptly
inform the Bank of its approval thereof and shall,
only upon its request, submit to the Bank the
appraisal report of the Investment Project to be
prepared according to a format acceptable to the
Bank.
(ii) With respect to any Sub-loan, the Borrower shall,
upon approval of such Sub-loan, promptly inform the
Bank of the number assigned to such Sub-loan for
the purpose of registration under paragraph 2 (A)
above.
3.   Terms of Sub-loans
(A) Contribution to Cost of Investment Projects
(i) Individual Sub-borrowers shall be required to
contribute not less than 20% of the cost of each
Investment Project (including their own labor
or building materials). The Borrower shall be
required to contribute, or shall cause to be
contributed, the remainder of such cost; and
(ii) Unless the Borrower and SFUR shall otherwise
determine on the basis of the financial situation
of the Social Sector Sub-borrowers, said Sub-bor-
rowers shall be required to contribute not less
than 20% of the cost of each Investment Project.
The Borrower shall be required to contribute, or
shall cause to be contributed, the remainder of
such cost.
(B) Rate of Interest
Unless otherwise agreed by the Bank, Sub-loans shall
carry interest on the principal amount outstanding from time
to time:


﻿- 31 -
(i) on the portion of a Sub-loan financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan, at an annual rate of not less
than 11%; and
(ii) on the portion of a Sub-loan financed out of
resources other than the resources provided by SFUR
or the proceeds of the Loan, at an annual rate of
not less than 10%.
(C) Repayment
For the purpose of Section 2.08 (b) of the Loan
Agreement, the grace and amortization periods for the repay-
ment of principal of the portion of Sub-loans financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan shall be determined from the pro-
jected cash flow of the Investment Project financed and shall
take into account the terms and conditions of all other
appropriate foreign exchange borrowings incurred for the
Project or this Investment Project. Unless otherwise agreed
with the Bank, such grace and amortization periods shall not
exceed the following:
Maximum
Maximum              Amortization
Grace Period      Period (including the
Type of Sub-loan            in Years       grace period) in Years
A. Sub-loans not
benefitting from
foreign exchange
borrowings other
than the Loan:
(a) Sub-loans              5                     15
under Parts
B and C of the
Project
(b) Sub-loans              3                     13
under Parts A,
D and E of the
Project


﻿- 32 -
Maximum
Maximum              Amortization
Grace Period      Period (including the
Type of Sub-loan            in Years        grace period) in Years
B. Sub-loans
benefitting
from foreign
exchange bor-
rowings other
than the Loan:             5                     15
4.   Supervision
The Borrower shall supervise the application of its Sub-loans
in accordance with appropriate banking, financial, technical and
agricultural practices. Such supervision shall include inter
alia periodic visits (at least at six-months intervals) to the
Investment Projects to ensure that the proceeds to the Sub-loans
are properly used and that satisfactory progress is made in the
carrying out of the Investment Projects.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  131L    day of .a A0, 198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


