Document of
The World Bank                FILE t
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2596-TU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED THIRTEENTH LOAN
TO
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A. S.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
June 21, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1/
Currency Unit               Calendar 1978                March 1979
US Dollar 1          =         TL 24.28                   TL 25.00
TL 1                           US$ 0.04                   US$ 0.04
1/    Note:  This Report and the Staff Appraisal Report have been prepared
on the basis of the exchange rate of TL25 = US$1.00, which prevailed
until Turkey introduced a multiple exchange rate system in April which
was again modified on June 11, 1979. The current rate is TL 47.1 = US$1.00,
except for oil and fertilizer imports and agricultural exports for which
it is TL 35 = US$1.00.
FISCAL YEARS
Republic of Turkey               -         March 1 to February 28
TSKB                             -         January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
CLAs           -            Convertible Lira Accounts
DESIYAB        -            Devlet Sinai ve Isci Yatirim Bankasi
(State Industry and Labor Investment Bank)
DYB            -            Devlet Yatirim Bankasi
(State Investment Bank)
EEC            -            European Economic Community
EIB            -            European Investment Bank
KfW            -            Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
L.A.           -            Loan Agreement
LDRs           -            Less Developed Regions
LIBOR          -            London Inter Bank Offered Rate
SEE            -            State Economic Enterprises
SMLI           -            Small- to Medium-Sized Labor-Intensive Industries
SYKB           -            Sinai Yatirim ve Kredi Bankasi
(Industrial Investment and Credit Bank)
TSKB           -            Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi
(Industrial Development Bank of Turkey)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TURKEY - TSKB XIII
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi A.S. (TSKB)
Guarantor:           Republic of Turkey
Loan Amount:         US$60 million equivalent, in various currencies.
Terms and            US$59.3 million for project financing to be repaid sub-
Conditions:         stantially in conformity with the aggregate of the
amortization schedules for sub-loans, with a maximum
repayment period of 15 years. US$0.7 million for train-
ing, studies, research, and project promotion, to be
repaid over 7 years, including 3 years grace. Interest at
7.9 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:    The Borrower will on-lend at the Government-determined
interest rate for long-term foreign exchange loans (cur-
rently 20 percent per annum), with the sub-borrower
assuming the foreign exchange risk in respect of both
the prirncipal and the interest; amortization depends on
individual subprojects, but is expected to range from 10
to not more than 15 years.
The Prolecit:        The proposed loan aims to encourage and assist TSKB to:
(i) increase substantially the amount and proportion of
its lencling for export-oriented projects; (ii) continue
the emphasis in its resource allocation on the less
developed regions and small- to medium-sized labor-
intensive projects; and (iii) bridge a part of its
foreign exchange resource gap up to end-1980, as it
continues its efforts to increase and diversify such
resources.
TSKB's new drive to escalate its lending and technical
assistance to export-oriented projects will have a major
direct impact on the Government's efforts to increase
such investments in Turkey. The risk that Government
policies may not maintain sufficient incentive to achieve
this objective, is being addressed by inter alia financing
of exporters' imported requirements and a dialogue on
export policy under the Bank's Program Loan.
Disbursements:                                              -----$ Million------
Bank FY                               80    81    82    83
Annual                               5.1   32.4  21.0  1.5
Cumulative                           5.1   37.5  58.5 60.0
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Procurement:         Through normal commercial channels, but with comparison of
offers from more than one supplier.
Consultants:         To (i) help train TSKB staff in export aspects of projects
(25 man-months); (ii) assist TSKB in studies of Turkey's
industrial export potential (30 man-months); (iii) assist
TSKB in its ongoing program of research studies and project
promotion.
Appraisal            No. 2447a-TU, dated May 17, 1979, issued by the IDF
Report:             Division, EMENA Region



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
THIRTEENTH LOAN TO TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S.
WITH THE GIJARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi A.S. (TSKB) with the guarantee of the
Republic of Turkey, for the equivalent of US$60 million to help finance
private sector industrial development. Amortization of US$59.3 million for
subproject financing would conform substantially to the aggregate of the
subproject amortization schedules, and not exceed 15 years. Amortization of
US$0.7 million for training TSKB staff in the export aspects of projects, for
studies of Turkey's industrial export potential and for TSKB's ongoing program
of research studies and project promotion would be over 7 years including 3
years grace. The interest rate would be 7.9 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report (No. 1272-TU) entitled "Country Economic Memo-
randum - Turkey" dated October 21, 1976, was circulated to the Executive
Directors con November 2, 1976. The situation subsequently deteriorated,
culminating in a serious economic crisis. This Part analyzes these develop-
ments. (A fuller account may be found in the Economic Annex to the Report
and Recommendation of the President on the Erdemir Stage II Steel Project,
dated June 15, 1978.) It also describes the short and medium-term policy
initiatives of the Ecevit Government which took power in early 1978, and
cautiously assesses economic prospects. A special economic mission visited
Turkey in April 1979 to review the Fourth Five-Year Plan (1979-83). A com-
prehensive report on the medium-term outlook is being prepared based on
its findings.
Economic Structure and Causes of 1977 Crisis
3.        In most respects, the record of Turkish economic development over
the last two decades has been good.  As the result of a strong commitment to
rapid growLh and modernization, real output has grown, on average, by more
than 6 percent per annum. Laudable strides have also been made towards
meeting basic needs in such areas as education, health care, water supply,
and rural roads. This impressive record has been punctuated (in 1958, 1970
and most recently in 1977) by severe balance-of-payments crises. The recent
crisis has been the product partly of extraneous factors and partly of the
Turkish development strategy itself, which paid insufficient attention to the
structural weaknesses of the economy and perhaps exacerbated some of them.
4.         The emphasis of successive governments on industrialization doubled
the sector's share in total output between 1955 and 1977, but resulted in
comparative neglect of agricultural development, already hampered by inappro-
priate subsidy and pricing policies. Moreover, although some parts of
1/   This Part is identical to that in the President's Reports on the Ports
Rehabilitation and Grain Storage Projects.



- 2-
Turkish industry are efficient, and more have the potential to become so, a
strong emphasis so far on sophisticated capital-intensive technology has
resulted in high-cost production in certain sectors. Unselective protection
against competition from imports has also inhibited the development of an
industrial structure well-suited to Turkey's comparative advantages in terms
of location, natural resources and labor availability. One important con-
sequence of this, has been that Turkey has so far been unable to develop a
strong industrial export base, and has relied mainly instead on its tradi-
tional agricultural exports (supplemented by workers' remittances) to finance
the imports of materials and capital goods needed for its ambitious moderni-
zation effort. This pattern of trade has been a fundamental cause of the
difficulty which Turkey has periodically experienced in reconciling rapid
growth with a viable external payments position.
5.        During the world recession of the mid 1970s, unlike many other
countries, the average annual real rate of GDP growth in Turkey was 7.2
percent. This includes 1977 when real GDP grew by only 4.4 percent, follow-
ing the economic crisis that year and shortages of power, imported inputs
and the like. Growth over this period was made possible by rising public
sector activity, which provided a stimulus to aggregate demand that more than
offset the depressing effect of sluggish exports and the increased outflow
of payments for oil and other imports. The growth of output was therefore
constrained not by demand, but by supply. Favorable weather and improved
inputs led to an average annual rate of growth of agricultural output of about
4.1 percent in the period 1970-77, while industrial output grew at about 9.2
percent--principally as a result of the sustained high level of industrial
investment. The general pace of investment in Turkey also did not slacken
during the world recession of the mid 1970s. On the contrary, largely
as the result of an intensified public investment drive from 1975 onwards, the
share of fixed investment in GDP remained around 20 percent during 1973-78.
6.         In this period, employment was not at the forefront of development
objectives. Unemployment and underemployment were relatively high, totaling
about 11 percent of the labor force in 1970 and over 13 percent in 1977.
The underlying causes, aggravated by a sharp reduction in the emigration
rate since 1973, are a high rate (2.5 percent per annum) of population growth
and the adoption of relatively capital-intensive methods of production in the
modern sectors of agriculture and industry. The comparatively slow rate of
growth of employment has also had an adverse effect on the distribution of
income, although basic needs are largely met. The two main causes of this
inequality, however, are the large gap between agricultural and non-
agricultural labor productivity and the wide dispersion of farmers' incomes.
7.        During the mid 1970s, Turkey's external trading position deteriorated
markedly due to rapid increases in imports of goods. These tripled in value
between 1973 and 1977, reaching $5.8 billion. About half this increase was
due to rising world prices, including a four-fold rise in the price of oil,
which currently accounts for one third of the import bill. The other half was
due to a steep rise in the volume of imports.



- 3 -
8.        lligh import demand has been characteristic of Turkey in the 1970s,
and may partly be a "catching up" phenomenon.  In 1970, after a decade
of strict import rationing, the ratio of imports to GDP was only 7 percent,
about half the average for countries of Turkey's size and stage of develop-
ment. By 1L977, after several years of liberalization of import restrictions,
it reached 14 percent. This process was associated with increased imported
inputs in agriculture and changes in industrial structure and technology,
which rested growth on imported inputs. After 1973, the growth of imports
was accelerated by: a fall in the local currency price of imported goods
relative tD domestic output, due to a rate of inflation which exceeded the
international inflation rate by more than the rate of depreciation of the
TL against other currencies; an absolute shortage of domestically produced
goods; an increase in the slhare of fixed investment in total expenditure; and
a tendency to build up imported stocks in anticipation of devaluation or
import restrictions.
9.        From 1970 to 1973, rising imports were more or less offset by rapid
expansion of exports--particularly manufactured exports such as cotton yarn
and fabric, leather products and processed food--and workers' remittances.
In value terms, merchandise exports increased from $588.5 million in 1970
to $1,317 million in 1973, or 31 percent per annum. Manufactured exports
increased even faster--from $100.3 million in 1970 to $443.4 million in 1973,
or by 64 percent per annum. In volume terms, they increased by an average
annual rate of 22 percent, a very high rate indeed. The increase in workers'
remittances was even more dramatic--up from $273 million in 1970 to $1,183
million in 1973, reaching a peak of $1.4 billion in 1974. Since 1973 however,
export performance has been weak and remittances also declined after 1974.
The value of exports of goods rose by 33 percent between 1974 and 1977, when
it reached $1.8 billion, mainly due to rising world prices; in volume terms,
they showed no upward trend. Thus by 1977, merchandise exports were only
one-third of the imports.
10.       The poor showing of exports between 1974-77, is partly attributable
to world recession. This not only affected industrial exports; it also
depressed Turkish agricultural exports such as hazelnuts, raisins and tobacco,
and industrial raw materials like cotton. The difficulties were aggravated by
two other factors: (a) agricultural support prices bore little relation to
world prices, and thus failed to provide incentives to farmers to increase
production of exportable commodities; and (b) this was compounded by a general
neglect of agricultural development, buoyant domestic demand for its produce
and ineffective administration of its export sales. More importantly, indus-
trial exports, presently only 7 percent of the value of industrial output,
were stifled by a more rapid increase of production costs in Turkey than in
her trading partners, which was insufficiently offset by periodic small
devaluations of the TL. Consequently, exporting, which had been lucrative in
the early 1970s, became less profitable, and potentially exportable production
was diverted to a booming and profitable domestic market.
11.       The current account balance moved from a surplus of $0.5 billion in
1973 to a deficit of $3.5 billion in 1977, because of a rapid deterioration



- 4 -
in the trade balance, besides a decline in workers' remittances from a peak of
$1.4 billion in 1974 to around $1 billion in 1977. One important cause of this
has been the restrictions on immigration imposed by Western European countries
in the face of growing domestic unemployment caused by the world recession.
The rate at which earnings were remitted also fell substantially. This partly
reflected the overvaluation of the TL, which induced workers to hold their
savings abroad or remit through unofficial channels.
12.       The large current account deficit was not matched by an increased
inflow of medium and long-term external capital. Turkey had deliberately kept
both foreign private investment and private long-term borrowing to a minimum.
The gross inflow from official long-term borrowing during 1970-75 stagnated at
about $300 million per annum. Initially, this was due to a manageable need
for foreign finance, given the tremendous increase in workers' remittances in
the early 1970s. Subsequently, it was because of a lack of experience and
initiative on the part of successive governments to develop and tap new
sources of external borrowing, when faced with a decline in multilateral and
bilateral lending on concessional terms. While in 1976 and 1977, long-term
loan commitments rose to over $1 billion per annum, disbursements continued to
be slow because most loans were tied to specific projects, whose implementa-
tion was slow. Consequently, the overall balance of payments moved from a
surplus of $0.9 billion in 1973 to a deficit of $2.4 billion in 1977. It was
financed by running down the foreign exchange reserves and by various forms of
short-term borrowing, which by the end of 1977 totalled $6.5 billion.
13.       An important source of short-term borrowing was the Convertible Lira
Accounts (CLAs). It provided nearly $2 billion in 1975 and 1976. These are
deposits placed with Turkish banks by foreign commercial banks and non-
resident Turks, which were guaranteed until last year against exchange rate
risk, by the Central Bank. Another major source of finance was short-term
suppliers' credits, partly covered by export credit insurance in the export-
ing countries. A swap facility was also established with the Bank for Inter-
national Settlements, and a scheme whereby the Dresdner Bank took in time
deposits from Turkish workers in Germany, offered high interest rates, and
made the proceeds available to Turkey. During 1977 however, foreign banks
became reluctant to rollover the outstanding stock of short-term debt, and
even more reluctant to make further substantial loans. The Central Bank was
driven to delaying foreign exchange transfers on a large scale. The resulting
substantial accumulation of arrears, made it even harder to obtain new credits.
14.       The deterioration in the balance of payments position can also
be viewed partly as a reflection of inadequate efforts at demand management
and domestic resource mobilization, especially in the public sector. The
public sector deficit rose steadily from TL 6 billion (2 percent of GDP) in
1973 to TL 77 billion (9 percent of GDP) in 1977. This occuarred despite a
creditable tax performance and was mainly due to a deterioration in the
financial position of the State Economic Enterprises (SEEs), and in particular
of the operational SEEs which dominate the transport and energy sectors and



- 5 -
account for half the outpul: of mining and manufacturing. Successive govern-
ments, in an effort to slow inflation, held the price increases of operational
SEEs below the rate at which their already high costs were rising, thus
transforming a TL 5 billion profit in 1973 into a TL 20 billion loss in 1977.
The scale of SEE investment was also greatly escalated, further widening the
gap between public sector savings and public sector investment. Most of the
increased deficit was financed by borrowing from the Central Bank, since
administered ceilings on interest rates made it hard to attract sufficient
purchasers for government lbonds. As a result, and despite a large decline in
the foreign exchange reserves, the money supply increased rapidly, at an
average annual rate of about 30 percent between 1974 and 1977.
15.       The rate of inflation (as measured by the wholesale price index)
declined from 30 percent in 1974 to 10 percent in 1975, but rose to 24 percent
in 1977. Besides cost-push influences on the price level (including a power-
ful labor union movement and a farmer-oriented agricultural price support
policy), the recent trend also results from excess demand caused by the
enlargement of the public sector deficits and the private investment boom.
Recent Economic Programs and Performance
16.       Tentative stabilization measures to stem the resulting economic
crisis, taken by the coalition government of Mr. Demirel towards the end of
1977, did not go far enouglh and came too late. In early 1978, a new govern-
ment, with a small but working majority, came to power under Mr. Ecevit. It
purposefully set about taking painful, but essential, steps to restore order
in the chaotic economic house it inherited and build up the confidence of the
international financial community in Turkey's future. It swiftly formulated
a package of stabilization measures as part of the 1978 Budget and Annual
Program. This formed the basis of a Standby Agreement with the IMF in April,
1978. In summary, the short and medium term remedies applied by the Govern-
ment to solve the economic crisis contain four salient elements. First,
restraint of domestic demand relative to output, through increases in public
and private savings relative to domestic investment. Second, measures that
directly boost exports substantially, including the maintenance of competi-
tiveness, or that restrain imports. Third, sustained efforts to obtain a
substantial increase in medium and long-term external loans. Fourth, pari
passu with the rescheduling of the outstanding stock of short-term debts,
conversion of these debts into medium-term obligations, and exercise of
strict control over future short-term borrowing. Ultimately, considerable
restructuring of the economy to rectify imbalances in Turkey's current
foreign t:rade pattern, will be entailed.
17.       To raise domestic savings relative to domestic investment, the
Ecevit government, between March and May 1978, increased a wide range of
SEE prices and tariffs. In early September 1978, SEE prices for petroleum,
petroleurn products and sugar were increased by 80 percent. All price in-
creases t:ogether were expected to add TL 54 billion to SEE revenues in a
full year. The Government also substantially raised the stamp duty on



- 6 -
imports, and proposed to the Parliament, a number of other tax revenue mea-
sures, including a large increase in motor vehicle, income, corporation and
municipal taxes, as part of a broader set of measures designed to enhance the
efficiency and equity of the fiscal system. To control public sector expendi-
tures, especially investment, it decided to concentrate on the completion of
existing projects and cut back on new projects, except in the bottleneck
energy and ports sectors, and for exports and such basic imported commodities
as steel and fertilizers. In these ways, the Government aimed to markedly
reduce public sector deficits and public sector borrowing from the Central
Bank. In conjunction with other limits on Central Bank lending agreed with
the IMF, these were expected to reduce the rate of growth of the money supply
and the availability of credit, so as to restrain investment and consumption.
To mobilize private savings, most interest rates, including those on govern-
ment bonds and the repatriated savings of migrant workers were increased.
18.       Despite the stringency of these politically difficult stabilisation
measures, the results were mixed. The consolidated budget deficit in 1978 is
officially estimated at about TL 34 billion, compared with TL 48 billion in
1977. But the rate of growth of the money supply in 1978 was 37 percent,
roughly the same as in 1977. Moreover, the price level rose very sharply
in 1978, even at the end of the year, the rate of inflation was around 50
percent per annum. Money wages also increased at an annual rate of over 50
percent, despite the Government's "social contract" with the largest trade
union federation in July 1978.
19.       To discourage imports and stimulate exports further, the TL was
devalued against the dollar three times between September 1977 and March 1978,
by a total of about 50 percent. In addition, it drifted downwards with the
dollar against other currencies. The effect of this devaluation on imports
was augmented by the increase in stamp duty in 1978 and in the short term,
also by government's decisions to reduce imports of investment goods and give
priority to -imports of materials and spares needed to maintain, as far as
possible, output from existing installed capacity. This, together with the
shortage of foreign exchange, resulted in a drop in merchandise imports from
$5.8 billion in 1977 to about $4.6 billion in 1978. This compares with the $5
billion figure envisaged under the April 1978 Standby Agreement.
20.       As regards exports, the effects of the devaluations were partly
offset by a reduction in April 1978 of export rebates. In July 1978, these
rebates were increased again. As an additional financial incentive, the
Government accorded priority in the allocation of foreign exchange for the
purchase of imported inputs for export production and that of essential
goods for domestic sale. Exporters have also been given special permission
to finance their import requirements through acceptance credits. The degree
of priority accorded to exporters in the allocation of domestic credit
through the banking system was increased, as were the interest rate rebates
on domestic borrowing by exporters. An inter-ministerial Export Coordination
Committee set up to resolve the problems faced by exporters, has succeeded in
simplifying some export licensing and registration procedures. Export targets



-7 -
have been set for SEEs and Agricultural Sales Cooperatives. The Government
took prompt steps to earn foreign exchange by disposing of large existing
stocks of exportable commodities, notably wheat. It also took steps to:
restrain domestic demand through its fiscal, monetary and price policies,
help prevent diversion of potential export goods for domestic use, and improve
competitiveness through exchange rate adjustments. In response, the value of
exports rose by 28 percent in 1978 to around $2.25 billion. But this was
below the $2.6 billion anticipated in the Standby Agreement.
21.       With these developments in foreign trade and a marginal decrease
in worker remittances over the 1977 level, current account deficit dropped
markedly to an estimated $1.7' billion in 1978. This compares favorably to
$3.5 billion in 1977 and the $1.8 billion deficit anticipated in the Standby
Agreement. This substantial reduction, achieved mainly by severe curbing of
imports, and vigorous efforts to raise fresh medium and long-term funds along
with the rescheduling of existing debt (para. 23) led to an improved balance
of payments position. Nevertheless, the overall 1978 deficit is estimated at
about $900 million, some $15() million more than that envisaged in the Standby
Agreement. On a net basis, it was financed by $180 million in IMF drawings
(para. 22), $340 million in petroleum and Eurodollar loans, $145 million from
the Dresdner Bank scheme and the remaining $235 million from various commer-
cial banking sources.
22.       The Standby Agreement provided for the immediate withdrawal of about
$89 million in compensatory financing. In addition, since the Witteveen
Facility was not in operation, Turkey was eligible to draw up to 150 percent
of its quota, amounting to about $360 million, under the Exceptional Circum-
stances clause. This entitled Turkey to withdraw $60 million in May 1978.
A further drawing of $48 million was made in September, following renewed
discussions between the Government and the IMF concerning short-term economic
developments and prospects. Further discussions with the IMF to revise the
stabilization package in light of developments since April, prior to the
release of the remaining tranches of about $252 million, took place in
December.
23.       Since April 1978, Turkey has taken steps to cope with its large
stock of short-term debt ($6.5 billion at the end of 1977). The exchange rate
guarantee on new CLAs with a maturity under one year was removed, stemming new
inflows of these deposits. It also secured, from the members of the OECD
Consortium for Turkey, a rescheduling of approximately $1.2 billion in interest
and principal payments falling due between January 1977 and June 1979, on
public bilateral debt and private debt guaranteed by bilateral export finan-
cing agencies. The terms were 2 years grace followed by 4 years to repay for
short maturities, and 3 years grace with 5 years repayment for longer-term
maturities; the interest rates were to be negotiated bilaterally. Bilateral
agreements have now been signed with all countries concerned. However, nearly
$1 billion of unguaranteed trade debts remain to be rescheduled. Finally,
negotiations have been completed with some 220 commercial banks involved, to
consolidate! about $3.0 billion of outstanding short-term liabilities (includ-
ing most of the CLAs, arrears on CLAs, reimbursement credits and banker's
credits) into obligations with a maturity of 7 years, including 3 years of



- 8 -
grace, at an interest rate 1.75 percent above LIBOR.  In view of the complexi-
ties and numbers of banks involved, progress on this was slow. But reschedul-
ing agreements are ready and are expected to be signed after the ongoing
discussions with the IMF have been completed. While all these efforts have
eased the debt servicing burden for 1978 and 1979, it will cause a substantial
bulge in debt service payments in the early 80s.
24.       Concurrently, the Government pursued new sources of medium and
long-term external finance, including the Middle East. In response to this
initiative: Germany provided program credits of $75 million and project
credits of $72 million; the US, Austria and Belgium provided program loans
totalling $70 million; Libya provided a program credit of $100 million and
another $300 million spread over five years to finance oil imports; Iran
provided a short-term credit of $150 million for oil imports; an agreement
was also signed with the Saudi Fund for $250 million in project aid; Austria,
Norway and Finland provided project credits; trade agreements were signed
with Romania, Bulgaria and U.S.S.R. Another indication of Turkey's change
of direction in seeking external financing vigorously, is the engagement for
the first time of internationally-reputed investment firms to assist in the
rescheduling exercises and the tapping of new sources of private capital in
Europe and U.S. As a first step, in conjunction with the commercial bank
rescheduling, a fresh loan of about $400 million is expected to be provided by
a group of banks, with disbursement contingent on a new Standby Agreement.
25.       The discussions begun in December 1978 between Turkey and IMF on
a revised stabilization program were interrupted because of difficulties in
reaching agreement on certain important policy issues. They have since been
resumed (see para 27). The discussions focussed on the need to continue the
austerity measures initiated in early 1978 and to strengthen efforts to cope
with excessive monetary growth, sagging SEE finances and the high inflation
rate. It is evident that progress in these areas is complementary to stricter
control of imports, tight control over short-term borrowings and the growth of
arrears, and the continuation of foreign trade policies and measures directed
to improve the balance of payments position further.
26.       Against this background, adopting the pattern followed in early
1978, the Government announced its revised stabilization program in mid-March
1979 and amplified it further in early April. To improve the financial
position of SEEs, increased prices of sugar (34 percent), iron and steel (41
percent), cement (63 percent), gasoline (84 percent), fuel oil (80 percent),
diesel fuel (82 percent) and kerosene (110 percent), were announced. These
prices are now well above their imported costs at the current rate of exchange.
The Government estimates that these increases will together, yield an addi-
tional TL 80 billion in the current Turkish fiscal year and significantly
reduce the SEE deficits, despite inflation in costs and wages (although the
latter will be restrained by new limits on the growth of SEE employment).
To ensure more effective mobilization and allocation of fiscal resources,
interest rates for both deposits and lending have been substantially augmented.
For time deposits, increased rates range from 12 percent for deposits between



- 9 -
6-12 months, to 24 percent for those between 3-4 years; in addition, the
repatriated savings of migrant workers will receive an interest premium of 10
percentage points (15 points for deposits above 3 years). The interest rate
for medium and long-term loans have been considerably increased: in the
agricultural sector from 10.5 percent to 16 percent; for small-scale indus-
trial enterprises from 10.5 percent to 16 percent; and for general lending in
industrial and other sectors from 16 to 20 percent. There is no ceiling in
respect of loans extended by development and investment banks using funds
acquired through the domestic bond issues of at least 5 years maturity.
However, interest rate rebates have been increased for export oriented enter-
prises, and for those estabLished in the poorer areas of Turkey.
27.       To improve the baLance of payments, a number of steps were taken.
The TL was devalued against the US Dollar by about 6 percent to TL 26.5 =
US$1. Pari passu, a multipLe exchange rate regime was introduced for the
first time, under which a more favorable exchange rate with a premium of 40
percent (TL 37.1 = US$1) became applicable for foreign tourists, workers'
remittances and repatriated savings. This favorable rate carried an addi-
tional premium, bringing the effective rate to TL 47.1, if transactions took
place up to May 9, and to TL 42.1 for those made between May 10 and June 9,
1979. In addition, a significant development was the creation of an officially
sanctioned, but still limited, parallel market in respect of manufactured and
mineral exports. Specifically, Turkish industrial exporters could retain 50
percent of their foreign exchange earnings and either use this to finance
their own import requirements or transfer it to other industrialists, at
whatever price it fetched. All these measures announced in April appear to go
in the desirable direction, although it was clear that further adjustments in
the exchange regime would need to be introduced in due course to correct the
over-valuation of the official exchange rate. In mid-April, the Managing
Director of the IMF met the Turkish Finance Minister in Zurich and agreed that
discussions on a revised standby agreement should resume as soon as possible.
An IMF mission visited Turkey during late April and mid-May for this purpose.
The discussions concentrated upon the current developments and the salient
elements of the economic policies that could become the basis for a standby
agreement. While no formal agreement was possible, an understanding was
reached that the negotiations should be adjourned for a short while, to allow
the OECD-sponsored pledging session to take place, and the talks should be
resumed thereafter. A successful pledging session took place in Paris on May
30, 1979. The pledges were made, subject to an early agreement on a new
Standby Agreement between Turkey and the IMF, the negotiations for which
resumed in Paris on May 31. The various member governments pledged a total of
$661 million as special aid, and $245 million as special export credit aid to
Turkey, and are considering further rescheduling of the official bilateral
debt and guaranteed export credits to ease the debt servicing burden in coming
years. In. addition, an early agreement with the IMF would also trigger the
provision of new fresh commercial bank loans of $400 million (para. 24),
besides ar. agreement for the rescheduling of the outstanding short-term
liabilities owed to the comlmercial banks by Turkey. On June 11, Turkey again
revised the multiple exchange rate system introduced in April and devalued the
TL further to TL 47.1 = US$1, with a rate of TL 35 = US$1 for oil and fertil-
izer imports and traditional agricultural exports. Other complementary
measures are expected.



- 10 -
28.        For 1979, pending agreement with the IMF, the projections of the
balance of payment can only be tentative. However, based on cautiously
optimistic assumptions concerning exports, worker remittances and capital
inflows, and taking into account the recent increases in international oil
prices, the realization of a volume of imports similar to that achieved in
1978 would entail a foreign exchange gap of about $1.5 billion.
Medium-Term Policies and Prospects
29.        The Fourth Plan was approved by the Turkish Parliament in November
1978. Its important feature is the strong emphasis on the balance of payments
and in particular, on the promotion of exports. The export thrust is one of
the cornerstones of Government's medium-term development strategy, whose
success will be crucial to the restoration and maintenance of Turkey's credit-
worthiness in the medium-term future.
30.       The Government's objective is to increase the volume of merchandise
exports by a factor of almost two and a half between 1978 and 1983. This
implies a real export growth rate averaging around 18 percent per annum during
the Plan period. This is expected to be achieved broadly, in the following
manner.  The volume of agricultural exports is expected to grow at an annual
rate of 6 percent, and that of manufactured products by an average annual
rate of over 30 percent starting from about $700 million in 1978. About 40
percent of the latter is expected to come from food and beverages, textiles
and clothing, and leather products; another 40 percent from intermediate goods
such as rubber and plastics products, chemicals, cement, glass and ceramics,
and basic metals; the remaining 20 percent is expected to consist of consumer
durables, capital goods, and other products of the metal-working industries.
31.       Preliminary Bank projections suggest that the share of unprocessed
agricultural and mined products in total exports is likely to be higher than
envisaged in the Plan, and that the overall export target, though ambitious,
is feasible, provided that the present widespread commitment to export growth
continues to be translated into appropriate policies. In addition, the
Government intends to study the effects on export incentives of the existing
system of protection, with a view to making appropriate changes when the
balance of payments situation permits; and it has already begun to bring the
relative support prices of different agricultural commodities more closely
into line with relative world prices. There will also be a drive to increase
invisible exports, particularly earnings from transportation, tourism and
civil engineering contracts abroad.
32.       The other Plan targets include an average annual real GDP growth
rate of 8 percent, which seems overly optimistic, especially in view of the
3-4 percent growth rate achieved in 1978, and the prospect of a similar
performance in 1979. Efforts not to allow unemployment to increase over the
1977 level, is now - for the first time in any Plan - a specific development
objective. Real fixed investment is expected to grow at an average annual
rate of 12 percent (27 percent allocated to industry, 27 percent to energy



- 11 -
and transportation and 12 percent to agriculture).  Gross domestic savings
are expected to rise from 16 to 22 percent of GNP, implying a marginal
savings rat'io of 35 percent, which seems over-optimistic in view of the
experience of the last two ]Plan periods, in which the realised marginal savings
ratio was only 12 percent, 'Largely due to poor savings performance in the
public sect:or. Significant'Ly, in the Fourth Plan, the main contributor to
the rapid growth of savings is expected to be the public sector, whose reve-
nues are e:xpected to increase in real terms at an average annual rate of 12
percent, cDmpared with a re,al growth rate of 9 percent for public consumption.
Possible Outlook for the Future
33.       If the export drive is successful and imports are appropriately
restrained, and assuming significant growth of workers' remittances as a
result of the recent exchange rate changes and interest rates for remittances,
it should be possible, despite the increasing burden of interest charges on
rescheduled debts, to keep the balance of payments current account deficit to
an average of about $1.5 billion dollars per year during the Plan period. To
finance such deficits and amortize the considerable external debt, it will
also be necessary for Turkey to continue its efforts to achieve a much higher
level of medium and long-term borrowing than in the past, both in commitment
and disbursement terms. But this depends on the assessment of Turkey's
creditworthiness, which in turn hinges on a successful export effort and
careful debt management.
34.       The extensive short-term borrowing of 1975-77 greatly increased
Turkey's external debt, adversely affected its previously rather attractive
maturity structure, and caused a sharp rise in debt service payments. At
the end of: 1978, total external indebtedness amounted to approximately $13
billion. Of this, $5.5 billion was medium and long-term debt. About one-
fourth of it was held by international organizations, mainly the Bank ($836
million, plus $842 million committed but undisbursed) and the European Invest-
ment Bank; and about one-half by foreign governments and government agencies,
notably those of the United States, Germany, Canada and the Soviet Union.
The remaining $7.5 billion consisted of short-term liabilities of various
sorts. IE the consolidation arrangements finalized with the commercial banks
and creditor countries are fully implemented, about $4.1 billion of short-term
debt will be converted into medium and long-term debt. To summarize, these
consolidations consist of: (a) about $3.0 billion to be rescheduled by
commercial banks (para. 23); (b) guaranteed suppliers credits of about $700
million under the terms of the OECD sponsored agreement of May 1978 (para.
23); (c) another $100 million of short-term credits to be refinanced by CMEA
countries; and (d) refinancing of $350 million of oil credit owed to Iraq.
35.       Turkey's debt management initiatives should help restore a more
attractive maturity structure to the external debt, by transforming a good
portion of the short-term liabilities into medium-term obligations. However,
a relatively high debt service ratio over the medium-term must be anticipated
as a result of the large sihort-term debts and the rather hard terms available



- 12 -
to Turkey. In 1977, debt service payments, including interest on short-term
debt, amounted to 20.2 percent of exports of goods, non-factor services and
workers' remittances. In 1978, after making allowance for the rescheduled
service payments, this ratio is estimated to have risen to around 25 percent.
In subsequent years it will increase further, since Turkey has to take on
new borrowings to maintain sound economic growth.  Taking these factors into
account, the debt service ratio is likely to peak in the early 1980s to a high
level of about 40 percent, before it begins to decline. This, however, should
represent the culmination of the financial consequences of the present crisis
and should be manageable, provided the export drive is sustained. Thus,
although the balance of payments situation will remain tight in the medium-
term future, given sound economic and fiscal policies and careful debt man-
agement which the present Government shows determination to pursue, Turkey
continues to have a substantial capacity to service long-term borrowing, and
remains creditworthy for such financing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
36.       Prior to 1970, Bank Group assistance was limited and intermittent.
However, the success of Turkey's 1970 stabilization program, permitted larger
and continuing lending. To date, the Bank/IDA have lent $1,814 million for
54 projects. Agriculture accounts for 28 percent of the funds lent, indus-
try and DFCs for 37 percent, power for 21 percent and urban development,
transportation, education and tourism for the rest. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of
April 30, 1979, with notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
37.        Implementation of private sector projects has been satisfactory.
But in the public sector, political uncertainty, limited coordination among
agencies and staffing problems have resulted in uneven and delayed project
implementation. Therefore, a system of joint project reviews between Turkey
and the Bank was instituted in June 1975. Since up to end 1977, these resulted
in modest improvements, the situation was reviewed with the new Ecevit Govern-
ment in March 1978, and further discussed during my visit in April 1978.
Subsequently, Turkey established a new high-level coordination team for Bank
projects. This team set up procedures for monitoring and achieving realistic
implementation and disbursement targets, and reviewed possible changes in
sector policy covenants which because of Turkish laws and practices con-
strained effective project performance. As of January 31, 1979, disbursements
increased to 72 percent of appraisal estimates against 51 percent in June
1975. The encouraging progress and constructive cooperation which has
now become manifest allow cautious optimism that performance will gradually
improve further, permitting expansion of the Bank's lending.
38.       Bank lending is now aimed at supporting Turkey's efforts to improve
its: (a) capacity to earn or save foreign exchange, through promotion of
industrial and agro-industrial exports; (b) income distribution, employment
opportunities and living standards, through rural and urban development; (c)
lagging public sector savings, through the encouragement of improved manage-
ment and financing of the investments of key SEEs; and (d) infrastructure
posing bottlenecks for development. The Bank has begun discussions with the



- 13 -
Government: on how its lending can best contribute to the new Plan's objec-
tives, especially export promotion, without being handicapped by past policy
and institutional obstacles. Meanwhile, agriculture and industry remain the
key sectors for lending. I.n agriculture, projects emphasize livestock, rural
development, agricultural credit and exports; in industry (including DFCs),
the emphasis is on promotion of exports and employment, as also the gradual
strengthening of the SEEs.  Projects for urban development, public utilities
and transportation supplement these efforts.
39.        A Program Loan and the Bati Raman Enhanced Oil Recovery Engineering
loan were approved in November 1978. Other projects scheduled for considera-
tion in FY79 are ports rehabilitation and grain storage. Projects being
processed for the next two years include the second fruit and vegetable,
Erzurum rural development, the fifth livestock, private and public sector
textiles rationalization, and fertilizer production projects, besides those
for alleviation of air pollution in Ankara (an engineering loan), transport
and sewerage development in Istanbul, secondary oil recovery and employment.
In addition, the exceptional economic circumstances being faced by Turkey,
require further support for the financing of critical imports.  The early
conclusion of a new Standby Arrangement with the IMF and its effective imple-
mentation, and the creditable performance under the first program loan, would
enable us to consider a second program loan in FY80.
40.        At the end of 1978, the Bank Group's share of Turkey's medium and
long-term external debt (outstanding and disbursed) was 15 percent. Its share
of estimated total externaL debt (including short-term obligations) was about
7 percent. The gradual conversion of much of the short-term debt into medium
and long-term debt, will cause the Bank's share of medium and long-term debt
to fall sharply to around 10 percent by 1980. Thereafter, assuming the cur-
rently projected increase in Bank lending, the share would increase. The
Bank's share of service payments on medium and long-term debt is expected to
follow a similar path, dropping from 12 percent in 1977 to about 8 percent in
1980, but rising thereafter.
41.        IFC has invested in the production of synthetic yarns, pulp and
paper, glass, aluminum, iron and steel products, motor bicycle engines, piston
rings and cylinder liners, and tourism. It has also invested in TSKB. As of
April 30, 1979, gross IFC commitments totalled $206 million, of which $105
million were still held by IFC. In March 1979, IFC approved a $31 million
loan (of which $11 million for a participant) and $4 million equity investment
in an export-oriented glass project. Additional investment opportunities are
being pursued.
PART III - INDUSTRY, THE FINANCIAL SETTING AND THE BORROWER
The Industrial Sector
42.        The manufacturing sector has grown by 10 percent per annum over the
last fift.een years, increasing its share of GDP from 15 to about 18 percent.



- 14 -
However, its share of total fixed investment has declined from about 30 per-
cent up to 1975 to 23 percent in 1978. With the increasing capital intensity
of investments, manufacturing employment increased relatively slowly to
its current 11 percent of total employment.
43.        The public sector is the major producer in steel, petroleum refin-
ing, fertilizer, petrochemicals, and pulp and paper. The private sector,
historically focused on consumer goods and durables, has only recently
ventured into intermediate and capital goods production, and is concentrated
in large cities. However, it produces about 50 percent of the sector's value
added. However, private investment in manufacturing stagnated in real terms
between 1974 and 1977, and fell by 11 percent in 1978 as a result of the
economic crisis.
44.        The Government has traditionally viewed industrialization as the key
to high growth rates and greater self-sufficiency. Industrial policy has
therefore stressed import-substitution, advanced technology and a shift from
consumer goods to intermediate and capital goods production. To accomplish
this, the main policy instruments have been large public investments, generous
incentives and high protection against imports for private investment. These
past policies produced many achievements, including high growth rates, domestic
production of large quantities of basic commodities using Turkey's natural
resources, new techniques, and craining of the labor force. Dispersal of SEEs,
industrial estates, regional investment incentives, and lending by TSKB have
mitigated regional inequalities.
45.       However, these policies have given rise to major problems.  The
immediate ones are low capacity utilization because of heavy reliance on
imported inputs, and the low level of manufactured exports (paras. 9 and 10).
The longer range ones are that many heavily protected manufacturing opera-
tions are uncompetitive by international standards. In addition, by adopting
capital-intensive manufacturing techniques despite its surplus labor, Turkey
has for too long neglected employment growth. Finally, the Government's
recent industrial investment plans have been over-ambitious in light of both
implementation capacity and resource availability.
46.       On the other hand, Turkey has a considerable natural resource base
for further industrialization, a comparatively low-wage and skilled labor
force, and a diversified, complex and interdependent industrial base, and
a dynamic private sector responsive to market incentives. It also has an
advantageous location near Western and Eastern European and Middle Eastern
markets.
47.        The Government intends to increase the contribution of manufactur-
ing to GDP. Exports are now an integral element of its strategy. Import-
substitution should continue where this is demonstrably economically viable,
subject to adequate priority for export-oriented investments. Careful project
selection, with the elimination or postponement of low priority investments,
and efficient implementation will be crucial. In this way, lurkey can both
surmount the existing problems and achieve its desired long-term structural
changes and greater self-sufficiency in strategic areas like fertilizers,
chemicals, metals, metal products and machinery.



- 15 -
48.       Over the long term, substantial improvements in structure, effi-
ciency and international competitiveness will be needed, particularly in
the SEEs. The development of exports can make an important contribution.
The present variability of effective protection should be gradually reduced,
to mitigate distortions in resource allocation. More generally, efficiency
would be spurred by replacing reliance on quantitative restrictions by a
gradually lowered level of tariff protection. Finally, faster job creation
in manufacturing is needed to prevent a further rise in the unemployment
rate, partly through changing the bias of present investment incentives to
better reflect the relative scarcities of capital and labor in Turkey.
49.       The Fourth Plan provides for manufacturing to grow at over 11 per-
cent per annum and further increase its GDP share. Investment goods produc-
tion is to grow fastest. Manufacturing would increase its share of total
investment to 27 percent, but with the private sector component falling to 46
percent of the total over the period 1979-83, compared with 57 percent over
the last decade. The investment allocation, however, is clearly along tradi-
tional lines, with 71 percent going to large import substituting projects
mainly for intermediate goods production, many already underway. While it is
desirable t:o complete some ongoing projects in these subsectors, the invest-
ment allocations for light and consumer goods industries with higher export
potential (particularly food, textiles and clothing, and leather products)
appear small in relation to the export targets set for them, and may need to
be increased in the second Fphase of the Plan when more new investments can be
undertaken, More rapid job creation in manufacturing will be attempted,
partly through the rapid expansion of relatively labor intensive subsectors.
Redistribution of activity and income will be fostered through a continuation
of the incentives for investing in less developed regions of Turkey.
50.       W4hile these plans and the prospects are being evaluated by the
recent economic mission, both investment and output growth in manufacturing
are likely to be sluggish in 1979 and 1980. In addition, the Plan targets for
manufactur:ing industry appear ambitious in the light of available resources.
However, as discussed in Part I (paras. 9, 10, 20, 27, and 29 through 31),
the most important feature of the Plan strategy is its strong emphasis, in
contrast to the past, on the promotion of exports, particularly manufactures.
Financial Setting
51.       Roughly 50 percent of private fixed investment in manufacturing is
financed by intermediaries, with TSKB the most important source of long-term
foreign exchange. The other institutional sources are the well-established
smaller Industrial Investment and Credit Bank (SYKB) which so far has financed
predominantly local currency expenditures, the new State Industry and Labor
Investment Bank (DESIYAB) designed to mobilize the savings of migrant workers
for investment particularly in less developed regions, and the public sector
Halk Bank financing private small-scale industry and artisans. Since 1972,
the commercial banks have increased their 2-5 year loans in response to
Central Bank directives and incentives; they often cofinance TSKB-assisted
projects. Internally generated funds meet the bulk of remaining private
investment requirements.



- 16 -
52.       The capital market in Turkey is presently thin and stagnant, given
the impact of inflation on the yields of non-financial assets. Share issues
by private corporations to the outside public are limited. The bond market
is dominated by Government and State Investment Bank (DYB) issues. Government
bonds are highly liquid and yield 18 percent net as of May 1, 1979. Some 60
percent have been placed with financial and other public institutions and
almost 30 percent with individual savers. Bond issues by private corporations
are a relatively recent development. TSKB played a pioneering role in guaran-
teeing and placing some of the principal early issues. They yield 21 percent
gross, a rate which is expected to be increased in summer 1979 to bring it
into line with the recent increases in other interest rates. Development
banks such as TSKB have however limited their own bond issues, since they
suffer a negative spread on loans made out of the proceeds of bonds at the
basic lending rate. Issues reached TL 2 billion in 1978, still a small amount
and declining in real terms. In contrast, private savings and time deposits
have grown rapidly, and reached TL 52 billion at the end of 1978. Most time
deposits are for 2 years and earn 22 percent as of May 1, 1979, while for
those over 4 years the rate is negotiable. To encourage TL equity invest-
ment, especially in the less developed regions, the Investment Finance Corpora-
tion was established by TSKB and a group of banks in 1976. TSKB manages this
corporation, which by end-1978 had invested TL 353 million, including TL 205
million as co-financing of TSKB-assisted projects.
53.       The preliminary draft of the Government study of the financial
sector, carried out from 1976-78 with Bank encouragement, is under review
by the Government and the Bank. Joint discussions and further work are
anticipated thereafter. The study has identified weaknesses in resource
mobilization and allocation, and recommends methods for investment banks to
raise more resources from savers, both directly and through tapping the
funds of other institutions including commercial banks, and more effective
channeling of bank resources to priority uses.
The Borrower
54.       TSKB, established in 1950, is one of the oldest and most experienced
development finance companies associated with the Bank Group. It has played
a signal role in Turkey's private industrial sector. Its paid in share
capital is TL 425.4 million. The principal shareholder is lurkiye Is Bankasi,
Turkey's largest commercial bank, which holds 22 percent of the share capital.
The balance is distributed among a number of Turkish and foreign banks and
other institutions. IFC holds 6 percent.
55.       TSKB has a first class management team, which has been with it for
about two decades. The staff is competent, turnover is low, and staffing
strength is adequate except at branches outside Istanbul.
56.       TSKB's Board adopted a comprehensive policy statemlent in April 1978.
Projects supported by TSKB are to benefit the economy, with special emphasis
on attainment of the economic and social targets of Turkey's development plans,
contribute to the competitiveness and exports of industry, lessen dependence
on imported inputs and capital goods, widen share ownership and create employ-
ment and raise living standards in all regions of Turkey.



- 17 -
57.       TSKB finances around 6 percent of total private fixed investment.
Its approvals nearly tripled from 1974 to 1978 to reach TL 2.7 billion. Proj-
ects it helped finance involved an average investment per job of $34,000. It
provides 12-15 percent of the foreign exchange requirements of the private
manufacturing sector, with foreign currency loans of $198 million during
1977-78. Because of its high standards, its technical appraisals have been
readily accepted by commercial banks as a basis for increasing joint financing.
58.       Until the early 1970s, TSKB financed mainly the domestic market
oriented projects of well established companies in the industrialized areas
around Istanbul and Izmir. Encouraged by the Bank, it moved to allocating
about 40 percent of its resources to the less developed regions of East and
Central Anatolia, thus supporting the national policy of industrial decentral-
ization. TSKB has also considerably increased its assistance to small and
medium-scale labor-intensive industries, helping to slow the growth of unem-
ployment. First time borrowers received 60 percent of its loans in 1976 and
1977. It has provided TL 1 billion per annum since 1975 to companies with
wide share ownership. It undertakes intensive subsector analysis and market
studies. It provides significant technical assistance to its clients at all
stages of the project cycle, including ensuring satisfactory competitive
bidding procedures on subprojects. It now intends to greatly increase its
financing of export-oriented industries, contributing to the Government's
major policy thrust of improving Turkey's balance of payments. Indeed this
constitutes the major rationale for the proposed loan.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
59.       The proposed project is the thirteenth IBRD/IDA operation to assist
TSKB. It was appraised in October 1978. Negotiations were held in Washington
in May 1979. The Turkish delegation included Mr. 0. Eroguz, General Manager
of TSKB, and Mr. Yoruk of the Embassy in Washington represented the Government.
Project Objectives and Description
60.       The objectives of the proposed project, in order of priority, are
to encourage and enable TSKB to: (i) increase substantially the amount and
proportion of its lending for export-oriented projects; (ii) continue the
emphasis in its resource allocation on the less developed regions and small-
to medium--sized labor-intensive projects; and (iii) bridge a part of its
foreign exchange resource gap up to end-1980, as it continues its efforts
to increase and diversify such resources.
61.       The proposed loan of $60 million would provide:  (i) $59.3 million
for financing sub-projects submitted before December 31, 1980, with a free
limit of $J4 million (L.A. 2.02(b)), and (ii) $0.7 million for the foreign
exchange costs of (a) a training program for TSKB staff in the export aspects



- 18 -
of sub-projects ($200,000), (b) studies to identify for possible future Bank
lending, industrial subsectors having maximum potential for export ($300,000),
and (c) TSKB's research studies and project promotion ($200,000). Project
details are provided in the Loan and Project Summary and Annex III to this
Report, and in the report entitled "Turkey--Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi
A.S. Staff Appraisal Report" (Report No. 2447a-TU, dated May 17, 1979) which
is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
TSKB's Operations
62.       TSKB expects foreign exchange approvals of US$322.0 million in
1979-1980. Commitments would be $289 million in foreign exchange and TL 1.7
billion in local currency. This projected considerable increase over 1977-78
levels, despite the sluggish investment climate and the existence of substan-
tial underutilized capacity, is realistic. The main constraint on TSKB's
operations in 1977-78 was its shortage of foreign exchange. This situation
has improved somewhat (para. 75) and, given Turkey's current difficulties,
TSKB now has a virtual monopoly of long-term foreign exchange financing for
private industry which explains the demand for its funds. As at end-April
1979, the foreign exchange requirements of projects approved and awaiting
commitments were $132 million; those under study required $139 million.
Assistance to Export-Oriented Projects
63.       Although TSKB's policy statement highlights exports, in 1977-78
projects aiming at exporting more than 10 percent of output represented only
8 to 12 percent of foreign exchange approvals.
64.       Against this background, the major innovative feature of the pro-
posed project, and indeed the Government's cardinal reason for requesting Bank
lending to TSKB, is TSKB's determination to contribute directly to the Govern-
ment's crucial export drive, by greatly stepping up the amount and proportion
of its lending devoted to export-oriented projects, and by technical assis-
tance and studies directed toward exports. To do so, it will ease its owner-
ship criteria for lending. About 80 percent of export-oriented lending is
expected to be in the most developed regions, and often sponsored by well-
established firms. The projects are most likely to be in food processing,
leather products, glass, mineral products, metal processing and machinery
(apart from textiles and clothing).  TSKB's pipeline as of end-April 1979
included 19 projects with significant export orientation, 15 of them expan-
sions, with requests for $70 million in foreign exchange. Agreement was
reached on a target of $115 million in foreign exchange approvals (40 percent
of such projected approvals) in 1979 and 1980 for export-oriented projects
(L.A. 3.07(a)(i)). These figures exclude projects TSKB will finance under the
proposed Private Textiles Rationalization Project being advanced for lending
in FY80.  Export-oriented projects are defined as those which will lead to
exports of at least 40 percent of project output in the case of expansions or
improvements, and 30 percent in the case of new projects, by the time the
project is expected to reach full capacity (L.A. 1.02(m)). Agreement was
reached that TSKB's subloan agreements for these projects will specify minimum



- 19 -
export targets (L.A. 3.02(a)(v)). In addition, an understanding was reached
that not less than 70 percent of this financing will be for projects with the
higher export percentage. These figures compare with 13.5 percent of output
exported by 49 TSKB-financed projects in 1976.
65.       Further understandings were also reached to support this new lending
drive. TSKB's appraisal reports on export-oriented projects will demonstrate
in each case, to the satisfaction of the Bank, the bona fide export potential
of the project, specifying that the expected production will be competitive
with respect to price (on the basis of sale at or above cost) and quality, and
that local demand will be satisfied. To do this, TSKB will include in its
appraisal reports, as relevant to each case, evidence of export orders, a
market study, past exports, effective marketing channels abroad, and other
marketing steps taken. TSKB will satisfy itself that sponsors obtain avail-
able incentives in accordance with their export targets. TSKB will report
semi-anually to the Bank on the degree to which the targets are being met, and
the steps it is taking to assist subborrowers. It will also calculate for
each project the domestic value added in relation to both the total value of
exports and. the foreign exchange investment costs, with a view to assessing
their contribution to Turkey's balance of payments. Finally, it will submit
full appraisal reports in English on a Bank-selected sample of one in five
export-oriented projects, whether or not Bank-financed.
66.       lo carry out its new role, TSKB will train its staff in the export
aspects of projects, with the assistance of the UNCTAD/GATT International
Trade Center or other export marketing organizations. The training program
will inclucle two years of on-the-job training from an international expert,
seminars and training courses with expatriate lecturers, operational travel
including cooperation with export promotion organizations abroad, and consul-
tant services for market studies and assistance to clients. Some 25 man-
months of consultant services are expected to be required at a cost of $6,000
per man-month. The estimated foreign exchange cost of the program is $200,000
and would be met from the proposed loan (L.A. 2.02(a)(iii)).
67.       TSKB will also carry out, with the assistance of international
experts and under the State Planning Organization's direction, an in-depth
study of industrial sub-sectors with maximum export potential, identify their
production bottlenecks and investment needs, and analyze their potential
markets (especially the EEC and the Middle East). Some 30 man-months of
consultant services are expected to be required at a cost of $6,000 per man-
month. The estimated foreign exchange portion of TSKB's share of study costs
is $300,000 and would be financed from the proposed loan (L.A. 2.02(a)(iv)).
68.       Agreement was reached that the detailed description of the training
program; detailed outline arLd terms of reference for the study; technical
assistance agreements between TSKB and export marketing organizations; and
the qualifications, experience and terms of reference of consultants will be
approved by the Bank prior to disbursements on these components (L.A. 3.09).
It was also agreed that any sums not required would be reallocated to sub-
project financing.



- 20 -
Assistance to Less- and Semi-Developed Regions
69.        Under the last Bank loan, an understanding was reached that TSKB
would allocate at least 40 percent of its total resources in 1977 and 1978
to projects in the less developed regions (LDRs), defined to include all but
three provinces in Central and Eastern Anatolia. This target was nearly met,
as TSKB allocated 39 percent of its resources (including $70 million in
foreign exchange approvals) despite limited entrepreneurship, equity finance
and management expertise in those regions, thus playing a major developmental
role.
70.       Despite the presently crucial new stress on export-oriented proj-
ects, it is important that TSKB continue to provide maximum assistance to
the LDRs. Agreement was therefore reached on a target of $90 million in
foreign exchange approvals for LDR projects in 1979-80 (L.A. 3.07(a)(ii)),
an expected 36 percent of total 1979-80 approvals (foreign exchange and
local currency together). An understanding was reached that the classifica-
tion of regions will be changed only to reflect the recent development of
the south-eastern city of Iskenderun, and the backwardness of Ankara prov-
ince outside the capital city. It was also agreed that the semi-developed
regions of western Anatolia, which received 38 percent of TSKB's resources
in 1977 and 1978, should receive a target $50 million in foreign exchange
approvals in 1979-80 (L.A. 3.07(a)(iv)).
Assistance to Small- to Medium-Sized Labor-Intensive Industrial
Projects (SMLI)
71.       Under the last Bank loan, understandings were reached that in 1977
and 1978, TSKB would approve financing for small- to medium-sized labor-
intensive (SMLI) industrial projects of $30 million in foreign exchange (in-
cluding $15 million of the Bank loan) and TL 500 million in local currency.
SMLI projects were defined as those with pre-project maximum fixed assets of
$2.3 million, and with maximum fixed assets per project of $2.3 million and
maximum investment per job of $17,000, all in 1975 prices. TSKB approved
$36 million in foreign exchange (including $13 million of the Bank loan),
and TL 404 million in local currency financing. Fixed investment per proj-
ect averaged $2 million equivalent and the cost per job $11,000 in current
prices. The latter compares well with the best available estimate of the
manufacturing sector average of $33,500 in 1976-77.
72.       In view of the growing unemployment, and the Fourth Plan's objec-
tive of restraining it, TSKB should continue to build up its activities in
this field. Agreement was therefore reached that in 1979 and 1980 together,
TSKB will approve financing of $35 million in foreign exchange, and TL 500
million in local currency, for SMLI projects (L.A. 3.07(a)(iii) and (b)).
The definition has been updated to reflect inflation since 1975, and restated
in Turkish lira as TL 110 million in fixed assets and TL 815,000 investment
per job, as of June 30, 1979; these figures will be adjusted quarterly using
the general wholesale price index (L.A. 1.02(1)).



- 21 -
External Retsource Mobilization
73.        Since 1975, TSKB has received just over half of its foreign exchange
resources from the Bank and IFC. It has received $307 million through twelve
Bank/IDA operations. IFC has extended three loans totalling $60 million (of
which $45 million was placed with participants). As of December 31, 1978,
Bank loans accounted for 52 percent of TSKB's disbursed and outstanding
foreign exchange borrowings.
74.       UJnder the last Bank loan, an understanding was reached that, in
addition to a $50 million IFC syndication with selected commercial banks
(including $10 million from IFC), TSKB would make its best efforts to raise
at least $50 million more in medium- to long-term loans from the inter-
national market, including export credits and Arab sources, by June 30,
1978. The worsening of Turkey's economic situation in 1977 frustrated
TSKB's efforts. The IFC operation did not materialize. TSKB's efforts to
raise MiddLe Eastern resources also did not bear fruit, despite its efforts
with the Bank's active support and the Government's willingness to guarantee
TSKB's borrowing from multilateral institutions. Germany provided the only
official assistance. However, following country-to-country debt reschedul-
ing agreements in 1978, TSKB secured a second line of export credit from
France ($34 million) and new lines from Norway ($19 million) and Finland
($10 million).
75.       TSKB had $121 milLion uncommitted at the end of 1978.  This in-
cluded $23 million from the last Bank loan which is expected to be committed
by June 30, 1979. Without the proposed loan, it would face a shortage of
resources in the second half of this year and would have an inadequate start-
ing balance for 1980. Thereafter, however, the situation would ease. To meet
the balance of its expected foreign exchange commitments of $289 million in
1979 and 1980, and maintain a prudent level of resources for commitments
expected after 1980, TSKB expects part of a three-year EIB loan of $58 mil-
lion, and the first of two KfW loans of $10 million, to become available late
in 1979. The proposed Private Textiles loan (referred to in para. 39 above),
if it is approved, is expected to provide $35 million in this period. The IFC
placement may go ahead, possibly now for $40 million, after debt rescheduling
agreements between Turkey and the commercial banks, and the Government's own
first borrowing. However, TSKB's success is not assured, in view of the
commercial banks' heavy exposure in Turkey, and despite their willingness
to lend to TSKB. TSKB also aims to raise export credits from Belgium ($6-7
million under negotiation) and Switzerland ($10-12 million) in 1979, and
recently secured a $1 million line of credit and $1 million guarantee arrange-
ment from the US Export-Import Bank. Finally, TSKB plans to begin tapping
Middle Eastern financial institutions, especially bilateral official funds and
consortium banks. The Islamic Development Bank appraised a $5.0-6.5 million
line of equity in March 1979. TSKB renewed its contacts in several Middle
Eastern capital markets in April, and an understanding was reached on its
specific plans to follow uFp these efforts during the rest of 1979 and 1980.
TSKB intends to:  approach the Government immediately and formally with a view
to its malcing requests for loans to TSKB from the bilateral Arab aid-giving



- 22 -
agencies; once Turkish private sector borrowing from the international capital
markets becomes possible again, approach the Arab consortium banks based in
Europe for new financing; and approach Arab investment companies with a view
to their underwriting bonds issues for TSKB in the Middle East in the first
half of 1980.
76.       In addition to facing a possible resource gap in the second half
of 1979, TSKB needs considerable additional long-term untied funds to blend
with its other resources, most of which are at five-year terrns and/or tied
by procurement source.  TSKB and the Government therefore turned to the
Bank, the only available source, for further assistance through the proposed
loan of $60 million, which would all be committed in 1979-80.
Domestic Resource Mobilization
77.       Domestic resource mobilization during 1977-78 compared reasonably
well with understandings reached under the last Bank loan.  While TSKB's
share capital was to be increased by TL 310 million by mid-1979, the remain-
ing TL 175 million already authorized was paid in by mid-1978. Bonds totaling
TL 325 million were to be floated, but TSKB could only place TL 260 million,
due to both the stagnation of the bond market and its inabil:ity to match the
early redemption features offered by competitors. Furthermore, until recently
bond issues involved a significant negative spread. Even when TSKB was
empowered to increase its lending rate on these funds, to have done so would
have entailed loss of the right to discount at the Central Bank between 50 and
70 percent of maturities of five years or less of loans made at the basic
industrial rate, on which TSKB has a 2 percent positive spread. TSKB made up
its shortfall through unexpectedly large use (TL 239 million) of this discount
facility.
78.       TSKB projects total local currency commitments (loans and equity
investments) in 1979-80 of TL 1.7 billion, 19 percent of total commitments.
Loan maturities eligible for discounting are expected to be TL 250 million.
In March 1979, shareholders approved a capital increase to Tb. 1,500 million,
which is expected to provide fresh money totaling TL 647 million in 1979-80.
Discussions among the Government, TSKB and IFC, on the Government's request
for an early full pay-in by TSKB's foreign shareholders, are shortly expected
to permit the capital increase to become effective.  TSKB borrowed TL 275
million on five-year terms from its shareholder commercial banks in early
1979. An understanding was reached that TSKB will issue bonds and/or obtain
loans from commercial banks with maturities of at least five years for a total
of at least TL 550 million in 1979-80.
Lending Rates
79.       TSKB lends both foreign exchange and local currency at the basic
rate for industry set by the Government (20 percent per annum from May 1,
1979), but with transactions tax on interest and minor fees t:he effective
cost to sub-borrowers is 26 percent. Sub-borrowers bear the foreign exchange
risk on both principal and interest. They therefore incur a substantial



- 23 -
positive cost for foreign exchange funds in real terms. This reflects the
high opportunity cost of external capital to the economy, and entrepreneurs
remain willing to pay it. It is currently acceptable for TSKB's on-lending
of the proposed loan, but an understanding was reached that TSKB will review
it as part of the study on export potential and annually thereafter for its
possible impact on the international competitiveness of Turkish firms.
80.       Turkey's inflation rate (measured by the general wholesale price
index) increased from 16 percent in 1976 to 24 percent in 1977 and 51 percent
in 1978. It is currently projected to be 40 percent in 1979, 30 percent in
1980, 20 percent in 1981, and 10 percent thereafter. Over the life of a
typical 7-year local currency loan from TSKB, or 5-year commercial bank loan,
the current interest rates and projected decline in the rate of inflation
imply a positive real cost of about 7 percent per annum to both TSKB's bor-
rowers and commercial bank clients on local currency loans.
81.       I'he May 1979 interest rate decree has converted TSKB's past negative
spread on borrowed local resources into a positive one, through both an in-
crease in the lending rate and new subsidies (expected to amount to an average
of around -l percent per annum to TSKB) granted to banks making term loans
in less developed regions and priority sectors. However, the expected rise
in the private bond rate may cause the reappearance of a negative spread, as
may future changes in interest rates reflecting Turkey's changing economic
conditions. This might again hamper TSKB's local resource mobilization because
of its impact on profitability. To solve this problem, TSKB will review its
local currency lending rate annually with the Bank, and adjust it as permitted
by prevailing legislation, so as to achieve a positive spread on average
between the cost of borrowed local currency funds and local currency lending
rates, to the satisfaction of the Bank (L.A. 3.08). To make the adjustments,
TSKB may impose a commission on its clients which are going concerns, or
charge a h:Lgher rate on a volume of loans not exceeding the amount of its
bonds outstanding.
Recent and Prospective Financial Situation
82.       TSKB's net profits (after tax and provisions) as a percentage of
average net worth fluctuatecl between 18 and 21 percent from 1975-77, rising
to 27 percent in 1978 as a r-esult of an increased lending rate. These
levels are high in nominal terms, but considerably lower in real terms,
although satisfactory. Administrative expenses were stable at 1.4 percent
of average total assets. TSKB's dividend rate was 18 percent in 1976 and
1977, rising to 25 percent in 1978.  These levels are in line with prevail-
ing practices in Turkey, ancd should enable TSKB to increase its equity base
as planned.
83.        Net profits are expected to rise from TL 268 million in 1978 to
TL 581 million in 1982. However, despite this the rate of return on average
net worth is likely to decline from 31 percent in 1978 to 24 percent in
1982. This remains high in nominal terms, and satisfactory in real terms.
Both debt service coverage, at about 1.2 times, and interest coverage, at



- 24 -
about 1.3 times, will remain adequate through 1982.  The debt-equity ratio
as defined under the last loan rose to 9.4:1 by December 1978, as against
the agreed maximum of 8.5:1, because the March 1978 devaluation caused an
increase in TSKB's foreign debt when denominated in Turkish lira. The
approved capital increase will however shortly restore the ratio. Agreement
was reached to redefine the ratio by including in debt part of a subordinated
Government loan previously included in equity, and to adjust the limit corres-
pondingly. Further agreement was reached that TSKB's future needs and com-
fortable interest coverage justified a small increase in the maximum ratio
to 10:1 (L.A. 4.06). The ratio is expected to remain within the new limit
through 1982.
Supervision and Arrears
84.       TSKB's generally sound supervision procedures need strengthening
to deal with the special problems of widely-owned companies, which often
lack management strength and technical staff. Cost overruns caused by imple-
mentation delays and rapid inflation have left them under-capitalized. As a
result, TSKB's arrears situation worsened until, at the end of 1978, arrears
over three months reached 5.1 percent of loan portfolio and affected 31.6
percent of loans outstanding. About 50 percent were on loans in less devel-
oped regions, while two-thirds of cases of arrears over TL L[ million involved
widely-owned companies. TSKB's loans remain adequately secured by provisions,
while detailed analysis has shown that most problem projects remain concep-
tually sound. However, corrective action was clearly required.
85.       TSKB therefore started, in 1978, to monitor and follow-up projects
more closely, especially during implementation and start-up. Its program
includes systematic reporting on, and review of, problem projects, and prompt
corrective actions such as adjustment of grace periods, debt rescheduling/
consolidation, share capital increases, and provision of technical or man-
agerial assistance. An understanding was reached that TSKB will further
strengthen its procedures. In addition, TSKB plans to strengthen its branch
offices, which are not presently involved in either appraisal or supervision,
and are sparsely staffed. An understanding was reached that TSKB will submit
to the Bank for discussion by September 30, 1979, a plan of actions to be
implemented by mid-1980. As a result of actions already uncdertaken, the pro-
portion of TSKB's portfolio affected by arrears of over 3 months had decreased
to 21 percent as of end-March 1979, while additional rescheclulings already
approved but not formalized, and payments received, would reduce the figure
to 14 percent as of May 1979. It is expected to be less than 10 percent by
the end of 1980. An understanding was reached that until this level is
reached, TSKB will report quarterly to the Bank on the progress made, and on
the remedial actions taken for projects with outstanding arrears of more than
3 months and more than TL 1.0 million.
Other Project Features
86.       Spread.  Agreement was reached that TSKB will retain a net spread
of 2.5 percent on the proposed loan, as under the last, with the balance paid
to the Government as a guarantee fee (L.A. 4.11).



- 25 -
87.       Economic Rate of Return (ERR).  Agreement was reached that, as
under the last Bank loan, TSKB will compute the ERR for projects with total
fixed assets above $2.0 million equivalent, and that it will normally be 15
percent or more (L.A. 3.06).  In 96 such projects approved by TSKB in 1977 and
1978, the ERR was over 20 percent (well above the opportunity cost of capital)
in 53 cases.  There were only five exceptional projects, all with ERR of at
least 10 percent, the minimum for such exceptional projects.
88.        Project Promotion.  TSKB has an ongoing active program of industry
studies and project promotion. The last Bank loan provided $500,000 for
foreign exchange expenditures, and TSKB has financed the local currency
expenditures from a portion of the gross spread on two previous Bank loans.
TSKB's 1979-80 program includes (besides the export studies discussed in para.
67) six subsector studies and one on the cost/price structure of Turkish
manufacturing industry. The spread on the two previous loans will cover the
local currency costs. The total foreign exchange requirement will be met from
the balance of the original $500,000 and from a new allocation of $200,000 out
of the proposed loan (L.A. 2.02(a) (ii)). As in the past, TSKB will inform
the Bank of the detailed use it intends to make of these funds. Any balance
not required would be reallocated to subproject financing.
Project: Benefits and Risks
89.        TSKB's new drive to devote a greatly increased proportion of its
financial resources, together with technical assistance, to export-oriented
projects will have a major direct impact on the Government's efforts to
alleviate the critical tbalance of payments constraint. The only significant
project: risk is that Government policies will not keep exports sufficiently
attractive for the expected benefits of TSKB's financing to materialize. TSKB
will do all it can to ensure actual exports. In addition, the Bank's 1978
prograra loan, which provides for financing exporters' imported requirements
and for a review of export policies (which took place in April 1979), will
help to minimize the risk, which remains acceptable.
90.        TSKB's lending for projects in less-developed regions and/or spon-
sored by widely-owned companies, undertaken in furtherance of national eco-
nomic development policies, risks making it somewhat less attractive to
foreign commercial lenders, on whom it needs to rely to an increasing extent.
However, its recent progress in securing official export credits attests to
its increasing acceptance as a creditworthy borrower, and the new stress on
export-oriented projects should further improve its prospects.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
91.        The draft Loan Agreement between TSKB and the Bank, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Bank, and the
Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii), of the
Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.



- 26 -
92.        Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III.
93.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
94.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 21, 1979
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 27 -                                                           Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
TURKEY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
TURKEY                                                  Ia
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KL.)                                                  - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            780.6                                                    SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     558.4                                 MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960  Lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c   GROUP Id   GROUP Ie
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  280.0       510.0   1110.0            1898.8      867.2      1796.4
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL eQUIVALENT)     245.0        479.0     630.0          1869.3       578.3      1525.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                        27.8         35.6      42.2
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 31.9         38.7      42.6             43.0       46.2        52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Kl.                        35.0        46.0      54.0             81.4       50.8        27.6
PER SQ. 72K. AGRICULTURAL LAND    52.0         65.0      76.0            135.2       93.3       116.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         41.3         41.7      41.7            26.2        42.9        34.8
15-64 YRS.                         55.2         54.0      53.9            63.4        53.5        56.0
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.5          4.3       4.4              9.9        3.5         5.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               3.0         2.5       2.5              0.8        2.5         1.6
URBAN                               5.1 .f 4.9            4.2              2.2        4.7         3.4
CAUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      44.8        40.6      39.4             19.2       37.8        27.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      16.9        14.4      12.5              9.0       10.8         9.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.9         2.6       2.3              1.3        2.5         1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..        65.6      66.6
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   5.3          8.2      38.0             38.0       20.0        19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)              91.5       100.0     111.2            113.7      107.3       103.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   110.0       112.0     113.0            127.4      105.3       110.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           78.0        78.0      75.7            92.8        63.0        77.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          ..        22.0 Is   24.7             39.3       21.7        22.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      16.0 /b     14.7 /L      .              1.6        8.0         1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    49.3         54.4      56.9             68.9       57.2        63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           187.0 /f.1  153.0 /k     ..             34.5       53.9        38.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-        52.0      68.0            68.3        56.8        67.7
URBAN                                          51.0      74.0             74.3       79.0        83.5
RURAL                               ..         53.0      64.0            64.4        31.8        41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                *-          ..       8.0            94.0        30.9        70.3
URBAN                                ..          ..      13.0            94.0        45.4        90.7
RURAL                               ..           ..       5.0            93.0        16.1        38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          3000.0 /1   2250.0    1830.0            686.5      2706.8      1310.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     3260.0       1880.0    1520.0            339.0     1462.0       849.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL sED
TOTAL                            590.0 /1    490.0      460.0            178.0      493.9       275.4
URBAN                             190.0 /1    200.0     210.0            70.0       229.6       129.9
RURAL                                ..      5890.0    5750.0           1770.0     2947.9       965.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            .         20.0      20.0             15.3       22.1        18.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOrAL                               5.7         5.9        ..               ..        5.2         3.9
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..               ..        5.0
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..               ..        5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOrAL                                ..         2.2        ..              0.9        2.0         0.9
URBAN                               2.0         1.9        *-              0.8        1.5         0.8
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..              1.0        2.7         1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF D'JELLLNGS)
TOTAL                              29.0        40.0      57.0             57.5       64.1        59.2
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..             99.0       67.8        79.0
RURAL                               2.0        18.0        ..               ..       34.1        12.5



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
TABLE 3A
TURKEY - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
TURXEY                                                  l
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960 /b     1970 lb ESTIMATE lb       REGION /c   GROUP Id    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 75.0       109.0      104.0           108.0        99.8        97.6
FEMALE               58.0         94.0      94.0             99.5       93.3         87.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 14.0        28.0       30.0            62.8        33.8        47.8
PENALE                8.0         16.0      18.0             63.6       29.8         42.6
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OP SECONDARY) 18.0         14.0       15.0            28.2        12.8        22.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            46.0        38.0       34.0            24.9        34.9        25.4
SECONDARY                          19.0        28.0       27.0            17.3        22.2        24.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        40.0 /      55.5 Im      ..            88.3        71.8        96.3
CONSUMIPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0         4.0        8.0            90.4        12.4        32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         49.0        89.0      107.0           199.0       104.5       201.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         3.0       12.0           132.5        28.1        97.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  51.0        41.0         ..            97.1        45.2        70.9
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  1.1          6.7         ..             6.6         4.6         4.4
EIPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    13000.0 /n  14500.0   16400.0 /o
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   40.2        37.2       37.3            32.4        25.7        17.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              71.7        63.4       52.5 lo         32.8        46.2        38.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 10.5        12.1
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                50.1        44.3       42.8            39.1        33.8        33.7
MALE                                 58.7        54.9       53.2            56.7        48.1        50.8
FEMALE                               41.2        33.4       32.1            29.7        17.3        12.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0          1.1       1.2             0.9         1.4         1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCO1ME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS   33.0 /h      32.8 /P   28.0             31.9        23.6        20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS  61.0 /h      60.6 jp   56.0             59.7        52.3        47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.2  h       2.9 /p    3.5              4.0         4.3         3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   10.6 /h       9.4 _/   11.5             12.9        13.1        13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..              ..       191.9
RURAL                                ..          ..      162.0           194.9       193.1       157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..     291.0            295.1      319.8        448.8
RURAL                                ..          ..     218.0            309.2       197.7  .   313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOlW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..       18.0      -     18.2        19.8        23.2
RURAL                                ..          ..       25.0            24.2        35.1        54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
la    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is. not uniform.
lb    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
Ic    Europe;  /d   Intermediate Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /e  Upper Middle Income (S1136-2500
per capita, 1976);  If  1955-60;  /g  1965-70;  /h  1963;   /i  1967-68;  11  Based on sample survey
estimates of 9.700 households; might be underestimated; /k 1967; /1 1962; /m Six years and above;
or 1965; /o 1977; /p 1968.
May 1979



- 29 -                                                        AMNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                     Page   3          f
NgS,g.g;TheadJu-ted.gr-up avrages forec-             niao    r   cpaplatloo-ueighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and tho most
populatd coutry cm each group. la..eage of countries amng trye indicators depends non availability of dare and is not nsiform. Due to lock of data.
gcosp averages  or CapItal Porplo Oil Isport-r  an- indi-ator   of access to water and excrete disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty a.,e
olxple pepulatios-weighted geometric means ,Itout the exclusion of extreme values.
Lt~AtLARA (thousa.nd s4. in)                                                                 Population 5r hospital bed - total, urhan. ond rural - Population  (total,
Total - Tetol corface area conprisi,g land area and imland waters,                            urban, and rural;I  divided by their cespective nubhr of hospital Reds
AgnLs_olttoal - Most resect estimate of agiotutocl ares used temporarily                       available in poblic and private general1 and  peciali-ed hospital and  e
orp-erna.enty for crops, pastures, narkot ad kitchen gardens or to                        habilitotion centers.  Hospitals are estahlisbne..ts  permnetly stoffed by
lie fallow.                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~at least one physiclon.  Emtshlisbmemts providing principally custodial
care are mar incloded. Rural hospitals, however, include health end n-di-
CNP PER CAPITA IR1) - GN'P p-crnpica estimates or c-ret marbet prunes,                          ral centers sot permnently Staffed by o physician (but by a nedica- as-
calculated h;' Sane cenverui.n  method en World Bar.k Atlas (1975-77 basis);                sietant, norse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accocooodstx- and
1960, 1970,  ,..d 1977 data.                                                                provide a limited rage of -edOoa1 facilitieo.
Adolssixn.   erhsytl  e  - Total number of admissions to or discharges
E-NERGY iORSitMPTOiT PER CAPITA - A.nnua  nonsamption of conerria1 energy                       from hospitals divided by the nuber of bedo.
(coal andll;Ie  petroleum, natural gus and hvdrn-, nucle. and geo-
thermal elecoriuity) in kilogram. of coal equa~valent per capita.                      HOUlING
Avteree_sor f house.hold (ners..ns pvr hooseho1d) - total, orhan. nd rural -
POPULATION Aoll VITAL STATOITC                                                                  A household consists of a group of indoidoa1s who share lnin,g  -corto..
Tota  ponlaidlu.yyoa   (inllisu)  -AS of Jolly 1: if nut available.               a-d their main meals.  A bxarder or lodger map or ray not he Included In
overage of toe eud-youv eutioatos; l960, 1971, ond 1977 data,                               the bousebold for etatistiral porposes.  DStatitical definitions of house-
Urban papulati,m (cercem  of total) - Earto of u-am  to total ppl-held vary.
tion; different defiootiano of urbao areas may affect coxparability                       Averaxe combat of pers-es per revs - total, urban, and rural  - Av,erage nmo-
of data among contries,                                                                     bet of persons per room in all, urban, and rural  -ccpied c--nrtulnal
FpulaItloc des-lty                                                                            dwellimgs, r-spe-tv-ly.  Dw,ellings exclude mom-permanen..t structures and
Per  so. km. -. Mid-year population per square kilometer (LII hecrores)                      unoccupied parts.
of total are.,                                                                            Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total,  r an,   d ru-ral -
Per  v.  o,.a~nculurelaud - Computed as above for agricultural lind                   Con,,entioxal dwellings with elentricity is living q-arters as percentagx
only.                                                                                       of total, urban, amd rural d.olliogs respectively.
Population ago structure (percent) - Children (0I-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years;, and retired (65 years and nor) as percenrages of mid-                   EDUCATION
year popolot ton.                                                                       Adjusted enrollmen.t ratios
Popolotion grouth rac- pyet  - _totl, and urban - Compsond annual                           Primary School - total, and female - Total and female enrvllment of all ages
growth retia  ti total and urban mid-year popuLations for 1950-bb,                          at the prlnary le'eel as percentages of respectively primary ubo-l-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                       populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Actu,al live births per thx..sand of                        different lengths of primary education; for countrue  with oniversal edo-
old-year pop-s.iaio; ten-your arithmetic averges ending in 1960 and                        catino enrollment may exceed 100 perceot siore some pupils are boaluwo
1970 asd fiv--y-x  avecgs  -rime  ho 1971~ icr moot or.ent -suinto.                         abuse the official School age.
Crude doath rate (per th--sad) - Annual dsuths pen thousand of cud-                         lecoodary suc -total, and female - Compared as above; uec--or-eduua-
year pplto;te-yea  uvitb-tiuc av-rapos ending in 1960 asd 1970                              tien requires at least four years of approved primary i-st-utioc; yo-
and five-pear average codIng in 1975 for mot recent estimate.                                id.s general vocational, or teacher t-raiing ic,utr-rtlon   for pupIls
Cres  reprod-uono  ruts - Average  sunse  of daughters a woman will heor                     usually of 12 to 17 pears of age; correspondence coorses are generall1y
Rn. her norma   -pc-d-tiv- period if She ecr         rece   ecxent agx-                     enoluded.
specific fertilIty rates;  1oull  fivs-yxar  -oeages ending in 1960,                      Voca.tional esro1lnet (percent of secondary) - Vonational iu.stitxtions  in-
1970, and 1971.                                                                             clude technical, indootria1, or other y,rxgraos whiob operate independ-utlc
Family nlen_n_ig -npos   ona    touud)-Annual number of                                       or as departments of nenondary institutions.
a.coptors of hlrth-cooto-l device  onder auspices of natioxal fa-ily                     Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and Secondary - Txtal stodents ecrolled is
planning program,                                                                           primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teochers in the torte-
FoxIl  plucciseusr- fyvoe-est ofnridsoo)- Peroentago of                                   pynndinc level.
narried w..e. of child-hearing age (l5-dc years) who ue birih-rontrol                    Adult lit,eSty cute (peocest) - Literate adults  (able te read and write) a
devices to oIl married wov en in sane ae  gru.                                              a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NOTRITITI                                                                         CONIULFTIO N
Ind.. of dead Rroduniv  yjen capita (17'10) - Index en.ber of Per                          Pas...opor cars (per rho..sand  ouatn)-Passeno- *ars  -pni- motor cars
capitana  producui-n of oil food cc-oditi-s                                               seating les  than eiaht pers..o-; enclodosahlocs   hease   od suitors
Per capita Afgp~1   fclre   p(yetnt vi reguir-ents;  - Computed from                        vehicles.
emergy equ4valeot of net food Suyplies .aalloblo in country per capita                   Radio  --ceP-rs (per thous.and population) - All types of recevrs  ion radIo
per day.  A,,uilable supplue- compri.e domes.tic productIon.  imports c...                broadcasts to general1 pohlic per thous.and of population; excludes urlitcvc-
exports, and changes is Stock.  le~t Supplies exclude  ninal feed, s.eds,                 receivers in contries and In years when registration of vadia set. wau  .is
quantities used in food! procesing, and losses. in distributi-m  Re-                      effect; data fxr recen.t ypeacs 007 not he comparable Since moot count ries
quir-exurs were earfmatad 1y FAG based on physiological needs for nor-                    abolished licensing.
mal actIv,ity and health coosiderlng esvilrormmtal temperature, body                     TV roceiverm  (per thcasand yopulatico) - TV re-i-ero  for broadcast no geu-r
woighro, age and sex dictrobunto-  at popalanioin, amd allowing 11 Por-                     Public p..r thousand papalation; ensloden  -lionensd TV reeio                ,,t -cc-
cen,t far wasie at ho...ehold level.                                                        tries and in yeora when registration of TV' Sets was in effect.
Pot capita saynly of pretein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                      Newspapen circulation (per thous-nd popolatiom) - Sbey  the averag  circal-
cepits mnet supply of food per day.  let supply of food is defined as                       tivo of "dailp general intteres  nespaper', dofined aS a perhooioa   publI-
above.  Reqsirenents for all  -octries esreblished by USDA provide for                      cation devoted prlnarily to renording general newa.  It is considered to
a minimum allownce of 60 grams of total protein per day and 10 grams                        be "daily" if it appears at leas.t four tinos a week.
of anisal -ed Pulse protein, of usich 1i gram. Should be anisci protein.                 Cinea aonmual attendance per neplto per scar-  - Based on the  un.ber of ti~ckets
Thes  standards eve lowe  than those. of 75 gruns of total protein and                      Sold during the year, including admissions to drove-is ciee.as an d mohole
23 grams of alo  proccia u an a.verge for the world, propoced by                            units.
FAO in the Third World PoodOue.
Per cxpita ptc rein supy  rmanmlx    use  - Protein supply of food                        2TL0YM4ENT
de-ive  fr-  animals and puIuex is grass per dcv.                                        Total labor farce (tho..sards) - E-n-im-oaly artivo peron, incitiung ar-d
Ibild fageo 1-4) motait tvs  (p-v th-nud(  - Annual deaths per thous-                         farcex and u-enlcyci hut  -uclodlog housewies, students, etc.  tefluc-
end fo ago group 1-1 yeas, to chIldren us this age group.                                   tio.s in variou c..o..trien are nor comparable.
Female (percent), - Female1 labor forte  as percentage cf total labor fce
HEALTH                                                                                      Agricu1tore footret) - labor force in frmiog, forestry, hunting c-d Pinion0
Life esp,esutaoy us bIrth (year) - Averago rumbor vi ye-s of life                             as percntage of total la.bor force.
renainong ul birth; usuall  five-year  --vrgs  ending in 1960, 1970,                     Industry (percent)- Labor forc  in sisong,  -oovsir    anlsulgad
and 1971.                                                                                   electricity, water and gas as percntage of total labor fore.
Infant r-tolltt  rate_jyor thuad) - Annual rehar  of infants un,der                        Participation rate (perceut) -_tol, tale, and  -sonule - Total, sale, and
one year of age pro tho..asod  Ive hirnts.                                                  cerale labor force us poovrt-t.u of thervuec(-pcolscs
Acceos tv sfEalvalor dorcootf yiyjub(-t.                      ara2drrl-Thsare 1L0's adjusted prsiainrtsrfetn    c-e
Nuohor of  ,opo  (-tot-, urban, ucid r-ya, u-eb rtsus   ucs     tc rrcurar   of the pop.Ifati-   -od ion  'lie steed.
vaIwter  oyIplo  lnclnde-  treosec s-o-or   -at-S  or sorauibt                        icc-ici  drp-sfe-r-tac- iato. of popul.t-o  order 15 .od sI  ud oet
u--o-ntalaec  -00e  suc  as tics icon  rto(toc sd hroespsrioss,                             the labor force us age gr-op of 1h-6u nears.
an  ..onitartn -11sf as p-rcenrg-u of toe, or a rpec-o  popolotic-o.
In en 'etho  cr0  a public fouctals or -t-acc-t lo-.ted sot  .rot                       I10O"1 tIhTIITKTIGN
thou 210 n!r  from a 'c-u- nap no c-o-drd us being cithi.c-0                              P-rcetsac  of yrioat   iscn   (both in  -ah and kfnd) received ho richest 
-bcole  ccs  of thai ho--v  is rua-r-.rosrb     OOs tovid                                   p-rcent.  richest 20 ye7-cet, Pooret 20 Percet  asd poorest   P-T rsc
imply that-  to. hv-tv'ilO  -0  -b..her  ci rh ,   cot       Jr sot hav  to                 of hoosehoids.
spend s di,rcrporri-ute part of ole J-i  In touch4iug tic lulipy's
water  -vds.                                                                            PCVEiTY TAliC,T GROUPS
Alcs       to e-,yta dir4p2-i (pe--et cO pop-  t-ros   -dial    rb1,         and           OsiaodaoL-cu  poverr  i-come flerl (ill pr c_oltjaf   - ,7TrOa                     -
Nod     b-oo  of c-opl   (oct01,                      --o;   2.   a) s..t   b, 0-cr. 000  iuoite fvt    coolelcotvat Income Ioor  -olc .0       0
diopocol asr eto t o  tors  _vszcooa   -o                           orr                     otiost(o', doy.o-e  olet Plus cueoil r-foodotto,t
LO  00010---                                  -- o, .--orot  tenr-d        ..I       -p-fro           anonc;oT~_---r   oo    aoo                                   ~5a
ptoito,          a aao       aoc',-n . attocal  --cs5.,0                                     '-e.actre  pot', 'hicl ...r Is  ratr
i-dornuc AnOatoce io-.-



- 30 -
TUBEY - COOaC DEV31LOP1IT DATA SHEI5 T /                                                                Paeg  4 of 6
Aetual                          Est.         Projected
1970        1973        1975      1976      1977      1978      1979      1980                   Growth 2 tee           Share oi GP
N. NA;10N.AL ACCOUNTS (TL Billion, 1976 Pric.)
1.  Gross Doeetic Product                          423.3       514.1       607.7    659.0    688.0        720.3    740.7      769.0                 7.2       3.8               100.0
2.  G. i  trom  Tere of Trade                        6.9         4.5        _5.4       0.0      .0.7      .6.2    -13.4      -19.6                                                O0.
3.  Gross Domeetic Incoe                           430.4       318.6       602.3    639.0       687.3     714.1    727.3      749.4                 6.9       2.9               100.0
4.  Exports (G * NFS)                               21.3        36.9        29.6       35.0      32.0      47.4     53.0       61.4                 5.6       24.3                 5.3
5.  Leports CG   NFS)                               31.4        50.2        81.2-     82.8       96.7      81.3      77.3      75.6                17.4      -7.9                12.6
6.  Resource 3elncd                                 .9.6       -13.3       -51.6    -47.8       -64.7     .33.9    -24.3    -14.2                                                 7.3
7.  onet et                                         79.5        97.3       145.8    156.7      163.8      146.3    146.3     146.3                10.9       -3.7                23.8
8.  Coneoupcion                                   353.6       430.1       513.5     550.1      588.8     607.9    618.7      636.9                 7.6        2.7               83.5
9. Do.etic S-rioge                                  76.6        88.5        88.8    108.9        98.5     106.2    122.0      132.1                 3.6       10.3               16.5
10. National Savinge                                 83.2       114.7       104.3     119.9      107.1     109.5    125.0      134.1                 3.7        7.8               18.2
8.  SECT20 O TPUT                                                    ShAr of Tosel 0otrut
1. Agrlcoitpoe                                      27.1        22.6        23.4      23.2       22.1      23.3     23.0       22.0                4.1         3.6
2.  Idostryd                                       22.8        25.2        25.0      25.2       25.8      24.3     24.8       25.4                 9.2        3.2
3. Other                                            50.1        52.1        51.6      51.5       52.2      52.4     52.2       52.6                 7.9       4.0
C.  PRICES (1976 . 100)
1.  Export Pri c.                                   57.4        66.6        96.1     100.0      102.3      85.7     83.4      84.2                 8.6       .6.3
2.  Eport Price.                                    43.2        60.3       113.1     100.0      104.2      95.4    103.7      111.9               13.4        2.4
3. Ter.   of Trede                                132.9        110.4        85.0     100.0       98.2      89.8     80.4       75.2               -4.2       -8.5
4.  GDP Deflator                                    34.4        57.5        95.4     100.0      124.1     186.2    260.7      338.9               20.0        39.8
5. Average fehoge Rate (81.00 . TL)                 11.5        14.1        14.4      16.1       18.0      24.3
Pereent of GDP                       -
D.  PUBLIC FINAsCL
1. Co -trel  overreet Revenue                       19.9        19.7        20.5      21.4       22.4      21.5
2.  Centrel Goverrant  xditores                     22.5        22.0        22.8      24.1       27.4      24.1
3.  Fublic Sector Defieitct                         N.A.         2.1         6.1       8.1        9.0      N.A.
1970.77                                                                                      1970       1975      E.t.
E. SELECTED  INDICATDRS                                                                        F. LOaR FORCt
ICOR                                                 2.9                                       CivElien Labor Fore (.llion..                    13.8      15.7      16.2
Export Elasticity                                    2.4                                      U0eIoynet nd Uoderepl.ymet (1 of C7F)              UL.0      12.3      13.5
A-erege Do-exic Saving Rate                         15.4                                       CLEillen Rploymet (millions)                      13.1      14.7      14.7
MargInal Doetic Saving Rat                           7.7                                         of hiEch (l3
Inveet- ntslP                                       21.1
Lports/GDP                                          11.4                                         Agrieulture                                     67.1      64.5      61.8
Induetryl/                                     10.6      11.5      12.6
Other                                          22.3      24.0      25.6
rtls nay not add up becaue of rounding errors.
j 5 Sorro-iog r-qoire-ent of centrl gover-nt, tate ecoosic enterprise,  nd other public euthoeitie.
3/  Incldee  nioog, enufaturing, electricity, gee, wter  orks, selude  construction.
4/  1977-80 r-srded as oorsprent.ttve tr-nnitioni years.                                                                                                       ENCA IPI1A
May 8, 1979



- 31 -
TURKEY - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                  ANNEX I
(Million US Dollars)                                     Page 5 of 6
Actual                           Est.         Proiected
1970   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977            978         1979    1980
A. SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
1.  Exports of Goods and NFS                    754   1799   2123   2152   2742   2556            3258        3545    4146
2.  Imports of Goods and NFS                 -1096  -2391  -4183  -5219  -5735  -6436            -5164       -5338   -5633
3.  Resource Balance                           -342   -592  -2060  -3067  -2993  -3880           -1906       -1793   -1487
4.  Interest (net) 1/                           -47    -59   -102   -124   -217   -500            -678        -744    -920
5.  Profits                                     -33    -35    -71    -36    -83   -116             -58         -89      -94
6.  Workers' Remittances                        273   1183   1426   1312    983    982             975        1090    1180
7.  Net Factor Service Income                   193   1089   1253   1152    683    366             239         257      166
8.  Transfers (net)                              91      18     27      23      15      12          14          25       30
9.  Current Account Balance                     -58    515   -780  -1892  -2295  -3502           -1653       -1511   -1291
10.  Direct Foreign Investment                    58      27     88    153       27      67          40          150     175
11.  Imports with Waiver                          34      50     58      98    136      102         100         102      104
12.  Public M and LT (gross).2/                  271    376    330    386    491    502             650        1639    1775
13.  Amortisation of Public M and LT 1/ 2/  -146    -72   -126   -117   -119   -214                -387        -511    -674
14.  Public M and LT (net)                       125    304    204    269    372        288         263        112a    1101
15.  IMF (net)                                    48    -11      -      243    148       -          180          150    -100
16.  Short TermL (net) 3/                         18   -224    -80    916   1806   2972             730           -        -
17.  Capital not included elsewhere  4/          -39      67     79   -204   -306   -478            540          -19       61
18   Charge in Reserves (- - increase)         -186   -728    431    417    112         551        -200           -      -50
B.  M and LT LOAN COMMITMENTS 2|                      506    547    577    721   1461   1076           1368
Public sector                                    497    491    527    615   1374   1076            1368
j.  Bank Group                                   40    135    228    158    237        144         358
2.  Other Multilateral                         132    100    135        40     55        3          63
3. Governments: Market Economies               154    218    145    178    180         301         375
4   Governments: Centrally Planned Economies 114         4      -        3    295      216         343
,  Suppliers                                    47       3      -       45    161      160          53
6. Financial Institutions                       -       32      19    191    423      251          177
7. Other                                        -       -       -       -      24      -            -
Private Sector                                  19      56      50    106      87     n_a.        n.a.
C.  AVERAGE TERMS OF M and LT LOAN
COMMITMENTS /5
1.  Grant EleEment (%)                           36.4   39.0   29.7   15.4   14.3  14.0            n.a.
2.  Interest       (x)                            3.6    4.7    5.9    7.3    7.2   7.4            n.a.
3.  Maturity       (yrs.)                        18.0   25.6   22.9   13.4   12.6  12.7            n.a.
4.  Grace          (yrs.)                         4.6    7.0    5.6    3.9    3.8   4.6            n.a.
LI  Net of debt relief.
/2  Up to and including 1978 these figures are Government estimates, which are not consistent with Bank DRS data.
/3  Up to and including 1978 mainly convertible Lira Accounts, Acceptance Credits, Commercial and Oil arrears, Bankers'
Credits, Reimbursement Credits, Overdrafts, and Dresdner Bank Scheme deposits.
/4  Mainly errorsI and omissions up to and including 1978; in 1979 and 1980 represents net private M and LT borrowing.
/5  Public and puLblicly guaranteed external debt only.
EMENA CPIIA
May 8, 1979



- 32 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
TURKEY - EXTERNAL DEBT AND CREDlITWORTHINESS
Actual                          Estimate
1970     1973      1975        1976       1977       1978
A.  OUTSTANDING DEBT (Million US Dollars)
1.  Public M and LT (Disbursed) 1/                                            1854      2869      3176       3585       4314       4928
2.  Private M and LT (disbursed) 1/                                             42       115       16C        253        479        557
3.  Short Term 2/                                                             n.a.      n.a.      1388       3342       6539       7469
4.  Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt                                          1896 2a/ 2984 2a/ 4724         7180      11332      12954
5.  Undisbursed Public M and LT 1/                                             840      1101      1608       2427       2787       2972
B.  DEBT SERVICS (Million US Dollars)
i.  Interest on all Debt (net of relief) 3/                                    -47       -59      -124       -217       -500       -678
2.  Amortisation of M and LT Debt (net of relief) 3/                          -146       -72      -117       -119       -214       -387
3.  Total Debt Service Payments                                               -193      -131      -241       -336       -714      -1065
C.  DEBT BURDEN
1.  Debt Service Ratio 4/                                                       18.8       4.4       7.0        9.0       20.2    25.2
2.  Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt/GDP 4a/                                    15.0      14.3      13.1       17.5       23.9    24.1
D.  TERtS
1.  Interest on all Debt 5/ / Total Outstanding Diabursed Debt                   2.5       2.0       2.6        3.0       .4.4     5.2
2.  Total Debt Service 5/ I Total Outstanding Disbursed Debt                    10.2       4.4       5.1        4.7        6.3      8.2
E.  EXPOSURE
1.  Bank Group DOD/Total Outatanding Disbursed Debt                              7.2       8.5       9.1        7.7        6.1      6.5
2.  Bank Group Debt Service/Total Debt Service                                   3.2      14.9      13.5       13.4        9.1      6.6
F.  COMPOSITION OF TOTAL OUTSTANDING DISBURSED DEBT
(Million US Dollars)                                                  1977L______
1.  medium 6 Long-Term Debt                                                   479.3      42.3                5485            42.4
a. Public M and LT
(i)  Bank Group                                                       .693        6.1                 836            6_5
(ii)  Other Multilateral                                                502        4.4                 558            _ 3
(iii)  Governments                                                      2469       21.8                2907            22..
kiv)  Suppliers                                                         133        1.2                 131             1.U
(v)  Financial Institutions                                            483        4.3                 464             * 6
(vi)  Other                                                              34        0.0                  32            0.2
Total                                                    4314       38.1                4928           38.1
b.  Private F and LT (Total)                                               479        4.2                 557            4.3
2.   Short Term
(i)  Convertible Lira Accounts                                        2267       20.0                2860           22.1
(ii)  Suppliers' Credits/Comsmercial and Oil Arrears                   1858       16.4                1675           12.9
(iii)  Acceptance Credits                                                710        6.3                 862             6.7
(iv)  bankers Credits, Reimbursement Credits, Overdrafts                828        7.3                 924             7.1
(v)  Dresdner Bank                                                     173        1.5                 363            2.8
(vi)  IMF                                                               409        3.6                 622            4.8
lvii)  Other                                                             294        2.6                 163             1.3
Total                                                    6539       57.7                7469           57.6
3.  rotal Outstanding Disbursed Debt                                          11332      100.0               12954          i00.0
/I  Bank DRS data.
/2  Based on Turkish Central Bank estimates.  /2a  Excluding short-term.
/3  Based on Turkish Balance of Payments data.
/4  Total debt service (line B3) divided by exports of goods and non-factor services plus workers' remittances.
/4a At market prices.  /5  Net of debt relief.
/6 As of December 31 for respective years.
EMENA C?I:A
May d, 1979



-33                               ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of April 30, 1979)
Loan and
Credit                                                               (Less Cancellations US$11)
Number    Year        Borrower                    Purpose             Bank        IDA   Undisbursec
Sixteen loans anld ten credits fully disbursed                        297.0      127.2
748-TU   1971   Republic of Turkey       Education                     13.5                 3.9
762-'TU   1971   Republic of Turkey      Fruit and Vegetable           10.0                 1.2
257-TU   1971   Republic of Turkey       Fruit and Vegetable                      15.0      0.1
281-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey       Irrigation Rehabilitation                18.0      0.8
817-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey       Steel Mill Expansion          76.0                 0.3
844-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey       Istanbul Water Supply         37.0                 9.7
324-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey       Istanbul Urban Development                2.3      0.7
330-TU   1972   Republic of Turkey       Livestock II                             16.0      1.5
883-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey       Ceyhan Aslantas               44.0                24.1
892-TU   1973   Republic of Turkey       Istanbul Power District       14.0                  1.5
893-TU   1973   Turkish State Railway  Railway Project                 46.7                  9.3
957-TU   1974   Republic of Turkey       Antalya Forestry              40.0                  5.1
1023-TU   1974   TEK/TKI                  Elbistan Power               148.0                 69.9
1024-TU   1974   DYB                      Industry                      40.0                  3.3
1078-TU   1975   TSKB                     Industry                      65.0                  2.3
1130-TU   1975   Republic of Turkey       Rural Development             75.0                 51.9
1248-TU   1976   Agriculture Bank of
Turkey (TCZB)         Agriculture Credit            54.3                 38.8
1258-TU   1976   State Pulp and Paper
Industry (SEKA)       Newsprint                     70.0                 23.4
1265-TU   1976   Republ-ic of Turke!y     Livestock III                 21.5                 17.9
1194-TU   1976   TEK                      Power Transmission II         56.0                 37.2
1310-TU   1976   Republic of Turkey       Tourism                       26.0                 24.4
1379-IU   1977   DYB                      Industry                      70.0                 68.0
1430-TU   1977   TSKB                     Industry                      74.0                 42.0
1585-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey       Northern Forestry             86.0                 85.4
1586-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey       Livestock IV                  24.0                 24.0
1606-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey       Erdemnir Steel Stage II a/   95.0                  95.0
1627-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey       Program Loan                 150.0                118.2
S-13-TU   1978   Republic of Turkey       Oil Recovery                   2.5        _         2.2
Total                                               1635.5      178.5     762.1
of which has been repaid                           157.1        4.7
Total now outstanding                               1478.4      173.8
Amount sold                    3.6
of which hasbeen repaid    3.6                     - 0 -     - 0 -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b                   1478.4      173.8
Total undisbursed                                     759.0       3.1     762.1
a/ Not yet effective.
b/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



-34-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of April 30, 1979)
Fiscal                                                       Amount in US$ Million
Year        Obligor        Type of Business               Loan      Equity      Total
1964       TSKB            DFC                              -        0.92        0.92
1966       SIFAS I         Nylon Yarn                     0.90       0.47        1.37
1967       TSKB II         DFC                              -        0.34        0.34
1969       TSKB III        DFC                              -        0.41        0.41
1969       SIFAS II        Nylon Yarn                     1.50       0.43        1.93
1970       Viking I        Pulp and Paper                 2.50       0.62        3.12
1970       ACS             Glass                         10.00       1.58       11.58
1971       NASAS           Aluminum                       7.00       1.37        8.37
1971       SIFAS III       Nylon Yarn                     0.75         -         0.75
1971       Viking II       Pulp and Paper                   -        0.05        0.05
1972       SIFAS IV        Nylon Yarn                       -        0.52        0.52
1972       TSKB IV         DFC                              -        0.43        0.43
1973       TSKB V          DFC                           10.00         -        10.00
1973       Akdeniz         Tourism                        0.33       0.27        0.60
1974       Borusan         Steel Pipes                    3.60       0.44        4.04
1974       AY.SA           Textiles                      10.00         -        10.00
1975       Kartaltepe    Textiles                         1.30         -         1.30
1]975      Sasa            Nylon Yarn                    15.00         -        15.00
1975       Aslan           Cement                        10.60         -        10.60
1975       DOKTAS          Steel                          7.50       1.37        8.87
1975       TSKB            DFC                           25.00       1.22       26. ..
1976       NASAS           Aluminun                       1.58         -         1.58
1976       TSKB            DFC                           25.00         -        25.r
1976       Asil Celik    Steel                           12.00       2.18       14.18
1977       Borusan         Steel Pipes                      -        0.16        0.16
1978       DOKTAS          Steel                            -        0.27        0.27
1979       Ege Mosan       Engines for Mopeds             2.15         -         2.1,
1979        ISAS           Motor Vehicles &
Accessories                  8.00       1.40        9.40
1979       Asil Celik    Steel                              -        1.8n        1.80
1979       Trakya Cam    Glass                           30.96       4.00       34.96
Total Gross Commitments                     185.67      20.27      205.94
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Exchange Adjustments, Repayments
and Sales                                  97.98       2.99      100.97
Total Commitments now held by IFC            87.69      17.28      104.97
Total Undisbursed                            41.59       5.84       47.43



- 35 -                       ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 748 Education Project:  US$13.5 million loan of June 9, 1971.  Effec-
tive Date:  September 29, 1971.  Closing Date:  March 31, 1980.
The project was substantially delayed due mainly to initial diffi-
culties in providing the project unit with adequate qualified staff and
authority commensurate with its responsibilities. However, implementation is
now proceeding well, with equipment procurement progressing satisfactorily.
Training of teachers for technician schools, adult training centers and
practical trade schools has made considerable progress. The Management
Training Institute has been established on an interim basis pending passage
of legislation formally establishing it, and its instructors are undergoing
training. Sixty-seven locaL advisory committees for vocational and technical
education have been established, one in each province.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 762/257 Fruit and Vegetable Export Project: US$10 million
loan and US$15 million credit of June 22, 1971. Effective Date: May 19,
1972. Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project is nearing completion, with three of its four com-
ponents, including refrigerated trailer and towing units, marketing facili-
ties and a roll-on roll-off ferryship, fully implemented. A fourth component,
comprising credit and technical assistance for citrus development, underwent
initial start-up delays, but is now well established and being implemented
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 281 Irrigation Rehabilitation Project: US$18 million credit of
January 25, 1972. Effective Date: April 27, 1972. Closing Date: April 30,
1979.
Construction of irrigation and drainage channels and on-farm works
at Silifke and Tokat is nearly complete, but on-farm works are still behind
schedule at Koprucay because of the extremely short annual work season.
Arrangements to ensure use of remaining credit funds before the revised
closing date were made by the implementing agencies, and project works not
completed by the closing daLte will be carried out using Government funds.
Agreements to reimburse have been issued for several letters of credit repre-
senting remaining funds under the IDA credit, which are expected to be with-
drawn by raid-June.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and in particular, to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. No. 817 Steel Mill Expansion Project: US$76 million loan of April 28,
1972. Effective Date: August 4, 1972. Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project started commercial production at the end of the year,
three years behind the original schedule, due to delays in beginning procure-
ment stemming largely from inefficient management.
Ln. No. 844 Istanbul Water Supply Project: US$37 million loan of June 30,
1972. Effective Date: January 4, 1973. Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project construction was delayed about 2-1/2 years due mainly to
problems in the use of ICB procurement procedures and inefficient management.
However, construction moved swiftly in 1977 and the two major water resources
development programs are expected to be completed by end-1978. Substantial
improvements to the distribution system are required, however, to enable full
utilization to be made of the new water sources. Although a tariff increase
was implemented in March 1978, this was insufficient to enable ISI to generate
sufficient funds for future ongoing investment in the distribution system, and
the Government has been requested to explore ways to resolve the lack of ade-
quate local and foreign currency.
Cr. No. 324 Istanbul Urban Development Project: US$2.3 million credit of
June 30, 1972.  Effective Date:  January 4, 1973.  Closing Date:  June 30,
1980.
Consultants have completed Phase I of the general urban planning and
urban transport/land use modelling studies as well as studies on wastewater
and bus/traffic engineering and control. Terms of reference for Phase II
studies have been agreed and consultants' proposals sought.
Cr. No. 330 Second Livestock Project: US$16 million credit of September 28,
1972. Effective Date: January 5, 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The Fattening Subproject is progressing satisfactorily and all funds
have been committed. The Village Livestock Development Subproject, after
resolution of initial difficulties in recruitment of technicians and gaining
farmer confidence, is now progressing rapidly, with 95 percent of the funds
committed. The project is expected to be completed on schedule.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 883/360, Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose Project: US$44 million
loan and US$30 million credit of March 22, 1973. Effective Date: March 20,
1974. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
Construction of diversion tunnels has met with difficult rock condi-
tions and several cave-ins, but diversion has now been completed with revised
tunnelling methods, about two years behind the appraisal estimate. After some
initial delays, progress in construction of the irrigation works has been



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
satisfactory, and the system was ready to deliver water to about 36,500 ha,
nearly one-third of the projects target. On-farm works were progressing
satisfactorily although farn drainage was behind schedule. However, construc-
tion of feeder roads has progressed faster than initially estimated. Although
a permanent director has been appointed, the extension consultant has resigned
and is now being replaced. Full-time subject matter specialists have been
hired and recruitment of field staff is continuing.
Ln. No. 892 Istanbul Power Distribution Project: US$14.0 million loan of
May 25, 1973. Effective Date: September 28, 1973. Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The project has been delayed by about four years mainly by slow pro-
curement action; however, this is now almost completed. Local costs have
increased by nearly 300 percent over appraisal estimates, and foreign costs
by 26 percent. Consultant studies of the Istanbul power market and of the
proposed reorganization of the company's electricity and transport services
have been completed; a study of its gas operations is under review. IETT's
tariffs were raised twice following the countrywide tariff adjustments made in
September 1977; additional steps are planned by the Government to help cover
the increased project costs and revitalize the company's finances.
Ln. No. 893 Turkish State Rtailways: US$47 million loan of May 25, 1973.
Effective Date: August 28, 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
After initial deLays, physical progress, including track renewals,
rolling stock, and locomotive production, the latter financed by the European
Investment Bank, is satisfactory. Nearly 80 percent of the loan has been
disbursed and procurement actions have been or are in the process of being
completed for use of the riemaining loan funds, although project completion
will only be in mid-1980. Despite two tariff increases since the loan was
made, the Railways have continued to fall short of the financial targets in
the revised Plan of Action agreed with the Bank in mid-1975. However, it is
hoped that further increases in passenger fares and freight tariffs averaging
70 to 80 percent, which became effective earlier this year, will improve the
Railways' financial situation. While the dieselization program is making
satisfactory progress, other measures to improve operational efficiency, such
as appropriate manpower planning, have not been given sufficient attention.
Ln. No. 957 Antalya/Akdeniz Forest Utilization Project: US$40 million loan of
January 28, 1974. Effective Date: May 26, 1976. Closing Date: June 30,
1980.
Following the approval by the Executive Directors of needed changes
in the agreements arising from relocation of the pulp and paper mill, the loan
was declared effective. Construction at the new site is underway, and the
project is expected to be completed by mid-1981, two years behind the revised
schedule. Some cases of sub-standard civil works construction have occurred,
but a corrective program and strengthened supervision by SEKA have produced
some improvement. The cost overruns were to be met by the Government and



- 38 -                       ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
the State Investment Bank.  The Government has recently been unable to
authorize the foreign exchange transfers needed to permit continued procure-
ment for the industrial part of the project, except for certain critically
needed items, and is seeking additional external financing. Local currency
payments for the Akdeniz establishment are also behind schedlule, resulting in
a high debt-equity ratio.
Ln. No. 1023 Elbistan Lignite Mine and Power Project: US$148 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: June 1, 1976. Closing Date: July 30, 1982.
Engineering and contracting are proceeding, but project implementa-
tion has been delayed by critical problems, including insufficient staff,
inefficient management, inadequate coordination among various agencies and
unsatisfactory performance of civil contractors. Following Bank and co-lender
reviews of the situation with the Turkish authorities in early 1977, the reme-
dial measures initiated by Turkey have resulted in some improvement of project
coordination and physical aspects of project implementation. Financing, both
domestic and foreign, remains a serious problem.  The Government is reviewing
possible actions to overcome these and other remaining implementation problems.
Ln. No. 1024 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$40 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: September 30, 1974. Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The loan was fully committed in February 1977, with eleven sub-
projects approved by the Bank. Project implementation is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1078 TSKB (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): UJS$65 million
loan of January 22, 1974. Effective Date: April 24, 1975. Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
The loan is fully committed and project implementation is satis-
factory. Disbursements are nearly complete, although somewhat behind original
appraisal estimates, as a result of difficulties with a few subprojects.
Ln. No. 1130 Corum-Cankiri Rural Development: US$75 million loan of June 23,
1975. Effective Date: January 2, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is progressing satisfactorily. The project extension
service and credit components are operating successfully and consultants are
being engaged. Corum dam has been completed. Kumbaba pumping station and
the associated irrigation networks are nearly completed. Construction of the
remaining village centers will be delayed until 1979 while a plan for the use
and maintenance of the centers already built is being drawn up. Other civil
works are well underway.
Ln. No. 1194 Second TEK Power Transmission Project: US$56 million loan of
June 14, 1976. Effective Date: April 21, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1979.
Procurement action is complete, somewhat behind schedule, and almost
the entire loan is committed. Some deliveries have also been delayed because



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
of foreign exchange shortages, but this situation is expected to improve, and
overall project implementation and the rate of disbursement should also
improve in the coming period.
Ln. No. 1248 Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries: US$54.2 million loan of
May 5, 1976. Effective Date: May 11, 1977. Closing Date: September 30,
1981.
The ferryship component has been implemented, and the two roll-on
and roll-off ships purchased under this project and the Fruit and Vegetable
Export project, are now operating a regularly scheduled service between ports
in Turkey and two ports in Italy. Selection of agro-industries sub-loans has
been delayed, but some have recently been approved. The Agricultural Bank
(TCZB) has introduced improved lending procedures for its ongoing supervised
credit program, and this component is being implemented satisfactorily. Terms
of reference for consultants to carry out the study of TCZB's structure and
procedures are being finalized after considerable delay. At the Borrower's
request, a cattle-fattening component of the Project, and US$7.7 million of
the original Loan amount of $63 million, allocated for this purpose, were
cancelled on May 5, 1977. Also, as provided for in the Loan Agreement, $1.04
million for training was cancelled on December 22, 1977, following approval of
UNDP funds for this purpose.
Ln. No. 1258 Balikesir Newsprint: US$70 million loan of May 21, 1976.
Effective Date: October 15, 1976. Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project is now proceeding satisfactorily, but due to delays in
civil works and procurement is expected to start production in mid-1980,
eighteen months behind the appraisal schedule. Erection of machinery and
equipment is expected to begin in early 1979 and trial runs about one year
later.
Ln. No. 1265 Livestock III: US$21.5 million loan of May 26, 1976. Effective
Date: February 25, 1977. Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
After a slower than anticipated start-up, project implementation is
now satisfactory. Project area offices have been established and are virtually
fully staffed, with all three consultants on post. Preparation of farm devel-
opment plans has been slower than expected; however, substantial numbers of
sub-loan applications have been approved and include a higher proportion than
expected of small farmers.
Ln. No. 1.310 South Antalya Tourism Infrastructure: US$26 million loan of
July 9, 1L976. Effective Date: March 1, 1978. Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Implementation of most project components is satisfactory, with
progress being made in preparation of specifications and project design work.
The Project Unit has now been established in the Project Area and appointment
of key staff is being accelerated.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Ln. No. 1379 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$70 million loan of
March 23, 1977. Effective Date: July 21, 1977. Closing Date: March 31,
1981.
Almost half of the loan has been committed, and the remainder is
expected to be committed by mid-1979. DYB has experienced management changes
and still has severe staff constraints, which it has in part overcome by
recruitment of additional junior staff. It hopes improved contract terms
will enable it to fill more senior positions as needed.
Ln. No. 1430 TSKB XII (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$74.0
million loan of June 3, 1977. Effective Date: August 29, 1977. Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
Progress is satisfactory and two-thirds of the loan has been com-
mitted. In 1977 and 1978, TSKB essentially reached an agreed target by allo-
cating 39 percent of its resources to projects in less developed regions, and
exceeded another in its assistance to small and medium-scale labor-intensive
enterprises. TSKB has so far been unable to raise resources in international
capital markets as expected because of Turkey's economic difficulties, but the
interest of several financing sources is anticipated once conditions permit
renewed efforts.
Ln. No. 1585 Northern Forestry: US$86.0 million loan of June 5, 1978.
Effective Date: October 30, 1978. Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
Project implementation has begun and procurement is underway.
Ln. No. 1586 Livestock IV: US$24.0 million loan of June 5, 1978. Effective
Date: October 31, 1978. Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Recruitment of technical specialists for the project and selection
of consultants for the milk industry study are underway.
Ln. No. 1606 Erdemir Stage II Steel: US$95.0 million loan of June 30, 1978.
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
This loan is not yet effective.
Ln. No. 1627 Import Program: US$150.0 million of November 8, 1978.
Effective Date: November 16, 1978. Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
In accordance with Schedule 1 of the Loan Agreement a satisfactory
review of Turkey's export policies and performance was made by the Bank in
April and a determination made to continue disbursements after April 30. As
of June 6, disbursements totalled $53.9 million.
Ln. No. S-13 Bati Raman Engineering: US$2.5 million of November 30, 1978.
Effective Date: February 27, 1979. Closing Date: February 29, 1980.
This loan has just become effective. Consultants have been
appointed for the comparative feasibility study, which is under way.



- 41 -
ANNEX III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Government and TSKB Request:                    September 1978
(b)  Appraisal:                                     October 16-27, 1978
(c)  Negotiations Completed:                        May 17, 1979
(d)  Loan Effectiveness Planned:                    October 1, 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.   During 1979 and 1980, TSKB will approve financing of not less than:
(a) $115 million in foreign exchange for export-oriented projects
(para. 64 and L.A. 3.07(a)(i));
(b)  $90 million in foreign exchange for projects in the less
developed regions (para. 70 and L.A. 3.07(a)(ii));
(c)  $50 million in ioreign exchange for projects in the semi-
developed regions (para. 70 and L.A. 3.07(a)(iv)); and
(d) $35 million in foreign exchange, and TL 500 million in local
currency, for SMLI projects (para. 72 and L.A. 3.07(a)(iii)
and (b)).
2.   $0.7 million of the loan will finance (i) a training program for TSKB
staff in the export aspects of projects, (ii) studies of Turkey's
industrial export potential, and (iii) TSKB's ongoing program of
research studies and project promotion (paras. 66, 67 and 88, and
L.A. 2.02(a)(ii), (iii) and (iv)).
3.   TSIB will increase the effective cost of its local currency loans as
needed to ensure thaLt its total local currency lending operations
yield a positive spread over the cost of its local currency borrowings
(para. 81 and L.A. 3.08).






I
|BULGARIA  ,1 .                                                          R /o ck                                 S e o0                                                                    ii U. SS  R.
"\   "KIRKLARELI
LU                                                                 i, ' 7  T  A K I   R
i>           ~  t   yz                                            z Ot !   )lA  XDK NAK   \\NIGDEN SIN         Jj                        / I                                                  NLDYRAI  
Son ci A4crma                                                                         0RZA 
<?  ,      A Y D I N        ENS22zR>    ISAT             0                          \jNKR         MA  <Y  /' MAI,RA5             h/G7 RESU                                        KA  < ,51R  R S K
CANAK  Sl   LRKAwLE/ ~kBRSA   Q                                                    a |CRM                  -,
_ 350 (M e d / t e r r a n e a n S e G7 LU0                                   S                                                    RASBON)
N....  BALIECANRR 0  E
)   TOO   2"    3(JO                       <                        1          \                                           --- PROVINCIAL BDUNDARIES WCOR                           40-
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
B R ~ ~ ~   ~         ~        ~         ~         ~        ~        ~        ~        ~         
BALKE5R                                                                                                                                          PROVNCILCA
KILOMETERS~ ~ ~~EKi                                                                                                       *-* INENTOA BOUNDAIES                                        >
tu                                       ~IROO~MAHIRBINGOL",    'l RAN
~~~   NI~~~~~~~                                             A                                                           P>>B)TLIS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ANLI  ( 
OSAK               SO(            10 0 1NEVSEHIR(t                                               o                              .         t A- -
M                                                                       3IZMI R                                                   FASTFRN!\ Af{'JATEl4A   ,!A
7> AYDIN    (0                                                                                                                             DIYA5AK/   /T
6~~e                   -)~~DENI\I       o       ISPR TA          0                        a                    MAA
BURUR     k                                   \J                                                                                ---           /     HAKKARI 
MUGLA  ~~         -~~'URDUR                                                                                                                MARDIN
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NF
ANTALY                                                             0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ OTDEEOE  RVICSAOUNCPLTE
OF ANKARA AND ISKENDEPUN
jSEMI DEVELOPED PROVINCES
LEAST DEVELOPED RESIGNS
35'  114   d I't   r r a n  q o n                                             S Y R I A                               I =Ml R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D~7~ TOSKR3 REGIONAL BRANCH OFFICES  3-
TSKKRADMINISTRATIVEDISTRICTS
CYPRU                                                          1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EGIODNAL BOUNDARIES
0  100   500  300                                  j                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
KILOMETERS                                                                                                                         0    PROVINCIAL CAPITALS 
0  SD  IDE  ISO  550                                   1                                       1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- -INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES           >I
MILES                                                                                                                              40'"-~'
30-                                315. ~     ~     ~ ~ ~ ~           WI-~R



