Document of
The 'World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FILE COPY
Report No. 2447a-TU
TURKEY
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 17, 1979
Regional Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TURKEY
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI
Currency Unit: Turkish Lira (TL)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1976                TL 16.00 = $1.00
1977                TL 18.00 =$1.00
1978                TL 25.00= $1.00
1979 (since April) TL 26.50 =$1.00
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
DYB                Develet Yatirim Bankasi (State Investment Bank)
KfW                Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
EIB                European Investment Bank
LDR                Less Developed Regions
SEE                State Economic Enterprises
SMLI               Small/Medium Scale Labor-Intensive Industries
SYKB               Sinai Yatirim ve Kredi Bankasi
TSKB               Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma Bankasi



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
T'URKEY
TURKIYE SINAI' KALKINMA BANKASI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE ENVIRONMENT    ...................................                    1
A.   Economic Performance and Prospects ........            ........     1
B.   The Industrial Sector ............................,                 2
Role in the Economy ......................,                        2
Industrial Policy, Achievements and Problems    ......             3
Prospects .........................................                4
Manufactured Exports ..............................                5
II.    THE FINANCIAL SETTING ..................................                 6
The Financial Sector ..............................                6
Interest Rates and Foreign Exchange Risk ....           .......    9
III.  TSKB - INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENTS .10
Shareholders .10
Board .11
Organization .11
Management and Staff .12
Policies .12
Appraisal and Supervision Procedures .13
Procurement and Disbursement Procedures .14
IV.    TSKB's OPERATIONS AND ITS IMPACT .......................                14
Summary of Operations  .............................              14
Assistance to Less I)eveloped Regions (LDR)            ........   16
Assistance to New and Widely-Owned Enterprises   ....             16
ERR and Employment  ................................              17
Small and Medium Scale Labor Intensive
Projects (SMLI) .................................               17
Project Promotion .................................               17
Export Oriented Projects ......           .....................   18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Turkey in October, 1978, and was composed of Messrs. Franco Batzella, David
Berk, Abdul Haji and Jean-Francois Landeau.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
V.   TSKB's FINANCIAL SITUATION AND PROSPECTS ....    ...........    19
Financial Performance and Position ....    ............    19
Quality of Loans and Equity Investments ...........    21
Projections of Operations and Financial Situation .    22
Resource Position .......     ..........................    24
Foreign Exchange Resource Mobilization .... ........    24
Domestic Resource Mobilization .....    ...............    26
VI.   THE  PROJECT   ............................................  29
General   ...........................................  29
Objectives   ........................................  29
A.  Meeting TSKB's Financial Gap ....     .............    30
B.  Promoting Export-Oriented Projects .... .......    30
C.  Maintenance of TSKB's Other Development
Objectives   .................................   34
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED .....................................    37
ANNEXES
Annex  1 - List of Shareholders as of December 1978
Annex  2 -  Board of Directors
Annex  3 - Organization Chart
Annex  4  -  Summary of Operations (1974-1978)
Annex  5 - Gross Approvals of Loans by Size (9175-1978)
Annex  6 - Loan Commitments by Industry (1975-1978)
Annex  7 -  Sectoral Distribution of Outstanding Loans and Equity
Investments at December 31, 1977
Annex  8 -  Geographical Distribution of TSKB's Loan and
Equity Approvals (1975-1978)
Annex  9 - Distribution of Share Capital of Projects Financed by TSKB
Annex 10 - Economic Rates of Return of Projects
Annex 11  - Employment Generation of Projects Financed by TSKB (1975-1977)
Annex 12 -  SMLI financed by TSKB (1977 and 1978)
Annex 13  - Projects Identified and Promoted in 1977 and 1978
Annex 13a -  Project Promotion Fund - Projected Income and Expenses
Annex 14  - Export-Oriented Projects Approved in 1977 and 1978
Annex 15  - Income Statements - 1975-1978
Annex 16 -  Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1975-1978
Annex 17  - Debt/Equity Calculations
Annex 18  - Summary of Arrears (1974-1978)
Annex 19  - Equity Participations as of September 30, 1978



Table of Contents (Continued)
Annex 20  -  Projected Operations
Annex 21  -  Projected Income Statements (1979-1982)
Annex 22  -  Projected Balance Sheet (1978-1982)
Annex 23  -  Projected Debt Equity Calculations (1978-1982)
Annex 24  -  Resource Position as at December 31, 1978
Annex 25  -  Projected Disbursement Schedule of Proposed Loan
MAP OF TURKEY






I. THE ENVIRONMENT
A. Economic Performaince and Prospects 1/
1.01      Turkey's real GDP grew at an average of over 7% per annum from
197Q through the recent world recession to 1976. Agriculture grew over
4% per annum, and industry at 10% per annum principally as a result of sus-
tained high industrial investment, while public sector deficits fuelled the
rapid growth of aggregate demand. Great strides were also made in meeting
the basic needs of the fast-growing population, although unemployment rose
gradually to over 13% of the labor force. However, this generally impressive
progress was ended by a severe balance of payments crisis, lasting from 1977
to the present.
1.02      The current account, which had improved after 1970 stabilization
measures and as a result of a world economic boom, deteriorated from a $0.5
billion surplus in 1973 to a $3.6 billion deficit in 1977, as a result of
several factors. Imports caught up to normal levels after strict rationing
in the 1960s, and reflected the growing requirements of industry, while
the small volume of exports stagnated and workers' remittances declined due to
the world recession and policy weaknesses. Since the deficits were financed
largely by short-term borrowing, a situation arose by early 1977 where foreign
lending dried up, foreign exchange transfers could not be made, and payments
arrears accumulated. Meanwhile the strong growth of aggregate demand, com-
bined recently with shortages of imported items, drove up the rate of infla-
tion to around 50% per annum.
1.03      "Stabilization measures were taken in early 1978, combined with
a drastic reduction in imports, some success with agricultural exports,
the conclusion of an incomes policy, external debt rescheduling on a large
scale, and a search for new external assistance. These measures led to slower
growth of output and stagnant investment without checking the rate of infla-
tion, but the trade deficit nearly halved and the overall balance of payments
improved considerably.
1.A4      New stabilization measures taken in March/April 1979 aim at raising
domestic savings, restraining the growth of domestic demand and lowering the
rate of inflation; and also at redirecting resources and improving incentives
to'boost exports substantially. They will need to-be supported by substantial
external finance, particularly quickly-disbursing assistance on medium and
long terms, if the level of imports is to increase 'And moderate growth of
output be possible in 1979.
1/   A detailed review of Turkey's economic situation and prospects is in
Part I of the President's Report on this project.



- 2 -
1.05      The export drive, and the progressive resumption of normal interna-
tional commercial relationships, should permit accelerating growth of output
and investment thereafter, combined with a stable current account deficit.
Even so, the balance of payments position is likely to remain tight over the
remainder of the Fourth Plan period (1979-83), given the need for large
borrowings to finance both the current account deficit and debt amortization.
The Plan targets for the growth of real output (8% per annum), investment,
savings, and external capital inflows appear ambitious, and the present
project has been appraised on the basis of more conservative assumptions.
B. The Industrial Sector
1.06      Role in the Economy.  The growth of manufacturing industries in
Turkey has been rapid and relatively steady through the first three five-year
plan periods (1962-77). Value added in manufacturing rose from about 15% of
GDP in the early 1960s to about 18% currently, with an annual average growth
rate of about 10%. The manufacturing sector absorbed some 30% of total fixed
investment up to 1975, but its share fell to 23% in 1978 largely as a result
of its import-dependence and the growing scarcity of foreign exchange. With
rising capital-output ratios, its share of total employment grew only slowly
to reach 11% currently. During the past decade, the share of consumer goods
in industrial output has declined to just under half, with that of inter-
mediates steady and that of capital goods (but including consumer durables)
rising from 12% to 16%. These changes reflect a gradual structural change,
at a pace which has not satisfied the economic planners, as a result of an
import-substitution strategy. However, the manufacturing sector remains
heavily dependent on imports of both capital goods and some intermediate
products such as steel, fertilizers and other chemicals.
1.07      The private sector has historically invested mainly in profitable
consumer goods and durables, and only recently entered intermediate and
capital goods production. It carried out 57% of industrial investment
during the last decade and now accounts for about 50% of value added in
manufacturing. However, as a result of the recent economic crisis, private
manufacturing investment stagnated from 1974 to 1977 and fell 11% in real
terms in 1978. The state has always been involved in basic industries where
private capital has hesitated to enter because of long gestation periods,
heavy capital requirements, or high risks. Thus State Economic Enterprises
(SEEs) are major producers in steel, petroleum refining, fertilizers,
petrochemicals, and pulp and paper. While the primary purpose of SEEs is
production, they have also been charged with social goals, such as the
development of backward regions, provision of employment and maintenance
of price stability, which have contributed to their generally poor finan-
cial performance. Low salaries, political pressures and otherwise limited
autonomy, and featherbedding have affected the quality of their management and
operating efficiency. Despite liberal legislation, foreign owned enterprises
contribute only 3% of total value added in manufacturing, as a result of a
hitherto unwelcoming political and bureaucratic climate. Foreign direct
investments have been consistently low, especially since 1975; they amounted



-:3-
to only $40 million in 1978.  IFC has sponsored a number of important projects
bringing foreign capital and new technology to Turkey.
1.08      Industrial Policy, Achievements and Problems.  Industrialization
has been viewed as instrumental for tlne achievement of high rates of economic
growth, structural changes and greater self-sufficiency. In the pursuit
of these objectives, industrial development policy has stressed import sub-
stitution, the application of advanced technology and a shift of emphasis
from consumer goods to intermediate and investment goods industries. The
main instruments to support this policy have been large investment allocations
with direct planning and control, in the public sector, and the stimulation
of private investment by generous incentives and high protection against
imports. The main investment incentives have been exemptions from income
and other taxes, as well as from customs duty on imported equipment. The
main form of protection has been to permit imports of a commodity only to
the extent Turkish production cannot satisfy domestic demand, giving absolute
protection against imports; there are also tariffs, higher on consumer goods
than on intermediates, while capital goods (as mentioned) largely escape
duties.
1.09      These past policies have produced many achievements.  Private
investment has been stimulated and public investment raised, with the
result that the growth rates of industrial output and value added have been
impressive. A good part of both private and public industry is efficient.
There has been considerable import-substitution, in the sense that large
quantities of basic commodities which otherwise would have been imported
are produced in Turkey using newly introduced technologies and with the
creation of substantial labor force skills. Dispersal of SEEs and incentives
for private firms to invest in less-developed regions probably made a contri-
bution to mitigating interregional disparities and slowing the pace of rural-
urban migration, as have a widespread program of industrial estate and lending
by TSKB. Industrial planning has on the whole focused investment where demand
was gro*ing rapidly, and has attempted to exploit Turkey's natural resources.
The planners have also emphasized the possibilities of learning, of external
economies, of changing the present pattern of comparative advantage, and of
rationalizing the structure of individual industries.
1.10      There are, however, a few problem areas.  The immediate ones are
low capacity utilization, and the low level and rate of growth of manufac-
tured exports. SEEs are deliberately domestically-oriented. The private
sector remains so because export incentives are not sufficient to outweight
the advantages of effective industrial protection, which, in a climate of
growing domestic demand, makes domestic sales more profitable than exports.
As for longer-term problems, although some industries are competitive, the
domestic resource cost of other manufacturing or processing operations is
high by international standards. This is attributable to a combination of
poor choices in investment allocations; small scale operations often because
too many producers were encouraged in the past; poor project implementation;
under-utilization of installed equipment for lack of inputs, foreign exchange,
or incentive to increase shiftworking; compulsory use of lower quality
domestic inputs; and absence of competition from imports. Other problem
areas arise from Government policy and the design of incentives, which have



- 4 -
over-encouraged capital-intensive activities and allowed a build up of the
unemployment rate to over 13%. In recent years, the Government has also
tried to start too many too large projects simultaneously, in light of both
implementation capacity and resource availability, and often without benefit
of careful economic analysis.
Prospects
1.11      Turkey has a considerable natural resource base for further indus-
trialization, a comparatively low-wage and skilled labor force, and quite a
diversified, complex and interdependent industrial base, all of which are                   -
presently underutilized, as well as a dynamic private sector responsive
to market incentives. It also has an advantageous location near both Western
and Eastern European and Middle Eastern markets. The immediate problems are
to increase the currently low utilization of existing capacity, and to achieve
a rapid and sustained growth of manufactured exports (see following section).
1.12      Over the medium term, the Government intends to increase the contri-
bution of the industrial sector to GDP. It should make exports an integral
element of its strategy to the same degree as import-substitution was in the
past. The latter should continue in intermediate goods, without which import
demand would become unnecessarily high, and capital goods where this is
demonstrably economically viable, subject to adequate priority for export-
oriented investments. Careful public investment project selection, with the
elimination or postponement of low priority investments, and efficient imple-
mentation will be crucial to this effort. In this way, Turkey can both
surmount the existing problems and achieve its desired long-term structural
changes and a greater degree of self-sufficiency in strategic sectors like
fertilizers, chemicals, metals and metal products and machinery.
1.13      Over the long term, substantial improvements in structure, effi-
ciency and international competitiveness will be needed in many existing
industries, and particularly in the SEEs, to enable them to use resources
effectively and compete successfully at home, as well as provide some of
the thrust for development of exports. The present variability of effective
protection should be gradually reduced to mitigate distortions in resource
allocation.  More generally, efficiency would be spurred by a general move
from reliance on quantitative restrictions to use of tariffs, accompanied by a
gradual lowering of the level of protection, in line with and as a stimulant
to the build up of Turkey's competitive strength.  Finally, a faster rate of
job creation in manufacturing is needed, to prevent a further rise in the
already high rate of unemployment.  This could be achieved in part through
shifts in project and technology choices, to better reflect the relative
scarcities of capital and labor in Turkey, by changing the bias of present
investment incentives so as to increase the relative cost of capital and
intensify its utilization.
1.14      The Fourth Five-Year Plan (1979-83) was approved by Parliament
in November 1978. It provides for manufacturing production to grow by over
11% per annum, contributing a large share of GDP growth of over 8% per annum.
Industry's share of GDP is to rise by 2% to 32% by 1983.  Consumer goods



5-
are to grow by 8%, intermediates by 13%, and capital goods by 15% per annum;
as a result, the share of investment goods (including consumer durables) is
to reach 20% by 1983. Fast-growing sectors will include iron and steel,
petrochemicals, fertilizers, non-ferrous metals, agricultural and other
machinery, and transport vehicles.  This growth is to be based on total
investments in manufacturing of TL 432 billion, 27% of the total in the
economy.  This will be an increase of 62% in constant prices over the actual
figure in the Third Plan period. Private investment would grow relatively
slowly, from TL 151 billion in the Third Plan period to TL 199 billion in the
Fourth, with a significant decline in its share from 57% to 46%. Public
investment is to be TL 233 billion, a doubling in real terms over Third Plan
levels. The investment allocation is clearly along traditional lines, with as
much as 71% for large import-substituting projects mainly for the production
of intermediate goods, reflecting both the large number of projects already
underway and the general emphasis of the Fourth Plan; investment in capital
goods manufacture will be 16% of the total, a prelude to subsequent increases.
While it is desirable to complete some of the ongoing projects in these sub-
sectors, the investment allocations for light and consumer goods industries
with higher export potential (particularly food, textiles and clothing, and
leather products) appear small in relation to the export targets set for
them, and may need to be increased in the second phase of the Plan when more
new investments can be undertaken. As for other objectives, more rapid job
creation in manufacturing will be attempted, partly through the rapid expan-
sion of relatively labor intensive subsectors. Redistribution of activity and
income will be fostered through a continuation of the incentives for investing
in the less developed regions of Turkey.  As mentioned above, the Plan targets
for manufacturing investment and output growth appear ambitious in the light
of the availability of both domestic and external financial resources.
1.15      Manufactured Exports.  The share of manufactures in Turkey's mer-
chandise exports increased from about 23% in the early 1960s to around 35%
at present.  The largest expansion occurred during 1970-73, when there was
a more than fourfold increase as a result of the 1970 devaluation and a boom
in Western Europe. The bulk of this gain, however, was achieved through
a few industries: textiles, leather products and processed foods, which
even today account for about 75% of all industrial exports. Nearly all
exporting enterprises are in the private sector. Since 1973, domestic demand
has continued to boom, the profitabiLity of exporting has cleclined considerably
due to rapid cost increases not offset by sufficient devaluation, and the
world recession dampened demand abroad. As a result of these factors and the
continuing import-substitution strateegy, favoring sales to the highly pro-
tected and lucrative domestic market, exports accounted for only 7% of the
gross output of the manufacturing sector in 1977.
1.16      Exporters benefit from four main types of incentives.  Export
rebates of up to 35% of export value are designed to compensate for indirect
taxes paid in production, but may at times contain an element of subsidy.
Investment incentives include tax exemptions which increase with the degree
of export-orientation of a project. Credit for export-oriented investments
is subsidized in varying degrees, depending on the volume of projected exports.



Recently, manufacturing exporters have also been granted preferential access
to scarce foreign exchange, including the right to retain 50% of their export
earnings, either for their own import requirements or for sale to other
industrialists at a substantial premium through a parallel market. The Gov-
ernment is also implementing or contemplating various organizational measures
to promote exports, including simplification of formalities, export marketing
and quality control, which should be supplemented by private efforts. How-
ever, these measures need to be reinforced by restraint of domestic demand
and exchange rate adjustments whenever appropriate. The Government has
introduced a number of such measures in its March/April 1979 stabilization
program, and has indicated to the IMF and the Bank its intention to maintain
the competitiveness of the Turkish economy in light of the relative movements
of prices domestically and internationally. The remaining bias against
exports, as compared with import-substitution, will need to be rectified over
a longer period, and entrepreneurs given confidence that the Government will
ensure the profitability of exporting on a long-term basis.
1.17      The Fourth Plan projects growth of manufactured exports from some
$700 million in 1978 to $3.3 billion in 1983 at a rate of some 36% per annum
in volume terms. The largest contributions would come from textiles and
clothing ($500 million) and food products ($358 million), with hides and
leather and a variety of intermediate and even some capital goods exports
growing rapidly. These subsector proposals will be explored further and
tested in a study under the proposed project (para 6.07), to be conducted by
TSKB under the direction of the State Planning Organization (SPO), to identify
promising commodities and markets for early support. Comparisons with domestic
resource costs of earning (or saving) foreign exchange through various activi-
ties may be useful, if dated and static, indicators. The recent experience
and success of other developing countries also offers clues as to suitable
lines, as of course does Turkey's natural resource endowment. The Plan
targets for exports appear ambitious, and the actual rate of volume growth
may turn out to be a little lower than that projected; however even this will
be a creditable achievement and will require policies along the lines just
discussed.
II. FINANCIAL SETTING
2.01      The Financial Sector.  Roughly 50% of total private fixed investment
in industry is financed by intermediaries.  TSKB provided 6% of the total
investment requirements of private manufacturers during 1975-77. The other
major sources of long term industrial credit are the well-established smaller
Industrial Investment and Credit Bank (SYKB), which so far has financed
predominantly domestic currency expenditures, the new and rapidly-growing
State Industry and Labor Investment Bank (DESIYAB), designed to mobilize inter
alia the savings of migrant workers for investment in widely-owned companies
mainly in the less developed regions (LDRs) (potentially complementing TSKB's
regional development efforts), and the Halk Bank, a Government owned financial
institution financing small-scale industry, small tradesmen, and artisans.



- 7 -
2.02      Another 40% of private industrial investment is financed out of
internally generated funds: about 8% from bond issues, and the remaining
4% through direct foreign financing. Since 1972, commercial banks have
increased medium-term lending to the private sector, in response to new
regulations and incentives whereby they were required to earmark 10% (and,
since 1976, 20%) of their portfolio for loans of 2-5 year maturities; the
volume of longer terms loans granted by commercial banks accounts for less
than 1% of their total operations. Between 1975 and 1978, private short-term
capital inflows of $2 billion through convertible lira accounts (CLAS) with
Turkish commercial banks were converted into local currency and lent to local
borrowers, mainly for investment purposes. However, with the ending of the
exchange guarantee on these deposits by the Central Bank in 1978, the assump-
tion and rescheduling of CLA debt by the Government now being finalized,
and the need for strict control of new short-term debt, CLAs are unlikely to
play any significant role in future.
2.03       The capital market is  presently thin and stagnant, since with
the high inflation prevailing in Turkey, the returns on financial investments
do not match those on real estate ancl other investments. Share issues by
private corporations to outsiders are very limited. The bond market is
dominated by Government and State Investment Bank (DYB) issues, which enjoy
a captive market.  Government bonds yield 18% tax free as of May 1, 1979 and
are redeemable at par on demand. During the Third Plan period, some 60% were
placed with financial and other public institutions and almost 30% with indi-
vidual savers. The issue of bonds by private corporations is a relatively
recent development. TSKB has played an important role by guaranteeing
and placing some of the principal early issues. Corporate bonds yield 21%
subject to tax, a rate which is expected to be increased in summer 1979 to
bring it into line with the recent increases in other interest rates (paras
2.11-2.14). Those backed by banks have also in effect become redeemable on
demand. Development banks such as TSKB have limited their own bond issues,
since they suffer a negative spread on loans made out of the proceeds of bonds
at the basic lending rate. Private bond issues reached TL 2.0 billion in
1978--still a relatively small amount, and declining in real terms. The
Government's tax bill before Parliament threatens to reduce further the net
return on private bonds. In contrast, during 1973-78, private savings and
time deposits have grown rapidly and reached TL 52 billion at the end of 1978.
Most of these are for 2 years, at an interest rate of 22% as of May 1, 1979,
but on deposits over 4 years the rate is negotiable. Finally, the Investment
Finance Corporation was established in 1976 by a group of banks, in which
TSKB played a key role, to participate in the equity of industrial firms
located in the LDRs. For the time be!ing, the new company will be managed by
TSKB. By the end of 1978, it had invested TL 353 million in a wide variety of
subsectors, including TL 205 million as co-financing of projects financed by
TSKB.
2.04       The role of foreign private investments in Turkey's industrial
development has always been limited. The official policy is to accept them
when they lead to transfer of new technology and provision of training,
contribute to export earnings, and entail no monopoly or special privilege.



- 8 -
In practice the policy has been restrictive due to political opposition
and administrative delays. However, the Government has now prepared a new,
more liberal code for foreign investment, especially in export-oriented
ventures, to assist in mobilizing external capital during the Fourth Plan
period.
2.05      Resource allocation in Turkey is affected more by controls over
the volume of credit channelled through the specialized banking institutions
than by interest rates, although both types of instruments are used. For
commercial banks, the most important Government influence on resource alloca-
tion has been the selective credit policy for designated priority activities.
Banks are induced to participate by the lower reserve requirements for these
types of lending, the possibility of discounting a portion of these loans at
the Central Bank, and since May 1, 1979 by the payment of new subsidies to the
banks of between 1 and 4.5% per annum for such lending.
2.06      This policy is strengthened through the mechanism of interest sub-
sidies paid to the borrowers, at the level of 6% per annum for projects in
less-developed regions, and for projects exporting more than 50% of their
output, or 9% per annum for projects with both features. Export-oriented
projects, even if unable to guarantee the exportation of 50% of their output
may qualify for an exemption from the transaction tax on interest paid (25%).
Cooperative and cooperative members are eligible for a 5% interest subsidy.
In practice, however, the effectiveness of this type of incentives is somewhat
reduced, and the cost of capital raised, by delays in payment of the subsidies.
2.07      A number of weaknesses in the present mechanism, for resource
mobilization by financial intermediaries and their allocation to medium-term
industrial lending, have been identified by a 1976-8 Government study of the
financial sector, carried out with Bank encouragement. The study is cur-
rently under review by both the Government and the Bank, with joint discus-
sions anticipated thereafter. A discussion on interest rates for medium-term
industrial lending has already taken place in the context of the proposed
project.  The Government's aims set out in the draft Fourth Plan already
reflect some of the recommendations of the financial sector study, especially
as regards the general objectives of improvement of the financial sector's
efficiency and the allocation of credit to designated priority areas.
2.08      The study's main thrust is on how to improve the mobilization of
private savings, and their rational allocation through financial intermediaries
to priority uses, such as industrial development of backward regions, exports,
and small scale industry. Its findings are inter alia that resource mobiliza-
tion is presently hindered by the high returns to investment in non-financial
assets such as real estate, while there is also evidence of the existence of a
large informal financial sector attracting savings and catering to consumer
and housing finance demand. Savers prefer bank deposits, very rarely for more
than two years, to investment in nominally longer-maturity financial instru-
ments such as corporate bonds, and these deposits can only to a limited extent
be mobilized for medium-term lending. Finally, because lending rates are set
below domestic capital market borrowing rates, the incentives to and efforts



- 9 -
of financial intermediaries to mobilize resources from the domestic market
have been hampered. Further, while commercial banks have been increasing
their medium-term lending to the private sector, the regional distribution of
credits still shows an overall net iflow from poor to rich regions of Turkey,
with the proportion of lending done in more-developed regions higher than the
proportion of deposits mobilized there. The Government is alsc concerned that
commercial banks belonging to large industrial groups may be unduly favoring
companies of these groups in their 'Lending, promoting a greater concentration
of private industry and hampering the development of new firms.
2.09      The study recommends, among other things, the de!velopment especially
by the banking system of new financial instruments--including possibly indexed
ones--to attract savings; the elimination of all restrictions on yields and
redeemability of bonds; the granting of permission to deve!lopment banks to
accept deposits from social security funds, and for companies to invest their
mandatory reserves in development banks' bonds; and an increase in medium term
banks credit, especially for investment in the less developed regions. The
study also recommends that bank credit should be directed to priority uses
through an array of regulations affecting asset/liability ratios, and special
allocation and reserve requirements; that the banks' use of compensatory
balances should be subject to controls; and that their holding of shares in
private companies should be permitted only for short periods as a way to
mobilize the public's savings toward the capital market.
Interest Rates and Foreign Exchange Risk
2.10      The study does not address systematically the question of the appro-
priate level of deposit rates and of the cost of credit, but does point
toward the need for an overall increase of both such as has recently occurred
(para 2.11), with tighter government controls on bank practices, and the
modulation of rates as a function of the nature of the holders of deposits and
of the recipient of credits. The cost of credit is recognized to be a less
important factor in determining its allocation than are its availability and
maturity; nevertheless, the continuation of interest rate subsidies is envi-
saged, though exclusively for the least developed regions; subsidies should
however be paid to the banks rather than to credit recipients, because delays
and uncertainties in obtaining the payment of such subsidies jeopardize their
effectiveness. The effects of the transaction tax and of other additional
charges on the real cost of credit is also not reviewed in depth by the
study.
2.11      On May 1, 1979, the Government increased the legal ceiling interest
rates on term loans to industry from 16% to 20% per annum. Borrowers are
charged a 25% transaction tax on interest. There are also some small front-
end fees. Commercial banks charge a commission of 2% per annum on collateral
held, and used to increase the cost: of capital by informally "expecting"
compensatory deposits of 10-15% of the loan, worth 2-3% per annum. The
effective cost to borrowers (before taking account of the interest subsidies
for priority activities mentioned above) is now around 26% for loans from TSKB
and is estimated to be a little over 2% per annum higher now for loans from



- 10 -
commercial banks. The one exception to the interest rate ceilings, so far
unused by TSKB, allows it a negotiated interest rate on an amount of loans
equivalent to that of outstanding bond issues.
2.12      The actual cost of short-term local currency loans is negative in
real terms in the short run, despite the May 1979 increases. Turkey's infla-
tion rate, as measured by the wholesale price index, increased from 16% in
1976 to 24% in 1977 and 51% in 1978. It is currently projected to remain high
at 40% in 1979 before declining to 30% in 1980 and 10% by 1982, given the
Government's stabilization measures. However, the actual cost of medium and
long term loans in real terms should be measured over the expected life of
such loans.  Given the expected decline of the rate of inflation, a typical
5-year medium term loan of commercial banks would have to carry nominal
financial charges of about 22% p.a. for these to approximate zero in real
terms. Similarly, a typical 7-year loan made by a development bank at end-
1979 with a two-year grace period would have a zero cost in real terms over
its entire life, if the borrower paid nominal financial charges of about 19%
p.a. As a result, current interest rates imply a reasonable positive real
cost of about 7 percentage points for Turkish borrowers of medium and long
term TL loans, before interest subsidies.
2.13      The increase in interest rates that took place in May 1979 was
deemed because of the uncertainties inherent in inflation rate projections,
and the desirability of raising the real cost of term funds significantly, to
better reflect the opportunity cost of capital in the country. The 4
percentage point increase in the base rate to 20%, which brings the after tax
cost of medium- and long-term loans to at least 26% is expected to help curb
inflation, engender a more appropriate allocation of scarce capital resources
via the market mechanism and increase the role of interest rates in economic
decision-making.
2.14      Borrowers of foreign exchange bear the exchange risk on both prin-
cipal and interest. The Government has stated to both the IMF and the Bank
its intention to maintain competitiveness through exchange rate adjustments
as needed. These are expected to reflect, in the medium term, the difference
between domestic and international inflation. The effective cost (gross of
interest subsidies) of foreign currency loans of 26% with the full exchange
risk is substantially positive in real terms. This is appropriate considering
the current scarcity value of foreign capital to the Turkish economy, and
entrepreneurs are willing to pay it. The rate is currently appropriate for
on-lending of the proposed Bank loan by TSKB, but an understanding was reached
that it will be reviewed, initially in the study of export potential (para.
1.17) and annually thereafter, for its possible impact on the international
competitiveness of Turkish firms.
III. TSKB - INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENTS
3.01       Shareholders.  There has been no significant change in shareholding
of TSKB since 1976. Turkiye Is Bankasi, Turkey's largest private commercial



- 11 -
bank continues to be TSKB's principal shareholder, owning 22% of total share
capital (see Annex 1). 47.7% is held by 12 private institutions, mostly
Turkish Commercial Banks and 23% by private shareholders each owning less
than 2% of the capital. IFC's share has remained unchanged since 1976 at 6%
and three foreign banks account for the remaining 1.3% of TSKB's Capital as
of December 1978. All the major shareholders (including I]FC) intend to
participate in the capital increase which has been approved by the Share-
holders Meeting in March, 1979 (para 5.05).
3.02      Board.  TSKB's Board consists of the Chairman and eight members
elected by shareholders. Members are elected for a term of three years
and are eligible for re-election. The General Manager of Turkiye Is Bankasi
has been the Chairman of TSKB's Board since December 1976.. A member of the
Board of Osmanli Bankasi (second largest shareholder of TSKB) has been
TSKB's Vice-Chairman since 1958. TSKB's General Manager was appointed
as board member in March 1978. The remaining six members include repre-
sentatives from three other shareholders, the Istanbul Chamber of Industry,
and a former Minister (see Annex 2 for data on current board members).
3.03      The Board determines the operating policies of TSKB and approves
annual targets for allocation of funds. It also approves all projects.
According to the statutes the Board is to meet at least once a month; in
practice it usually meets every two weeks. The Board is active in its
involvement in the current affairs of TSKB, which is reflected in the in-
depth evaluation of the projects presented to it for approval.
3.04      Organization.  Prior to 1978, TSKB's four regionalized Operating
Departments, the Engineering Department, and the branch offices all reported
to one of the three Assistant General Managers. The second Assistant General
Manager headed the Research and Planning Department, whereas the third Assis-
tant General Manager was in charge of the departments handling foreign and
local resource mobilization and accounting and computing activities.
3.05      In order to achieve a better distribution of TSKB's increasing
operations and to give a greater emphasis to the regional character of its
operation, in January 1978 TSKB implemented a reorganization under which
the four Operating Departments were consolidated into three Area Departments,
(Western, Central and Eastern Anatolia), each under the supervision of one
Assistant General Manager (see organization chart Annex 3). The supervision
of the functional departments, such as the Research, Project Engineering,
Controller's, Treasurer's, Resource Development departments, as well as the
support services, have also been reassigned among the three Assistant General
Managers. With the reorganization, the Planning Department has been newly
created: it prepares annual lending and investment programs based on demand
projections for funds prepared by the Area Departments. [t also monitors the
progress of the lending and investment programs and reviews the performance
of Area departments against established targets.
3.06      The reorganization has proved generally satisfactory.  The fact
that all engineers and economists are concentrated in centralized departments,



- 12 -
however, creates, at times, problems of coordination. The next step in the
growth of TSKB would seem to be the regionalization of part of the technical
staff, retaining a nucleus of specialized engineers in a Central Department.
3.07      TSKB has small branch offices in Izmir, Adana, Elazig and Samsun.
TSKB's plans to increase and strengthen its regional branches, envisaged
at the time of appraisal of twelfth Bank loan have not yet been fully imple-
mented. The branch offices remain sparsely staffed and do not contribute
significantly to the appraisal or supervision of TSKB's projects (see also
paras. 3.12, 3.13 and 5.10).
3.08      Management and Staff.  TSKB's General Manager and the three Assis-
tant General Managers continue to manage TSKB competently; all four have long
experience within TSKB and are well regarded by the business community and by
the staff.
3.09      TSKB's current professional staff of 146 (an increase of 4 since
the end of 1976), continues to be sound and competent. Except for the
need to increase its staff at branches as mentioned above, the level of
staff appears adequate to handle TSKB's current and projected operations.
3.10      Policies.  In April 1978 TSKB's Board of Directors adopted a Policy
Statement consolidating several previous resolutions and operating procedures.
The principal elements of the Policy Statement are as follows:
-    Economic and Social Criteria.  Projects supported by TSKB
should take into consideration the economic and social devel-
opment targets set out in the Turkish Development Plans and
should benefit the Turkish economy as a whole. In particular,
emphasis is put on the following: (a) enhancing the compe-
titive position of Turkish industry in foreign markets by
promoting export-oriented industries; (b) reducing dependency
on foreign markets for intermediate and capital goods; (c)
securing the participation of a wide section of the public
in the capital of industrial enterprises; (d) creating
employment for and raising the living standards of people
in all the regions of the country.
-    Project Development and Allocation of Resources.  TSKB is
to provide extensive services, ranging from basic research
and preparation of feasibility studies to promotion and
implementation of projects. In this context, TSKB is to
guide and assist entrepreneurs in project preparation and
also play a key role as a financing leader and an inter-
mediary for joint financing. To limit the risk, TSKB
must observe the following constraints:
-    Not more than 15% of TSKB's equity and quasi-equity
(subordinated loan from the Government of Turkey) may
be committed to any single project or any single company;



- 13 -
-    Not more than 5% of TSKB's equity and quasi-equity
may be committed to equity investments in any single
company;
-    Not more than 25% of: the subscribed capital of any
single company may be purchased by TSKB, unless TSKB
acts as an underwriter, in which case the limit is
raised to 50%; and
-    Total equity investments may not exceed TSKB's paid-in
share capital plus reserves;
-    In addition to these policies TSKB also normally requires
investors to provide no less than 50% of the cost of a
project in the form of equity funds.
-    Criteria for Regional Distribution of Resources.  TSKB prepares
an annual program of loan and investment targets for the various
regions of Turkey. The program also sets out strategies and
goals for lending and investment in both the regions and areas
of investment such as small-medium sized labor intensive indus-
tries. TSKB will assign the highest priority to the least
developed regions, taking into account the investment potential
of each region. TSKB encourages the emergence of new entre-
preneurs and widely held companies in each region. To achieve
this objective, TSKB is to assume, if necessary, the leading
role as project promoter and also to participate in the equity
of these companies to inspire the confidence of the local
investors and to complem,ent the scarce supply of risk capital
in the underdeveloped regions.
3.11      Appraisal and Supervision Procedures.  TSKB's appraisals of proj-
ects continued to be strengthened through a wide range of sector studies,
often with outside consultants' assistance. Economic rates of return are
calculated by TSKB for all projects costing more US$2 million. TSKB's Policy
Statement specifies that generally projects must yield an ERR higher than 15%
to be eligible for TSKB financing, unless substantiated reasons warrant an
exception to this constraint. In no case can the EER be lower than 10%.
This agreement has been confirmed during negotiations.
3.12      Although TSKB has developed sound supervision procedures, its
experience with some of the projects in the less developed regions and proj-
ects promoted by widely-owned companies, especially those set up with the
savings of large groups of migrant workers ("worker-companies") indicate that
such projects need closer attention than that provided by TSKB's current
procedures. Shift in TSKB's emphasis to least developed regions commenced
in 1975/76 and the difficulties which these projects face have surfaced
increasingly over the last two years. Projects often lack adequate mana-
gerial and technical staff due to difficulties to attract qualified personnel



- 14 -
to remote areas. Inadequate management during the project's implementation
phase causes delays and cost overruns, which workers' companies cannot meet
because they often lack the ability to mobilize sufficient supplementary
resources. This compounds the problem and further increases delays and
overruns, causing the company to fall in arrears. Poor management and
marketing techniques in the start-up phase cause losses and more arrears
(para. 5.10). TSKB recognizes that the early identification by TSKB of
these problems, and its prompt assistance to borrowers in difficulties,
would greatly alleviate their impact on project performance. To do so,
TSKB has started, in 1978, to implement a program of closer monitoring and
follow-up of projects especially during the implementation and start-up
phases.
3.13      An understanding was reached during negotiations to the effect
that TSKB will pursue its program to further strengthen its project follow-
up procedures. This program includes periodic review at Area Department
and General Management levels, also through especially created task forces,
of problem projects and projects under implementation, with a view to
taking prompt corrective actions (such as adjustment of grace periods, debt
rescheduling/consolidation, share capital increases and provision of techni-
cal or managerial assistance). In addition, TSKB plans to restructure and
strengthen its network of branch offices and to upgrade the latter's role
in the appraisal and follow-up of project. As part of the understanding
reached during negotiations, TSKB will submit to the Bank for discussion
by September 30, 1979, a plan of actions--to be implemented by mid-1980--
specifying the staffing and terms of reference of existing branch offices,
as well as the need to open new ones.
3.14      Procurement and Disbursement Procedures.  TSKB routinely ensures
that competitive bidding procedures appropriate to each project are adopted
by the project sponsors. Frequently TSKB provides valuable guidance on
procurement matters to the less sophisticated project sponsors, and in many
cases TSKB's staff directly participate in the negotiations between project
sponsors and foreign suppliers. Disbursement procedures are satisfactory.
IV. TSKB'S OPERATIONS AND ITS IMPACT
Summary of Operations
4.01      TSKB's approvals, commitments and disbursements from 1974 to 1978
are shown in Annex 4. Total approvals and commitments increased from TL 1.0
billion and 0.6 billion respectively in 1974 to TL 2.7 billion and 2.0 billion
by 1978. Foreign currency loans continue to be the principal part of TSKB's
operations, accounting, on an average, for about 75% of its total approvals
followed by local currency loans accounting for a further 13% and equity
investments for 11%. Both approvals and commitments in 1978 did not exceed
significantly the 1977 levels, which signifies a reduction in real terms over
the previous year. Foreign loan approvals (net of withdrawals and reductions)



- 15 -
for 1978 amounted to US$83.7 million compared to US$95.5 million in 1977 i.e.
a reduction of about 12% over the lprevious year.
4.02      The reduction in operations in 1978, and in the growth rate in
1976-1977 is, in general, a reflection of a slowdown in business activity over
this period. However, and perhaps more than the general business cycle in
Turkey, TSKB's operations during 1974-1977 have been more strongly influenced
by two factors: (a) availability of resources: TSKB had to decrease its com-
mitments of foreign currency loans in 1974 as the funds from the tenth Bank
loan of 1972 had been exhausted. Only after receiving the eleventh loan in
1975, was TSKB able to increase its foreign currency loan commitments to
pre-1974 level and above. A similar situation existed before the conclusion
of the twelfth loan in 1977. Commitment of this loan was further held up
since TSKB intended to use the loan funds in conjunction with the $40-50
million medium-term loan which TSKB hoped to place in the international mar-
ket in 1977 under IFC's syndication. That loan, which did not materialize,
was expected to have a maturity of only 5 years; blending its proceeds with
Bank funds would have made the average maturity of the resulting subloans
more suitable to the requirements of TSKB's subprojects. (b) TSKB's targets
for regional allocation of funds and assistance to new, broadly-owned enter-
prises: while there was a very strong demand particularly in 1977 and 1978
for projects in the developed regions, TSKB was constrained to allocate funds
to these regions in order to meet its targets for the less developed regions
(see paras. 4.05-4.06). Of the 30 applications for new loans, worth, in
aggregate, about $65 million, which were turned down by TSKB in Western
Anatolia during the first 9 months of 1978, 15, for aboult $21 million, were
rejected due to their location, and 7, for about $26 mil:Lion, were rejected
because the owners were well established, or because the corporate by-laws
granted special privileges to a closed group of shareholders.
4.03      TSKB's increased assistance to projects in the less developed
regions and those promoted by widely-owned new enterprises is reflected in
the increase in the number of equity investment.  Commitments for equity
investments increased from 14 in 1974 to an average of 213 per year during
1976-1978.  The average size of equity investments, which had reached TL 12.2
million in 1976, declined thereafter to about TL 6-8 million. The absence of
any marked increase in total volume of equity investments is attributed to the
fact that an increasing proportion of the investments are now for projects in
the less developed regions, which are smaller than those in the developed
regions. TSKB has played an important role in providing and mobilizing equity
funds for projects in these areas in recent years.
4.04      An analysis of TSKB's approvals by size of loans and its commitments
by industrial subsectors is shown in Annexes 5 and 6 respectively. Average
size of loans approved has increased from TL 15.4 million in 1975 to TL 27.1
million in 1978, largely due to domestic price inflation. Loans of up to
TL 10 million which constituted 24.2% of total approvals decreased to about
11% of approvals in 1978. Loans cf more than TL 30.0 million have, on the
other hand, increased and accounted for about 55% of approvals in 1977 and
1978. Textiles, food processing, machinery manufacture and forestry products



- 16 -
were the principal industrial sectors for TSKB's operations, accounting
respectively for 15.5%, 12.4%, 10.7% and 9.8% of TSKB's commitments over
1975-1978. The rest of TSKB's approvals were well distributed over other
subsectors with none of them accounting for more than 10% of the approvals
for the period. The largest subsectors in TSKB's total outstanding loans
and equity investments as of December 31, 1977, were as follows: 19.9% in
Textiles, 14.2% in Food and Beverages, 8.3% in chemicals, 7.1% each in Metal
products and Forestry products (Annex 7).
Assistance to Less Developed Regions (LDRs)
4.05      TSKB's commitment to assist the development of backward regions
was formalized in connection with the eleventh Bank loan (1078-TU) when
TSKB's board agreed that in 1975 and 1976 TSKB would allocate at least 50% of
it resources to LDRs as then defined by SPO. TSKB lived up to this commit-
ment and increased its operations in LDRs to 56% of its total approvals
in 1975 and 1976 compared to 10% in 1973. Assistance to developing regions
was further reinforced and refined under the twelfth Bank loan (1430-TU)
under which TSKB was to allocate in 1977 and 1978, (i) no more than 25% of
its resources to the eight most developed provinces of Turkey (ii) at least
40% to the least developed regions which were redefined in a stricter sense 1/,
and (iii) the remainder of its resources to the residual semi-developed areas,
as defined under the Bank loan. TSKB's performance to December 1978 against
these criteria, analyzed in Annex 8, indicates that it has substantially met
the targets set for 1977 and 1978. Of its total loan and equity approvals
during 1977 and 1978, 39% were for investments in the least developed
regions and a further 38% in the semi-developed regions. Investment appro-
vals in the most developed provinces amounted to 22% of total approvals.
Assistance to New and Widely-Owned Enterprises
4.06      Within its targets for regional allocation of funds, TSKB has,
particularly since 1975, given higher priority to financing projects of
new enterprises and those sponsored by widely-owned enterprises. Of the
183 projects approved in 1976 and 1977, 111 were first-time borrowers from
TSKB. Total loans approved for such borrowers amounted to TL 2.5 billion,
i.e. 60% of its total loans approved in 1976/77. Annex 9 shows the owner-
ship distribution of projects financed by TSKB in 1975-1978. In spite of
TSKB's efforts, financing of enterprises broadly owned by the public and
1/   The 1974 SPO definition of LDRs, adopted for the purpose of Loan 1078,
included all of Eastern Anatolia except two provinces, 13 of the 23
Central Anatolia provinces and 7 provinces in Western Anatolia. The
definition of LDR was changed under Loan 1430, to include all of Eastern
and Central Anatolia except for 3 provinces, the category of semi-
developed regions was introduced, to encompass Western Anatolia's less
developed provinces; 8 provinces were considered most developed, of
which 5 in Western Anatolia and 3 in Central Anatolia. This amended
repartition of Turkey's territory was subsequently adopted also by SPO.



- 17 -
small savers had stabilized at about: TL 1.0 billion per year until 1977,
and declined slightly to TL 0.8 billion in 1978, despite the increase in
the overall volume of TSKB's operations. This category includes projects
promoted by Turkish immigrant workers and by groups of local entrepreneurs
particularly in the less developed regions.
ERR and Employment
4.07       Annex 10 summarizes the data on projects for which TSKB calculated
ERR.  Out of 63 projects in 1975 and 1976, 29 had ERR of 20% or more.  In
1977/1978 53 out of 93 projects had ERRs of more than 20% and only 5 projects
had ERRs of between 10 and 15%.
4.08       Employment generated by projects supported by TSKB over 1975-1977
is analyzed in Annex 11.  TSKB finamcing of projects over this period has
induced a total investment of TL 24.0 billion (i.e., approximately 15% of
total investment in the manufacturing sector) which created about 39,000
jobs, i.e., also about 15% of total additional employment in manufacturing
over 1975-78. Average investment per job grew from US$27,600 in 1975, to
$43,400 in 1976, then declined to $31,500 in 1978, with an overall average
of $34,100. This compares reasonably well with the best available estimate
of the national average of $33,500 for 1976-77, for the entire manufacturing
sector which includes also smaller projects than those financed by TSKB.
Projects in Central and Eastern Anatolia (which include the least developed
regions) appeared to be less capital-intensive than those in the relatively
more developed regions of Western Anatolia.
Small and Medium-Scale Labor-Intensive Projects (SMLI)
4.09       During 1973 to 1976 TSKB's local and foreign financing of SMLI
projects (defined as those with fixed assets of less than TL 35 million and
maximum investment per job of US$17,000) had averaged US$12 million for about
30 projects per year. Under the twelfth IBRD loan TSKB had agreed to continue
its assistance to such projects, and set up targets of US$30 million (includ-
ing US$15 million of Bank funds) and TL 500 million in local funds to be
allocated to SMLI projects in 1977 and 1978. Against these targets, TSKB's
approvals of SMLI projects in 1977 and 1978 amounted to US$36.0 million in
foreign currency, including $12.8 mLillion of Bank funds, and TL 404.3 mil-
lion in local resources for a total of 85 projects. Geographical location,
investment costs and job created by these projects are shown in Annex 12.
Thirty-two of the projects financed were in the least developed areas and a
further 20 in the semi-developed regions. New projects accounted for 70 of
the 85 projects assisted, and 15 were for expansion of existing facilities.
Fixed investment per project averaged TL 29.4 million of which about 47% was
financed by TSKB. Average investment per job in these projects amounted to
TL 281,400 (equivalent to US$11,000 at current exchange rate).
Project Promotion
4.10       TSKB has continued its project promotion activities.  Thus in 1977
and 1978 it identified 17 projects and took a lead role in promoting them



- 18 -
and finding suitable sponsors.  Fifteen of the projects were in the least
developed areas and 2 in the semi-developed regions as defined under the
twelfth IBRD loan. Total investment in these projects amounted to TL 1.4
billion. TSKB provided US$18.3 million in foreign currency loan, TL 121.0
million in TL loan and TL 52.1 million as equity participation in eight of
these projects. These projects generated 2,552 jobs with an average invest-
ment per job of TL 536,000 (see Annex 13).
4.11      To finance the local currency cost of TSKB's project promotion
activities a Project Promotion Fund was set up at the time of the tenth IBRD
loan (873-TU) under which one-quarter of TSKB's spread from the loan was
allocated for the Fund. The Fund is also being replenished through 1% of the
spread under the twelfth loan (1430-TU). Total allocation to the Fund from
these two sources amounted to TL 53.1 million as of December 1978 against
which TSKB had spent or committed TL 30.9 million, leaving a balance of TL
22.2 million.  Projections of the Fund's income and expenses are shown in
Annex 13(a). The Fund's income is expected to increase to about TL 30 million
yearly in 1980-81, then decline gradually. Expenses are projected to increase
to 13.2 million in 1979 and by 20% yearly in terms of 1979 prices thereafter.
This would leave a cumulative surplus of income over expenditures of between
TL 40-60 million until 1984. The Fund would start showing a deficit in 1986.
On these grounds, no new sources of income for the Fund are deemed necessary
for the time being.
4.12       In the framework of its project promotion activities, TSKB has also
undertaken to carry out detailed studies to explore the problems and develop-
ment potential of specific industrial subsectors.  $500,000 out of the pre-
vious Bank loan to TSKB had been allocated to finance the foreign exchange
cost of such studies, which are often carried out with the assistance of
foreign experts. The studies prepared by TSKB so far under this program have
greatly contributed to upgrade the quality of TSKB's promotion and appraisal
work. Funds previously allocated for this purpose have been virtually fully
budgeted. TSKB's research department has now begun work on six subsector
studies, relating to shoe manufacturing, furniture making, copper and aluminum
processing, electrical and electronic equipment, chemicals, and packaging
materials. A seventh study is planned to analyze the cost/price structure of
the Turkish manufacturing industry. All seven studies concern topics of high
priority in the context of Turkey's industrial development strategy, and of
TSKB's possible contribution to it. TSKB requested the Bank to help it
finance the foreign exchange cost of completing these studies, which is
estimated at $230,000, of which only $30,000 can be budgeted against the
balance of earlier allocations of Bank funds to finance studies and project
promotion. Agreement was reached during negotiations to allocate $200,000 out
of the proceeds of the proposed loan, to replenish TSKB's research department
budget for the purpose of financing the above studies. As in the past, TSKB
will inform the Bank of the detailed use it intends to make of these funds.
Export Oriented Projects
4.13      Although the promotion of export oriented industries, is highlighted
as one of TSKB's objectives in the Policy Statement, no specific target were



- 19 -
set for this purpose in recent years, during which the emphasis of TSKB's
lending was toward promoting new entrepreneurship, regional development and
SMLI. The export orientation of TSKB's financed project was not specifically
monitored; the only data available on this aspect of TSKB's operations relate
to approvals of loans in foreign exchange in the period 1977-1978 (Annex 14).
They indicate that projects in which more than 10% of total production was to
be exported (as projected in TSKB's appraisal reports) represented between 8
and 12% of total approvals of foreign exchange loans, without there being a
clear pattern of regional distribution among such projects. These data,
however, are not representative of the export potential of projects which can
be financed by TSKB, because many potentially export-oriented projects
have been turned down by TSKB due to their failing to meet TSKB's regional
or ownership criteria.
CHAPTER V
TSKB'S FINANCIAL SITUATION AND PROSPECTS
Financial Performance and Position
5.01      TSKB's audited income statements and balance sheets for 1975-77 and
the unaudited statements for 1978 are shown in Annexes 15 and 16.
5.02      Profitability.  TSKB's overall profitability (as measured by earn-
ings before taxes), fluctuated betwe!en 25% and 30% of its average net worth
between 1975-1977. This is high in nominal terms, but barely adequate in real
terms considering recent inflation rates. The effect of the increase in
TSKB's lending rate from 12% to 14% in September 1974 was partly offset by a
steady increase in TSKB's borrowing costs, which increased from 8.7% of its
average long-term debt in 1975 to 9.5% by 1977, and to 11.9% in 1978. The
significant increase in TSKB's earnings for 1978 reflect the April 1, 1978
Government-decreed increase in its lending rate, to 16% effective, which was
also applicable, retroactively, to all TSKB's outstanding loans, regardless of
their original contractual interest rate. 1/ TSKB's spread on the several of
its borrowings, including the eleventh and twelfth IBRD loans (which account
for TL 2,634 million, or 23% of TSKB's outstanding obligation as of December
1978) is fixed at 2.5%, the difference in excess of this percentage between
the financial charges on these loans and the yield to TSKB being refundable by
TSKB to the Government. 47.5% of TSKB's resources as of end-1978 were not
affected by such arrangements. As a result, the overall spread between cost
and yield of these resources widened by 2 percentage points with the 1978
increase in lending rates. This was only partly offset by TSKB's decision to
increase, from 18% to 21%, also retroactively, the interest it pays on all
outstanding TL bonds, which accounted for 6% of its overall resources as of
December 1978. As a consequence and in spite of growing borrowing costs,
1/   TSKB's loan contracts contain a clause which links the interest rate
payable to TSKB to the officia:L rate for long term loans set by the
Government.



- 20 -
earnings before taxes for 1978 increased to TL 326.0 million compared to TL
178 million for 1977. TSKB increased its dividends on its ordinary shares to
18% since 1976, which is in line with prevailing practices in Turkey, though
the larger commercial banks pay around 20% on their shares. In view of the
higher profits TSKB intends to increase its dividend rate for 1978 to 25% in
addition to distributing stock dividends at the rate of 1:2 with the forth-
coming capital increase (para 5.05).  TSKB's pay-out ratio is currently 50%.
5.03       Financial Position.  TSKB's total assets increased by 31% and 26.5%
in 1976 and 1977 respectively reaching TL 8.4 billion by the end of 1977. The
substantial further increase of 58% to TL 13.3 billion by the end of 1978
reflects, in part, the 25% devaluation of Turkish Lira in March 1978. The
increase in TSKB's total long-term debt followed a similar pattern increasing
from TL 4.3 billion in 1975 to TL 7.2 billion by 1977 followed by a signif-
icant increase to TL 11.6 billion in 1978 incorporating the effect of the
restatement of TSKB foreign debt following the devaluation. The loans from
the Bank Group increasing from TL 2.2 billion (US$145.2 million) in 1975 to
TL 6.6 billion (US$260.3 million) in December 1978, constituted between 51%
and 57% of its outstanding long-term debt over this period. The increase in
TSKB's equity between 1975 and 1977 was in line with the growth of its opera-
tions and its debt/equity ratio remained within the limits agreed with the
Bank and IFC until the end of 1977.
5.04       Debt/Equity Ratio.  TSKB's debt/equity limitation, as defined under
the existing twelfth loan (1430-TU) is specified at 8.5:1. Because of the
devaluation in March and the consequent sudden increase in its foreign debt
in terms of Turkish Lira, TSKB's ratio under the definition had reached 9.4
by December 1978.
5.05       By the Board Resolution of September 1, 1978, TSKB is to increase
its capital by TL 1.1 bilion, of which TL 862 million will be paid in as addi-
tional share-capital and TL 213 million as conversion of existing reserves
into share capital. The shareholders approved the increase at the Annual
Meeting in March 1978. The additional fresh capital of TL 862 million will
be paid-in four equal tranches, two of which in 1979 and one each in 1980
and 1981. IFC is also considering an exercise of its rights (such rights
cannot be sold in Turkey) and subsequently selling off part of its holdings.
TSKB and the Government are discussing the terms of the Government Decree
which is required when a Turkish company with non-Turkish shareholders in-
creases its capital. TSKB's shareholders proposed a 12-24 month pay-in
period for the new equity given the large size of the increase, but the
Government wishes at least all foreign investors to pay the full amount with-
in 3 to 6 months of subscription.  A solution to this issue is expected to be
attained shortly.
5.06       Although TSKB exceeded the existing limitation this should be
corrected shortly, when the capital increase is subscribed, and the first
quarter of the increase is paid in.
5.07       Under the existing IBRD definition of debt/equity, that portion of
the subordinated loan from the Government which matures after the last repay-
ment date under the Bank loans is treated as TSKB's quasi-equity and excluded



- 21 -
from its debt (See Annex 17).  The determination of the equity portion of
the Government loan under this definition is often difficult since the date
of the last repayment due to the Bank changes which each amendment of the
amortization schedules of Bank loans, which are, in turn affected by TSKB's
disbursement of each sub-loan. 1/ TSKB's debt/equity ratio is also limited
under the existing IFC Loan Agreements. The definitions of deb, and equity
under IFC Agreement also treates a portion of subordinated debt as TSKB's
equity and includes in its debt, all outstanding loan commitments to its
clients. As of December 31, 1978, the ratio so calculated was 10.7:1, thus
slightly exceeding the allowable limit, which is set at 10.5:1.
5.08       In order to simplify the definition and the moni'toring of the debt/
equity ratio loan agreements, TSKB asked IBRD's concurrence (i) to define
TSKB's debt as comprising all of its outstanding long-term debt (whether
subordinated or not); (ii) to define TSKB's equity to consist of only share-
holders equity funds (i.e. share-capital, paid-in surpluses, legal and other
reserves) but excluding the Government's subordinated loans, and (iii) to
increase the limitation under the revised definition to 10:1. Agreement to
this effect was reached during negotiations. Because of the shift from equity
to debt of the Government subordinated loan (which ranks pari-passu with
equity), the proposed higher limitation is not expected to allow TSKB to
incur, on balance, a substantially higher long-term indebtedness than that
permitted under the current limitations of 8.5:1. The slight relaxation of
the limit (equivalent to about 0.5 times the equity) which' TSKB requested in
view of the likely effects of possi'ble devaluations on its foreign exchange
debts, is justified in light of TSKB's comfortable interest coverage ratio,
which is projected to remain at about 1.4:1 through 1982 (Annex 21). The
total debt service coverage ratio (taking into account loan collections and
principal repayments, after tax adjustments), is projected to remain at about
1.2:1 over the same period (Annex 21).
Quality of Loan and Equity Investments
5.09      Loan Arrears.  Annex 18 shows an analysis of TSKB arrears since
1974. The arrear situation has worsened particularly since 1976. Arrears of
more than 3 months have increased from 2.1% of loan portfolio in 1976 (affect-
ing 12.9% of loans outstanding) to 5.1% (affecting 31.6% of outstanding loans)
by December 1978. While arrears of principal (in excess of 3 months) doubled
from 0.8% to 1.6% of loans outstanding those of interest increased more
rapidly from 1.3% in 1976 to 3.5% by December 1978, indicating preponderence
of projects under construction in TSKB's current arrears. About 50% of
the arrears of over 3 months were attributable to loans outstanding in the
least-developed regions, (which constitute about 25% of TSKB's current loan
portfolio). Arrears by broadly-owned or "workers" companies accounted for
1/   For the purposes of determining the ratio, TL 242 miLlion of the loan
is assumed as equity portion; this is the amount maturing after the last
repayment date of the twelfth Bank loan under the current estimate of
the amortization schedule.



- 22 -
26 of the 40 borrowers with arrears in excess of TL 1.0 million in June 1978.
Lack of adequate management and inability to mobilize resources to finance
cost overruns due to inflation and devaluation are the major causes of the
financial difficulties of these projects. A detail analysis of major cases
of arrears however indicate that most of these projects are conceptually
sound and that once the managerial and financial problems of these projects
are resolved, the projects can operate profitably. TSKB's loans are adequately
secured. Provisions against losses on loans were increased from TL 102.4
million (1.4% of outstanding loans) at end-1977, to TL 217.4 million (1.9% of
outstanding loans) at end-1978. They are amply sufficient to cover possible
losses.
5.10      Given TSKB's policy to encourage projects in the less developed
regions and those sponsored by new, broadly-owned enterprises, TSKB should
continue to monitor closely not only its projects with outstanding arrears but
also those in the implementation and start-up phases. The tighter follow-up
procedures introduced by TSKB in late 1978 (para 3.13) respond to this require-
ment, and have begun to bear fruit, with portfolio affected by arrears having
declined to 21% of total outstanding loans as of end-March, 1979. Payments
received since then, and new reschedulings already approved by the Board of
TSKB would reduce this percentage to 14% as of May, 1979. The planned
strengthening of TSKB's branch network is also expected to contribute to the
improvement of the arrears situation. An understanding was reached, during
negotiations that TSKB will report quarterly to the Bank on all its loans in
arrears by over 3 months and over TL 1.0 million, until the portion of port-
folio affected by arrears is reduced to less than 10% of total. This objec-
tive is expected to be attained in the course of 1980.
5.11      Equity Investments.  In spite of TSKB's emphasis on operations in
less developed regions and assistance to new enterprises, quality of its
equity portfolio has continued a steady improvement. Its total investments
of TL 617.4 million in 75 companies as of September 30, 1978, was made up as
follows: TL 264.4 million (42.8%) in 36 projects under construction, TL
235.3 million (38.1%) in 25 companies operating profitably, TL 114.4 million
(18.5% in companies operating at loss and TL 3.2 million (0.5%) in two com-
panies in liquidation (see Annex 19). Dividend income of TL 45.3 million
in 1977 represented a return of 18.3% on TSKB's average investment in compa-
nies in operation and 11% on its total average investments. This is accept-
able considering that a large portion of its investments which is held in
projects in implementation, and particularly in projects which required
injections of fresh equity funds to make up for cost overruns. Potential
losses are adequately covered by provisions of TL 45.8 million, i.e. 7.0% of
total equity investments at December 1978.
Projections of Operations and Financial Situation
5.12      Operations.  TSKB's expected level of approvals, commitments and
disbursements for the years 1979-1982 are shown in Annex 20. Based on
expectations of foreign resources (paras 5.17) TSKB expects to approve
foreign loans of US$322.0 million (TL 8.2 billion) over 1979 and 1980 and a



- 23 -
further US$425.0 million (TL 10.8 billion) in 1981 and 1982. Local currency
loan approvals should amount to TL 600 million in 1979 and increase there-
after at about 20% each year reaching TL 1.0 billion by 1982. Though they
represent a considerable increase in activities over the past two years,
these projections are considered reailistic in spite of the sluggish invest-
ment climate now prevailing in Turkey, for the following reasons: the main
constraints to TSKB's past operations have been its shortage of resources and
its strict adherence to very selective project eligibility criteria. The
resource picture has now improved somewhat (paras 5.17-5.24) and TSKB is now
prepared to promote export-oriented projects which would otherwise have been
turned down due to their location in the most developed regions and their
failure to meet TSKB's ownership criteria. Furthermore, given the current
difficulties of Turkey's internationval financial situation, TSKB has now a
virtual monopoly of foreign exchange resources for private industrial invest-
ment. This explains the huge pent-up demand for TSKB's investment credit.
As at end-April 1979, the foreign exchange requirements of projects already
approved by TSKB and awaiting allocation of resources amounted to $132 mil-
lion; in addition, the foreign exchange requirements of projects under
study by TSKB at the same date amounted to $139 million. These data lend
credibility to the above projections, which imply that, at least over the
next two years, TSKB will be financing a larger share of a reduced total
investment demand in Turkey. These levels of approvals should result in
commitments of foreign loans of $289 million in 1979/80 and $354 million
in 1981/82.
5.13       Projected Income Statements and Balance Sheets for the years 1979
to 1982 are shown in Annexes 21 and 22.
5.14       Profitability.  TSKB's profitability in the immediate future will
be favorably affected by the increase in the base interest rate from 16%
to 20% effective May 1, 1979, coupled with a new provision granting interest
subsidies to banks financing priority projects (paras 2.05 and 2.06). The
impact on profits of the recent interest rate increases is expected to
decline gradually and earnings before tax as percentage of average net worth
should decrease from 46.8% in 1978 to 44% in 1979 and to about 34% by 1981/
1982. This translates to net profit (after tax) of about 24% of average net
worth and between 34 and 39% of year-end share capital, which is considered
satisfactory. TSKB intends to distribute dividends at the rate of 21% per
value of shares between 1979 and 1982. To do so, the pay-out ratio will need
to be increased slightly but is expected to remain within acceptable levels
of less than 60% of profits until 1982. Administrative expenses are likely
to remain below the present level of 1.8% of average total assets.
5.15       Balance Sheet.  On the basis of current level of operation for
1979-1982, TSKB's total assets are expected to more than double from TL 12.7
billion in September 1978 to TL 27.5' billion by 1982. The mobilization
of expected resources would also double its long-term debt reaching TL 21.4
billion by 1982. With the expected increase in share capital and retained
earnings TSKB's equity should increase from TL 1.1 billion in September 1978
to TL 2.6 billion by 1982. With the expected increase in share-capital,
the debt/equity ratio should remain within the proposed limit of 10:1 (para
5.08).



- 24 -
Resource Position
5.16      TSKB's resource position as of December 31, 1978 is summarized in
Annex 24. It shows that IBRD loans account for 52% of outstanding foreign
exchange borrowings of TSKB and 42% of total borrowed and owned resources.
If undisbursed funds are added, World Bank loans accounted for 46% of foreign
exchange and 39% of total resources.  Official loans from international finan-
cial institutions (including IFC's syndications) accounted for another 34%
of total resources, including undisbursed commitments. Other foreign exchange
resources, including the recently obtained suppliers' credits from France,
Norway and Finland accounted for 13% of TSKB's total resources. Domestic
currency resources, accounting for the remaining 14% of total resources,
included: equity funds of TL 0.9 billion (6%); bond issues outstanding for
TL 680.4 million; the 1966 long-term subordinated Government loan, two lira
loans from AID and EIB respectively, and Central Bank credit amounting to TL
239 million.
Foreign Exchange Resource Mobilization
5.17      The last IBRD loan to TSKB, made in 1977, was made with the expecta-
tion that, during its commitment period, TSKB would be able to diversify its
sources of foreign exchange financing. Specifically, it was then anticipated
that TSKB would mobilize $90 million in fresh resources from the international
capital market, including Middle East sources, over and above those resources
which were in sight at end-1976. The latter included a proposed IFC-syndicated
medium-term loan of $50 million; new loans from KfW for $25 million; a French
export line of credit of $10 million; and a $18 million loan of EIB.
5.18      The worsening of Turkey's balance of payment and overall inter-
national financial position in 1977 and 1978 constrained TSKB's efforts in
this respect. While the anticipated lines of credit from France and Germany
were signed on schedule, the IFC syndication and the expected EIB loan did
not materialize for reasons beyond TSKB's control. Resource mobilization
efforts in the Middle East were unsuccessful despite repeated visits in Kuwait
and Saudi Arabia by TSKB's management. TSKB was more successful in securing
suppliers credits following the conclusion of rescheduling agreements for
guaranteed debts between Turkey and a number of OECD countries. A second
French export credit line of FF 150 million (US$34 million) was obtained
in late 1978. A loan agreement for NKr 100 million ($19 million) was signed
in June, 1978 with Eksportifinans (Norway) and another of $10 million with
Finland's Export Credit Ltd. was signed in November 1978. In early 1979 the
US Eximbank concluded a first operation with TSKB, comprising $1 million
as a guarantee arrangement and $1 million as a credit line. Other export
credits agreements are expected to be concluded shortly with Belgium's Societe
Generale de Banque ($6-7 million), the Union de Banque Suisses ($10-12 mil-
lion) and possibly other European institutions. In addition, TSKB continues
to pursue, with IFC's support, the possibility of privately placing a medium
term Eurodollar loan of the order of $40 million with a number of interna-
tional banks as soon as Turkey's international position permits. Furthermore,
TSKB plans in the near future to begin tapping the resources of Arab financial



- 25 -
institutions and consortium banks. The Islamic Development Bank is negotiat-
ing with TSKB and the Government the! technical arrangements for a $5 to 6.5
million line of equity, which TSKB would administer on behalf of IDB by
investing in TSKB-financed projects. EIB is negotiating with TSKB a loan of
45 million Units of Account, probably to be subdivided into three one-year
tranches to cover the period until end-1981; and KfW is expected to make two
loans of about $10 million each before the end of 1980. Finally, TSKB renewed
its contacts in several Middle Eastern capital markets in April, and an under-
standing was reached on its specific plans to follow up these efforts during
the rest of 1979 and 1980. TSKB int:ends to: approach the Government imme-
diately and formally with a view to its making requests for loans to TSKB from
Middle Eastern bilateral aid institutions; once Turkish private sector borrow-
ing from the international capital markets becomes possible again, approach
the Arab consortium banks based in Europe for new financing; and approach the
Kuwaiti financial institutions with a view to their underwriting bonds issues
for TSKB in the Middle East in the first half of 1980.
5.19       TSKB's estimated resource position for the period 1979-1980 is
summarized below:
$ Million
Resource available at 1/1/79                                    121
New resources expected to be mobilized by end-1980
- Export credits                                              18
- IFC syndication                                             40
- EIB loan (in three yearly tranches)                         58
- KfW (two loans, in late 1979 and late 1980)                 20
- Arab sources                                                18
- Proposed 13th Bank loan to TSKB                             60
- Proposed Private Textiles loan of the Bank
(for 3 year commitment, beginning late 1979)             60
395
Projected commitments 1979-80                                   289
Resources available at 1/1/81                                   106
of which:  Balance of EIB loan                              30
Balance of Textiles loan                       25
Balance of KfW loan                            10
This projection of TSKB's resource position through end-1980 allows for a
reasonable balance of available resources to meet TSKB's projected commit-
ments for the period 1981-82, which are expected to amount to $354 million.



- 26 -
This is to a large extent predicated upon the success of the proposed private
placement to be sponsored by IFC, and on the outcome of TSKB's resource mobil-
ization efforts in the Middle East. The bulk of the resource balance at
January 1, 1981 is due to those portions of the EIB, KfW, and textiles lines
of credit which, although likely to be granted by TSKB in 1979-80, are in-
tended to be used only in 1981. The proposed $60 million loan of the Bank
is expected to be fully committed by end-1980. TSKB will need to use the
proceeds of the proposed loan not only to fill a resource gap in the next 18
months, but also to blend them with shorter term funds expected to be obtained
from the European and Arab market, and especially with tied medium-term sup-
pliers credit.  The latter generally require a 10-15% downpayment which must
be made available from other sources of foreign exchange before they can be
drawn down. In addition, from the maturity point-of-view, the blending of
medium-term funds with untied, longer term resources, such as the proceeds
of Bank loans, will be indispensible to render these resources suitable to
finance development projects to which TSKB gives priority.
Domestic Resource Mobilization
5.20      TSKB has always had difficulties in mobilizing sufficient domestic
resources on acceptable terms. In the tight Turkish capital market, local
currency requirements of industrial investments are largely met with equity
funds and commercial bank short and medium term credit. TSKB requires, as
a matter of policy, that investor's equity cover at least 45%, but more
generally 55%, of total project costs, and TSKB's financial support to any
given project rarely exceeds 1/3 of total cost. This proportion corresponds
to the average foreign exchange expenditure requirement determined, on an
overall basis, by all industrial projects in Turkey. Nevertheless TSKB needs
local currency resources mainly for two reasons: (i) to supplement commercial
bank credit, especially for the new projects sponsored by newly established
companies which, due to the inadequacy of their credit record, may have
difficulties in obtaining credit; and (ii) to use for equity participations
which are frequently essential to promote innovative projects, especially
those in the less developed regions and those sponsored by newly established,
widely-owned, and frequently under capitalized companies. To meet these
requirements, TSKB needs to disburse between 1/4 and 1/5 of its total outlays
in domestic currency.
5.21      TSKB is not authorized to hold deposits, and only in late 1978,
following the Bank's prodding, did it become possible for TSKB to resort,
on a significant scale, to discounting with the central bank notes which are
the counterpart of between 50 and 70% of eligible outstanding maturities
of 5 years or less. TSKB plans to use this facility (which allows a spread
of about 2 percentage points for TSKB) to the maximum extent possible in the
future; however, given the limitation on the proportion of outstanding loans
against which notes can be discounted, and on their maximum maturity, this
source of funds, which accounted for about 10% of TSKB's local currency
resources as at December 1978, is projected to reach about TL 490 million
as of end-1980 and about TL 1.0 billion at end 1982, i.e., between 15% and



-- 27 -
20% of total outstanding local currency resources. TSKB's main sources of
fresh local currency resources over the next several years are expected to
be capital increases (para. 5.05) bond issues and, as a newly introduced
alternative to the latter, borrowings from commercial banks. Bonds and
commercial bank loans are projected to account for 24-27% of TSKB's total
local currency resources until 1982, with new borrowings cf this type of
funds being projected to amount to TL 550 million in 1979-80 (para 5.24) and
to TL 760 million in the subsequent two years.
5.22      TSKB until May 1, 1979 suffered from 6 percentage points negative
spread on its bond issues. Since February 1978 it has to pay a 21% coupon
(increased retroactively from the previous rate of 18%) on all outstanding
bonds, including those sold up to 7 year earlier at lower rates; TSKB onlends
the proceeds of bond-loans at its normal interest rate 1/ in spite of having
been recently authorized to levy a higher, negotiable interest rate on loans
made out of the proceeds of bonds. TSKB has not, so far, availed itself of
this privilege, and has preferred to absorb this loss on its onlending of bond
loans, largely in order to contain the otherwise steep average cost of finan-
cing for its borrowers, particularly those sponsoring new projects in the
less developed regions.  TSKB's borrowers pay now interest: and taxes in excess
of 26% (compared to 21% before the May, 1979 increase) on TSKB's hard currency
loans, on which they bear the full Eoreign exchange risk. In spite of the
negative spread borne by TSKB, the net yield of TSKB's bonds to their holders
(less than 16% p.a. after the transaction tax) has become increasingly uncompe-
titive compared to blocked time deposits with commercial banks, and with bonds
offered by other issuers, including the Government. Government bonds, which
yield 18% (up from 14% since May, 1979) interest net of taxes, are redeemable
at par on demand; similarly most othner privately issued bonds, which carry a
coupon equal to that offered by TSKB, include various forms of early redemp-
tion features, while TSKB's 7 year bonds are redeemed by lots over a four year
period following three years of grace.  Partly as a result of these market
developments, and partly because of the negative effects of rumors on the
provisions of a new tax bill which would further hit dividend and interest
income, TSKB has faced considerable difficulties in placing two bond issues
in 1977 and 1978, of TL 150 million and TL 110 million, respectively. It
could not fully comply with the understanding it had reached with the Bank
during the TSKB XII negotiations, according to which it wals to sell at least
TL 325 million worth of bonds in those two years. The vast majority of TSKB
1/   Until May 1, 1979 the normal interest rate was 16% p.a., out of which
1% was paid by TSKB to the Government as a contribution to the interest
subsidy fund. As a result, the yield to TSKB of its loans was 15%. The
interest rate was increased to 20% on May 1, 1979; the fee due to the
Government was increased to 2%, but interest subsidies of up to 3%
were introduced in favor of banks lending to priority projects, so
that the current net yield of TSKB's loans is around 20% p.a.



- 28 -
bond holders are institutional investors, such as foundations, insurance
companies and pension funds, as private savers prefer holding their financial
assets in high-yielding bank deposits, and banks, in turn, are not interested
in buying long term bonds, the return on which, after the transaction tax, is
considerably lower than that on medium term loans.
5.23      While the May, 1979 general increase of the interest rate structure
has all but eliminated the negative spread on TSKB's outstanding bonds and
has brought to a positive level the average overall spread on TSKB's local
currency operations, the increased competitiveness of higher yielding bank
deposits and government bonds has rendered new bond issues impossible at the
current rate of 21% p.a.; the bond rate is expected to be aligned shortly
to that of term deposits, thus reopening the market to bond issues. This,
however, would reinstate the problem of TSKB's negative spread on its TL
operations in general, and particularly on the onlending of the proceeds
of bond loans, a problem which was singled out by the 1977 OED project per-
formance audit of the 9th and 10th Bank loans to TSKB 1/ as one which con-
strains TSKB's ability to adequately mobilize local currency resources and
jeopardizes its long-term viability. The negative spread which is expected
to arise from the forthcoming increase in bond rates will be probably narrower
than before, thanks to the interest rebates to which TSKB is now eligible for
certain of its loans (paras 2.05 and 2.06). Nevertheless, TSKB has begun, in
1979, to resort to 5-year term borrowings from its shareholding commercial
banks, which it can obtain at a somewhat lower cost than the expected bond
rate, in order to supplement the proceeds of bond issues. TSKB obtained TL
275 millions in 5-year loans in this manner in early 1979. It intends to
continue tapping this source of TL funds in the near future. Finally, TSKB
expects to increase the degree to which it helps borrowers secure cofinancing
arrangements from commercial banks for some of its projects.
5.24      In light of the above considerations, and taking into account the
projected amount of Central Bank discounts to TSKB, it appears unlikely that
scarcity of local currency funds among TSKB's resources would cause any sub-
stantive distortion in the foreseeable future in the mix of local and foreign
currency financing available for TSKB-sponsored projects provided that TSKB's
local currency resource mobilization plans materialize. An understanding was
reached during negotiations, that TSKB would mobilize in 1979 and 1980, at
least TL 550 million either through bond issues or through commercial bank
loans of at least 5-year maturity.
5.25      To overcome the problem of the negative interest spread on TSKB's
local currency operations which will inevitably present itself again as soon
as a new rate is set by the Government on bond issues, an agreement was
reached during negotiations to the effect that TSKB would annually review with
the Bank its interest rates on local currency loans, and adjust them to the
Bank's satisfaction, so as to ensure that the spread between the average yield
of its local currency loans made in a given year, and the average cost of its
local currency resources borrowed in the same year, be at least marginally
positive. TSKB can obtain this objective in two ways: (i) it can increase
1/   Report No. 1454 of February 11, 1977.



- 29 -
its base interest rates on part of its loans, to the extent that the loans
made at a rate higher than the official one do not exceed the amount of bonds
outstanding; and (ii) it can charge a commission of up to 2% on the promissory
notes of its borrowers which it will hold as collateral, similarly to what is
already practiced by commercial banks. Both these devices to increase TSKB's
earnings on TL operations can be applied selectively, essentially to borrowers
who obtain financing for the expansion of existing enterprises, and can
therefore count on a steady cash-flow to face higher financial charges.
VI. THE PROJECT
General
6.01       The proposed project consists of (a) a line of credit to TSKB,
of $59.3 million to help finance imported equipment needed for the implementa-
tion of eligible industrial subprojects; and (b) a component of $700,000 to
finance technical assistance to TSKB mainly in the area of export promotion
(paras. 4.12 and 6.06 - 6.09). The! maturity of subloans will be commensurate
to the economic life of the equipment financed, and to the subborrower's
debt-servicing capacity. The final amortization schedule of the loan would
be determined after the loan has been fully disbursed, so as to reflect the
aggregate amortization schedules of individual subloans.  It should not exceed
15 years. The portion of the loan to finance technical assistance will be
repaid in 7 years, including 3 years of grace. TSKB will charge on subloans
the interest rate set by the Turkish monetary authorities for long-term
foreign exchange loans (currently 20% p.a. plus tax). The foreign exchange
risk will be borne entirely by the subborrowers. As in the case of the two
previous Bank loans to TSKB, TSKB will retain as income 2.5% of the interest
payment on subloans; the difference in excess of 2.5% between the interest
charged by TSKB and the interest due to the Bank will be paid by TSKB to the
Government, as a guarantee fee. The "free limit" below which no prior Bank
approval will be required for individual subprojects would be set at $4
million. This is higher than the $3 million "free limit" agreed under the
previous Bank loan to TSKB; TSKB, however, would also submit to the Bank, for
follow-up purposes, a random sample! of its export oriented subprojects (para.
6.05) consisting of one out of five of such subprojects. The final date for
project submission will be December 31, 1980, and the closing date will be
December 31, 1982.
Objectives
6.02       The objectives of the proposed project are essentially three:  (i)
to help TSKB bridge its financing gap until end-1980, in a period when the
critical international financial situation of Turkey constrains TSKB's capac-
ity to mobilize alternative sources of long-term foreign exchange financing
and risks jeopardizing its ability to continue carrying out its programs of
industrial development financing in Turkey's private sector; (ii) to make it
possible for TSKB to contribute to the development of Turkish industry's



- 30 -
export capacity, by giving priority to the financing of export oriented
projects with demonstrated export potential; and (iii) to help TSKB continue
to work toward the achievement of those priority objectives which it set for
itself, in agreement with the Government and the Bank, since 1974, namely the
development of the most backward regions of Turkey, the promotion of newly
established, broadly owned industrial enterprises, and the fostering of small
and medium scale labor intensive projects.
A. Meeting TSKB's Financial Gap
6.03      As explained in para. 5.18, TSKB's failure to live up to the expecta-
tion that it would no longer have to rely on the Bank's support to meet its
financial requirements were due to reasons beyond its control. The institu-
tion is, in itself, a creditworthy borrower. The results of its most recent
resource mobilization efforts in the face of extremely adverse circumstances
have been impressive; there is little doubt that, had the country's balance of
payments crisis not erupted in 1977, the resource mobilization goals envisaged
when the last Bank loan was negotiated probably would have been met. After
the ongoing financial difficulties are settled through the conclusion of
rescheduling agreements with the major holders of Turkey's outstanding debt,
TSKB should be able to secure a larger proportion of its foreign exchange
financing requirements from market sources. The size of the proposed Bank
loan, of $60 million, is geared to fill TSKB's financial gap until the end
of 1980. During this period TSKB will continue to have every incentive to
identify and firm up alternative sources of financing, to ensure that its
future financial requirements will continue to be met beyond 1980. Even
thereafter, however, TSKB will continue to need long-term resources of the
type provided by the Bank and other international aid agencies (such as EIB,
KfW, etc.) in order to blend them with the shorter-term funds, it will borrow
in the international market, so as to meet the financial requirements of the
development projects to which TSKB gives priority.
B. Promoting Export-Oriented Projects
6.04      The expansion of the export capacity of Turkey's manufacturing
industry is necessary for Turkey to re-establish an equilibrium in its balance
of payments. TSKB is virtually the sole source of long-term foreign exchange
financing in Turkey for private enterprises which are not sufficiently large
and well established to obtain direct foreign credit; it is therefore in a
unique position to help the private sector contribute to this goal, by provid-
ing the foreign exchange resources needed to purchase imported equipment for
export-oriented investments. However, in view of TSKB current resource
constraints, it would not be able to do so in a significant manner without
curtailing its financing activities toward its other, equally important,
development objectives (Section C of this Chapter). The proposed project
aims at providing TSKB with necessary funds to finance, on a priority basis



- 31 -
projects whose expected output has a high export potential.  In view of TSKB's
practice to blend funds of various sources depending on the specific financing
requirements (in terms of maturity, and of ties to imports from specified
countries of origin) the project funds will not be specifically reserved for
export-oriented projects. However, TSKB has agreed, during negotiations,
to earmark for export-oriented projects, an amount of $115 million out of
its overall foreign exchange resources for the period 1979-1980. 1/ This
figure is based on an analysis of lSKB's pipeline of projects under study,
and TSKB believes that it can achieve it.
6.05      Definition of Export-Oriented Projects.  During negotiations, it
was agreed that (a) projects consisting of the expansion of modernization of
an existing enterprise will be considered export-oriented if at least 40% of
the project's incremental output will be exported by the time the project is
projected to reach full capacity; and (b) new projects will be considered
export-oriented if at least 30% of their output will be exported by the time
they reach full capacity.  Minimum export performance targets will be speci-
fied in the loan contracts between TSKB and the sponsors of export-oriented
projects. An understanding was reached during negotiations that at least
70% of TSKB's financing of export-oriented projects in 1979 and 1980 will
go to project meeting a minimum export target of 40% of incremental output.
The export potential of export-oriented projects will have to be thoroughly
discussed in TSKB's appraisal reports, which should demonstrate that the
expected production will be price--and quality--competitive in foreign markets
and that local demand for it is satisfied, or will be when the project comes
on stream. The following understandings were also reached during negotiations:
(i) The bona-fide export-orientation of TSKB's projects will be
demonstrated, as relevant to each project, on the basis of:
past export performance; the existence of effective marketing
channels abroad, or the steps that the project sponsor can
demonstrate he has taken in order to secure an export market;
purchase orders obtained from foreign importers of the goods
to be produced; and a market study, to be prepared by the
sponsor with TSKB's assistance (possibly against: a fee), the
depth of which will be coimmensurate with the size of the project.
(ii) TSKB shall satisfy itself that the sponsors of export-oriented
projects have obtained, or have taken the necessary steps to
1/   TSKB's efforts in promoting export-oriented projects in the manufacturing
sector will be in parallel with those TSKB will devote to developing the
textiles sector, with the proceeds of the proposed Private Textile Project
of the Bank. Many of the textile subprojects under that loan are likely to
be also export-oriented. However, they will not be counted toward TSKB's
meeting the above-mentioned cormmitment to export-oriented projects.



- 32 -
obtain, all government incentives available for projects with
minimum export targets consistent with those specified in the
loan contract with TSKB.
(iii)  TSKB shall closely monitor the export performance of projects
financed on grounds of their export-orientation; and shall
submit semi-annual reports to the Bank, indicating the degree
to which export targets are being met, and the measures taken
by TSKB to assist the borrowers.
(iv)  TSKB shall also calculate the domestic value added of goods to
be exported from each export-oriented project in relation to the
total value of the project's exports, and the project's foreign
exchange investment costs, with a view to assessing the effective-
ness of the contribution of such projects to Turkey's balance
of payments.
6.06       Training Requirements of the Appraisal Staff and Studies to Identify
Promising Industrial Exports.  TSKB's management recognizes that its staff's
expertise in appraising the export prospects of projects, and in offering
assistance to investors in this respect, is too limited. It plans to correct
this weakness by launching a comprehensive training program on the export
aspects of projects for the technical and economic staff. This program will
comprise the following components:
(i) hiring of an internationally recognized expert in the promotion of
exports, who would work with TSKB's staff for a period of 2 years,
mainly for the purpose of providing on-the-job training;
(ii)  organizing seminars and training courses in Istanbul, by inviting
foreign experts to lecture;
(iii)  sending selected members of the staff on trips abroad, to prepare
market studies for export-oriented projects, assist clients in
securing outlets in export markets, and participate in negotiations
of export contracts by TSKB's clients with their foreign customers.
In doing so TSKB's staff should cooperate with foreign and interna-
tional export promotion organizations, so as to gain exposure to
their activities and methodology; and
(iv)  hiring ad-hoc consultants to help TSKB's staff in the preparation
of export market studies and in devising ways to improve the export
potential of projects.
The organization of this training program may be done under the aegis of the
Geneva-based International Trade Center (ITC), or by other organizations with
experience in export promotion. The estimated foreign exchange cost of this
training program which would be financed under the proposed loan, amounts to
$200,000.



- 33 -
6.07      In the framework of TSKB's increasingly active involvement in
export promotion, TSKB has agreed with SPO to undertake the main responsibil-
ity of carrying out an in-depth study of the Turkish industry's export poten-
tial. The results of the study could form the basis for the preparation of a
new Bank project to finance exporting industries in the near future. The main
purpose of the study would be to identify, among a restricted list of sub-
sectors with good export potential,l/ those with the highest chances of
success in developing export outlets in the EEC and the Middle East. TSKB
plans to examine the demand side through an elaborate program to develop a
matrix of specific commodities and markets which have good potential. For the
supply side, teams of TSKB economists, financial analysts and engineers will
visit plants producing items now exported, exportable, or new to examine
export potential from the viewpoint of capacity, quality and price competi-
tiveness. TSKB will also look at the official and other effective incentives
for export used by other countries. The study will, among other things,
review the appropriateness of the effective net cost of long-term loans in
foreign exchange to finance export-oriented projects in Turkey, with a view
to determine whether, and to what extent, this affects the competiveness of
Turkish exports in the international market.
6.08      The study will be carried out by TSKB with the assistance of con-
sultants. The services of ITC's export marketing experts may be enlisted by
TSKB, which has already established contacts with ITC toward firming up a
technical assistance agreement. TSKB may also, in parallel, draw on other
public and private agencies for technical assistance. Financing of the study
would be on a cost-sharing basis between UNDP (which would finance ITC's'
assistance) and TSKB. The estimated foreign exchange portion of TSKB's share
of the cost of the study, to be finianced under the proposed loan, is $300,000.
6.09      Both the cost of the program to train TSKB's staff in appraising
export projects (para 6.06), and TSKB's portion of the foreign exchange cost
of the export study, would be financed under the proposed loan. An amount of
up to $500,000 of the loan proceeds would be available to TSKB for these
purposes. Their disbursement against expenditures incurred to finance the
training program and the study should be conditional upon the Bank's prior
approval of (a) technical assistance agreements between TSKB and one or more
organizations (such as ITC) experienced in export promotion (b) the curriculum
vitae and terms of reference of individual consultants to be hired and (c)
detailed outline and terms of reference for the study on export potentials.
It was agreed during negotiations that these funds, as well as the amount of
$200,000 to be allocated out of the proceeds of the loan for financing the
foreign exchange cost of the seven sector studies discussed in para 4.12,
should be repaid by TSKB in 4 years, after a 3 year grace period. Should
l/   Sectors being considered for the study are:  food processing (certain
items), textiles and clothing, glass, ceramics, mineral products,
consumer durable, castings, chemicals based on domestic raw materials,
and machinery parts (ancillary industries).



- 34 -
actual expenditures incurred by TSKB toward these pruposes prove less than the
anticipated $700,000, or should it be possible for TSKB to secure cheaper,
alternative sources of financing for the proposed training program and studies,
TSKB will be authorized to reallocate these funds to the financing of sub-
projects.
6.10      Expected Performance.  TSKB modest results in fostering export-
oriented projects in 1977 and 1978 (Annex 14) are largely due to TSKB's
existing project selection criteria as regards regional distribution of proj-
ects and the requirements that companies financed by TSKB must be broadly-
owned, without preferential privilege for a restricted class of shareholders,
and preferably newly established. Many projects with good export potential
are expansions of well established firms, often owned by few individuals, and
mostly located in the most developed Western regions; thus they fail to meet
TSKB's eligibility criteria. Out of 30 projects turned down for the above
reasons in the Western Anatolia regions alone during the first three quarters
of 1978, seven applications, for a total of about $22 million in foreign
exchange, had good export potential. Recognizing that the development of
Turkey's exports deserves high priority, TSKB now agrees to waive for export-
oriented project, the requirement that TSKB-financed projects should be
widely owned, should not be sponsored by well-established firms, and should
fit within the regional distribution of TSKB's overall financing. TSKB
is also prepared to make the commitment to actively promote, on a priority
basis, projects with good export potential. As of April 30, 1979 TSKB had
in its project pipeline, 19 loan applications to finance export-oriented
projects, 15 of which, requiring $50 million in foreign exchange financing,
for expansion projects, and the other 4 for new projects requiring $20 million
in foreign exchange. Under these conditions the target of $115 million in
foreign exchange to be allocated to export-oriented projects in 1979 and
1980 is realistic.
6.11      Based on a review of the pipeline of projects currently under
appraisal by TSKB, it is expected that between 75% and 85% of export-oriented
projects will be located in the most developed regions. Their sectoral distri-
bution is likely to show a predominance of textiles projects (mostly to be
financed under the Private Textiles proposed loan), food processing projects,
glass production projects, mining products processing projects, and metal
processing and electro-mechanical industry projects.
C. Maintenance of TSKB's Other Development Objectives
6.12      TSKB is rightly concerned that the new emphasis on export-oriented
projects should not be to the detriment of its other development objectives.
One of the aims of the proposed project is precisely to permit TSKB to under-
take the additional goal of promoting exports while at the same time main-
taining the momentum of its drive toward promoting the less developed regions
and small and medium scale labor intensive projects (SMLI).



-- 35 -
6.13      TSKB's targets under the previous Bank loan consisted of allocating
at least 40% of TSKB's overal financing to projects in the least developed
regions, no more than 25% to projects in the most developed regions, and the
difference in the semi-developed regions. These proportions will be altered
somewhat in favor of the most developed regions under the proposed loan, in
order to make it possible for TSKB to give impulse to export-oriented proj-
ects. TSKB, however, would continue to set for itself realistic targets as
regards the allocation of part of its resources to the financing of SMLI and
of projects in the least and semi-developed regions.
6.14       To avoid the excessive cumlbersomness in monitoring the allocation
of resources which would derive fromt the different targets partly expressed
in percentage and partly in absolute terms, it was agreed during negotiations
that TSKB would monitor its resource allocation based exclusively on targets
set in absolute amounts of foreign exchange financing. The agreed target for
the least developed regions for the two-year period 1979-1980 is $90 million,
which represents a significant increase in real terms over TSKB's performance
in the preceding two years ($70 million). In the same period, TSKB will
reserve at least $50 milion of its foreign exchange resources for projects
in the semi-developed regions. The target for SMLI will be $35 million in
foreign exchange and TL 500 million in local currency, which compares well
with the targets agreed for 1977-78 ($30 million and TL 500 million) and with
TSKB's actual performance ($36 million and TL 405 million). These targets
have been established on the basis of TSKB's assessment of the sector's
absorptive capacity for investment in these types of projects.
6.15      As indicated under para 5.12, for 1979-1980, TSKB projects its
total approvals of loans in foreign exchange to amount to $322 million,
of which between $30 and $40 million will be for textiles projects to be
financed under the proposed Private Textile loan of the Bank. The following
table shows the distribution of TSKB's approvals by regions and types of
projects, which is expected to result from the implementation of the above
targets. In constructing this table, account has been taken of the following
considerations: (a) TSKB's equity investments and local currency loans have
been historically more concentrated in the less developed regions, where new
projects and newly established enterprises prevail, than elsewhere (in 1978,
the less developed regions accounted for only 35% of foreign exchange loans,
but for 40% of TSKB's overall financing); and (b) a large proportion of
export-oriented projects are likely to be expansions of well established
enterprises, thus needing little local currency financing. The distribution
of foreign exchange and local currency financing for SMLI in the different
regions has been assumed to remain similar to the 1977-78 pattern.



- 36 -
TSKB - Distribution of Project Approvals 1979-1980
Percent
of Total
Foreign       Local                 Non-Textile
Exchange      Currency    Total       Approvals
(US$ millions)                        %
Total approvals,                     322             87          409
of which:
projects likely
to be financed under
textile sector loan                 35              8           43
Total non-textiles approvals    287                79          366
- Most developed regions,            147             20          167         46%
of which:
export-oriented                    (95)           (10)        (105)
SMLI                               (15)            (5)        ( 20)
- Semi-developed regions              50             19           69         19%
of which:
export-oriented                    (10)            (3)         (13)
SMLI                               (lO)            (5)         (15)
- Less developed regions              90             40          130         36%
of which:
export-oriented                    (10)            (5)         (15)
SMLI                               (10)           (10)         (20)
Total export-oriented                115             18          133         36%
Total SMLI                             35            20           55          15%
6.16       Definition of SMLI.  It was agreed during negotiations to restate
the definition of SMLI enterprises and projects in terms of constant Turkish
liras of mid-1979, updating it to take into account the international and
domestic price escalation of capital goods. As a result, SMLI projects will
be defined as those sponsored by enterprises with fixed assets (before the
project) of less than TL 110 million excluding land and implying an investment
in fixed assets of less than TL 110 million at an investment cost per job
created of less than TL 815,000. 1/ These parameters will be updated quarterly
1/   This definition under TSKB XII was expressed in terms of 1975 dollars.
The fixed asset limit was $2.3 million and the cost per job limit was
$17,000. These values remain virtually unchanged, in real terms,
under the new definition agreed during negotiations.



- 37 -
on the basis of the general wholesale price index published by the Turkish
Government, which reflects fairly the price escalation of capital goods in
Turkey.
6.17      Definition of Most Developed Regions, Semi-Developed Regions,
and Less Developed Regions. The following two mutually offsetting changes
in the regional definitions have been agreed upon during negotiations:
(i)  the province of Ankara, excluding the Municipality of
Ankara, should move from "most developed" to "least
developed";
(ii) the Municipality of Iskenderun, but not the rest of the
province of Hatay, should move from "least developed" to
"most developed".
As a result, the most developed regions (MDR) would include the provinces
of Istanbul, Kocaeli, Sakarya, Bursa, Izmir, Icel, Adana and the municipali-
ties of Ankara and Iskenderun; the semi-developed regions would include the
remainder of Western Anatolia; and the least developed regions would include
the remainder of Central and Eastern Anatolia. These changes in the regional
definitions in line with those adopted in 1978 by the State Planning Organi-
zation, to reflect more accurately the geographic distribution of industrial
activities in Turkey.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED
7.01      During negotiations, the following agreements were reached with TSKB:
(a)  Redefinition of the debt/'equity ratio, and setting of its
limit at 10:1 (para 5.08)1.
(b)  TSKB's financial charges on local currency loans to be
reviewed annually and adjusted so as to ensure a positive
spread on TSKB's local currency operations (para 5.25).
(c)  The free limit to be increased to $4 million (para 6.01).
(d)  An amount of $700,000 to be allocated out of the proceeds
of the loan for the financing of (i) specific sector studies;
(ii) a training program for TSKB's staff on the appraisal
of the export aspects of projects and (iii) an in-depth
study of the export potential of Turkish industry (paras
4.12 and 6.09).
(e) TSKB to allocate, out of its total foreign exchange
lending in 1979 and 1980, at least:



- 38 -
(i)  $115 million to export oriented projects (para 6.04)
defined as per para 6.05;
(ii) $90 million to projects in the least developed regions
(para 6.14) defined as per para 6.17;
(iii) $50 million to the semi-developed regions (para 6.14)
defined as per para 6.17;
(iv) $35 million to small and medium scale industries (SMLI)
(para 6.14) defined as per para 6.16.
(f)  TSKB to further allocate TL 500 million of its local currency
financing in 1979-1980 to SMLI (para 6.14);
(g)  TSKB to continue to calculate the ERR for projects
exceeding an investment cost of $2 million (para 3.11).
7.02      Furthermore, the following understandings were reached with TSKB
during negotiations:
(a)  TSKB to strengthen its supevision and follow-up proce-
dures, including the preparation of a plan to restructure
its branch network (para 5.10).
(b)  TSKB to report quarterly to the Bank on arrears, until less
than 10% of loans outstanding are affected by arrears
(para 5.10).
(c)  TSKB to follow a certain methodology to demonstrate the
export orientation of projects; to report semi-annually
to the Bank on the degree to which export targets are
met (para 6.05); and to submit to the Bank detailed
appraisal reports of one out of five of its export-
oriented projects, to be selected by the Bank (para
6.01).
(d)  TSKB to mobilize bonds or medium-term loans from com-
mercial banks in an amount of at least TL 550 million
in 1979-1980 (para 5.24).
(e)  TSKB to follow-up on the mobilization of long-term
foreign exchange financing from Arab sources (para 5.18).
(f)  At least 70% of TSKB's export-oriented projects in 1979-80
to export more than 40% of their output at full capacity
(para 6.05).



Annex 1
- 38 lots -
TURKtYE SINAI KAIKINMA BANKASI A.V.
List of Shareholders as of December 1978
Amount Subsoribed      Peroentage
Name and Nationality                            L (000)                of Total
5 urkish
Vtirkiye t BankasB A. g.                      93.888.4              22.0
T!rkiye ig Bankas3 A. g. Pension Amd           10.502.8               2.5
Osmanl3 lankasi A. S.                          33.820.1               8.0
Milli Reasurans T. A. g.                       23.284.3               5.5
Anadolu Anonim Tiurk Sigorta gti.              20.307.3               4.8
Istanbul Ticaret Odasi                         18.787.5               4.4
Tirkiye Garanti Bankaai A. @.                  17.090.7               4.0
Istanbul Ticaret Borsasi                       17.010.4               4.0
Tiirk Ticaret Bankasi A. 1. 5.425.9                                   3.6
Yapi ve Kredi Bankasi A. .                     16.510.5               3.9
Istanbul Sanayi Odasi                          10.479.7               2.5
Akbank T.A.g.                                  10.450.6               2.5
Dogan Sigorta A. g.                             8.575                 2.0
Shareholders with less than 2%                 98.347.5              23.0
Total Turkish Shareholders                  390.480.7              2&.7
Foreign
Banco di Roma (Italy)                           3.464.1               0.8
Fidelity International Bank (USA)               1.785.0               0.4
LVUnion des Assurances de Paris (Franoe)          315.a               0.1
Total Foreign Shareholders                   5o564.4
International Organizations
International Finance Corporation              25.379.9               6.0
Total Shareholders                         425.425.0             100.0



- 39 -                            'Annex 2
TURKIYE SINAI KALKlNMA BANKASI A.S.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Name              Age       Director Since             Business Experience
Chairman:
Cahit Kacaomer          55      December 1976          General Manager of Turkiye
Is Bankasi A.S.
Vice Chairman:
Resad Akean            66       March 1958             Member of the Board and
former General Manager of
Osmanli Bankasi A.S.; fonrer
Assistant Generil Manager of
the Central Bank of Turkey.
Others:
Nurullah Gezgin         51      March 1978             Chairman of the Board of the
Istanbul Chamber of Industry.
Memduh Gupgupoglu       57      March 1978             Deputy Chairman of Yapi ve.
Kredi Bankasi A.S.          I
Former Governor of the Central
Bank of Republic of Turkey.
Burhan Karagoz         49       March 1978             Assistant General Manager
of Turkiye Is Bankasi A.S.
Ilyas Seckin           60       March 1978             Former Public Accountant in
the Ministry of Finance,
Lawyer, Former Minister of
Public Works and Minister of
Interior.
Emir Sencer             69      February 1966          Member of the Board of
Akbank T.A.S.; Chairman of
the Council of the Istanbul
Chamber of Commerce; former
Assistant General Manager of
the Central Bank of Turkey.
Tur8ut Sizmazoglu       54      March 1978             General Manager of Turk
Ticaret Bankasi A.S.
Former Auditor of TSKB.
Ozhan Eroguz            49      March 1978             General Manager of TSKB.
Forner Public Accountant
in the Ministry of Finance
and former Assistant
General Manager of TSKB.



TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S.
ORGANIZATION CHART
|GENERAL MANAGER|
| Ozhan EROGUZ 
ASISTANT GENERAL MANAGER                      |     SSISTANT GENERAL MANAGER               ASSISTANT GENERAL MANAGER
Metin TOKPINAR                                      Aparslan ALAGOZ                          Ibrahim ONGUT
P:38 NP:33                                          P:29 NP:46                               P:64  NP:7
SECRETARY'S                           LOAN AND INVESTMENT DEPART-                        LOAN AND INVESTMENT DEPART-              LOAN AND INVESTMENT DEPART-
DEPARTMENT:                          MENT (Western Anatolia):                            MENT (Central Anatolia):                 MENT (Easter n Anatolia):
Dani UNSAL,       Sec. Gen'l
Namik AYARCI    Asst. Sec.            Zekai UNLU     Manager                             Turgut ALBAYRAK    Manager               Atif CAMLIBEL       Manager
Gen'l           Tamer ERGIN    Asst. Mgr.                          Memduh COSKUNER  Asst. Mgr.               Metin CAGLER        Asst. Mgr.
Lahut TI REGUL Asst. Sec.            Ulkil KISMIR    Asst. Mgr.                          Aydin KESLER         Asst. Mgr.          Ergun SONMEZ       Asst. Mgr.
Gen'l            Ali TULGAN     Asst. Mgr.                          Hayati OZKAN         Asst. Mgr.           Erol UYEPAZARCI  Asst. Mgr.
P- 81  NP"   4                                       P: 10  NP: 5                             P: 8  NP: 3
COMPTROLLER'S DEPARTMENT:               RESEARCH DEPARTMENT:
ADVISER TO THE GENERAL                   RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
MANAGEMENT:                              DEPARTMENT                                         |     A    Haser                       Tolgay CAVUSOGLU  Manager
I                                           Ru~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Hsen AKUNGA ComUIterolle  Okem CINAR     Asst. Mgr.
Esref OZDAG                              Ahmet DEMIREL Manager                                                  Auditor            Korkmaz I LKORUR   Asst. Mgr.
P: 1                  NP: 1                    P: 1  NP: 1                                          P: 9  NP: 16                    Ermukan SENGEZER  Asst. Mgr.
I                                        P: 9  NP: 16~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~: 3NP 
General Management    4                 TREASURER'S  EPARTMENTPLANNING DEPARTMENT:                                                   PROJECTS AND ENGINEERING
Professional        142                 YiImzTS            raue                               LNIGDPRMN:DEPARTMENT:
Non-Professional    104                 Gunhan OZCICEK   Asst. Trea.                         Ertugrul IBRAHIMOGLU                    Mehmet GURPINAR    Manager
General Services     60                 Ozbek SENOL        Asst. T rea.                                          Manager             MheGUSMANA AR           t Manger
310                 Hikmet VERIM      Asst. Trea.                              P: 4  NP: 9                             P 31M N    1
P: 16  NP: 26                    .                                  .                         .        .
LEGAL DEPARTMENT:                               COORDINATOR - PROJECT FLOW:
Sermet GUR       Manager                         Belkis BURAK
P: 2  NP: 2                                       P: 7  NP: 15
October 19, 1978
World Bank -20197



Annex 4
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S.
Summary of Operations -- 1974-1978
(TL Millions)
1974            1975             1976            1977             1978
APPROVALS (Net of Cancellations)
Loans:  Foreign Currency                             838.3         1,315.9          1,442.3         1,875.4            2064.9
Local Currency                               50.4           253.7            357.7            358.5            331.0
2395.9
888.7         1,569.6          1,800.0         2,233.9
Equity Investments                                    55.6           183.5            353.7           183.5             337.4
Guarantee of Bond Issues                              65.0            20.0             15.0             30.0             -
1,009.3         1,773.1          2,168.7         2,447.4            2733.3
COMMITMENTS
Loans:  Foreign Currency                             434.6         1,095.5            841.2         1,391.0            1433.5
Local Currency                               57.8           132.5            283.9            371.0             346.8
492.4         1,228.0          1,125.1         1,762.0           1,780.3
Equity Investments                                    55.6           114.1            210.4            131.0            213.5
Guarantee of Bond Issues                              65.0            20.0             15.0             30.0               -
613.0         1,362.1          1,350.5         1,923.0           1,993.8
DISBURSEMENTS
Loans:  Foreign Currency                             563.7           928.7            874.9         1,015.5           1,591.9
Local Currency                               95.4            71.5            320.0            341.3             278.6
659.1         1,000.2          1,194.9         1,356.8           1,870.5
Equity Investments                                    56.1            76.9            147.3            127.3             197.2
715.2            7            1,342.2          1,484.12067.7
Number of Loans Approved                              75              98               80              103                88
Number of Equity Investments Committed                14              21               29               27                26
Number of Bond Issues Guaranteed                       4               1                1                3                 _



Annex 5
T S K B
GROSS APPROVALS OF LOANS BY SIZE 1975-1978
(TL Millions)
1975                       1976                       1977                    1978
No. of                    No. of                     No. of                     No. of
Loans   Amount    Z       Loans   Amount    %        Loans   Amount    Z        Loans   Amount    X
Size Distribution
Under TL 500,000                -         3.1    0.2        1        1.5    0.1       _         4.2    0.2        -       3.5    0.1
500,001 -  1,000,000                    5.3    0.3        _        2.8    0.1         1       5.9    0.2        1      11.8    0.5
1,000,001 -  2,000,000            1       11.4    0.7        2        4.0    0.2        1        8.2    0.3        -      9.1    0.3
2,000,001 -  3,000,000            3       14.1    0.9        2       8.0    0.4         3        8.1    0.3        1     18.4    0.7
3,000,001 -  5,000,000           12      54.9    3.4        10      38.4    1.9        11       44.8    1.9        4     29.6    1.1
5,000,001 - 10,000,000           38     298.2   18.7        31     253.6   12.7        28      221.3    9.1      21    219.8    8.5
10,000,001 = 20,000,000           24      322.4   20.2       20     270.5   13.6        41      583.8   24.0      28    439.2   16.9
20,000,001 - 30,000,000           16      395.6   24.8        7     171.4    8.6        10      237.9    9.8      17    398.0   15.3
Over 30,000,000                   10      492.5   30.8       20   1,243.0   62.4        21   1,318.0   54.2        24  1,473.3   56.6
104   1,597.5  100.0        93   1,993.2  100.0       116   2,432.2  100.0       96  2,602.7  100.0
Average Size                           15.4                      21.4                        21.0                     27.1



T S K B                                                Annex 6
LOAN COMMITMENTS -1/BY INDUSTRY -- 1975 - 1978
1975                      1976                       1977                       1978
(TL Million)   x Age      (TL Million)   % Age       (TL Million)   % Age       (TL Million)   % Age
Food                              152.0        12.8          233.7       20.8          182.1        10.6          151.1         8.5
Beverages                           3.4         0.3            -          -             15.6         0.9            0.3         -
Textiles                          162.8       13.7          210.0        18.7          151.5         8.9          375.8        21.1
Forestry Products                  19.6         1.7           79.1        7.0          369.0        21.6          102.9         5.8
Pulp and Paper                     51.3         4.3          46.9         4.2           18.9         1.1          101.4         5-7
Skins, Hides and Footwear          22.2         1.9          12.3         1.1           36.2         2.1            3.0         0.2
Rubber Manufacturers               15.5         1.3            -          -             11.2         0.6           19.1         1.1
Plastics                           20.3         1.7           13.8        1.2            8.2         0.5            0.9         0.1
Chemicals                          88.9         7.5          10.0         0.9           24.8         1.4             -           -
Fertilizers                         -           -           110.6         9.9            -           -               -           -
Ceramics                           25.9         2.2           55.3        4.9            -           -               1.3        0.1
Class                               -           -              9.3        0.8            -           -               -           -
Cement                            145.2        12.2           73.5        6.5           13.7         0.8            5.2         0.3
Non-Metallic Mineral
manufacturer                     72.5         6.1           63.8        5.7          137.2         8.0          248.3        13.9
Iron and Steel                     11.1        0.9            -           -            111.0         6.5           48.7         2.7
Metal other than iron               -           -              -          -             22.5         1.3           89.3          5.0
Metal Products                    185.9        15.6           17.0        1.5           40.7         2.4            73.6         4.1
Machinery                          33.5         2.8           31.6        2.8          198.3         11.6         358.8        20.1
Agriculture Machinery              14.6         1.2           24.1        2.2           48.9          2.9           -           _
Electrical Machinery              138.5        11.6           84.4        7.5           55.4          3.2         170.4         9.6
Electronics                        11.5         1.0            4.8        0.4          126.4          7.4           -           0.5
Motor Vehicles                      -           -              -          -               8.0          0.5           9.2         _
Industrial Services                            - -           11.5         1.0           67.7          4.0           0.1         _
Other Industries                   14.6         1.2            6.7        0.6            -            -            19.9          1.1
Mining and Processing               -           -             25.6         2.3          63.2           3.7           1.0         0.1
1,16i.3      IUU.U        1,i24.u       luu.u        1,71u.5        lOU.0       1,780.3       100.0
1/ Excluding cancellation and changes due to exchange rate fluctuation.



Annex 7
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S.
Sectoral Distribution of Outstanding Loans and Equity Investments at December 31, 1977
Loans                  Equity Investments                      Total
No.       Amount             No.        Amount             No.        Amount          %ag
(TL Million)                 (TL Million)                  (TL Million)
Food                                  88         899.5             11           39.7             99         939.2          12.4
Beverages                              6         109.0              1          25.0               7         134.0           1.8
Textiles                              75       1,491.6              4           17.9             79       1,509.5          19.9
Forestry products                     19         526.7              3           10.7             22         537.4           7.1
Pulp and paper                        11         205.7              4          19.0              15         224.7           3.0
Printing                               1           1.2              -             -               1           1.2            -
Skins, hides and footwear              8          79.3              2          17.7              10          97.0           1.3
Rubber manufacturers                   2          27.5             -             -                2          27.5           0.4
Plastics                              13          84.2               2           2.0             15          86.2           1.1
Chemicals                             30         567.9              5           62.8             35         630.7           8.3
Fertilizers                            1         146.8               1           2.0              2         148.8           2.0
Petroleum products                     1           1.8             -             -                1            1.8          0.2
Ceramics                               8         164.8              2           8.5              10         173.3           2.3
Glass                                  9          76.2               1           9.0             10          85.2           1.1
Cement                                 6         384.3             -             -                6         384.3           5.1
Non-metallic minerals                 35         348.1               5          17.2             40         365.3           4.8
Iron and steel                        15         102.5               2          50.7             17         153.2.          2.0
Metals other than iron                10         143.8               4          51.0             14         194.8           2.5
Metal products                        44         491.0               5          52.3             49         543.3           7.1
Machinery                             33         355.7               6          18.5             39.        374.2           4.9
Agricultural machinery                 6          71.5               1           1.6              7           73.1          0.9
Electrical machinery                  20         446.5               5          38.3             25         484.8           6.4
Electronics                            3          92.7              1            2.0              4          94.7           1.2
Motor vehicles                         2          13.5             -             -                 2          13.5          0.2
Industrial Services                    9          62.3              1            1.1             10          63.4           0.8
Other industries                       8          53.0               2          18.8             10          71.8           0.9
Mining and processing                 11          90.3               2           7.0             13           97.3          1.3
Financial and other services           2          73.7             -             -                2           73.7          1.0
476      7,111.1              70         472.8             546       7,583.9         100.0



TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S.
GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF TSKB'S LOAN AND EQUITY APPROVALS
1975 - 1978
(TL Millions)
1975                            1976                             1977                             1978
No.     Amount    7tage         No.      Amount     7      Lage  No.      Amount     %age         No.      Amount    'Yage
Eight Most Developed Provinces: 1/
Loans                                     33      393.1                    20      337.6                   37       533.8                   23       544.3
Equity Investments                        -        -                       10      112.8                    4        18.3                   10       128.7
33      393.1      22.1          30      450.4      19.2         41       552.1      21.1         3S       673.       2..9
Semi-Developed Regions: 1/
Loans                                     25      600.3                    23      769.6                    32      983.9                   31       972.5
Equtiy Investments                        -        -                        5       55.5                    10       76.5                   10        96.0
25      600.3      33.7          28      825.1      35.2         42    1.060.4       40.6         41    1,068.5      16.3
Least-Developed Regions; 1/
Loans                                     46      604.1                    50      e8s.9                   47       914.4                   42    1,085.9           t
Equity Investments                        -         -                      13      135.3                    12       64.7                   17       112.7
46      604.1      33.9          63    1,021.2      43.5          59      979.1      37.4         59    1,198.6       40.8
Unclassified (Equity)                       21      183.5 2/  10.3            1       50.0       2.1           1       24.0       0.9                   - 
TOTAL
Loans                          104    1,597.5                    93    1,993.1                   116    2,432.1                    96    2,602.7
Equity                          21       183.5                   29       353.6                   27       183.5                   37       337.4      -
125    1,781.0    100.0           -     2346.7    100.0          143    26615.6    100.0          133    2,&*.1    100.0
1/ The regional classification is the one adopted by TSKB in 1977;
Eight most developed provinces:  the four provinces of Istanbul, Sakarya, Kocaeli, and Bursa in North-West Anatolia,
Izmir in South-West Anatolia and Ankara, Adana, and Icel in Central Anatolia.
Semi-developed regions.:  Residual provinces of North-West and South-West Anatolia.
Less-developed regions: Residual provinces of Central Anatolia and all of Eastern Anatolia.
2/  Break-down of TSKB's approvals of equity-investments in 1975 by above regional classification is not oa,iiable.



TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S.
DISTRIBUTION OF SHARE CAPITAL OF PROJECTS FINANCED BY TSKB
1975                      1976                       1977                         1978                     TOTAL
(TL Millions)   %         (TL Millions)   %          (TL Millions)   %            (TL Millions)   %         (TL Millions)   %
Shares held by:
Banks                                 282        11             373        12              331         8                150        4            1,136        9
State Enterprises                    119          5             323        11              155         4                 87        3              684        5
Well-established firms
and families                       997        38            1,279        43            2,384        60             2,543        71           7,203        55
General Public and
Small Savers                     1,193        46            1,031        34           1,092         28                793       22           4,109        31
TOTAL Capital                         2,591       100           3,006       100            3,962       100              3,573      100           13,132      100



Annex 10
T S K B
ECONOMIC RATES OF RETURN OF PROJECTS
1975         1976         1977              1978            Totals
Projects will:
ERR of 10 - 15%                           8            2                 3
17                                                       )   74
15 - 20%       )                   9           15                20
20 - 30%            11             3           13                19               46
Over 30%             6             9            9                12               36
34           29           39                54              156



T S K B
EMPLOYMENT GENERATION OF PROJECTS ElhANCEI BY TSKB
--------------------       151975196------------                  -       - ___  No.-                               ---------------------1977 ---------------------          ---------------------1978----_________________
No. of                                                    No. of                                                    No. of                                                   No. of
Total Investment   Jobs        Investrent Per Job  1/  Total Inve-stmet   Jonb           Invest-ent Per Job  1/  Total 1nvestosest   Jonb    Investment Per Job j/ Total Invetmcent   Job                    I
(TL Millions)                 (TL 00(i)  (Us$000)         (TL Millions)                 (T0005 (Us$000)             (TIMiIons)000) (Us$TL 000)  (US$00)  (TL Mlli00) (TL 000)  (USSGOO)
Northwest & Southwest
Anatoli  2/                 2,668           5,352      498.5        34.0               2,598          3,001       865.7       53.9               4,169           6,344      657.2       36.5                3,854        4,409       874.1        36.0
Central & Eastern
Anatolia  3/                 1,49            5,717      305.9       21.2                2.428          4.214      576.2        35.9               3.522           5.406      651.5       36.2               3,052         4.624       660.0       07.2
All Turkey                      4,417         11,069      399.0        27.6               5,026           7,215      696.6       43.4               7.691          11.750      654.5        36.4              6.906         9.033       764.5        31.5
1/  converted at  average enchange rates of:  1975 - $1 = TL 14.44
1976 - $1 - TL 16.05
1977 - $1  . TL 18.00
1978 - S1 = TL 24.28
2/  Covers five of the eight -iost developed provinces and a11 of the nssi-developed regions as defined under TORN XII.
3/ All of the least developed areas and including three of the n.ost developed provinces.



- 49 -                                            Annex  12
T0jy  sUAt KALZUU  IUKMI A.                                                Page 1 of 2
Small and MNdiM  eIals Labt_  Iaftiv. PFro$s  (Mr) Finied by TMi
(1977)
TSKB Finaanoin                                     Averse Inv.
Project Name/Activity          Fixed Investment    Porei6n    IJO.L    No. of Job   Now or  a       Zie      per Job
(TL Millione)    ($ OOOis TL KillNicm)                                   (IL OD'O)
1977
SiKbt Xo t DeveloDpd Regions
xrbae (Veneer Sheets)                     7.686             214        _           20              1
GUYenp (leather)                          9.235             418         -          32               Y
~anin lak. (Maohine manufaoturing)       11.501              -        6.000        66              1
TaYean (Coil spring)                     17.741             589       1.000        45               N
TarLm Alet (Agri. impl.)                 40.020           1.000       2.000       123               N
.ecar Mak. (Xaobine Manufaotlring)       50-953           1.406       4.000       136               N
Beltan (Oil Seals)                       13.568             196       6.000       163               3
glmas Mak. (NMohine Manufacturing)       18.095              91       6.000       144               X
Narita (Fruit Prooessing)                 7.072             140         -          27               1
istas (Marble Processing)                24.785             677       6.000        63              N
Topeya (Bricks)                          12.730              -        8.000        32              N
Pinar Ddkiin (Iron Cashing)              33.726             749         -         122               N
KIahan Tugla (Brioks)                    19.255              73       9.000        66               N
Bek-pek (Marble Processing)               8.660             237       1.500        57              N
Kardee gelik (Steel casting)             38.002             760      12.000       165              N
Treysan (Trailers)                       19.334              -        8.000        61              N
Tarmaksaan (Agri. Imp.)                  16.521             171       9.000        50               N
!maye sanayi (aiamel processing)         29.770             516      10.000       211              N
Bh lvar Giim (Clothing)                  11.714             147       4.000       177              N
CS -  aek. (Elect. App.)                 50.646             130       5.          180              N
Sub-Total                        441.014           7.514      97.500     1.940                             271
See 1-Devel oced Regions
Tekin Mak. (Maohine XMnufacturing)         8.560             168       2.500        40              N
Anamak  (tachine lanufacturing)           26.085             695         -          88             N
Natosan (minerals)                        38.502             595         -          91             11
Alfa Moda (Clothing)                      16.172             311       4.000       149             N
Tekirda6 Agag (Chair processing)          30.220             610         -          88             B
Pulouoglu (Underwear)                      8.140             179       4.000        28              E
Karspinar (Bricks)                        12.105              -        7.000        60              I
Ilbir Elek. (ELeo. Generator)             41.670           1.250       8.000       129             N
Suyakql (Marble Prooeseing)               31.340             598         -         258              N
Bart COyi (Clothing)                      45-043             835         -         228             N-
Ay-Man (Shoo Xanufacturing)               38.5               70          -           2 
Sub-total                                296.341           5.991      25.500    1.2912
Less Developed
Agema (Machine manufacturing)             36.975             742      12.250       :39             N
Seyrani Un. (Flour Mill)                  18.857              93      10.000        82             N
Reklam Is (Packing Mat.)                  29.079             804       5.500        87             N
Tarsae (Agr. Impl.)                        28.123            276      10.000        88             N
Supar (lEhgine Valves)                    28.400             615      10.000       198             N
Tugsan (Bricks)                           19.689              71       9.500        86             N
Kavak Tasmloglu (Bricks)                  19.689              68       9.500        86             N
Onel Fermuar (Zipper)                      26.838            750         -          83             N
Barit Madan (Mineral Processing)          15.398             284         -          63             N
Qa4il Mak. (Machine Manufacturing)        10.650             250       6.500        25             N
El! Gtiney Oto  (Rubber Auto Comp.)        56.369            725         -         155             N
Karinca (Bricks and Tiles)                 4.761              -        3.000        24             N
Irean (Meet. Products)                    18.213              -       12.500       100             N
genesizler (Brioks)                       11.044              -        7.000        32             1
Kar$elikta  (Steel Casting)                30-310            541       8.000       152             N
Vasan (Bread)                              17.368             340      3.500        66             1
Rize EXaye (Enamel Processing)             38.660            558      10.000       159             N
Tuean (Aggregate Preparation)              18.546             -       10.000        47             N
Rize 'Jn (Flour Mill)                      29.580            105      14.500        74             N
Batman (Agrio. Impl.)                      Ji!8              265      10.000        88             N
Sub Total                             494'034            6.487    151.750     1.834                            269.4
Total for 1977                       1.231.389          19.992     274.750     5.065
J  Inoludes equity participation



- 50 -                                              Annex 12
TOtRKI SINIAI KAKINKA BANSI A1..                             Page 2 of 2
Small and Medium Scale Labor Inteiivii Projeoate (SKLI) finmoed by TM
(1978)
TSKB Finuioing
Fixed Investment   oreim   Looal    No. of Jobs Now or exomios             per lob
Projeot Name/Activity                    (TL Nillion)    ($ 000 s)(?L Million)                                    (n OO.e)
1978
light most developed rejciona
Saray8rme (Knittedaear)                       52.505         874      5.000          377            N
Protekean (Shipbuilding)                      17.396         360         -           46             N
Osdemir Qelik (Steel casting)                 51.860         600         -           124            N
Ma.ean (Shook absorber)                       51.279         864         -           131            x
Kalipan (Dye casting)                         27.044         350         -            57            N
Asmas (Machine manufaoturing)                 65.343         695         -           255            1
GUney gelik (Automobile parts)                39.480         460      7.000         134             N
Makine ve Tedek PFr. ()achine manufaoturing) 61.526          920         -           240            N
lek Elektrik (Eleotrioal applianoes)         44.066          658         _           88             3
Me-S- (Pr_-Fab.Bousing)                       51.692       1.022         -            93            N
5ukurova DikSlim (Iron and Steel)            63.550          680      7.500         221             N
getin Mobilya (Foreatry produots)            49.091          455         -          1-51            N
Binde bir tekmtil (Machinery)                 15875        _7-                        s54           1
590.707       8.312     19.500       1.971                             299.7
Soi-Develoed Redons
Es-lb Makine (Xaohine manufaoturing)          59.690         914      7.000         151             N
KCytaq (agri. Impl)                           37.645         387     10.000         112             N
Standart Profil(Automative Weather Soale)    42.756          625         -           81             1
Ehtil EBd. (Iron Casting)                    23.373          540         _           53             F
Dogany Mar. (Maohine Manufacturing)           28.230         273         -           70             N
Bintay (Cement tiles  (roof))                 35.907         165      8.ooo          88            N
Kadem Kirtaaiye (Stationery)                  21.355         491         -           56             N
Mostaq (Furniture Manufacturing)              32.950         485         _          163             N
Metalurji lhdastrisi (Metal produots)         25.171         310         -            65            N
Sub-total                                    307077          190     2s                                            366.0
Less Developed
Oniks Ittl. (Marble Processing)                39-754        370         -           70             N
Genma (Compremsors)                            52.842        825         -           93             N
Fatoglu (Flour Mill)                           34.380        119     10.000          61             N
Van Qivi (Naila)                               13.240         -       8.000          47             N
,ermik Un (Flour Mill)                         25.240        116     13.500          74            N
Agq (Forestry Products)                        36.120        305     15.000         271            N
Petrol Un (Flour Mill)                         17.080         74      4.500          60             N
Sakir gizmeci (Nail)                          14.109          -       8.000           39            N
Seyfettin Karakog (Door knobs, Hinges)         20.850         -      12.000          80             N
Zintaq (Metal producta)                        28.159        574      4.000          53            N
Meroan Marmer (Mining)                         43.859        700      5.000           77            N
Celik Hasir (Metal products)                  44.206         blo      5.000          79             N
Sub-Total                                   369.839      3.693     85.000       1.004                            368.4
Total for 1978                    1.267.623      16.195    129.500       3.814                            32.4
Grand total                       2.499.012      36.187    404.250       8.879                            281.4



TURKTYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S.
Projects Identified and Promoted in 1977 and 1978
---------------TSKB Financing---------------
Total           Foreign                             Equity            No. of          CoSt
Region 1/        Investment       Exchange           TL Loan       Participation    Jobs Created        Per Job
(TL Million)    ($ Million)      (TL Million)       (TL Million)                       (TL oes)
1977
Aykim (Aluminum Profiles)                     II                  86.5             1.6             10.0               4.7                132
Isbir (Electric Generators                    II                  67.3             1.3              -                 8.0                129
Agema (Machinery)                            III                  49.2             1.0              6.0               6.3                139
Tarmas (Agri. Equipment)                     III                  39.7             0.3             10.0               _                   88
Termesan (Aluminum Profiles)                 III                  84.5             1.2              8.0               6.3                132
Rize Emaye (Enamel Ware)                     III                  48.3             0.7             10.0               _                  159
Eryun (Woolen Cloth)                         III                 105.7             2.2              -                 4.8                 64
Batman Tarim Araclari (Agri. Equipment)   III                     49.2             0.3            10.0                _                   88
Total 1977                                            530.4             8.6             54.0              30.1                931           569.7
1978
Yontas (Particle Board)                      III                 245.4             5.2              -                                    133
Caliskur (Maize Flour)                       III                  59.6             0.5            10.0                -                   48
Baliksan (Fish Cannery)                      III                 124.4             1.3              -                 6.0                429
Agas (Saw Mill)                              III                  51.4             0.3             15.0               -                  271
Rigsan (Transformer)                         III                 180.4             0.9             14.0               7.0                163
Van civi (Nails)                             III                  16.0             -                8.0               -                   47
Sakir Cizmeci (Nails)                        III                  18.0             -               8,0                                    39
Seyfettin Karakoc (Door Handles)             III                  28.0             -              12.0                -                   80
Yifas                                        III                 113.0             1.5              -                 9.0                311
836.2             9.7            67.0              22.0              1,621            515.8
Total (1977/78)                                      1,366.6            18.3           121.0              52.1              2,552            535.5
1/  Regions:    I:  Most Developed Provinces
IT:  Semi-developed Regions                                                                                                                            a
III:  Least-developed Regions



TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI
Project Promotion Fund - Projected Income and Expenses
(TL 000's)
1979    1980       1981       1982       1983       1984        1985       1986
INCOME
25% of Spread on IBRD Loan 873-TU              12,495    14,216    11,157        7,982      4,972      2,584      1,073        -
1/16th of interest on subloans
from IBRD Loan 1430-TU                        9,460    15,682    18,551    18,465    17,477    15,972    14,184    12,113
21,955    29,898    29,708    26,447    22,449    18j556    15;257    12,113
EXPENSES                                         13.200    15,800    19,000    22,800    27,400    32,900    39,500    47,400
Excess of Income (Expenses)                     8,755    14,098    10,708        3,647    (4,951)  (14,344)  (24,243)  (35,287)
Available January 1, 1979                      22,210
Cumulative Excess                              30,965    45,063    55,771    59,418    54,467    40,123    15,880   (19,407)



- 53 -
ANNEX 14
TSKB
Export-Oriented Projects Approved in 1977 and 1978
% of TSKB's Total
Foreign Exchange      Total Foreign        Foreign Exchange
Lending        Exchange Lending            Lending
($ 000)            ( $ 000)             in that Region
1977     1978         1977     1978         1977       1978
A.  Eight most developed Provinces
Istas (Izmir)                     677
Beser Balata (Izmir)           1,650
Bulvar Giyim (Ankara)            147
Saray Orme (Bursa)                         874
Proteksan (Istanbul)                       360
Bindebir (Adana)                           374
Total                 2,474    1,608        21,400    22.000         11.6       7.3
B.  Semi-Developed Regions
Turksan (Tekirdag)               980
Bati Giyim (Manisa)              835
Alfa Moda (Tekirdag)             311
Tekirdag Agac (Tekirdag)         610
Serel (Manisa)                           3,600
Soktas (Aydin)                           1,350
Total                2,736    4,950        48,600    35674           5.6      13.9
C.  Least Developed Regions
Termesan (Samsun)              1,240
Onel Fermuar (Corum)             750
Cisan (Kastamonu)              1,100
Soksa (Sinop)                    161
Arica (Gaziantep)                          824
Onkis Isletm. (Ordu)                       370
Baliksan (Sinop)                         1,350
Sagra Gida (Ordu)                          375
Yifas (Malatya)                          1,553
Total               3,251    4,472        37.00      33,000          8.8    13.6
Grand Total                    8,461   11,030       107,000    90,674           7.9    12.2
EMENA/IDF
March 1979



Annex 15
TSKB
Income Statments - 1975-1978
(L Million)
1975     1976      1977              1978
--------audited -------           (unaudited)
Income
Interest on liquid funds                         26.0      25.0      21.7               67.7
Interest on loan portfolio                      449.5    611.4    849.1              1,611.7
Commissions and other income                     33.8      39.1      46.5               60.2
Dividend income                                  23.7      43.1      45.3               50.7
533.0    718.6    962.6             1,790.3
Gross capital gains                              17.3      98.6       -                 25.5
Other extraordinary income                        5.6       2.3       8.3                2.5
555.9    819.5    970.9              1,818.3
Expenses
Personnel expenses                               47.8      60.8      82.6              129.4
Directors and staff bonus                         5.7       7.9       8.3               15.7
Administration expenses                           9.9      18.8      23.1               23.2
Depreciation                                      3.2       3.1       3.0                 2.8
Provision for retirement                          4.7      in.n       7.5               20.0
Taxes, dues and fees                             21.1      45.6      21.5               41.7
Interest charges                                326.7    452.6    607.3              1,120.6
Provisions for losses                             8.3      49.6      32.5              130.0
Project promotion expenses                        3.0       5.8       7.3                 8.9
Total expenses                           431.3    654.2    793.1              1,492.3
Profit before taxation                          124.6    165.3    177.8                326.0
Tax on profit                                    41.0      50.3      52.9              101.4
Net Profit                                 83.6    115.0    124.9                224.6
Appropriation
Dividends                                        32.8      54.2      64.7              116.8
Legal reserves                                    7.9      11.3      12.9               24.1
Other reserves                                   42.9      49.5      47.3                83.7
83.6    115.0    124.9                224.6
Ratios
Total income as percentage of
average total assets                           12.5      14.0      12.9               16.7
Administrative expenses as percentage
of Average Total Assets                         1.3       1.4       1.4                1.4
Interest charges as percentage
of Average Long-term debt                       8.7       9.1       9.5               11.9
Interest income as percentage of
Average Loan Portfolio                         12.5      13.2      13.8                17.3
Dividend income as percentage of
Average Equity Portfolio                       10.1      16.1      11.0                 9.0
Earnings before tax as percentage
of Average Net Worth                           27.0      29.9      25.1                38.8
Net Profit as Percentage of
Average Net Worth                              18.1      20.8      17.6                .G.7
wet Profit as Percentage of
Share Capital                                  43.2      35.0      29.6                52.8
Dividend as Z of Net Income                      39.2      47.1      51.8                52.0
Dividend as Z of Per Value                       15.0      18.0      18.0                25.0
Interest coverage                                 1.43      1.53      1.38                1.46



Annex 16
TSK"
Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1975-1978
(TL Willions)
Dec. 31,    Dec. 31,    Dec. 31,            Dec. 31,
1975         1976          1977            1918
------------Audited-------------          (unauditee)
ASSETS
Cash                                        386.6        663.1         288.2           2A0.3
Accrued income                              172.0         245.6        435.3           914.6
Receivables and prepayments                  18.1          23.9         31.0          _
576.7        932.6         754.5         1,154.9
Investments:
Loans 1/                                  4,076.7      5,191.8       7,111.1        11,478.6
less provisions for losses                (22.4)       (70.0)       (102.4)         (217.4)
Equity participations                       260.8        348.1         472.8           657.1
less provision for losses                 (28.2)       (30.8)        (30.8)          (45.8)
11,872.5
4,286.9      5,439.1       7,450.7
Government bonds                             82.0        141.7          86.5             89.4
Other bonds                                  37.7          25.9          -
4,406.6      5,606.7       7,537.2        11,961.9
Fixed assets (net)                           52.6         61.3          56.8            55.0
Prepaid taxation                             27.9          53.6         70.8           135.3
Total Assets                       5,063.8      6,654.2       8,419.3        13,307.1
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current liabilities                         132.7        178.8         275.8            383.7
Taxes due                                    67.7        103.4         104.5           229.7
Dividends                                    32.8          54.2         64.7            116.8
233.2        336.4         445.0           730.2
Long-term debt:
Government subordinated loan 2/             368.1         368.1        368.1            368.1
Other Government loan                        89.8         81.2          70.2            299.9
Bond issues                                 300.0        481.8         568.0            680.4
IBRD                                     1,836.6       2,185.7       2,927.2          5294.4
IDA                                          26.5         16.0          12.8              8.7
IFC                                         360.6        961.7       1,094.0          1333.3
KFW, AID, EIB, PRB                        1,357.4      1,564.3       2,114.6           3640.9
4,339.0      5,658.8       7,154.9          11,625.7
Staff Retirement Fund                        17.0          27.0         34.5              54.5
'Shireholders' equity:
Share Capital                               193.4        328.7         421.5             425.4
Paid-in surplus                               7.1           7.1          7.1             471.3
Reserves and returned earnings              274.1         296.2        356.3
474.6        632.0         784.9             896.7
Total Liabilities and Equity   5,063.8          6,654.2       8,419.3            13z307.1
1/ Includes unutilized
letters of credit of:                  249.2         223.0         372.3               898.4
Contingencies
Loan commitments                       258.3         337.3         557.0               571.0
Equity                                  71.3          12.0        110.0                124.7
Guarantees                                248.5        229.3         249.3                181.7
2/ Of this TL 187.8 million is due
after 1992



Annex 17
TSKB
Debt/Equit  Ratio Calculations
1975         1976          1977          1978
Debt
1.  Long term debt, per balance sheet        4,339.0       5,658.8       7,154.9      11,625.7
Less:  Unutilised L/Cs                     249.2         223.0         372.3         898.4
Plus:  Guarantees                           248.5        229.3         Z49.3         181.7
2.  Long-term debt outstanding, per
proposed definition                    4,338.3       5,658.1      7,031.9       10,909.0
Less:  quasi-equity 1/                     242.0         242.0         242.0         242.0
3. Long-term debt outstanding
per definition under TSKB XII          4,096.3       5,416.1      6,789.9       10,667.0
Plus:  Unutilized L/Cs                     249.2         223.0         372.3         898.4
Loan commitments                    258.3         337.3        557.0          571.0
4. Long-term debt outstanding, per
IFC's definition                       4,603.8       5,976.4      7,719.2       12,136.4
Equity
5.  Shareholder's equity                        474.6        632.0         784.9         896.7
Plus:  quasi-equity 1/                     242.0         242.0         242.0         242.0
6. Equity as defined under TSKB XII
and IFC's loan agreement                 716.2         874.0      1,026.9        1,138.7
Ratios
- Per old IBRD definition (3:6)                   5.7          6.2           6.6            9.4
- Per Proposed definition (2:5)                   9.1          9.0           9.0           12.2
- Per IFC's definition    (4:6)                   6.4          6.8           7.5           10.7
1/ Quasi-equity is that portion of the Government subordinated debt which matures
after the last installment due by TSKB on World Bank loans.



-57                             Annex 18
TSKB
Summary of Arrears 1974 - 1978
(TL Million)
Dec. 1974   Dec. 1975   Dec. 1976   Dec. 1977   Dec. 1978
Arrears
Principal:  Up to 3 months                12.5         10.4         12.3         30.4          51.5
More than 3 months           52.2         45.5         43.5         45.5         182.5
Interest : Up to 3 months                 22.6         29.0         35.3         61.5         101.1
More than 3 months           23.5         41.1         65.4        166.8         404.5
Total    : Up to 3 months                 35.1         39.4         47.6         91.9         152.6
More than 3 months           75.7         86.6        108.9        212.3         587.0
110.8        126.0        156.5        304.2         739.6
Loans affected by arrears of
more than 3 months                     151.9        345.3        668.6      1,463.3       3,625.1
Total loan portfolio                   3,099.4      4,076.7      5,191.8      7,111.1      11,478.6
Arrears of more than 3 months as
percentage of portfolio:
- Principal                         1.7%         1.1%          0.8%         0.6%          1.6%
- Interest                          0.8%          1.0%         1.3%         2.3%          3.5%
- Total                              2.4%         2.1%         2.1%         3.0%          5.1%
Total Arrears as percentage
of portfolio:
- Principal                         2.1%         1.4%          1.1%         1.1%          2.0%
- Interest                          1.5%         1.7%          1.9%         3.2%          4.4%
- Total                             3.6%         3.1%          3.0%         4.3%          6.4%
Portfolio affected by arrears
of more than 3 months                    4.9%         8.5%        12.9%        20.6%         31.6%



- 58 -
Annex 19
TURKIYE SINAI KAIKINhA BANKASI A,S.
Equity Participations as of Sept. 30. 1978
(TL '000)
Current       Company's
Share       Market or    Dlvideod         1977 Profit    Total Loans
Holding      Estimated    Yield (7.)         as 7 of        Outstanding
A.  Csompa.tes Operating profitably               Industry                     (at cost)        Value         on Coat        Net Worth         to TSKB
1957    Rabak                         Electrolytic Copper                     8,039        19,286           35              48             69,600
1961    Korumn  Tarim                 Pharmaceutical prodlucts               19,907        45,786           35              35              4,300
1963    Yatirimlar Holding            Investment Trust                        1,125         1,440           15               8                -
1963    Gorbon-Isil                   Ceramics                                  980         1,337            -              41              6,300
1965    Plantifay                     Plosticisero                            2,739         8,217           30              76              8,800
1962    Celik Halat                   Wire Rope                               9,873       49,365            35              63              1,500
1968    Aksa Akrilik                  Acyrilic fiber                         19,095       40,098            30              46             11,000
1971    Nasas                         Metal ore smelting                     19,500       44,850            25              52             57,600
1971    Kartonsan                     Carton board                            6,220        37,320           40              67             87,900
1973    Altas                         Tools                                   7,500        10,500           20              53              7,100
1967    Tamnsn Tomrrk                 Hardboord                              12,000        12,000            -               9             22,600
1973    Kilsan                        Bricks and tiles                        5,200         5,200            -               -             62,600
1973      .ok-an                      Construction naterial,                  5,000         5,000            -               4             27,700
1975    Eltas Elazig                  Pulp and Paper                          1,800         1,800            -               -            34,200
1975    PEC Profilo                   Electrical machinery                   26,706        26,706           18              44           227,400
1975    Pulcuoglu Pamuk               Textiles                                5,000         5,000            7              10             22,100
1976    Odemis Tekstil                Cotton Textiles                         7,500         7,500            -               4            104,600
1957    T  Demir Dok-m                 Cast iron                             20,345        54,932           15              25             27,400
1971     Cam Elyaf                    Glass fiber                            10,000        10,000            -               5             55,400
1972    Parnan                        Machire parts                          25,065        25,065            -               3             22,700
1973    Tozmetal                      Binter metal                            4,200         4,200            -              19             13,200
1974    Oduline Yapi                  Pulp and paper                          5,000        12,000           35              61            22,500
1976    Kars Yem                      Food                                    3,000         3,000            -              18              2,100
1977    Fursan                        Chemicals                               7,500         7,500            -               -            82,400
1977     Samsou  Mnkice               Machine                                 2,000         2,000            5               1             19,000
235,294      459,388
B. Companios Under Construction
1973    Asil Celik                    Ouality steel                          66,250       66,250             -               -                -
1975    S1c-Ova                       Food                                    5,250         5,250            -               -            28,100
1975     sintas                       Food                                    2,400         2,400            -               -            49,r20
1975    Ditas                         Metal products                          6,250         6,250            -               -             75.900
1976     Carsancak Gida               Food                                    1,375         1,375                            -                -
1976     Cukurova Kimya               Chemicals                              10,000        IO,OOO                            -           124,300
1976    Karadeniz Su Urrnlori         Fish products                           7,834         7,834            -               -            43,000
1976     Petas Plantik                Packing materials                       6,250         6,250                            -             23,100
1976    Trabron Glyim Sanayit         Ready-made clothing                     3,975         3,975            -- _0,900
1976    Eman Endustri Mineral         Industrial minerals                     3,500         3,500            -               -             19,900
1976    Kenita  K. Elektrik           Electrica equipmenl:                    3,000         3,000            -               -             S1,900
1976    Mus Meyan Koku                Food                                    2,400         2,400            -               -            49,200
1977    Agema                         Machinery                               4,141         4,141                            -                -
1977    Tupko                         Tuhen                                   6,000         6,000            _               _            169,800
1977    Isbir Elektrik                Generator                               2,000        2,000                             -
1977    Plasteks                      Textiles                                4,000         4,000            -               _           125,400
1977    Maksan                        Electrical machinery                    3,150        3,150                             _             8,100
1977    Anton                         Metal peoduct.                          4,000        4,000             -                             5 30,400
1977    Vanet                         Food                                    1,250         1,250                                             -
1977    Peteter                       Chemicals                               5,000         5,000
1976     Segman                       Metal products                         11,750       11,750             -               -                -
1976    Rigsan                        F-rtilizers                             2,000         2,000            -               -                -
1976    Polifan                       Plastic film                            1,500         1,500            -               -                -
1976    Karset                        Food                                    1,250         1,250            -               -                -
1977    Karadenin Cimonto             Cement piles                            1,400         1,400            -               -             13,500
1977    Kuoey Hobilyn                 Furniture                                 750           750            -               -             17,800
1977    Nardin Asbest                 Cement pipes                            5,000         5,000            -               -             32,900
1977    Dogusan                       Cement pipes                            4,800        4,800             -               _            61,200
1977    Human                         Furniture                                 750           750            -                             16,100
1978    Poris                         Nuts and bolt.                            125           125            -               -             35,900
1978    Tense Bakir                   Aluoin-m sections                       1,575         1,575            -
1978    Karsu                         Textile.                                9,000         9,000            -               -             21,000
1978    Yibitas                       Cement                                 25,000       25,000             -               -           261,900
1978    Dokuson                       Teutil-a                               12,500       12,500             -               -            110,400
1978    Bloikuan                      Food                                    1,500         1,500            -               -                -
1978    Yatirim ve Finasaman          Investment Company                     37,500       37,500             -               -
264,425      264,425
C.  Companies Operating at a Lonn
1968    Kar-denie Bkir                Copper complen                         23,000         6,900                                             -
1974    Keban Holding                 Leather                                13,250       13,250             -               -             13,900
1974    Pinr KConserve                Food                                    4,950        4,950             -               -             21 300
1974    Guney Biracilik               Beverage                               25,000       25,000             -                             5 39,900
1974    Kayini Kurutma                Food                                   10,000        10,000            -               _             19,100
1975    Anadolu Snbun Yag             Chemicals                              12,500        12,500            -               -             40,900
1975    Truvn Deri Giyim              Skins hides and footwe-r                5,680         5,680            -               _             32,100
1975    Kutahya Porselen              Ceramics                                8,625         8,625            -               -             39,500
1975    Tamsan Tarim                  Agricultural machines                   2,400         2,400            -               -             23,300
1975    Trafosan                      Electrical machines                     5,000         5,000            -               -             43,400
1976    Caynan                        Packing materials                       4,000         4000             -               -             64,600
114,405       98,305
D.  Companies in Liquidation
1961    Kursun Sanayi                 Lead smelting                           2,500           200            -               _                800
1969    Eaton Yale                    Transmission parts                        740         1,400                                             -
3_240        1,600



-  59 -                             Annex 20
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S.
Projected Operations
(TL Million)
1979         1980          1981          1982
APPROVALS
Loans:  Foreign Currency              4,050.0       4,644.0      5,346.0       6,129.0
Local Currency                 600.0         720.0         860.0       1,040.0
Total                      4,650.0       5,364.0       6,206.0       7,169.0
Equity Investment                       300.0         350.0         400.0        450.0
Total Approvals            4,950.0       5,714.0       6,606.0       7,619.0
COMMITMENTS
Loans:  Foreign Currency              3,780.0       4,023.0      4,484.7       5,081.7
Local Currency                 474.5         598.1         725.3         877.9
Total                      4,254.5       4,621.1       5,210.0       5,959.6
Equity Investment                       341.4         328.6         347.9        381.5
Total                      4,595.9       4,949.7       5,557.9       6,341.1
DISBURSEMENTS
Loans:  Foreign Currency              3,196.8       3,712.5      4,201.2       4,752.0
Local Currency                 422.2         527.7         646.3         785.2
Total                      3,619.0       4,240.2       4,847.5       5,537.2
Equity Investments                      233.1         280.8         314.4         347.9
Total Disbursements        3,852.1       4,521.0       5,161.9       5,885.1



-  60  -                          Annex 21
TURKIYE SINAI RALK]INMA BANKASI A.S.
Projected Income Statements -- 1979-1982
(TL Million)
1979       1980       1981       1982
Income
Interest on loan portfolio                                     2,417.4   2,859.0   3,366.3   3,908.4
Commissions and other charges                                      79.2      92.3       100.4     114.6
Dividend income and other income
from equity investments                                         43.3       56.8       72.7       89.4
Capital gains from equity investments                              45.0       56.0       78.0       96.0
Interest on liquid assets and bonds                               28.5        77.0       99.5     122.3
Other income                                                        2.5        2.5        2.5        2.5
Total Income                                    2,615.9   3,143.6   3,719.4   4,333.2
Expenses
Personnel expenses                                                165.0      206.2      257.7      322.1
Director and Staff bonus                                           24.9       28.8       33.5       38.1
General administration expenses                                    25.5       28.0       30.8       33.8
Depreciation                                                        2.9        2.8        2.7        2.6
Provision for retirement and dismissal                             14.1       15.4       16.9       18.6
Project promotion expenses                                         15.0       18.0   _  21.6        25.9
Operational Expenses                                    247.4      299.2      363.2      441.1
Expenditure tax fees                                               33.5       51.0       65.6       79.4
Interest expenses                                              1,766.9   2,104.3   2,496.4   2,914.9
Provision for losses                                               38.6       58.0       62.0       66.4
Total expenses                                       2,086.4   2,512.5   2,967.2   3,501.8
Income before tax                                                529.5      631.1      732.2      831.4
Taxes                                                            173.3      197.6   _223.9         250.0
Net Income                                              356.2      433.5      508.3      581.4
Appropriations
Dividends                                                        173.8      243.7      282.1      340.4
Legal reserves                                                    37.0       46.8       55.2        63.6
Other reserves                                                   145.7      143.0      161.0      157.4
356 .2    433 .5      508 .3     581 .4
Ratios
Total income as %age of
average total assets                                             17.2       16.8       16.7       16.8
Administrative expenses as %age
of average total assets                                           1.5        1.5        1.6        1.7
Interest charges as %age of
average long-term debt                                           13.6      13.4        13.5       13.6
Lterest income as %age of
average loans outstanding                                       18.5        18.1       18.1       18.1
Dividend income as %age of
average equity investments                                        5.7        5.8        5.9        6.0
Earnings before tax as %age
of average net worth                                            44.0        36.8       34.4       33.7
Net Profit as %age of
average net worth                                               29.6        25.3       23.8       23.6
Net Profit as %age of year-end
share capital                                                   33.3       33.7       33.9        38.8
Dividend as %age of
net income                                                       48.7       56.2       57.5       58.5
Dividend as %age of
per value                                                       21.0       21.0        21.0       21.0
Interest coverage                                                  1.32       1.31       1.31       1.30
Total Debt service coverage                                         1.20       1.20       1.19       1.17



-  61                                 Annex 22
TSKIF
Projected Balance Sheet -- 1979-82
(TL Million)
1979        1980        1981         1982
ASSETS
Cash                                                   862.1    1,090.2    1,308.2    1.225.6
Accrued income, receivables
and prepayments                                    1,114.0    1.323.2    1.563.0    1.819.8
1,076.1    2,413.4    2,871.2    3,045.4
Investments:
Local currency loans                                 1,309.4    1,583.7    1,925.8    2,369.9
Foreign currency loans 1/                           12,916.8   15,298.2   17,801.1   20,409.3
14,226.2   16,881.9   19,726.9   22,779.2
Equity investments                                     860.2    1,101.0    1,355.4    1,623.3
Provision for losses                                   301.8        359.8       421.8       488.2
14,784.6   17,623.1   20,660.5   23,914.3
Government bond                                         125.7       171.5       225.6       285.9
14,910.3   17,794.6   20,886.1   24,200.2
Other Assets:
Fixed assets (net)                                       45.8        39.9        32.3         29.7
Prepaid taxes                                           157.8       189.2       223.0       259.4
203.6       229.1       255.3       289.1
Total Assets                                    17,090.0   20,437.1   24,012.6   27,534.7
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current liabilities                                     753.5       889.4    1,046.6    1,213.2
Taxes and dividends                                     394.2       501.5       583.3        664.9
1,147.7    1,390.9      1,629.9    1,878.1
Long-term debt:
Foreign currency debt                               12,803.2   15,184.6   17,703.7   20,32-.-
Goverrment subordinated loan                           368.1        368.1       355.1       341.7
Central Bank discounts                                 313.8        489.8       729.8       995.2
Bonds or coumercial banks loans                        826.3        961.4    1,110.0    1,257.4
Other TL term debt                                      51.9         42.6        35.9        31.8
Total long-term debt                                14,363.3   17,046.5   19,934.5   22,948.8
Staff Retirement Fund                                   68.6         84.0       100.9       119.5
Equity
Share capital                                        1,069.1    1,284.6    1,500.0    1,500.0
Legal reserves                                         139.7        186.5       241.7       305.3
Other reserves                                         301.6        444.6       605.6       783.0
Total equity                                       1,510.4    1,915.7    2,347.3    2,588.3
Total Liabilities and Equity                      17,090.0   20,437.1   24,012.6   27,534.7
DEBT/EQUITY RATIO                                           8.8         8.3          8.2         8.3
Contingencies
Loan commitments in foreign exchange                   828.9        969.3    1,090.8    1,233.9
Loan commitments in local currency                     281.4        351.8       430.8       523.5
Equity commitments                                     233.0        280.8       314.3       347.9
Guarantee of bonds                                     121.7         72.7        36.9        18.9
1/  Includes unutilized letters of credit              1,066.5    1,236.6    1,398.6    1,584.9



-  62  -                           Annex 23
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S.
Projected Cash Flow 1979-1982
(TM. Million)
SOURCES                                                 1979      1980       1981         1982
Local Currency Loan Collections                     226.5      253.4      304.2        341.1
Foreign Currency Loan Collections                 1377.0      1501.2     1860.3       2330.1
Increase in Local Currency Debt                    320.0       470.0      575.0        685.0
Increase in Foreign Currency Debt                 3196.8      3712.5     4201.2       4752.0
Increase in Foreign Currency Debt
(txchange Rate Fluctuation)                      551.7         0.0        0.0         0.0
Equity Sales                                         30.0       40.0       60.0         80.0
Increase in Provision for Losses                    38.6        58.0       62.0         66.4
Decrease in Fixed Assets (Inc. Depreciation)          9.2        5.9         7.6         2.6
Decrease in Government Bonds Required by Law          0.7        1.0        1.1          3.3
Earning before Tax (Inc. Bonus)                     554.4      659.9      765.7        869.5
Increase in Accounts Payable                       321.6       135-.9     157.2        166.6
Increase in Provision Retirement and Dismissal      14.1        15.4       16.9         18.6
Capital Paid in during the Year                    431.0       215.5      215.4          0.0
7071.6     7068. 7    822 6. 6     9315.2
APPLICATIONS
Increase in Receivables                            211.7       209.2      239.8        265.8
Local Currency Debt Repayments                     108.3       168. 2     206.1        289.7
Foreign Currency Debt Repayments                  1390.5      1501.2     1844.1       2319.3
Increase in Foreign Currency Loans                3196.8      3712.5     4201.2       4752.0
Increase in Foreign Currency Loan
(Exchange Rate Fluctuation)                      551.7        0.0         0.0         0.0
Equity Disbursements                               233.1       280.8      314.4        347.9
Increase in Government Bonds required by Law        37.0        46.8       55.2         63.6
Taxes Paid during the Year                          166.0      195.8      229.0        257.7
Dividends during the Year                           132.5      198.4      272.5        325.6
Increase in Local Currency Loans                   422.2       527.7      646.3        785.2
6449.8     6840.56     8008.6      9397.8
BALANCE AVAILABLE
Cash, Near Cash Beginning of Period                240.3       862.1     1090.2       1308.2
Net Change                                          621.8      228.1      218.0       (-82.6)
Cash, Near Cash End of Period                      862.1      1090.2     1308.2       1225.6



Annex 24
TURKEY - TSKB
RESOURCE POSITION AS AT DECEMBER 31, 1978
Original                                                Undisbursed
Source of               Year when        Loan          Cost to         Last      Outstanding  Counitments   Available for
Loan                Loan Signed      Amounts           TSKB        Maturity       Amount  I/ & Approvals  Commitments
TL Million          %            Years      (---------- TL Million --------------
A. FOREIGN BORROWINGS
IBRD, loans VIII, IX, X          (1969-1972)    2,677.5   6-1/2 - 7-1/4           15        2,219.9            -            -
IBRD, loans XI, XII              (1975-1977)     3,544.5         8 - 8-1/5 2/    15         2,634.9         816.1       567.2
IDA, fourth credit                  (1966)         382.5         6-1/2            15             8.7           -            -
IFC (three loans)                (1973-1976)    1,530.0   7-3/8 - 11                7       1,333.3            -            -
AID (2nd loan)                      (1968)         191.3         9-1/2            15            74.9           -            -
EIB (three loans)                (1966-1974)     2,156.7        12-1/2 3/         15        1,233.6            -            -
KfW (eleven loans)               (1969-1978)     3,592.3        12-1/2 3/         15        1,808.1         520.7       475.3
Paribas (two loans)              (1977-1978)    1,217.2          7-1/4        5 + grace         65.5        201.7       950.0
Eksportfinans (Norway)              (1978)         521.6         9          4-7 + grace           -            -        521.6
Finnish Credit                      (1978)          255.b        7-1/2 41                    ___   -                     255.0
Subtotal                                                                             9,378.9      1,538.5    2,769.1                         a
B. DOMESTIC BORROWINGS
Bonds Cseven issues)             (1973-1978)       750,0        21                  7          680.4
Gov't Subordinated loan             (1966)         368.1   3-1/2-10-1/2            35          368.1
Central Bank discounts              (1978)         238.8        13-14               -          238.8
AID (two Lira loans)             (1967-1969)         60.3       12-1/2 3/        15-20          47.6
EIB (one Lira loan)                 (1971)           37.8       12-1/2             10           13.5
Subtotal                                                                             1,348.4)
)       575.1      (594.5)
C.  EQUITY (paid-in capital, reserves and provisions)                                          896.7)    _
TOTAL                                                                  11,624.0       2,113.6    2,174.6
1/ Excluding undisbursed portion of approved letters of credit.
2/ Spread in excess of 2.5% payable by TSKB to the Government.
3/ Rate set by Government, which retains difference between this rate and that actually payable to lenders.
_/ Plus withholding tax of 29.87% of interest.
EMENA IDF
March 1979



- 64 -                             Annex 25
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI
Projected Disbursement Schedule of Proposed Loan 1/
Quarterly Disbursements            Cumulative
(US$ millions)
FY 80
2nd quarter                                       0.5                          0.5
3rd quarter                                       1.6                          1.6
4th quarter                                       3.0                          5.1
FY 81
1st quarter                                       5.4                         10.5
2nd quarter                                       7.5                         18.0
3rd quarter                                       9.7                         27.7
4th quarter                                       9.8                         37.5
FY 82
1st quarter                                       9.0                         46.5
2nd quarter                                       6.0                         52.5
3rd quarter                                       4.5                         57.0
4th quarter                                       1.5                         58.5
FY 83
1st quarter                                       1.C                         59.5
2nd quarter                                       0.5                         60.0
1/   This table has been prepared on the assumption that. commitments will be
distributed over 6 quarters, from the beginning of FY 80 to mid FY 81,
with quarterly commitments peaking in the last quarter of FY 80; and
that sub-loans would be disbursed over the seven quarters following their
commitment, with 60 per cent of each sub-loan's disbursement being
concentrated in the 3rd to 5th quarter following commitment.
EMENA/IDF
May   1979






B U L GAR I A ,*_>1    t_,8,                                    8  / a  c  k                         Se  a                                                             U. S. S.  R.
F >0 \oIRKLARELI
i. W~          TEKI)~DAK                                   NGLD       K ASA 0          5/   P"
0 -     1t                         t          XNGUI>O    < o                                X    ,-4  _   S r IE 0 L UZON                                                          Z-
|A-apaZoP~     \BOLU                                                 E            /   r  Ao  eGRE                               KARS
~~ CANAKKALE  0 ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~1 AC(N0
ta  ,--\1              2                      \< d \\tv ANKARA  ._)                                                          ERZURtM
B~C3  EALIKESI R-~                  0                                                                                                                     OA\  }    r  ;irRERZINCAN / ,  (  RRA
SAK          A    ,KISEHI        ANKAR                         KAYSERI                                                                                    7
0                                                                                                                                                              0S I V A S
| A/S O <\\E #YD(N  ( S_\\ 0                                                     _                                                                    )            HAKARI R  G  Q  IN
MAN b ,,,                                                    ,                                                                        <  , I C E  L ,A  '~  muS'{5K4n463 RT E
OU- ,                                                                 r                                r  H   OF5EHKAFA ANj M DO  PROV NVCS ANOMUNICIPALITIES
LA YS E R I  I                                  I   LEAST! EVELOPED -EOYING S
_350       A,led;f ter r an  e on           S e                                         .2-              S YR IA                                [I T SK B REGIONALRBRANCH OFFICFS                  3S5-
I R                                                        0~~~~~~~~~~~~YRS1                                           SK  DIITATV  ITIT
-KCNYA PKR U S                                                              =    RESIONAL BOR NOARI E
O 100             2    00         300                         4 .                                                                        ., .- ~ 1 ---  PROVINCIAL 30UNDARIES  V
K I L O M E T E R S                            -                                                                       0     P R OVI N CER N TI O A L  C A P I T AL I ES M R_
O       50       100       I SO    2 00                                                            . mm                                  INERAIOA BOUDAIE m0 smIesrn lmmm
MA     L KS E   5                                               3                                                     4)O         A                                      _E R
_ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LATIVLPDEIN



