CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1748 TU
Loan Agreement
(Thirteenth TSKB Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S.
Dated July 12, 1979


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1748 TU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 12, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S. (hereinafter called the
Borrower), a company established and operating under the laws of
the Republic of Turkey.
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified,
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Sub-loan" means a loan or a credit made or proposed to
be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an
Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project and "free-limit
sub-loan" means a sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a
free-limit sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b)
of this Agreement.
(b) "Investment" means an investment other than a sub-loan
made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds
of the Loan in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project.
(c) "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which
the Borrower proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or in which
it proposes to make or has made an investment.
(d) "Investment Project" means a specific development
project to be carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing
the proceeds of a sub-loan or investment.


﻿- 2 -
(e) "Liras" and "TL" mean the currency of the Guarantor.
(f) "Foreign currency" means any currency other than the
currency of the Guarantor.
(g) "Statutes" means the statutes of the Borrower dated
May 12, 1950, as amended to the date of this Agreement.
(h) "Statement of Policy" means collectively the Policy
Resolution No. 1193/5 of the Borrower dated April 8, 1977, and
the Statement of the Borrower entitled "Policies of Turkiye Sinai
Kalkinma Bankasi", dated April 21, 1978, as amended from time to
time.
(i) "Prior Loan Agreement" means any loan or credit agree-
ment executed and delivered between the Bank or the Association
and the Borrower or the Guarantor, respectively, before the date
of this Agreement and "Prior Loan" means any loan or credit
provided for therein.
(j) "Government Loan Agreement" means the agreement
dated February 18, 1966, between the Ministry of Finance of the
Guarantor and the Borrower, under which the Ministry of Finance
granted to the Borrower a long-term loan of TL368,086,259.96 as
amended from time to time by the parties thereto; and "Government
Advance" means the advance provided for therein.
(k) "Subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one or
more subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or
more of its subsidiaries.
(1) "SMLI Investment Project" means an Investment Project
for small to medium sized labor-intensive industries to finance
fixed assets whose value shall not exceed TL110,000,000, and
TL815,000 equivalent per job to be created as a result of the
Investment Project, both to be calculated in prices as of June 30,
1979, and adjusted every three months thereafter on the basis of
the general wholesale price index published by the Guarantor's
Ministry of Commerce, including Investment Projects for expansion
of existing facilities to the extent that the original value
of the assets of the Investment Enterprise does not exceed
TL110,000,000, calculated in prices as of June 30, 1979, and
adjusted as aforementioned.


﻿-3-
(m) "Export-Oriented Project" means an Investment Project of
which it is estimated that, in case of expansions or improvements
of Investment Enterprises' facilities the equivalent of not less
than 40%, and in all other cases not less than 30%, of the output
of the facilities to be provided or improved under the Invest-
ment Project will be exported in each year after the Project is
expected to have reached full capacity.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty million
dollars ($60,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account: (i) for amounts expended by the Borrower
for an Investment Project or, if the Bank shall so agree, for
amounts to be expended by the Borrower for an Investment Project,
to finance the reasonable foreign-currency cost of goods and
services required under a sub-loan or investment for the Invest-
ment Project in respect of which the withdrawal is requested;
provided, however, that no withdrawal shall be made in respect of
a sub-loan or investment unless: (A) the sub-loan or investment
shall have been approved by the Bank, or (B) the sub-loan shall be
a free-limit sub-loan for which the Bank shall have authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account; (ii) on account of expenditures
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) after the date
of this Agreement, in respect of the reasonable foreign exchange
cost of goods and services for project promotion of the Borrower;
provided, however, that withdrawals from the Loan Account in
respect of such expenditures shall not exceed in the aggregate
the equivalent of $200,000; (iii) on account of expenditures made
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) to finance the
reasonable foreign exchange cost of an export training program
pursuant to Section 3.01 (a) (iii) of this Agreement up to the
equivalent of $200,000; provided, however, that no withdrawal
shall be made prior to the Bank's approval to such training
program pursuant to Section 3.09 (a) of this Agreemznt; and (iv)
on account of expenditures made (or, if the Borrower shall so
agree, to be made) to finance the reasonable foreign exchange cost
of a study pursuant to Section 3.01 (a) (iv) of this Agreement, up


﻿to the equivalent of $300,000; provided, however, that no with-
drawal shall be maA.e prior to the Bank's approval of such study
pursuant to Section 3.09 (b) of this Agreement.
(b) A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an Invest-
ment Project in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum of $4,000,000 equiva-
lent, when added to any other outstanding amounts financed or
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or of
any Prior Loan for such Investment Project, this amount being
subject to change from time to time as determined by the Bank.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, no withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures
made by an Investment Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject
to the Bank's approval or authorization, or in respect of an
investment, if such expenditures shall have been made before
the date of this Agreement or more than ninety days prior to
the date on which the Bank shall have received in respect of such
sub-loan or investment the application and information required
by Section 2.03 (a) of this Agreement or, under a free-limit
sub-loan, more than ninety days prior to the date on which the
Bank shall have received in respect of such free-limit sub-loan
the request and information required by Section 2.03 (b).
Section 2.03. (a) When presenting a sub-loan (other than a
free-limit sub-loan) or an investment to the Bank for approval,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form
satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the
Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project,
including a description of the expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed
terms and conditions of the sub-loan or investment, including
the schedule of amortization of the sub-loan or of repayment
to the Bank of the amount of the Loan to be used for the invest-
ment; (iii) a detailed analysis of the export potential of an
Investment Enterprise in case of Export-Oriented Projects; and
(iv) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) Each request by the Borrower for authorization to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit
sub-loan shall contain: (i) a summary description of the Invest-
ment Enterprise and the Investment Project, including a descrip-
tion of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the


﻿-5-
proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the terms and conditions of such
free-limit sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization
therefor.
(c) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree, applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be presented
to the Bank on or before December 31, 1980.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of seven and nine-tenths per cent (7.90%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn pursuant to Section 2.02 (a) (i)
hereof in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Column 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement as such Schedule shall
be amended from time to time by the Bank to the extent required
to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to sub-loans and the
schedules of repayment to the Bank in respect of investments,
which have been approved or authorized for withdrawals from the
Loan Account under Section 2.02 of this Agreement; and (ii) take
into account any cancellation pursuant to Article VI of the
General Conditions and any repayments made by the Borrower under
Section 2.10 of this Agreement; provided that repayments due
hereunder shall be made on February 15 and August 15 in each
year. Such amendments of the said Column 1 of Schedule 1 shall
include amendments to the table of premiums on prepayment, if
necessary.


﻿6-
(b) The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan
and the schedule of repayment to the Bank in respect of each
investment shall provide for an appropriate period of grace,
and, unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree: (i)
shall not extend beyond fifteen years from the date of this
Agreement; and (ii) shall provide for approximately equal semi-
annual, or more frequent, aggregate payments of principal and
interest or approximately equal semiannual, or more frequent,
payments of principal.
(c) The Borrower shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior
approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by the
Borrower in respect of the repayment provisions of any sub-loan.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan withdrawn pursuant to Section 2.02 (ii), (iii) and
(iv) hereof in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Column 2 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.10. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree:
(a) If a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to
the Borrower in advance of maturity or if a sub-loan or an
investment or any part thereof shall be sold, transferred,
assigned or otherwise disposed of for value by the Borrower, the
Borrower shall promptly notify the Bank and shall repay to the
Bank on the next following interest payment date, together with
the premiums specified in Column 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
or in any amendment thereof under Section 2.08 (a) of this Agree-
ment, the amount withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of
such sub-loan or investment or part thereof and not theretofore
repaid to the Bank.
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied
by the Bank as follows: (i) in the case of a sub-loan, to the
maturity or maturities of the Loe-n in amounts corresponding to the
outstanding amounts of the maturity or maturities of the sub-loan
so repaid or disposed of; and (ii) in the case of an investment,
pro rata to the maturity or maturities of the Loan reflecting
amounts to be repaid on account of such investment.
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of
this Section.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist
the Borrower in financing such productive facilities and resources
in the Republic of Turkey as will contribute to the economic and
social development and the export capacity of the country. The
Project consists: (i) in the financing of specific development
projects including without limitation a reasonable number of SMLI
Investment Projects and of Export-Oriented Projects, through
loans to, and investments in, private enterprises in the Republic
of Turkey, in furtherance of the corporate purposes of the Bor-
rower; (ii) the promotion of domestic projects by the Borrower;
(iii) the carrying out of an export training program for the
Borrower's staff; and (iv) the carrying out of a study on the
export potential of Turkish industry.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct
its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial
standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel,
and in accordance with the Statutes and Statement of Policy.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, any sub-loan or investment will be
made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written
contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate
legal means, rights adequate to protect the inteLrests of the Bank
and the Borrower, including, in the case of any sub-loan and
to the extent that it shall be appropriate in the case of any
investment, the right of the Borrower to: (i) require the Invest-
ment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, financial and managerial standards and to maintain
adequate records; (ii) require that: (A) the goods and services to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be purchased
at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability
of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and
spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of their
quality and the competence of the parties rendering them, and (B)
such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying
out of the Investment Project; (iii) examine, by itself or jointly
with representatives of the Bank if the Bank shall so request,


﻿-8-
such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included
in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents; (iv) require that: (A) the Investment
Enterprise shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers
such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall
be consistent with sound business practice, and (B) without any
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use
or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable
in a currency freely usable by the Investment Enterprise to
replace or repair such goods; (v) in the case of Export-Oriented
Projects, require that the Investment Enterprise shall meet export
targets referred to in Section 1.02 (m) of this Agreement, except
as the meeting of such targets by exporting at or above cost is
not possible or prevented by factors which are beyond the Invest-
ment Enterprise's control; (vi) obtain all such information as the
Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Investment Enterprise; and (vii) suspend or
terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use of
the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Investment Enter-
prise to perform its obligations under its contract with the
Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation
to each Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect
the interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with
its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the
purposes of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan, the Project, the
Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, and the sub-loans
and investments.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall duly perform all its
obligations under the Government Loan Agreement and other agree-
ments under which funds have been lent or otherwise put at the
disposal of the Borrower by the Guarantor or its agencies or
others, for relending, investment or management. The Borrower
shall promptly inform the Bank of any action which would have the
effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or waiving any
material provision of, any such agreement.


﻿-9-
Section 3.05. If the Borrower establishes or acquires any
subsidiary, the Borrower shall cause such subsidiary to observe
and perform the obligations of the Borrower hereunder to the
extent to which such obligations shall or can be applicable
thereto, as though such obligations were binding upon such
subsidiary.
Section 3.06. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, when making loans or inveqtments for projects
the value of whose fixed assets shall exceed the equivalent
of $2,000,000, the Borrower shall ensure that such loans or
investments shall produce an economic rate of return, which in the
opinion of the Bank shall normally be above at least 15%. The
economic rate of return shall be calculated in accordance with the
"Guidelines for Calculations of Economic Rates of Return of
DFC Sub-Projects" dated June 4, 1974, prepared by the Bank's
Cental Projects staff.
Section 3.07. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall use its best efforts to: (a) approve foreign ex-
change financing in 1979 and 1980 of at least: (i) the equivalent
of $115,000,000 for Export-Oriented Projects, excluding projects
in the textile sector; (ii) the equivalent of $90,000,000 for
the Less Developed Regions; (iii) the equivalent of $35,000,000
for SMLI Investment Projects; and (iv) the equivalent of
$50,000,000 for the Semi Developed Regions; and (b) approve local
cu-rency financing in 1979 and 1980 of at least TL500,000,000 for
St..,I Investment Projects.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall review annually with the
Bank and adjust to the satisfaction of the Bank the cost of its TL
Loans as permitted by the applicable laws of the Guarantor, so as
to ensure that the difference between the weighted average yield
to TSKB of its TL Loans made or projected to be made in the course
of each financial year and the weighted average cost to TSKB of
its TL borrowings obtained or projected to be obtained in the
course of such year, shall be positive.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the export
training program specified in Section 3.01 (a) (iii) under terms
satisfactory to the Bank, including provision for procuring
the services of experts for on-the-job training, seminars and ad
hoc consultancies, and operational travel by the Borrower's
staff; and furnish to the Bank for its approval, prior to
requesting withdrawals from the Loan Account on account of such


﻿- 10 -
program: (i) the detailed description of the program; (ii) any
technical assistance agreements between the Borrower and organi-
zations experienced in export promotion; and (iii) the curricula
vitae and terms of reference and employment of any individual
experts to be hired by the Borrower for on-the-job training.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank for its approval,
prior to requesting withdrawals from the Loan Account on account
of the study on export potential specified in Section 3.01 (a)
(iv): (i) the detailed outline and terms of reference for the
study; and (ii) the curricula vitae and terms of reference and
employment of any individual consultants to be hired by the
Borrower to assist it in carrying out the study.
(c) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank such other
information, all in English, pertaining to the training program
and the study referred to in Sections 3.01 (a) (iii) and (iv),
respectively, of such scope and in such detail, as the Bank
shall have reasonably requested.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to record the progress of the Project and of each Investment
Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish
to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not later
than five months after the end of each such year, (A) certi-
fied copies of its financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors in
English, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank in English
such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.


﻿- 11 -
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of
this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt, except as otherwise currently reported or disclosed
in writing by the Borrower to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower or any subsidiary as security for any debt,
such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment of the
principal of, and interest and other charges on the Loan and that
in the creation of any such lien express provision will be made to
that effect at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory
lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or of any
subsidiary as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant, at
no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank
to secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other chaugles on the Loan; provided, however, that the foregoing
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as
security for the payment of the purchase price of such property,
or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in
such manner as shall be necessary to maintain, at all times, its
debt/equity ratio within the limit referred to in Section 4.06 of
this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond
the Borrower's control, be temporarily exceeded, promptly take all
such reasonable action as shall be necessary or advisable to bring
such ratio within such limit.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall notify the Bank prior to
making ai   repayment in advance of maturity in respect of the
Government Loan Agreement or of any other borrowings from the
Guarantor or its agencies for medium and long-term relending, or
from any foreign and local source and shall not make any such
repayment which in the judgment of the Bank would materially
affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial obligations.
Section 4.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between
the Bank and the Borrower, the Borrower shall not incur or permit
any subsidiary to incur any debt if, after the incurring of
such debt, the consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its


﻿- 12 -
subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than
ten times the consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and
all its subsidiaries. For the purposes of this Section:
(a) "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower or any
subsidiary maturing more than one year after the date on which
it is originally incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred and outstanding: (i)
under a loan contract or agreement (including the Loan Agreement)
on the date and to the extent the amount of the loan is drawn down
and outstanding pursuant to such loan contract or agreement; and
(ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered into but only to the
extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(c) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of liras debt payable in foreign
currency, such valuation shall be made at the prevailing lawful
rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at the time
of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the purposes
of servicing such debt or in the absence of such rate of exchange,
at a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank;
(d) "consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its subsid-
iaries" means the total amount of debt of the Borrower and
its subsidiaries, excluding any debt owed by the Borrower to any
subsidiary or by any subsidiary to the Borrower or to any other
subsidiary; and
(e)  "consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower
and its subsidiaries" means the aggrega-e of the unimpaired
paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves of the Borrower and
its subsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall
represent equity interests of the Borrower in any subsidiary
or of any subsidiary in the Borrower or any other subsidiary.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary to piotect itself against
risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange
between the currencies (including liras) used in its operations.
Section 4.08. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to the administration, operations and


﻿- 13 -
financial condition of the Borrower and its subsidiaries, and the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the
Bank shall reasonably request concerning the administration,
operations and financial condition of the Borrower and its sub-
sidiaries, and the progress of the Project.
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's repre-
sentatives to inspect the records referred to in Section 4.01 of
this Agreement and any relevant documents.
Section 4.10. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary to: (a) raise foreign currency
resources in international capital markets; and (b) raise and
mobilize lira resources in the domestic capital market.
Section 4.11. Except as the Guarantor, the Bank and the
Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower undertakes that
it will pay to the Guarantor, until such time as the entire
principal amount of the Loan and the interest and other charges
thereon shall have been paid, including any premium on prepay-
ment, a fee equal to the amount by which any payment of interest
on a sub-loan made by the Borrower exceeds, as and when each such
payment becomes due, a positive spread of 2-1/2%.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b) a change shall have been made in the Statutes or in the
Statement of Policy without the Bank's consent;
(c) a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution
or liquidation of the Borrower; and
(d) a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation,


﻿- 14 -
acquisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct
of the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial condition
or the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel
or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the ourposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b),
or paragraph (c), of Section 5.01 shall occur; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date of November 9, 1979, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Turkiye Sinai Kalkinma
Bankasi A.S
Meclisi Mebusan Caddesi 137-137/1
Findikli
Istanbul, Turkey


﻿- 15 -
Cable address:                       Telex:
KALKINMABANK                        821-22720TSKBTR
Istanbul
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ A. David Knox
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
TURKIYE SINAI KALKINMA BANKASI A.S.
By /s/ Ozhan Eroguz
Authorized Representative


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due     Column 1   Column 2 (expressed in dollars)*
February 15, 1983       -         87,500             87,500
August 15, 1983         -         87,500             87,500
February 15, 1984       -         87,500             87,500
August 15, 1984     1,835,000     87,500          1,922,500
February 15, 1985   1,910,000     87,500          1,997,500
August 15, 1985     1,990,000     87,500          2,077,500
February 15, 1986   2,070,000     87,500          2,157,500
August 15, 1986     2,155,000     87,500          2,242,500
February 15, 1987   2,245,000                     2,245,000
August 15, 1987     2,335,000                     2,335,000
February 15, 1988   2,430,000                     2,430,000
August 15, 1988     2,530,000                     2,530,000
February 15, 1989   2,635,000                     2,635,000
August 15, 1989     2,745,000                     2,745,000
February 15, 1990   2,855,000                     2,855,000
August 15, 1990     2,970,000                     2,970,000
February 15, 1991   3,095,000                     3,095,000
August 15, 1991     3,220,000                     3,220,000
February 15, 1992   3,350,000                     3,350,000
August 15, 1992     3,490,000                     3,490,000
February 15, 1993   3,635,000                     3,635,000
August 15, 1993     3,780,000                     3,780,000
February 15, 1994   3,935,000                     3,935,000
August 15, 1994     4,090,000                     4,090,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 17 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions or to Section 2.09 (a) of the Loan
Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                          Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1.60%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                 3.15%
More than six ye-)rs but not
more than ('.even years
before mar-rity                          5.80%
More than ele- a years but not
more than thirteen years
before mpturity                          6.85%
More than thirteen years
befo-e taturity                          7.90%


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1) The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section 3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time
agree upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and the
application of such prepayment in addition to, or in sub-
stitution for, those set forth in paragraph (b) of Section
3.05."
(2) Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following
new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If: (a) the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b)
by the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03 of
the Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted
under paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall
have been received by the Bank in respect of any portion of
the Loan, or having been so received, shall have been denied,
or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan shall
remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (d) the Bank
shall have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to
Section 6.07 with respect to an amount of the Loan, the
Bank may by notice to the Borrower terminate the right of
the Borrower to submit such applications or requests or to
make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be,
with respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon
the giving of such notice such amount or portion of the Loan
shall be cancelled."


