Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H094 RW 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Decentralization and Community Development Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 30, 2004
Page  2
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H094  RW 
 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated June 30, 2004, between REPUBLIC OF RWANDA    (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter, dated January 22, 2002, 
from the Recipient describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
facilitate conception and implementation of local development actions by local 
government and communities (the Program) and declaring the Recipient’s commitment to 
the execution of the Program; 
(B) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and which forms part of the 
Program, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 5 
to this Agreement, constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
 
“Annual Plan” means the plan of Subprojects (as hereinafter defined) 
submitted each year by the Community Development Committee (as hereinafter defined) 
of a District or Town (as hereinafter defined) to the Project Coordination and Monitoring 
Unit (as hereinafter defined); 
(b)    “Beneficiary” means: (i) a District or Town (as hereinafter defined) 
represented by a CDC to which or for whose benefit a Sub-Grant (as hereinafter defined) 
is made, or proposed to be made; or (ii) a Community-Based Group (as hereinafter 
defined) represented by a CDC to which or for whose benefit a Sub-Grant is made or 
proposed to be made; 
(c)    “Community-Based Group” or “CBG” means any group of two or more 
individuals residing in a Participating District (as hereinafter defined) or Town (as 
hereinafter defined) that organizes itself for the purpose of submitting and implementing 
a
Subproject; 
(d)    “Community Development Committee” or “CDC” means a committee 
comprising the Executive Secretary of a Participating District or Town and elected 
representatives of such District or Town, said Committee established and operating under 
the Recipient’s Ministerial Order No. 003 / 07.04; 
(e)     “Community Development Plan” or “CDP” means a plan prepared by the 
CDC of a Participating District or Town outlining potential development activities for the 
District or Town; 
(f)     “Community Reintegration and Development Project” or “CRDP” means 
the operation of the Association in the territory of the Recipient which had as its 
objectives to assist returnees and other vulnerable groups through a process of 
community-based reintegration and development and to strengthen the capacity of local 
communities and the administration at the communal and national levels for the 
implementation of development projects and which operation closed on June 30, 2003; 
(g)       “Directorate of Local Development Planning and Coordination” means 
the unit within MINALOC responsible for local development planning and coordination; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(h) 
 
“District” means an administrative area of the Recipient, established 
pursuant to the Recipient’s Law No. 04/2001 of January 13, 2001, representing a 
designated area and population within the territory of the Recipient; 
(i)      “District Council” means the administrative organ of a District, established 
and operating pursuant to the Recipient’s Law No. 04/2001 of  January 13, 2001, and 
which is responsible for, 
inter alia
,
approval of the CDP and any grants, bequests, and 
credits made to the District; 
(j)     “Eligible Categories” means the Categories (1) through (5) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(k)    “Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works, and 
consultants’ services referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement; 
(l)     “Environmental and Social Management Framework” or “ESMF” means 
the framework, dated January 2004, satisfactory to the Association, describing measures 
for the mitigation of the potential adverse environmental and social impact of the Project, 
as the same may be updated from time to time with the approval of the Association, to be 
applied by the Recipient in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Part III of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(m)    “Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(n)     “Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the Recipient’s fiscal year, which runs from 
January 1 through December 31; 
(o)    “IAPSO” means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the 
United Nations; 
(p)    “Initial Deposit” means the deposit referred to in Section 6.01 (a) of this 
Agreement; 
(q)     “Manual of Financial and Accounting Procedures” or “MFAP” means the 
manual, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, contained in the Project 
Implementation Manual (as hereinafter defined) and outlining the financial and 
accounting procedures, policies, and guidelines to be followed by the Recipient in Project 
implementation, as the same may be amended from time to time with the concurrence of 
the Association, and such term includes any schedules to the MFAP; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(r) 
 
“Ministry of Local Administration, Community Development, and Social 
Affairs” or “MINALOC” means the agency of the Recipient responsible for 
implementation of the Program; 
(s)     “Monitoring and Evaluation Plan” or “MEP” means the plan, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, contained in the Project Implementation 
Manual and outlining the information management and monitoring and evaluation system 
and indicators to be followed by the Recipient in monitoring and evaluating Project 
implementation, as the same may be amended from time to time with the concurrence of 
the Association, and such term includes any schedules to the MEP; 
(t)   “National Tender Board” means the body established and operating pursuant 
to the Recipient’s Law No. 13/02 of July 29, 1993, as amended by the Recipient’s Law 
No. 91/03 of December 31, 2002, and which is responsible for oversight of the 
application of public procurement laws as well as public procurement policy issued by 
the cabinet; 
(u)     “Partner Agency” means 
a
non-governmental organization or other public 
or private entity established and operating under the laws of the Recipient, selected in 
accordance with the criteria specified in paragraph 4 (d) of Part II of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, to assist CDCs in Participating Districts or Towns in the preparation and 
implementation of Subprojects (as hereinafter defined); 
(v)     “Participating  District”  means  a  District  of  the  Recipient  selected  in 
accordance with the criteria set forth in paragraph 1 (a) of Part II of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; 
(w)    “Participating Province” means a Province of the Recipient in which is 
located a Participating District or Town (as hereinafter defined); 
(x)    “Participating Town” means a Town of the Recipient selected in 
accordance with the criteria set forth in paragraph 1 (a) of Part II of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; 
(y)   “Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.04 of this 
Agreement; 
(z)    “Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit” or “PCMU” means the unit 
established within MINALOC for purposes of the coordination and monitoring of the 
Project in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Part I of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(aa) 
 
“Project Implementation Manual” or “PIM” means the manual adopted by 
the Recipient, and outlining procurement and disbursement arrangements, arrangements 
for environmental and social monitoring, a manual of financial procedures, and other 
administrative and organizational arrangements, as shall have been agreed with the 
Association for purposes of Project implementation, as the same may be amended from 
time to time with the concurrence of the Association, and such term includes any 
schedules to the PIM; 
(bb)   “Project Implementation Plan” or “PIP” means the plan adopted by the 
Recipient, and outlining the conduct of Project implementation through all stages of such 
implementation, as shall have been agreed with the Association for purposes of Project 
implementation, as the same may be amended from time to time with the concurrence of 
the Association, and such term includes any schedules to the PIP; 
(cc)   “Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant to the Letter Agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on November 4, 2003 and on behalf of the Recipient on 
November 14, 2003; 
(dd)   “Project Provincial Officer” or “PPO” means the officer in the PCMU 
responsible for coordination of Project activities with other development activities in the 
Province and for provision of support to the Provincial Coordinating Committee (as 
hereinafter defined); 
(ee)   “Province” means an administrative area of the Recipient, established 
pursuant to the Recipient’s Law No. 43/2000 of December 29, 2000, representing a 
designated area and population within the territory of the Recipient; 
(ff)  
 
“Provincial Coordinating Committee” or “PCC” means the body 
established and operating pursuant to the Recipient’s Law No. 43/2000 of December 29, 
2000, and which is responsible for coordination of development activities in and between 
Districts and Towns; 
(gg)    “Provincial Coordination Office” or “PCO” means the unit established at 
the Province level by the Recipient, through the PCMU, for purposes of provision of 
technical assistance to the provincial administration, including Districts and Towns, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3 of Part I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(hh)   “Provincial Development Plan” or “PDP” means the plan prepared by 
each Province consolidating the CDPs of the Districts and Towns located in such 
Province; 
Page  7
-
6
-
(ii) 
 
“Report-Based Disbursements” means the Recipient’s option for 
withdrawal for funds from the Grant Account referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(jj)    “Rwandan Francs” or “RWF” means the currency of the Recipient;  
(kk)    “Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B.1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
(ll)    “Sub-Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the Recipient 
to a District or Town for the purpose of financing Subprojects; 
(mm)   “Sub-Grant Agreement” means an agreement between the Recipient 
represented by the PCMU and a District or Town, setting forth the terms and conditions 
under which proceeds of the Grant shall be made available to the District or Town for the 
purpose of financing Subprojects; 
(nn)    “Sub-Sub-Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by a District 
or Town to a CBG for the purpose of financing Subprojects;   
(oo)   “Sub-Sub-Grant Agreement” means an agreement between a District or 
Town and a CBG, setting forth the terms and conditions under which proceeds of the 
Grant shall be made available to the CBG for the purpose of financing Subprojects; 
(pp)   “Subproject” means a development activity proposed by a Beneficiary 
under Part C of the Project and financed or to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant; 
(qq)   “Town” means an administrative area of the Recipient, established 
pursuant to the Recipient’s Law No. 05/2001 of January 18, 2001, representing a 
designated area and population within the territory of the Recipient; and 
(rr)    “Town Council” means the administrative organ of a Town, established 
and operating pursuant to the Recipient’s Law No. 05/2001 of January 18, 2001, and 
which is responsible for, 
inter alia
,
the development of such Town. 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE II 
The Grant 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirteen million seven hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (13,700,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: 
(i) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Grant; and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be paid) on account of withdrawals made under Sub-Grants in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for Subprojects and in respect of 
which the withdrawal from the Grant Account is requested. 
(b) 
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The un-withdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03.  (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Grant, not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to 
be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. 
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement or 
Page  9
-
8
-
in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or 
selected pursuant to the provisions of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.04.  Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on April 1 and 
October 1 in each year. 
Section 2.05. The Closing Date of the Grant shall be September 30, 2009
 
or such 
later date as the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall 
carry out, through the MINALOC, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate technical, financial, administrative, and environmental practices, and 
shall provide promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services, and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b)  
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project objective; and 
Page  10
-
9
-
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan.  
Section 3.04. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Recipient shall for purposes of making the counterpart contribution to the financing of 
the Project: 
(a) 
establish and thereafter maintain, until completion of the Project, in 
RWF, a project account in a commercial bank satisfactory to the Association, under terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against, 
set-off, seizure or attachment; 
 
(b) 
(i) deposit into the Project Account an initial amount in accordance with 
the provisions of Article 6.01 (a); and (ii) at annual intervals, replenish the Project 
Account by amounts required to finance the Recipient’s contribution for expenditures 
under the Project as shall be agreed upon between the Recipient and the Association; and  
(c) 
ensure that the funds deposited into the Project Account in accordance 
with paragraph (b) of this Section shall be used exclusively to finance its contribution for 
expenditures under the Project. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to 
the Project. 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and those for the Special Account and Project Account 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, 
Page  11
-
10
-
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and 
(B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were Report-Based Disbursements or made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
(i) 
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
(iv) 
ensure that such reports or statements of expenditures are 
included in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section. 
Section 4.02. Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section IV
 
of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Recipient shall 
prepare, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and furnish 
to the Association an FMR, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(a) 
sets forth actual and projected sources and uses of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, showing separately funds provided under the Grant, and 
explains variances between the actual and projected sources and 
uses of such funds; 
Page  12
-
11
-
(b) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the previously forecast and actual 
implementation targets; and 
(c) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The  first  FMR  shall  be furnished to the Association  not  later  than  45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that an extraordinary situation shall have 
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will 
be carried out. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions, namely that the Recipient has established: 
(a) 
for purposes of making the counterpart contribution to the financing of 
the Project, in RWF, a project account in a commercial bank satisfactory to the 
Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment, and has made an Initial 
Deposit into that account in the amount of $30,000 equivalent; 
(b) 
a financial management system, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, to ensure proper execution and monitoring of Project activities; and 
Page  13
-
12
-
(c) 
four (4) PCOs in accordance with paragraph 3 and 4 of Part I of Schedule 
4
to this Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in 
effect until the Grant has been fully disbursed and the 
parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their obligations 
hereunder. 
Page  14
-
13
-
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 7.01.  The Minister of the Recipient responsible for Finance is designated 
as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning 
P. O. Box 158 
 
Kigali 
 
Republic of Rwanda 
 
Facsimile: (250) 577 581
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477 6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  15
-
14
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF RWANDA 
 
By /s/ Zac NSENGA 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Emmanuel Mbi 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 1
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Sub-Grants and 
5,810,000 
 
100% of amounts 
 Sub-Sub-Grants 
 
 
 
disbursed 
 
(2) 
Goods  
620,000 
 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures and 
90% of local 
expenditures 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services 
1,050,000 
100% of foreign 
 
(including audits) 
 
expenditures and 
85% of local 
expenditures 
 
(4) Training 
3,820,000 
 
100% 
 
(5) Incremental 
operating 
costs 
1,360,000 
 
90% 
 
(6) 
Refunding of the Project 
350,000 
 
      Amount due  
 
Preparation Advance                                                                  pursuant to 
 
Section 2.02 (b) of                    
 
this Agreement 
 
(7) Unallocated 
690,000 
 
_________
TOTAL 13,700,000
Page  17
-
16
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
“Foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory 
of any country other than that of the Recipient; 
(b)  
“Local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient; and 
(c) 
“Incremental operating costs” means the incremental expenses incurred 
by the PCMU and the PCOs on account of Project implementation, management and 
monitoring, including office space rental and utilities, office supplies, bank charges, 
communications, vehicle operation, maintenance and insurance, building and equipment 
maintenance costs, travel and supervision costs, and salaries of supporting staff, but 
excluding salaries of officials of the Recipient’s civil service. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for: 
(a) 
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
(b) 
expenditures under Category (1) of the table in Part A.1 of this Schedule, 
for any Sub-Grant, unless such Sub-Grant has been made in accordance with the 
provisions set forth in Part II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and with the PIM and the 
PIP, and a Sub-Grant Agreement, on the terms and conditions specified in Part II of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement and in the PIM and the PIP, has been duly executed by and 
is binding on the parties thereto, and has become effective. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts 
costing less than $150,000 equivalent each; (b) services of consulting firms under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (c) services of individual 
consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (d) Sub-Grants; (e) 
training not subject to contract; and (f) incremental operating costs, all under such terms 
and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
 
5. 
The Recipient may request withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Association, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient (Report-Based Disbursements).  In 
the case of the first such request submitted to the Association before any withdrawal has 
been made from the Grant Account, the Recipient shall submit to the Association only a 
Page  18
-
17
-
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-
month period following the date of such request. 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of Categories (1) through (5) of the table in 
Part A.1 of this Schedule, open and maintain in US Dollars a special deposit account in 
its Central Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. 
2. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Grant Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
if the Recipient is not making Report-Based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
(b) 
if the Recipient is making Report-Based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account if:  
(a) 
the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in 
Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-Based 
Disbursements;  
(b) 
the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Recipient directly from the 
Grant Account; or 
(c) 
the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
Page  19
-
18
-
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-Based 
Disbursements or made on the basis of statements of expenditure.  
5. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may 
be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Recipient of its determination. 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall 
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or 
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Recipient shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
 
Page  20
-
19
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-Based Disbursements
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $1,500,000 equivalent to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex.
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the 
Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount, as the Recipient shall 
have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part
 
B.3 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures.  Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total un-withdrawn amount of the Grant minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section
 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the 
remaining un-withdrawn amount of the Grant shall follow such procedures, as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be 
Page  21
-
20
-
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  22
-
21
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-Based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the Association into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.  
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Grant, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such reports. 
3. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total un-withdrawn amount of the Grant minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section
 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of 
the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the 
remaining un-withdrawn amount of the Grant shall follow such procedures, as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  23
-
22
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to boost the emergence of a dynamic local 
economy through empowerment of communities to lead their own development process 
under effective local government. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
A. 
Institutional Capacity Building
Strengthening the technical, financial management, organizational and 
operational capacities of the Provincial, District, and Town administrations, CDCs, and 
Community-Based Groups in the Participating Districts and Towns, through the 
provision of technical advisory services and the carrying out of training programs.  
Strengthening participatory planning systems. 
Strengthening the technical, financial management, organizational and 
operational capacities of the PCMU and the PCOs, through the provision of technical 
advisory services and the carrying out of  training programs. 
B.  
Information, Education, and Communication (IEC)
Provision of financial
 
and
 
technical
 
support for development of an IEC strategy 
in relation to the Program and the Project.  Acquisition of equipment, materials and 
supplies to implement IEC activities.  Provision of financial
 
and technical
 
support for 
participatory meetings among representatives of CDCs, and for monitoring and 
evaluation of the Project. 
C. 
Community Development Initiatives
Provision of Sub-Grants for the financing of development activities related to: 
(i) social and economic infrastructure, including health, education, social protection, 
transport, and water supply infrastructure; (ii) a pilot program of income-generating 
projects; and (iii) specialized training based on the local needs of the CDCs and the 
administration of the Participating Districts and Towns. 
D. 
Project Coordination and Monitoring
Page  24
-
23
-
Project coordination and monitoring through the: (a) acquisition of equipment, 
vehicles, materials and supplies for the PCMU and the PCOs; (b) acquisition of supplies 
for Participating Districts and Towns; (c) provision of financial support to National 
Tender Board for delivery of District- and Town-level training
 
in procurement under the 
Project; (d) acquisition of a vehicle and equipment, and financing of related maintenance 
costs for the Directorate of Local Development Planning and Coordination within 
MINALOC; (e) carrying out of external evaluations of the implementation of the Project 
focusing, 
inter alia
,
on
the effectiveness of the participatory methods of the Project and 
its administrative arrangements and mechanisms; and (f) carrying out of financial and 
technical audits of the Project. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2009. 
Page  25
-
24
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I
.
Procurement of Good and Works
A. General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, 
September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section. 
B. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of 
this Section, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 
thereto.  
C. 
Other Procurement Procedures
.
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
.
Goods under Parts A, B, and D of the Project 
estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, goods under Part C of the 
Project estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or more, and works under Part C of the 
Project estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines. 
2. 
International or National Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international/national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
 
3. Direct 
Contracting
.
Works under Part C of the Project estimated to cost $5,000 
equivalent or less per contract, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
4. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
.
Goods, including computers and vehicles, 
estimated to cost less than $250,000 equivalent per contract may be procured from the 
IAPSO in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
 
Page  26
-
25
-
5. Community 
Participation
.
Works under Part C of the Project estimated to cost 
less than $5,000 equivalent per contract shall be procured in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association. 
6. Procurement 
of 
Small 
Works
.
Works under Part C of the Project estimated to 
cost more than $5,000 equivalent per contract and less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of 
quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including 
basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable 
to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to 
the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has 
the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
.
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for 
contracts, the proposed annual procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
.
With respect to the first three contracts for goods under Parts A, 
B, and D of the Project estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, the 
first three contracts for goods under Part C of the Project estimated to cost $30,000 
equivalent per contract or more, and the first three contracts for works under Part C of the 
Project estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more per contract, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  
3. Post 
Review
.
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
A. General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Recipients” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
Page  27
-
26
-
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto; and (b) the following provisions of this 
Section. 
B. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section
 
II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the 
shortlist of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
C. 
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for financial audits estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services of consultants may, with the Association’s 
prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 
3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services of individual consultants shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines.  
D. 
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
.
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include 
contract cost estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and 
procedures, shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the 
issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals.  Selection of all consultants’ 
Page  28
-
27
-
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review 
and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
also apply to such contracts. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consultants procured 
under Section C.3 of this Part II, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
 
3. Post 
Review
.
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of 
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  29
-
28
-
SCHEDULE 4
 
Implementation Program 
I. 
Overall Project Coordination and Monitoring
1. 
The PCMU shall be responsible for the overall implementation of the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, the PIM, including the MFAP, and the 
PIP.  The PCMU shall: (a) evaluate and approve Annual Plans submitted by the Districts 
or Towns; (b) make disbursements of Sub-Grants to Districts or Towns under the Project 
and maintain adequate financial records with respect to such Sub-Grants; (c) prepare and 
submit 
replenishment 
requests 
and 
withdrawal 
applications 
to 
the 
Association;              
(d) monitor the implementation of the Project and submit the required technical, financial 
and other reports to MINALOC and to the Association; and (e) initiate studies and 
capacity building efforts necessary for the achievement of the objectives of the Project 
and monitor its implementation. 
 
2.  
The Recipient shall, not later than sixty (60) days after the date of this 
Agreement, appoint to the following positions in the PCMU persons having qualifications 
and experience satisfactory to the Association: (a) a Capacity Building, Participation, and 
Communications Officer, (b) and a Management and Information Systems Officer.  The 
Recipient shall ensure that, at all times during the execution of the Project, the PCMU is 
staffed by persons having qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association, 
including (a) a National Project Coordinator,               (b) a Financial Controller, and (c) 
support staff. 
3. 
The PCMU shall be represented in the Recipient’s Participating Provinces by a 
PCO.  The Recipient shall, not later than sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement, 
establish a PCO, in form and substance and with resources and functions satisfactory to 
the Association, in each of the four (4) Participating Provinces covered in their entirety 
by the Project.  The Recipient shall ensure that the PCMU is represented by one of the 
four PCOs in the fifth Participating Province. 
4. 
The Recipient shall ensure that, at all times during Project implementation: 
(a) each PCO shall be staffed by a PPO and an accountant, each having qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Association; and (b) at least two Infrastructure Officers 
having qualifications and experience, including in relation to procurement, satisfactory to 
the Association are available, each appointed to a separate PCO, to provide technical 
assistance to Participating Districts and Towns through all stages of the Participating 
Districts’ and Towns’ Subprojects. 
Page  30
-
29
-
5.  
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ 
services required for the PCMU and the PCOs and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
6. 
The PCOs shall support the PCC in providing guidance and training to their 
respective Participating Districts and Towns.  The PCOs shall provide to the PCCs and 
their respective Participating Districts and Towns technical assistance and training in 
planning, IEC, financial management, procurement, environmental and social assessment 
and mitigation, monitoring and evaluation and other areas as required.  The PCOs shall 
ensure that Project funds are managed in accordance with the provisions of this 
Agreement, the PIM and the PIP and shall arrange financial audits.  The PCOs shall 
monitor and report on activities in their respective Participating Districts and Towns and 
in their respective Participating Provinces in accordance with the Project’s MEP.  The 
PCOs shall assist the PCCs in coordinating Project activities with sector ministries and 
Partner Agencies.  
7. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall: (i) apply the 
criteria, policies, procedures, guidelines and standard contracts set out in the PIM and PIP 
in the carrying out of the Project; and (ii) not amend or waive the PIM or PIP, or any 
provision thereof, in a manner which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially or 
adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
 
II. 
 
Identification and Approval of Subprojects
1. 
 
General Framework: CDPs
(a) 
Participating Districts and Towns shall be those selected by MINALOC 
in accordance with the following criteria and as more fully specified in the PIM.  The 
Project shall cover: (i) at least thirty-nine (39) Districts, including the eleven (11) 
Districts of the CRDP; (ii) four (4) entire Provinces; and (iii) a mix of peri-urban and 
rural Districts and Towns.  The Recipient, through the PCMU, shall verify the existence 
of a CDP and suitable development planning capacity in a Participating District or Town 
before disbursing funds. 
(b) 
Subprojects proposed for funding under the Project must derive from the 
CDP of the Participating Districts or Towns.  These CDPs shall promote the following 
principles: (i) self-sufficiency of the population; (ii) participation of all stakeholders in 
development activities; (iii) reinforcement of local capacity to implement and manage 
activities to reduce poverty; (iv) awareness of gender equity and the protection of 
vulnerable persons; (v) community participation in development as a process for conflict 
resolution locally and nationally; and (vi) maximization of opportunities for labor-
intensive works through small infrastructure projects. 
Page  31
-
30
-
(c)  
Each CDP shall contain: (i) a description of the methodology used to 
prepare the Plan; (ii) a brief description of the relevant District or Town and the status of 
its economy and its economic and social infrastructure; (iii) a reference to the national 
development and poverty reduction efforts which impact the District or Town, and an 
analysis of the District or Town’s specific needs; and (iv) a phased and cost-calculated 
program of priority development activities, based on the needs expressed by the District 
or Town.  A CDP shall not be implemented unless approved by the District or Town 
Council. 
2. 
Identification of Subprojects
The CDC shall identify specific Subprojects from amongst the priority 
development activities set out in the CDP, to incorporate into the Annual Plan.  The 
Annual Plan shall include a list, description, budget and implementation and 
disbursement schedule of the proposed Subprojects, and a description of the role that the 
Beneficiaries will play in the implementation of the Subprojects.  The Plan shall be sent 
to the PCC for further action. 
 3. 
Approval of Subprojects
(a) 
The PCC reviews the Annual Plan of the CDC to ensure that agreed 
criteria set out in the PIM have been applied.  The PCC shall verify whether said plan: 
(i) is in conformity with the CDP applicable to the Participating District or Town in 
which the CDC is located; and (ii) envisages activities that reflect the needs and 
preferences of the populations of the Participating Districts or Towns and can be 
implemented in accordance with the timetable and disbursement schedule included in the 
Plan.  Once verified, the CDC’s Annual Plan is transmitted by the PCC to the PCMU. 
(b) 
Upon receipt of a CDC’s Annual Plan from a PCC, the PCMU verifies 
conformity with the agreed criteria for the Project set out in the PIM.  The PCMU shall 
enter into a Sub-Grant Agreement with the District or Town, in accordance with the 
terms and conditions specified in the model agreements contained in the PIM, which shall 
include the following: (i) the obligation of the District or Town to carry out the 
implementation of the Subprojects in the Annual Plan
 
with due diligence and efficiency, 
in accordance with the PIM as well as sound technical, financial, environmental, social 
impact, and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records to reflect, in 
accordance with sound economic practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in 
respect of every Subproject financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; (ii) the requirement 
that the goods, works and services to be financed from the proceeds of the Grant shall be 
procured in accordance with the procedures set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, 
and such goods, works and services shall be used exclusively for the purpose of carrying 
out of the Subprojects; (iii) the right of the Recipient to inspect by itself, or jointly with 
the Association, if the Association shall so request, the goods, works, sites, plants and 
Page  32
-
31
-
construction included in any Subproject, the operations thereof and any relevant records 
and documents; (iv) the right of the Recipient to obtain all information as the Recipient or 
the Association shall reasonably request regarding the administration, operation and 
financial condition of any Subproject; and (v) the right of the Recipient to suspend or 
terminate the right of the District or Town to use the proceeds of the Grant for a 
Subproject upon the failure by the District or Town to perform any of its obligations.  
 
(c) 
The Recipient shall, through the PCMU, cause each Participating District 
or Town to open and maintain an account at a commercial bank satisfactory to the 
Association on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate 
protection against seizure, set-off, or attachment.  Such accounts shall be separate from 
any other accounts of the Participating Districts or Towns, and only funds from the 
Special Account shall be deposited therein.  Advances shall be made by the PCMU to a 
Participating District or Town upon signature of the Sub-Grant Agreement between the 
PCMU and the Participating District or Town.  Each subsequent advance shall be 
contingent upon satisfactory justification of the preceding period's advance with 
sufficient financial and technical reporting to ensure that cost overruns or unexecuted 
Subprojects are identified. 
4. 
Preparation and Implementation of  Subprojects
Preparation and implementation of Subprojects shall be subject to the following 
procedures: 
 
(a) 
Subprojects shall be prepared by the CDC within the framework of the 
CDP.  They shall be reviewed by the PCO of the relevant Participating Province to ensure 
that they have been prepared and appraised in accordance with the criteria, policies and 
procedures set forth in the PIM. 
 
(b) 
Subprojects shall be prepared by a Community-Based Group, with the 
assistance of a Partner Agency if necessary, and submitted to the CDC for its evaluation 
in accordance with the criteria specified in the PIM and approval.  The decision 
approving the Subproject shall set forth the rights and obligations of the CDC and the 
Beneficiary of the Sub-Grant, in particular, the obligation of the Beneficiary of the Sub-
Grant to carry out the implementation of the Subproject with due diligence and efficiency 
and the right of the CDC and the PCO of the Participating Province and the PCMU to 
monitor and inspect the implementation of the Subproject by the Beneficiary and its 
Partner Agency.  In addition, a CDC may require a Beneficiary of a Sub-Grant to make 
financial contributions, in such manner as shall be determined by the CDC, to a 
community revolving fund as may be set up by the CDC or a CDC-approved Partner 
Agency, once the Subproject starts generating income.  The CDC shall communicate to 
any CBG whose proposal for a Subproject was rejected the reasons for such rejection and 
invite it to re-submit its proposal after making necessary changes if the rejection was due 
to technical deficiencies in the proposal. 
Page  33
-
32
-
(c) 
A CDC may contract a Partner Agency to assist in the preparation and 
implementation of a Subproject, including on behalf of a Beneficiary of a Sub-Grant.  
Such contract shall provide, 
inter alia
,
for: (i) specific terms of reference for the Partner 
Agency based on the requirements of the Subproject;  (ii) the terms of payments by the 
CDC to the Partner Agency, which shall be based on a predetermined payment schedule 
that shall be part of every Subproject proposal; and (iii)  the right of the CDC to withhold 
payments to the Partner Agency and suspend or terminate the activities under the 
Subproject if the Partner Agency fails to comply with its obligations under the contract.  
Payments for expenditures incurred for Subprojects shall be effected by the CDC on 
behalf of Beneficiaries of Sub-Grants in accordance with the procedures set forth in the 
PIM. 
 
(d)      Potential Partner Agencies shall be required to have: (i) proven experience 
in comparable community development activities in the territory of the Recipient and in 
participatory project design and implementation; (ii) proven technical expertise in their 
area of intervention; (iii) adequate financial and administrative capacity; and (iv) been 
registered and have the legal capacity to contract under the laws of the Recipient. 
(e)  
The CDCs shall supervise the implementation of the Subprojects, 
manage funds for the Subprojects, and ensure that there is adequate capacity in the 
Participating District or Town to implement the Subprojects in accordance with the 
provisions of the PIM. 
(f) 
The Recipient shall, through the PCMU and the PCO of the Participating 
Province, ensure that all procurement and contracting of consultants' services to be 
undertaken by CDCs and Partner Agencies for specific Subprojects are carried out in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement and the PIM. 
 
(g) 
The Recipient shall closely monitor the performance of CDCs and 
Partner Agencies and, to that end, shall require adequate reports from them and shall, 
through the PCMU and the PCO of the Participating Province, undertake visits to the 
Participating Districts and Towns and to the local offices of the Partner Agencies. 
III. Safeguard 
Policies
1. 
The Recipient shall, through the PCMU and the PCO of the Participating 
Provinces, ensure that the Project is implemented in accordance with the provisions of the 
ESMF, PIM, and PIP, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall not amend or waive any provision of the aforementioned if such amendment or 
waiver may, in the opinion of the Association, materially or adversely affect Project 
implementation. 
Page  34
-
33
-
IV. 
Monitoring and Evaluation
Annual Work Plans and Budgets
1. 
The Recipient shall, through the PCMU, furnish to the Association as soon as 
available, but in any case not later than June 15 of each year, the annual work plan and 
budget for each subsequent Fiscal Year following FY 2004, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, with confirmation of 
availability of the Recipient’s contribution for expenditures under the Project for that 
Fiscal Year. 
Annual Reviews
2. 
The Recipient shall:  
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the provisions of the MEP and 
indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about April 30 and October 30
 
in each year, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph
 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Association, by May 15 and November 15 in each year, 
or such later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) 
of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter. 
 
Midterm Reviews
3. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
Page  35
-
34
-
(a) 
carry out jointly with the Association, no later than thirty-six (36) months 
after the Effective Date, a mid-term review to assess the status of Project implementation, 
as measured against the project development indicators referred to in Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.  Such review shall include an assessment of the following: (i) overall 
progress in the implementation of the Project; (ii) results of monitoring and evaluation 
activities; (iii) the Subprojects and the work plans; and (iv) progress on procurement and 
disbursements; and make adjustments to the Project and reallocate funds to improve 
performance, if needed; 
(b) 
prepare and furnish to the Association, through MINALOC, three (3) 
months before such review, a report, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Association, 
needed to undertake the review, integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of the said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c) 
review, jointly with the Association, the report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section and thereafter take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based 
on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views 
on the matter. 
Page  36
-
35
-
SCHEDULE 5 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04 (a), 3.04 (b), 3.05, 6.05, Article VII, are deleted in their 
entirety. 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to 
read as follows: 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”; 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”; 
(c) 
The term “credit” is modified to read “grant”; except that where used in 
Sections 6.02 (a) (ii) and 6.02 (c) (i), as modified below, the term 
“credit” shall continue to read “credit”;  
(d) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”; and 
(e) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
3. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
(a) 
Section 4.02 (a) and the heading of Section 4.02 are modified to read as 
follows: 
“
Section 4.02  Currencies in which Commitment Charges are Payable
 
(i)      The Recipient shall pay the commitment charge on the Grant in the 
currency specified in the Development Grant Agreement or in 
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of 
this Section.” 
Page  37
-
36
-
(i) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02 (c) and (e) of the General 
Conditions the words “principal and service charges” are 
modified to read “commitment charge”. 
(a) 
Section 4.03 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“
Section 4.03.  Amount of the Grant
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the 
equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective dates 
of withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn.” 
 
4. 
Section 6.02 is modified as follows: 
(a) 
The phrase “any other development credit agreement” in 
 
Section 6.02 (a) (ii) is modified to read:  “any other development grant 
agreement or any development credit agreement or development 
financing agreement”. 
(b) 
The phrase “any development credit agreement” in Section 6.02 (c) (i) is 
modified to read:  “any development grant agreement, development 
credit agreement or development financing agreement”. 
 
5. 
The words “The principal of, and any other charges on” in paragraph (a) of 
Section 8.01 are modified to read “The commitment charge on”. 
6. 
 Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 is modified to read as follows: 
“(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date 
as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the 
Association, the Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project, 
its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the 
performance by the Recipient and the Association of their respective 
obligations under the Development Grant Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Grant.” 
Page  38
-
37
-
7. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
“Section 12.05.
 
Termination of Development Grant Agreement. 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant 
Agreement shall terminate on the date 20 years after the date of the 
Development Grant Agreement.” 
Page  39
-
38
-
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators
 
At Midterm Review: 
1. 
100% of CDCs and Participating Districts and Towns have completed training in 
priority setting, project planning, financial management, monitoring and evaluation, 
problem resolution and the participatory development planning process; 
2. 
30% of the Participating Districts and Towns and local stakeholders such as 
CDCs and civil society organizations express satisfaction with their District or Town 
participatory development planning process, as reflected in a beneficiary assessment to be 
conducted by an individual consultant at Midterm Review; and 
3. 
40% of Participating Districts and Towns have implemented or are implementing 
Subprojects in accordance with proposals made in their CDPs.
 
