E878
THE GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(DCDP)
One voice among many voices of Rwanda's poor.
I lost my husband and our house during the genocide. I am living with relatives. I am poor because I am
not educated and have no skills to offer. Therefore I am unemployable and unemployed. The small piece of
land I have access to is infertile, I cannot afford to cultivate it with the required inputs to guarantee enough
produce to feed and sustain my self and my children. I am forced whenever I have some money, to make
choices between buying food or taking my sick children to the health center or paying for water. Sometimes,
we go for days without eating. When there are micro-credit opportunities in my area, I do not qualify because
I have no assets to provide security and only the better-off get access to micro-credit.
What I need to lift me out of poverty is training to acquire skills, so that I become employable or more
productive Then I need micro-credit so that I can engage in petty business/trading. I believe with this I can
increase my income and pray that from then on I can feed my family, including the two orphaned children
(victims of the genocide) I am looking after. I dream that one day I can send them to school so that they will
have a better life than 1. X
Margaret Nyiramafaranga
From Butare Province, Rwanda, (November 2003).
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT
FRAMEWORK
(FINAL DRAFT FEBRUARY 2004)
James Orehmie Monday
is         -^^



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA         ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Lists of Acronyms ...............................................................  1
1.0 Executive Summary.                                                1
2.0 Introduction.                                                     9
3.0   Description of Proposed Project .10
4.0   Methodology and Consultation .12
5.0 Baseline Data .14
6.0   Description of World Bank Environmental .27
7.0   Description of the Administrative, Policy, Legislative .30
8.0   Determination of Potential Environmental and Social .43
9.0   Institutional Assessment & Framework .51
10.0  Procedure for Sub-project's Planning, Review and Approval .57
11.0 Monitoring and Evaluation .63
12.0 Consultation Framework .70
13.0 Analysis of Alternatives .74
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1.0 List of Official & Members of Local Communities ..................................... 76
ANNEX 2.0 Summary of World Bank Environmental & Social Safeguard Policies ...... 80
ANNEX 3.0 Environmental & Social Screening Form .................................................. 83
ANNEX 4.0 Environmental & Social Mitigation Measures Checklist ............................ 88
ANNEX 5.0 Environmental Mitigation Plan for DCDP .................................................. 90
ANNEX  6.0  A  Social Report ......................................................................................... 91
ANNEX 7.0  Map of Rwanda ................................................................................. . 110



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA           ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
LISTS OF ACRONYMS
CDC          -      Community Development Committee
CRDP         -      Community Reintegration and Development Project
DCDP         -      Decentralization and Community Development Project
ESMF         -      Environmental and Social Management Framework
IPDP         -      Indigenous Peoples Development Plan
MINALOC      -      Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and Social Affairs
PCMU         -      Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit
PPCMU        -      Provincial Project Coordination and Management Unit
REMA         -      Rwanda Environment Management Authority



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
1.0   EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1.1   General Country Status
Rwanda is small mountainous landlocked country, well endowed with a rich diversity of
natural resources in the form of many rivers, lakes, wetlands, and a wide variety of
animal species and flora. A country located in Central Africa, at latitude 2 00 S and
lonrgitude 30 00 E, Rwanda is bordered to its south by Burundi for about 290km,
Tanzania to its east for 217 km, Uganda to its north for 169km and the Democratic
Republic of Congo ( DRC, formerly Zaire) to its west for 217 km. Rwanda has a total
surface area of 26, 338 sq. km of which the total land area is 24, 948 sq. km and 1, 390
sq. km is water.
Rwanda is also often referred to as the country of a "thousand hills" ( mille collines ),
because of its numerous highly dissected hills, often with flat peaks and convex slopes,
separated by relatively narrow valleys, with the lowest altitude of 950m at Rusizi River
and the highest altitude at Mount Karisimbi of 4,519 m. The average altitude is 1,250 m
above sea level.
Notwithstanding, Rwanda remains a poor country. The legacies of the 1994 genocide
continue to weigh heavily on the social and economic recovery of Rwanda. The
genocide and the preceding civil conflicts impoverished the Rwandese people and
increased their vulnerability, particularly the widows and orphans of the genocide,
recently returned refugees, resettled internally displaced persons (IDP's), and the
families of the detained 120,000 ( at the peak) suspects of crimes of genocide. In 2000,
40% of children between the ages of 7-14 were orphans ( who have lost at least one
parent) . Mental health problems, largely the result of the horrors of the genocide and its
aftermath, are widespread in a society that is not equipped to deal with it. A 1995
UNICEF survey found that 96% witnessed violence during the genocide, 88% saw dead
bodies or parts of bodies, and 70% witnessed someone being killed or injured.
A recent survey of the population also found that poverty/economic hardship, security,
health care, and lack of trust/sincerity as the major social problems. The loss of social
capital and community solidarity that help to cope with poverty has increased social and
economic vulnerability. The rebuilding of the social fabric will take time; continued
assistance to reintegrate the vulnerable populations and the rapid expansion of
economic opportunities will accelerate the process.
The largest loss of the genocide was in human resources, with close to a million people
killed, two million driven into exile, over a hundred thousand in prison, and thousands
handicapped physically and mentally. The professional and technically skilled people
(i.e. doctors, teachers, nurses, etc.) were singled out for killing in the genocide. While the
majority of the refugees have returned, the educated and qualified among them have
largely remained in exile. About 800,000 exiled Rwandese, refugees or descendants of
refugees from the ethnic violence of 1959, 1962 and 1973-74 returned to Rwanda after
the genocide, bringing with them new skills and cultures.
In spite of all of these seemingly insurmountable problems, The Government of Rwanda
remains focused on and committed to the fight against poverty and to the re-building of
social capital, which is focused in its PRSP. Part of this strategy is the implementation of



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
the decentralization policy. Decentralization and Community Development Project
(DCDP) is designed and structured to build upon the modest gains achieved so far in the
decentralization process as a tool to bringing sustainable social and economic services
to its people.
1.2   Project Objectives
In line with this strategy and following the successful implementation of the Community
Reintegration and Development Project (CRDP), the GoR requested the World Bank for
support of its Decentralization and Community Development Project (DCDP).
The Project Development Objective (PDO) of the DCDP is to stabilize and expand the
capacity of local government and communities to identify and finance their own
development priorities to engender economic growth and reduce poverty according to
the Government's decentralization policy.
The main development objective of the project is to strengthen and scale up the CRDP,
through a CDD approach to development investment, using a transparent and
sustainable mechanism that decentralizes planning, project cycle management and
financial management to Districts and Community Development Committees (CDCs).
The CRDP, financed through a Learning and Innovation Loan, is recognized as "best
practice" in providing a foundation for the decentralization program of the Government of
Rwanda. Progress toward the development objective of the DCDP will more than triple
the CRDP's geographic coverage (increase from 11 to 39 Districts) and boost the
emergence of a more dynamic local economy through empowered communities leading
their own local development process. The new project therefore supports a phased
program for Rwanda to progress over 10-15 years to the final vision for decentralization
that empowers communities and local governments, realigns the central government's
mandate, and improves accountability.
The Specific Objectives of the DCDP are;
* Implementing a mechanism to decentralize planning, project cycle management
and financial management to District and Community Development Committee
(CDC) level, to enable local governments and communities to identify and
finance their own development priorities.
* Testing the mechanism for decentralization, to reinforce their ownership of these
investments, and
* Strengthening the capacity of CDCs, local and central government levels to
facilitate and implement the community -demand-driven development projects.
2



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.3   Project Description
The proposed DCDP is structured to achieve its objectives within three major investment
components of the project, which are:
* Component 1: Institutional Capacity Building
Institutional and capacity building at local and other levels to reinforce the functional
framework of decentralization. The project aims to finance participatory assessments in
rural and urban areas, and training to strengthen, broaden and deepen capacities of
government and communities to plan, manage and finance the delivery of services to
their constituents, including assistance to implement the sub-projects in locally
conceived development plans. This would include the establishment of;
(i)     adequate accountability and control mechanisms at the sub-
national level of government, particularly in the Districts;
(ii)    a monitoring and evaluation system in the Prefectures, Districts
and more local levels targeted by the project to complement the
central  government  framework  for  tracking  the  PRSP
implementation;
(iii)   comprehensive training and capacity building for the sub-national
levels of government, in particular, in administrative and financial
management.
* Component 2: Communication, Information and Education
This will develop messages of two kinds: (i) on laws , regulations, roles and rights of
decentralization; and (ii) specifically on the objectives, scope, and means of participation
in the project. The communications strategy will also support the project's participatory
monitoring and evaluation, including "social audits" for feedback from the communities
on project process and results.
* Component 3: Community Initiatives
Each of the participating Districts will receive a specified average amount of grant
financing to be used for;
(i)   capacity building for preparing development plans and sub projects
(infrastructure sub-projects and other activities that directly address
social development in the areas of education, health, water and
sanitation, nutrition, and social protection);
(ii)  implementation of sub projects, and
(iii)  income generating sub-projects.
3



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
There will also be:
* Component 4: Project Coordination and Monitoring
Provision of critical equipment, materials and supplies to the coordination unit for the
project (ministry and decentralized levels), as well as covering its operating costs for it to
carry out coordination and monitoring responsibilities. Finance two external evaluations
(mid-term and final) and annual external audits. Operations research, monitoring and
evaluation will be included in each of the above components to make sure that the
ministry and all participants in the decentralized process can gauge progress and make
adjustments, to bring the desired results.
1.4   Participating Districts and Prefectures.
The DCDP will more than triple the number of districts which participated in the CRDP,
from 11 to 39 The DCDP will continue to operate in the original 11 districts and in 28
new districts. The 39 districts are in Butare, Byumba, Gikongoro, Gisenyi and Umutara
Prefectures.
1.5   Environmental and Social Requirements
The GoR by its national laws and the World Banks Operational and Procedural Policies,
specifically OP 4.01 requires the government to prepare a Environment and Social
Management Framework , ESMF, which establishes a mechanism to determine and
assess future potential environmental and social impacts of the participating Districts'
subproject investments under the proposed DCDP, and then to set out mitigation,
monitoring and institutional measures to be taken during design, implementation and
operation of these subprojects to eliminate adverse environmental and social impacts,
offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels. This is precisely what is required at this
stage of project preparation since the district subprojects have not yet been identified.
OP 4.01 further requires that the ESMF report must be disclosed as a separate and
stand alone by the Government of Rwanda and the World Bank as a condition for Bank
Appraisal of the DCDP. The disclosure of these documents should be both in Rwanda at
locations and through media, where it can be accessed by the general public and local
communities and at the Infoshop of the World Bank and the date for disclosure must
precede the date for appraisal of the project.
1.6   Highlights of the ESMF
The highlights in this ESMF report are presented as follows:
* Detailed and comprehensive environmental and social baseline data which will
provide the environmental and social management process with key baseline
information when identifying adverse impacts. The information contains data on
Rwanda's bio-physical environmental features such as its ecosystems, geology,
hydrology in terms of ground and surface water resources, major and sensitive
wetlands, flora and fauna. The report also presents the socio-cultural and political
4



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
context of Rwanda with a special attention to demographics, the main features of
poverty, the post-genocidal environment, and the status of the Batwa. .
-     A thorough review of the World Banks Safeguards Policies is made
with respect to the project's activities and participatory, bottom up
approach. Only the safeguards policy OP 4.01 Environmental
Assessment is applicable for the DCDP
* Table 6.1 presents a summary of the measures taken to ensure compliance of
the project with safeguards policies.  Specific environmental and social
mitigations measures described in this report are: the procedure for sub-project's
proposal, selection, and approval; the monitoring and evaluation disposition, the
consultation framework, and a screening form. Summary of the findings and
recommendations of the ESMF is outlined in Annex 2.0 of this report.
* The administrative, policy, legislative and regulatory framework in Rwanda for
Decentralization in particular and for environmental management in general is
presented in chapter 7.0.
*  Generic potential adverse environmental and social concerns and impacts from
anticipated project activities with root and immediate causes is presented in
detail in Section 8.0
* The roles and responsibilities of key institutions and players for the purposes of
this ESMF are discussed in Chapter 9.0 and they are;
- Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit (PCMU) will perform a
central processing and coordination role between the Prefectures and
REMA on the activities of the Districts and Local Communities by being a
channel for receiving, compiling and processing periodic monitoring
reports and for issuing necessary guidelines. In addition, the PCMU will
monitor the social aspects of the sub projects to ensure that poverty
targets are being met. The PCMU will report to the World Bank.
-     Rwanda Environment Management Authority (REMA): One of the
primary responsibilities of the newly established REMA is to ensure
that all major development projects in Rwanda are subject to
mandatory Environmental Impact Assessment (ESIA) pursuant to the
new law establishing REMA. REMAs limited role will be to
ensure/verify; (i) that the DCDP is being implemented consistent with
the provisions of this ESMF, (ii) that the Prefecture's are monitoring
the activities of the Districts and Local Communities during
construction and post-construction ( i.e. operations stage) at all
locations in the Prefectures in which the Districts and Local
Communities have their sub projects, (iii) that the cumulative impacts
at the National level from the impacts of the multiple sub projects at
the District level are adequately mitigated and monitored at the
national level. REMA will report to the PCMU and will receive the
periodic monitoring reports of the Prefectures through and
5



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
from the PCMU. The activities of the REMA will be coordinated by the
PCMU.
The Prefectures are to be responsible for; (i) ensuring the activities
planned under this DCDP by the Districts and Local Communities comply
with Rwanda's environmental laws and requirements, and that of the
World Bank's Safeguards Policies, (ii) for receiving, reviewing and
commenting, requiring revisions where necessary and clearing of district
sub project's completed environmental and social screening form and
checklists (iii) carrying out a regular and intrusive monitoring regime of the
planning, implementation, construction, operations and maintenance
stages of the Districts and Local Communities sub projects (iii) for
preparing periodic monitoring reports on the sub projects of the Districts
and Local Communities at all stages of operations and to send these
reports on a regular basis to the PCMU who will then process them and
send them to the REMA and World Bank, (v) to comply with (consistent
with national laws) the directives of REMA and PCMU, (vi) to issue
directives to the Districts consistent with national laws on environmental
requirements.
The Districts will be responsible ; (i) for complying with all national laws
regarding the environment and with all social/poverty guidelines,
parameters and targets set by the project, and all World Bank Safeguards
policies, (ii) to implement this project consistent with the provisions of this
ESMF, implementing, inter alia, all appropriate mitigation measures
identified in the environmental and social screening form and checklist
into the project planning cycle, technical and engineering designs and
drawings, and civil works contracts, etc. (iv) to ensure that these
mitigation measures are complied with during construction and post
construction (i.e. operations ) stages of their activities, by self monitoring
of their activities and by periodically reporting to its Prefecture and , (v) to
maintain an adequate budget to implement the appropriate maintenance
procedures and practices of their operations required to ensure relevant
mitigation measures identified in the environmental and social screening
form and checklist are implemented and sustained in the sub projects and
(vi) to comply with any directives that may be issued from time to time
from the PCMU, REMA and Prefecture.
In the few cases where local communities would be implementing their
own sub projects the Districts will still be required to perform these roles.
Section 9 also proposes a training program at a Cost of US$ 87,500.
* The Environmental and Management Process is contained in Section 10.0 with
the following key features/steps;
Step 1:     District CDC's will screen their own sub projects to identify adverse
environmental and social impacts using the screening form in Annex 3
and the checklist in Annex 4.
6



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA            ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Step 2:       Then the District CDC's will introduce into the sub project design the
required measures to mitigate impacts identified from use of the
screening form and checklist before submission of the sub project design
to the respective Prefecture for review and subsequent environmental
and social clearance.
Step 3:       The Prefecture1 will review and clear the sub projects by ensuring sub
project designs have identified environmental and social impacts,
mitigated these impacts and have monitoring plans and institutional
measures to be taken during implementation and operation.
Chapter 11.0 contains a detailed Monitoring and evaluation plan, with verifiable
indicators, monitoring roles and responsibilities and costs to implement this plan.
Chapter 12.0 presents a Consultation framework.
A summary of the costs is presented below.
Cost in US $ for Implementing the Monitoring and evalution
Service Providers  Equipment2      Vehicles3       Total
(for 3years)
Districts     750/district/year               3,000/district  204,750
(39no.)
Prefectures  1,500/prefecture/year                             18,000
(5no.)
REMA4
(1 no.)
PCMU            5,000/year                         -           15,000
(1 no.)
Total            120,750                        117,000     US$237,750
Table 1.1
The Prefecture only clears the sub projects for environmental and social management. Sub projects are
approved by the District Council once they are cleared by the Prefecture from an environmental and social
management standpoint.
2Equipment cost included in overall project budget elsewhere.
3 One motorcycle per district. The cost of vehicles for the PCMU is included else in the project budget.
4 REMA may be able to seek technical assistance from the IDA Multi-Sector Capacity Building Project.
7



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA      ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost for Environmental and Social Management of the
Table 1.2                      DCDP
(in US$)
Monitoring and evaluation Plan  237,750
This       Training                         87,500              means
that       Total Costs                     325,250
approximately US$325,250 or 1.6% of the total budget for the DCDP has to be set
aside/budgeted for implementing this Environmental and Social Management
Framework (ESMF).
8



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
2.0 INTRODUCTION
The Government of Rwanda (GoR) has asked the World Bank for support its
Decentralization and Community Development Project (DCDP), as a follow on operation
to its recently completed Community Reintegration and Development Project, (CRDP).
The activities the DCDP will be financing that would give rise for environmental and
social concern were not identifiable during the preparation of the project, as the project is
designed using a CDD approach to development planning, project cycle management
and financial management to Districts and Community Development Committees.
Therefore, in compliance with national laws of Rwanda and the World Bank's
Safeguards Policies, the GoR, represented by the Ministry of Local Government,
Information and Social Affairs, (MINALOC) has prepared this Environmental and Social
Management Framework (ESMF), to establish a mechanism to determine and assess
future potential environmental and social impacts of the DCDP, and to set out mitigation,
monitoring and institutional measures to be taken during implementation and operations
of the proposed investments, to eliminate their adverse environmental and social
impacts, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels. The GoR is also required to
disclose this document in-country as a separate and stand alone document so that it is
accessible by the general public, local communities, other non participating Districts,
potential project affected people, local NGO's and all other stakeholders and also at the
Infoshop of the World Bank. The date for disclosure must precede the date for appraisal
of the project.
Since the project investments mentioned above have not yet been identified, each
District that participates in this project will be required to implement the requirements of
this ESMF in full, an environmental and social management process that would then
subsequently have to be cleared by their Respective District Council and Prefecture and
in some cases, the World Bank, prior to approval of their planned sub project
investments. This use of this ESMF by the Districts would be the instrument through
which the sub project's environmental and social impacts are identified, assessed,
evaluated and appropriately mitigated, managed; and monitoring measures designed
and incorporated within the sub project itself.
2.1         Scope of Work
The scope of work is to:
* Prepare an Environmental and Social Management and Framework (ESMF)
This ESMF presents a framework for screening, monitoring and mitigating potential
impacts.
9



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
3.0 DESCRIPTION OF PROPOSED PROJECT
The Project Development Objective (PDO): The Decentralization and Community
Development Project (DCDP) aims to stabilize and expand the capacity of local
government and communities to identify and finance their own development priorities to
engender economic growth and reduce poverty according to the Government's
decentralization policy.
The main development objective of the project is to strengthen and scale up the previous
Community Reintegration and Development Project, the CRDP, through a CDD
approach to development investment, using a transparent and sustainable mechanism
that decentralizes planning, project cycle management and financial management to
Districts and Community Development Committees (CDCs).
The CRDP, financed through a Learning and Innovation Loan, is recognized as "best
practice" in providing a foundation for the decentralization program of the Government of
Rwanda. Progress toward the development objective of the DCDP will more than triple
the CRDP's geographic coverage ( increase from 11 to 39 Districts) and boost the
emergence of a more dynamic local economy through empowered communities leading
their own local development process. The new project therefore supports a phased
program for Rwanda to progress over 10-15 years to the final vision for decentralization
that empowers communities and local governments, realigns the central government's
mandate, and improves accountability.
The Specific Objectives of the DCDP are;
*  Implementing a mechanism to decentralize planning, project cycle management
and financial management to District and Community Development Committee
(CDC) level, to enable local governments and communities to identify and
finance their own development priorities.
*  Testing the mechanism for decentralization, to reinforce their ownership of these
investments, and
* Strengthening the capacity of CDCs, local and central government levels to
facilitate and implement the community -demand-driven development projects.
To achieve these objectives, the DCDP is structured into the following components:
* Component 1: Institutional Capacity Building
Institutional and capacity building at local and other levels to reinforce the functional
framework of decentralization. The project aims to finance participatory assessments in
rural and urban areas, and training to strengthen, broaden and deepen capacities of
government and communities to plan, manage and finance the delivery of services to
their constituents, including assistance to implement the sub-projects in locally
conceived development plans. This would include the establishment of;
(i)   adequate accountability and control mechanisms at the sub-national
level of government, particularly in the Districts;
10



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(ii)  a monitoring and evaluation system in the Prefectures, Districts and
more local levels targeted by the project to complement the central
government framework for tracking the PRSP implementation;
(iii)  comprehensive training and capacity building for the sub-national
levels of government, in particular, in administrative and financial
management.
* Component 2: Communication, Information and Education
This will develop messages of two kinds: (i) on laws , regulations, roles and rights of
decentralization; and (ii) specifically on the objectives, scope, and means of participation
in the project. The communications strategy will also support the project's participatory
monitoring and evaluation, including "social audits" for feedback from the communities
on project process and results.
* Component 3: Community Initiatives
Each of the participating Districts will receive a specified average amount of grant
financing to be used for;
(i)   capacity building for preparing development plans and sub projects
infrastructure sub-projects and other activities that directly address
social development in the areas of education, health, water and
sanitation, nutrition, and social protection);
(ii)  implementation of sub-projects; and
(iii)  income-generating sub-projects.
* Component 4: Project Coordination and Monitoring
Provision of critical equipment, materials and supplies to the coordination unit for the
project ( ministry and decentralized levels), as well as covering its operating costs for it
to carry out coordination and monitoring responsibilities. Finance two external
evaluations (mid-term and final) and annual external audits. Operations research,
monitoring and evaluation will be included in each of the above components to make
sure that the ministry and all participants in the decentralized process can gauge
progress and make adjustments, to bring the desired results.



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
4.0 METHODOLOGY AND CONSULTATION
The  study was conducted by the consultant using the following approach and
methodology;
*  Review of the DCDP literature including the Project Concept Document (PCD),
the evolving draft Project Appraisal Document (PAD), the approved Integrated
Safeguards Data Sheet (ISDS), Rwanda's PRSP, the Bank CAS for Rwanda,
Mission Aide Memoires, Project Documents of MINALOC, the Constitution of the
Republic of Rwanda, Rwanda's Decentralization Policy and corresponding law
No. 04/2002, other numerous relevant laws, regulations, decrees, acts, policies
and guidelines, World Bank Safeguards Policies and other relevant documents.
* THE ESMF was also informed by two independent social studies on the Bawtwa
in the expected project areas.
* A 14 day study tour in Rwanda during which discussions were held with
numerous, relevant national, prefectures and district agencies and local
communities( See Annex 1.0 for complete list). The Prefectures visited were
Butare, Byumba, Gikongoro, Gisenyi and Umutara, which are the five
participating prefectures. Within each prefecture, visits were made to a
representative sample of districts that participated in the CDRP and those
additional districts who would also be invited to participate in the DCDP. Using
the specific circumstances of each district visited, the particular readiness of the
district was studied, their capacity to implement the proposed environmental and
social management process and mitigation measures was assessed, and
discussed appropriate recommendations for improvement in service delivery,
mitigation, monitoring, institutional requirements and their training and capacity
building needs. This was also done for each Prefecture visited and for the
PCMU. The Districts and Prefectures remained extremely supportive of the
planned DCDP and their level of support was evident in their enthusiasm to
participate and their lively contribution in the discussions and field visits, and also
in their verbal statements. In this spirit of commitment, support and ownership,
the recommendations reached in this report were jointly agreed to as reflecting
the needs of the District's and the Prefecture's, and were thus seen as
sustainable.
* During the discussions with the Districts and the Prefectures, the use, scope and
efficacy of existing environmental requirements at the national level was
discussed and mutually agreed conclusions were drawn for implementation of
these requirements at district level.
* The discussions and field visits took the form of the consultant and a member of
the PCMU arriving at a pre-arranged meeting at the offices of the District, or
Prefecture, etc. where most if not all of the senior management of the CDC or
Prefecture visited was present. Following introductory remarks by the member of
the PCMU accompanying the consultant, the administrative head of the
agency/office visited would make his remarks and then the consultant was invited
to make his presentation. The presentation of the Consultant can be generally
12



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
characterized as stating the purpose of his mission, followed by explaining in
some detail the requirements of the ESMF and the key features of the
corresponding World Bank Operational Policies , a call for the District/Prefecture
to share their experiences during CRDP or any other project regarding any
environmental and social issues in light of the requirements of the ESMF, and
then the consultant would finalize his remarks by discussing potential planned
investments that Districts may seek under this project . This was followed by an
open Q&A session often followed by a visit to sub project sites financed under
the CRDP, in the case of the Districts. On completion of the field visits, the group
returned to the administrative offices, where a summary meeting was held to
discuss environmental and social concerns based on observations of/ from the
field/site visits, previous shared experiences and recommendations and
requirements for compliance with the ESMF requirements for the DCDP.
* The discussion with communities were held in a "town-hall" type meeting. The
discussion with the local communities was very informative and demonstrated
that poor members of society if consulted, had the unique potential to say
undiluted what their concerns and aspirations were, and to make quality and
valuable contributions for the sustainable implementation of any project and on
their socio-economic development, ultimately. The consultant would start the
discussions by stating that the purpose of his visit was to meet with them to hear
first hand and directly from them, what their particular circumstance was .The
consultant would often go around the "hall", from individual to individual,
recording their responses to two pertinent questions, which were (i) why are you
poor?, and (ii) what do you need to get out of poverty? The consultant also
explained the modus operandi of the DCDP, the significance of the ESMF, the
environmental and social management process and explained to them how their
participation would be sought and how project success depended on that. The
discussions with communities also demonstrated that there was some capacity
for communities to implement some type of sub projects, such as soil
conservation and small civil works.
* These discussions with the communities was very insightful and is the basis for
most of the measures contained in this ESMF. The consultations with the PCMU,
Prefectures and Districts proved invaluable in designing and coming up with
appropriate solutions and recommendations that the District's could claim
ownership of and thus ensure the sustainability of the project as a whole. These
discussions and consultations were the backbone of the work done by the
consultant.
*  Report writing.
13



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA        ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
5.0 BASELINE DATA
5.1   The Bio - Physical Environmental Features
Rwanda is small mountainous landlocked country, located in Central Africa, at latitude
2 00 S and longitude 30 00 E, bordered to its south by Burundi for about 290km,
Tanzania to its east for 217 km, Uganda to its north for 169km and the Democratic
Republic of Congo (DRC, formerly Zaire) to its west for 217 km. Rwanda has a total
surface area of 26, 338 sq. km of which the total land area is 24, 948 sq. km and 1, 390
sq. km is water.
Rwanda is often referred to as the country of a "thousand hills" (mille collines ), because
of its numerous highly dissected hills, often with flat peaks and convex slopes, separated
by relatively narrow valleys, with the lowest altitude of 950m at Rusizi River and the
highest altitude at Mount Karisimbi 4,519 m. The average altitude is 1,250 m above sea
level.
Rwanda can be divided into six topographical regions which are;
*  From west to east are the narrow Great Rift Valley, which slopes sharply to Lake
Kivu
* The Volcanic Virunga Mountains, whose highest peak, the snow capped Mount
Karisimbi, towers over the high north western lava plains.
*  The steep north-south rise of the Congo - Nile Basins divide, whose width
averages 25 km.
* The ridge of the Congo - Nile Basins divide, with an average elevation of 2750m
above sea level.
* The central plateaus east of the mountains, which are covered by rolling hills.
* The savannas and swamps of the eastern and south eastern border areas, which
cover one-tenth of the nations land area and include the vast Kagera National
Park.
Most of Rwanda is at least 900m above sea level, the central plains have an average
elevation of 1932m, while southeastern Rwanda has a desert like terrain.
5.1.1 Climate
Rwanda's high altitude, accounts for its tropical highland climate. Daily temperatures
typically range as much as 25 C. The sun shines nearly all year round, and throughout
much of the year, the mean daily temperature is close to 24 C. Most of the country has
minimum night temperatures of around 10 C and maximum daytime temperatures of
around 34 C . There are two rainy seasons and two dry seasons. The
October/November to January wet season is known as "the short rains". The main rainy
season, lasting from mid-march to the end of May, is the period with the most heavy
14



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA         ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
rains. The dry seasons, which last from January to mid- March and from June to the end
of September.
Kigali, the capital and largest city, is located on Rwanda's central plateau, its average
temperature is 19 C with 1020 mm of rainfall annually. Mean annual rainfall in the
mountainous zone is around 2400 mm a year, declining to 1200mm a year in the central
plains and to as low as 700 mm a year in the eastern areas.
5.1.2 Hydrology
Rwanda's hydrology is characterized by a dense hydrographic network of lakes, rivers
and wetlands. The country is divided into two major drainage basins, the Nile to the east
and the Congo to the west. The Congo River Basin covers 25% of Rwanda and receives
10% of the total national rainfall. The Nile River Basin covers an area of 75% of the
territory and receives 90% of the national rainfall. The waters of the Nile River basin flow
out through the Akagera river system, which contributes between 8% and 10% to the
Nile drainage system.
The Congo River Basin is the largest river basin of Africa, covering over 12% of the
continent. It extends over nine countries and the largest area is in the DRC. It is also,
one of the most humid basins of Africa. Most of the flows of the Congo River Basin in
Rwanda, is into Lake Kivu, which is connected with Lake Tanganyika through the Rusizi
border river between Congo, Rwanda and Burundi.
Average annual
Country       Total area of  Area of the  As % of  As % of total  rainfall in the basin
the country   country   total area of  area of the    area
(kM2)     within the  the Basin    Country        (mm)
Basin (kM2)    (%)         (%/6)    Min  Max   mean
Zambia         752,610      177,735      4.7        23.6      985  1420  1195
Tanzania       945,090      244,593      6.5        25.9      720  1385   970
Burundi         27,834      14,574       0.4        52.4     920   1565  1155
Rwanda         26,340       6,464        0.2        24.5     1135  1580  1365
Central Africa  622,980     403,570      10.7       64.8     1065  1680  1465
Cameroon       475,440      96,395       2.5        20.3     1440  1670  1545
Congo -        342,000      246,977      6.5        72.2     1190  1990  1660
Brazzaville
Angola         1,246,700   285,395       7.5        22.9     785   1635  1375
Congo -        2,344,860   2,313,350     61.1       98.7      775  2115  1540
DRC/Kinshasa
River Basin                3,789,053    100.0                 720  2115  1470
Table 5.15 The Congo River Basin: Areas and Rainfall
The irrigation potential of the Congo river basin in Rwanda has been estimated at about
9000 ha, mainly consisting of areas in the valley bottoms.
5FAO.
15



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA           ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Irrigation      Gross Potential Irrigation Water
mrrigat on             Requirements              Area under
Country         Potential                                       irrigation (ha)
(ha)       Per ha (m6/ha per     Total
year)         (km3/year)
Zambia               101,000          19,500           1.970            5,000
Tanzania                0             13,000           0.000              0
Burundi              105,000          13,000           1.365             14.4
Rwanda                9,000           13,000           0.117            2,000
Central Africa      1,400,000         18,000           25.200             0
Cameroon             50,000           14,000           0.700            1,650
Congo-               255,000          13,000           3.315             217
Angola               900,000          20,000           18.000           2,000
DRC/Kinshasa        6,980,000         15,500          108.190           10,500
For Congo River     9,8000,000                        158.857
Basin
Table 5.2 6 The Congo River Basin: Irrigation potential, water requirements and areas under
irrigation.
Whereas, the Nile River, with an estimated length of over 6800km, is the longest river in
the World, flows from south to north over 35 degrees of latitude. It is fed by two main
river systems: the White Nile, with its sources on the equatorial plateau (Burundi,
Rwanda, Tanzania, Kenya, Congo and Uganda), and the Blue Nile, with its sources in
the Ethiopian Highlands. The sources are located in humid regions, with an average
rainfall of over 1000mm per year. The total area of the Nile basin represents 10.3% of
the area of the continent of Africa and spreads through 10 countries. Rwanda is
completely integrated into the Nile Basin.
Average annual
Country       Total area of  Area of the  As % of total  As % of total  rainfall in the basin
the country    country    area of the  area of the       area
(km2)      within the     Basin       Country         (mm)
Basin (kM2)     (%/6)        (%)      Mi    Max   mean
Burundi         27,834       13,260        0.4         47.6      895  5,570  1,110
Rwanda          26,340       19,876        0.6          75.5     840  1,935  1,105
Tanzania        945,090      84,200        2.7          8.9      625  1,630  1,015
Kenya          580,370       46,229        1.5          8.0      505  1,790  1,260
Cong           2,344,860     22,143        0.7          0.9      875  1,915  1,245
Uganda          235,880      231,366       7.4         98.1      395  2,060  1,140
Ethiopia       1,100,010     365,117       11.7         33.2     205  2,010  1,125
Eritrea         121,890      24,921        0.8         20.4      240   665    520
Sudan          2,505,810    1,978,506      63.6         79.0      0   1,610   500
Egypt          1,001,450     326,751       10.5         32.6      0    120    15
For Nile                    3,112,369     100.0                   0   2,060  615
Table 5.3 7The Nile River Basin: Areas and Rainfall
6FAO.
7FAO.
16



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA          ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The irrigation potential of the Nile river basin in Rwanda has been estimated at about
150,000 ha, mainly consisting of areas in the valley bottoms.
Flows after     Area
Irrigato . Gross Irrigation                 deduction for  already
Country   Irrgation  Water Requirement  Actual Flows   Irrigation and  under
(ha)                                          losses     irrigation
Per ha   Total   Inflow  Outflow  Inflow  Oufflow
(m3/ha.yr) (km3/yr) (km3/yr) (km3/yr) (km3/yr) (km3/yr)  (ha)
Burundi   80,000     13,000   1.04    0.00    1.50    0.00     0.46    0
Rwanda    150,000    12,500   1.88    1.50    7.00    0.46     4.09    2,000
Tanzania   30,000    11,00    0.33    7.00    10.70    4.09    7.46    10,000
Kenya     180,000    8,500    1.53    0.00    8.40    0.00     6.87    6,000
Congo      10,000    10,000   0.10    0.00    1.50     0.00    1.40    0
Uganda    202,000    8,000    1.62    28.70   37.00   23.83    30.51   9,120
Ethiopia  2,220,000  9,000    19.98   0.00    80.10   0.00     6012    23,160
Eritrea    150,000   11,000   1.65    0.00    2.20    0.00     0.55    15,124
Sudan     2,750,000  14,000   38.50   117.10  55.50   90.63    31.13   1,935,200
Egypt     4,420,000  13,000   57.46   55.50   -       31.13   -26.33   3,078,000
Courmie   10,192,000          124.08                                  5,078,604
For Nile
River     <8,000,000
Basin    I
Table 5.48: The Nile River Basin: Irrigation potential, water requirements and areas under irrigation
5.1.3 Lakes
Rwanda has some 28 lakes of significant size. Six among the largest are entirely within
the national territory: Runhondo, Muhazi, Mugasera, Ihema, Rwanye and Burera. Three
others, Rugwero, Cyohoha and Kivu, are shared with neighboring countries. The largest
and most spectacular is Lake Kivu, so large as to seem almost like a sea to the
landlocked inhabitants.
Lake Kivu lies at 1, 460m above sea level and is 90 km long (north-south) and 49 km
wide (east-west). From an average depth of 220m, it plunges to a maximum depth of
475m. Lake Kivu has a rough, jagged coast and contains numerous islands, the largest
of which is idjwi. Lake Kivu lies on the border with Congo in Western Rwanda at the foot
of the Virunga Volcanoes. Kivu's shores are densely populated and the principal town on
the Rwandan side is Gisenyi. Although it is supplied with fish, the lake is poor in fauna
but rich in volcanic substance. Great volumes of dissolved methane gases that may be
developed as energy sources exist in its deep waters. Lake Kivu drains to the south into
lake Tanganyika by the swiftly descending Ruzizi River.
The Central Plains are drained by the Nyabugogo, and Akanyaru rivers. Rwanda's
eastern border is formed by the Akagera River on its way to Lake Victoria.
The rivers and lake cover some 135,000 ha, or 5% of national territory.
8FAO
17



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
5.1.4 Wetlands
Wetlands cover a total area of 164,000 ha or about 6% of the territory. The wetlands
(marais in French) include a variety of ecosystems, ranging from large, permanently
flooded swamy peat-lands to smaller, seasonally flooded wetlands with a more mineral
soil. The main swamps are Akanyaru (30,000 ha) on the Border with Burundi, Mugesera-
Rugwero in the southeast, Kagera swamps along the Tanzania border in the east,
Nyabarongo ( 10,000 ha) and the Rugezi wetlands (5,000 ha) in the north. The wetlands
serve as troughs for sediment particles and play an important role in the national water
balances by acting as a buffer, thus reducing the maximal flow rates during the rainy
season and maintaining a relatively high flow rate during the dry season. Currently, an
estimated 94,000 ha have been brought under agriculture, the large majority of this
being spontaneous agriculture with maize, sweet potatoes and beans. In addition, the
wetlands are used for a variety of traditional activities including the collection of leaves to
make handicrafts, extensive grazing and making of bricks. Wetlands also provide a
spawning habitat for fish, and are of great significance for biodiversity conservation.
5.1.5 Soils
Rwanda's soils contain many of the metal compounds found in laterite soils, but are
generally lighter, more fertile, more workable, and less problematic to farmers than true
laterite soils. There are two sub zones, with vastly different soils. To the northwest and
the lower portions of the larger river valleys are very fertile volcanic soils covering
approx. 10% of the country. Elsewhere, the largely metamorphic bedrock has produced
generally poor quality with fertility varying and depending on extent of erosion and
leaching.
About 30% of Rwanda's land is suitable for farming, and another 30% for grazing.
Except where the land is seriously eroded or leached by heavy farming, the soils have
good humus content and fertility. Intensive food crop production, often on steep slopes,
has led to serious soil erosion. Pastureland has also been overgrazed in many areas.
Population pressure on the richer lands is sufficiently intense that soil damage, which is
due to leaching, erosion, and intensive farming without adequate fertilizer, is an
increasingly serious problem.
Many members of local communities complained of problems associated with low soil
fertility on levels of food production and household incomes.
Rwanda being one of the most densely populated countries in Africa, and with the
mountainous terrain and steep slopes coupled with the expanding growth rate which has
been exacerbated by the added pressure for land to support the returnees, agricultural
land is becoming increasingly degraded. Farmers are intensify land use to meet food
needs without proper management practices and external inputs. The resulting depletion
of nutrients from the soils has caused crop production to stagnate or decline, with a
significant adverse impact on Rwanda's food security situation.
Rates of nutrient depletion range from moderate, 30 to 60 kilograms of NPK9 per hectare
per year in the humid forest areas and wetlands to high, above 60 kilograms in the
9 NPK means nitrogen, phosphorous and potassium .
18



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
highland areas. It is estimated that in bad years, the difference between nutrient inputs
and nutrient losses in Rwanda can be a bad as -136 kilograms of NPK per hectare.
Nutrient imbalances are highest where fertilizer use is particularly low and nutrient loss,
mainly from soil erosion, is high.
More nitrogen and potassium than phosphorous get depleted because, nitrogen and
potassium losses primarily arise from leaching and soil erosion. These soil problems
result mainly from continuous cropping of cereals without rotation with legumes,
inappropriate soil conservation practices, and inadequate amounts of fertilizer use.
Fertilizer tends to be used mostly on cash and plantation crops because of the high
profitability of fertilizers in the production of export crops. Food/subsistence crops get
less fertilizer because of unfavorable crop/fertilizer price ratios and financial constraints
faced by farmers.
Although increasing the use of mineral fertilizer may be the centerpiece of the strategy to
balance nutrient depletion and improve soil fertility and productivity, it should not be
taken to mean that fertilizer levels should be increased beyond basic requirements.
Indeed, surpassing recommended levels for less-responsive varieties and in poorly
managed cropping systems can lead to high nutrient losses and low yields. Moreover, to
achieve intended goals which are to increase rural incomes through increased
agricultural productivity, inter alia, fertilizer use must be combined with a broad spectrum
of complimentary practices, such as soil conservation, recycling of crop residues,
livestock management, and use of organic fertilizers.
5.1.6 Forests
Rwanda's remaining natural forests, the Nyungwe Forest, the Gishwati Forest and the
Mukara Forest, are highland forests around the volcanoes, have a high degree of
biological diversity and rare animal species, such as mountain gorillas, ruwenzori
colobus monkeys and golden chimpanzees.
It is estimated that there are 2150 plant species to be found in Rwanda, with around 700
species of these acknowledged to have medicinal value.
Towards the east of the country lies the Akagera National Park, the Mutara game
reserve forests galleries and wooded savannahs.
Population pressures have already drastically reduced the land area of the natural
forests of Rwanda from about 30% to presently under 10% in less than a century. The
deforestation of Rwanda's remaining forests is also the result of high fuel wood
consumption. Heavily populated and cultivated areas adjacent to the natural forest, as
well as the recent wars, have resulted in massive deforestation and loss of genetic
diversity within Rwanda's natural forest.
Clearance for farming and pasture land has also contributed to the reduction in forest
cover, as well as harvesting for fuel wood and timber for housing and small scale mining.
Production of export crops is also a factor in forest destruction: half the forests around
the volcanoes in the north were cleared for pyrethrum plantations in the 1960's, and
areas around the Nyungwe were cleared for tea plantations.
19



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Preliminary estimates indicate that the protected areas and forest reserves were
seriously damaged as a result of recent wars. From an estimated pre-1994 total surface
area of 417,000 ha, it is thought that they have been reduced to approximately 226,000
ha. Specifically, the Akagera National Park was reduced to less than one-third of its
original size when the Umutara prefecture was created in 1996 for the resettlement of
returning refugees. The Gishwati Forest has all but disappeared (from a pre-war
estimate of 37,000 ha, only about 2,000 ha now remain.
5.1.7 National Parks/Forest Reserves at a Glance
The national parks in Rwanda are:
* Volcanoes National Park
* Akagera National Park
* Nyungwe National Park
* Giswati Forest Reserves
These areas are exclusively reserved for the protection of flora and fauna, eco-tourism,
biodiversity conservation, and for geological formations of scientific and aesthetic value.
5.1.8 Volcanoes
The Virunga Volcanic range, north of Lake Kivu extends some 80 km along the borders
of Congo. Rwanda and Uganda. The range runs east-west, perpendicular to the Rift
Valley in which lake Kivu lies. Of its eight major volcanic peaks, the highest is Karisimbi
at 4,507m above sea level. This strotovolcano is part of a group of volcanoes in the
Bufumbira field which is an eastern region of the Virunga. Visoke volcano is also located
in the Bufumbira field, with a peak elevation of 3, 660 m above sea level.
Individual volcanoes bear Rwanda descriptive names, such as Sabinio ( Sabinyo; "Old
Man with Large Teeth" ) and Muhavura ("Landmark", or "Guide").
The six volcanoes of the center and east are extinct. Mikeno and Sabinio are the oldest
of these, dating from the early part of the Pleistocene Epoch (the Pleistocene began
about 1,800,000 years ago and lasted until about 10,000 years ago); their craters have
disappeared, and erosion has imposed a jagged relief. In the middle Pleistocene
(900,000 to 130,000 years ago), Karisimbi, Visoke, Mgahinga, and Muhavura appeared,
all but Karisimbi possessing a crater summit. The crater of Muhavura contains a small
lake. Not more than 20,000 years ago Nyiragongo and Nyamulagira emerged at the
western end of the chain, both with extensive craters. The main crater of Nyiragongo is
about 1.2 km across and contains a liquid lava pool. The lava field of these two
volcanoes has remained active, and some of the flows have reached as far as Lake
Kivu, notable eruptions occurring in 1912, 1938, and 1948. In 2002 lava from
Nyiragongo destroyed much of the nearby city of Goma, in Congo, leaving thousands
homeless. Many lesser cones flank the major volcanoes.
20



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Virunga Mountains rise out of densely populated plateaus that are inhabited mostly
by Rwandan cultivators and, certain areas, by cattle herders. A wide variety of
vegetation grows on the slope of Karisimbi. One type that grows in the lower afro-alpine
zones of Karisimbi is the Lobelia or Senecio plant. In Mudende, a commune in Gisenyi,
wheat, potatoes and other crops are grown in the rich volcanic soils at the foot hills of
Karisimbi. Mudende is also the name of the largest cinder cone in this area, and
agriculture completely covers this extinct cinder cone, and crops are even grown inside
that crater itself.
The Southern flanks of the central and eastern mountains comprise Volcanoes National
Park in Northwest Rwanda, protecting the mountains alpine vegetation, as well as
wildlife that includes the golden monkey and the mountain gorilla.
Human activity and settlement is dangerously close to these volcanoes.
5.1.9 Wildlife
The dense high altitude forests of Volcanoes National Park is home to about half (320)
of the Worlds remaining population (650) of Mountain Gorillas. Mountain gorillas eat
large amounts of vegetation from more than 70 different plant species and spend about
30% of each day foraging for food. They consume roots, leaves, stems of herbs, vines
from trees, shrub-sized plants, wild celery, gallium, vines, berries, barks and bamboo
shoots.
Among the 12 species of primates in the Nyungwe National Park, are the black and
white Colobus monkeys, that wonder around in huge troupes, some of which are made
up of over 300 agile individuals. There are also known to be 275 species of birds in the
Nyungwe.
In the Akagera National Park is the largest variety of wildlife species that include Buffalo,
zebras, antelope, warthogs, chimpanzees, lions, elephants, rhinoceros, hippopotamus,
as well as the rare species - such as the giant pangolin, or anteater.
The main threat they face is the destruction of their habitats and poaching.
5.1.10 Critical Habitats
As the pressure for access to land increases, human activity and settlement threatens to
enter these protected forests and parks and to destroy these natural habitats. In the
past, the demand to convert more land to agricultural use for instance, led to the
destruction of some of Rwanda's wetlands (marais), which has resulted in flooding, loss
of wildlife habitats and sedimentation.
Currently, none of the country's wetlands has a protected status (except the wetlands in
Akagera National Park). Nevertheless, five wetlands have been described as crucial for
the protection of birdlife. These are Mugesera, Kagera, Nyabarongo, Rugezi Swamp,
and the Akanyaru wetlands. These wetlands also support a number of globally
threatened species and restricted range species, such as water turtles, crocodiles,
snakes, otters and a large variety of water birds including herons, egrets, ducks,
21



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA         ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
warblers and weavers. Some 180 bird species have been identified in the wetland
habitats of Rwanda, including 6 European migrant birds.
5.1.11 Agricultural Produce
The main agricultural produce of Rwanda are Tea, Coffee, Pyrethrum (insecticide made
from chrysanthemums), bananas, beans, sorghum, potatoes, wheat, corn, maize, rice
and livestock.
5.2   The Sociopolitical Environment
5.2.1 The Demographics
Rwanda remains one of the poorest countries in the world. Rwanda's population of 8.5
million in 2000, made up of Hutus, Tutsis and Batwas, is growing at between 2.5% -2.9
% per annum. Its population density of 337 per km2 in 1999 is in the top ten in the world,
nearly 50% of the population is 16 years old or younger and 90% live in rural areas.
Agriculture is the primary economic activity for the 90% of the population living in the
rural areas but Rwanda ran out of new arable land almost 20 years ago and agricultural
productivity has been on the decline. The severe degradation of scarce land, forests and
water resources that support agriculture has become an obstacle to the revival of the
rural economy.
The health status in Rwanda is poor. The social indicators related to health and survival
have more or less
stagnated in the last  Table 5.5, Rwanda: Demographic and Social Indicators10
twenty years, with life
expectancy of 49 years  __=                              1980   1990    2000
in 2000 compared to
46 in 1980, and infant  Population(millions)             5.163  6.879    8.5
mortality of 107 per
1000     live   births  % Female                          -      51.3   53.5
compared to 128 in
1980. The incidence of  Fertility Rate                   8.3     6.9     5.8
HIV/AIDS is high, with  Poverty (Headcount index (%))     40     53      60
10.8% of the rural and  Life Expectancy                   46     49.5    49
Infant Mortality ( per 1000 births)  128  85     107
11.6 %  of the urban   Under 5 Mortality ( per 1000 births)  224  150    198
populations  over  12  Maternal Mortality Rate (per 100,000              810
years     of     age,  births)
seropositive.  Water   HIV/AIDS Prevalence (ages 15-49)           -      13.7
and sanitation services  HIV/AIDS Prevalence (over 12yrs): rural         10.8
are   def icient,  with  HIV/AIDS Prevalence (over 12yrs) :urban  -      11.6
are              ~~~~~~Literacy                     4       0      5
access   to   potable     Males                            -     63      58
water by about 52% of     Females                          -     44     47.8
households, a decline  Gross Primary School Enrolment     63     70      100
from 64% at the end of   %Girls in total enrolment       48.0    49.6   49.6
the 1980's. HIV/AIDS,  Net Primary Enrolment               -            73.3
ma190' IVArIa,  Gross Secondary School Enrolment  3.0  8.0  10.2
persistent    malana,    % Girls in total enrolment      33.3    39.9   50.67
violent conflicts  and  Higher Education: %  girls in total  8.2  16.6  26.9
Deioment
' World Bank
22



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
their aftermath, malnutrition and poor quality health care have been major factors in
poor survival indicators.
In Rwanda, there are three official languages, Kinyarwanda, English and French.
Kinyarwanda, is the native language of all the Rwandese, irrespective of ethnicity.
Swahili is also widely spoken.
5.2.2 The Legacies of the Genocide and other Past Civil Strife
The legacies of the genocide continue to weigh heavily on the social and economic
recovery of Rwanda. The genocide and the preceding civil conflicts impoverished
Rwandese and increased their vulnerability, particularly the widows and orphans of the
genocide, recently returned refugees, resettled internally displaced persons (IDP's), and
the families of the detained 120,000 (at the peak) suspects of crimes of genocide. In
2000, 40% of children between the ages of 7-14 were orphans (have lost at least one
parent) . Mental health problems, largely the result of the horrors of the genocide and its
aftermath, are widespread in a society that is not equipped to deal with it. A 1995
UNICEF survey found that 96% witnessed violence during the genocide, 88% saw dead
bodies or parts of bodies, and 70% witnessed someone being killed or injured.
A recent survey of the population found that poverty/economic hardship, security, health
care, and lack of trust/sincerity as the major social problems. The loss of the social
capital and community solidarity that help to cope with poverty has increased social and
economic vulnerability. The rebuilding of the social fabric will take time; continued
assistance to reintegrate the vulnerable populations and the rapid expansion of
economic opportunities will accelerate the process.
The largest loss of the genocide was in human resources, with close to a million people
killed, two million driven into exile, over a hundred thousand in prison, and thousands
handicapped physically and mentally. The professional and technically skilled people
(i.e. doctors, teachers, nurses, etc.) were singled out for killing in the genocide. While the
majority of the refugees have returned, the educated and qualified among them have
largely remained in exile. About 800,000 exiled Rwandese, refugees or descendants of
refugees from the ethnic violence of 1959, 1962 and 1973-74 returned to Rwanda after
the genocide, bringing with them new skills and cultures.
5.2.3 National Unity and Reconciliation
Since the genocidal war, the government is strongly committed to social capital
formation and social cohesion, by ensuring that the different ethnic groups within society,
civil society organizations, and private sectors are all inclusive of the development
agenda. One of the most obvious of government's moves towards strengthening the
country's social fabric has been to remove any reference to ethnic affiliation in
government issued identity cards. Furthermore, good governance, national dialogue,
resettlement and reintegration of victims of genocide including refugees and IDPs,
poverty reduction and the adjudication of cases of the genocide suspects are now the
hallmarks of Rwanda's development efforts.
23



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
5.2.4 The Batwa Groups
The Batwa people of Rwanda (commonly referred to as Twas), are recognized the world
over as Indigenous People. More significantly, the World Banks Operational Directive
OD 4.20, also categorizes them as Indigenous people. The Batwa in Rwanda who
constitute around 1% of the population, live in general in high altitude forests. Their
main occupational pursuits are hunting, gathering and to a lesser extent, pottery. But,
there are also Batwa living among the rest of the population throughout much of
Rwanda, and in some of the Districts where the DCDP will be implemented. However,
the high altitude forests where Batwa forest dwellers are found is not comprised in the
project area.
In post-genocide Rwanda, people are determined to see and define themselves as a
homogeneous society and not along the ethnic/occupational lines of the different groups
that characterized the past and laid the foundation for much of the violence and political
unrest that marred most of Rwandese history. The Constitution states that all persons
are equal before the law and shall enjoy, without any discrimination, equal protection of
the law.
Yet, there are Batwa in Rwanda who are excluded from national development activities
and programs, and not consulted. They are also generally discriminated against and
remain among the poorest of the poor and are critically vulnerable. For example, not all
have access to education, health and other social services, and according to them they
often suffer from physical and violent abuse from other members of society.
Nevertheless, given the post-genocide political context, it was found that at least some
Batwa in the project areas visited were concerned about being "separated" or singled out
even for their own good. Thus, in the context where the Rwanda people want to identify
themselves as Rwandese only, attempts at identifying the Batwa as indigenous people
in project areas was a very sensitive move. This sensitivity was evident throughout the
in-country consultations with local communities, among both Batwa and non Batwa; and
with the district authorities as part of the preparation of this ESMF. See also the social
report study in Annex 7.0.
5.2.5 Characteristics of Poverty
* How is poverty manifest?
Poverty in Rwanda is lack of financial means. The per capita income, at US$220, is still
much lower than the US$370 it was, in 1990 and 60% of the households live below the
poverty line, compared to about 40% in 1985. 90% of the population are rural and
depend on agriculture for their livelihood. In 2001 Agriculture accounted for 40.5% of
GDP.
Poverty is also defined in terms of lack of access to social services ( education, health,
and other social services ) especially among vulnerable and/or minority groups such as
the women, youth, IDPs, Batwa, etc.
* Where are the poor?
Poverty continues to be essentially a rural phenomenon. All the provinces in Rwanda
suffered reductions in household and individual incomes over the last two decades.
24



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Even prefectures with high agricultural potential, such as Ruhengeri, have been
adversely affected by lack of security due to rebel incursions from neighboring Congo.
Poverty is also mostly pervasive among the most vulnerable segments of the societies,
at the bottom of the social ladder. Thus, to combat poverty, the government has
established a community development policy, supported by a fiscal, political, and
administrative decentralization structure from district, sector, all the way down to
cellule/community level, in order to ensure community participation in the development
agenda. In practice, communities work with the decentralized structures at the cellules
and sector level to identify their own needs and priorities, develop their own
development plan and contribute towards the implementation and monitoring of those
plans. The plans are then consolidated to form a district development plan, consequently
implemented by the district. The government has made concerted efforts to strengthen
the capacity at the local government/district level to develop and implement development
plans. As such, all districts in Rwanda have or are in process of formulating their own
district development plans.
This bottom up participatory approach to development will result in providing voice,
decision making, and resources to communities to implement their own development
needs. This is expected to result in poverty reduction and growth through empowerment,
help build social capital, and better transparency and accountability.
Based on the results of the in-country consultations with local communities, local and
central governments and civil society members during the preparation of this ESMF, the
following categorization of the poor has emerged:
Who are the Poor?
*  Rural households.
*  Female headed households, other households with less than two adult-members,
elderly and handicapped persons.
* Large households.
* Recently resettled internally displaced people (IDP's) and returned and returning
refugees.
* The Batwa People.
The groups are not mutually exclusive.
Why are they poor?
* Rural Households
- low agricultural productivity, declining soil fertility and environmental degradation.
- lack of access to land, land fragmentation, insecurity of land tenure.
- lack of access to markets, absence of rural commercial activity and alternative
income earning opportunities.
-  social and economic isolation due to high transport costs and insecurity.
-  poor health services and health standards and rise in HIV/AIDS incidence,
impacting negatively on productivity.
-  loss of capital stock (livestock and other animals) in the genocide.
25



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
- poor agricultural extension services, lack of access to and knowledge of the use
of improved inputs.
- lack of access to low cost capital or micro-credit or micro-grants.
- lack of access to affordable and sustainable household energy sources.
* Female-headed households
- shortage of household labor.
- declining soil fertility
- many women have to take care of husbands and sons in prison, dependant
parents, orphans, handicapped husbands and children, returning refugees, and
other dependents.
- low education attainment, poor access to land, paid employment and credit
- poor social services, e.g. water, health, education etc.
* Recently returned refugees and resettled IDP's
- lack of permanent housing.
- access to social services, water, healthcare and education
- lack of land and other assets
- loss of capital stock- livestock, coffee bushes, banana plantations, farm
implements and supplies.
- lack of social support due to disconnection with or dislocation from
original/nuclear families as resettlement was arbitrary and not to original home
base.
* Urban Poor
- rapid increase in urban population.
- no employment opportunities particularly among poorly educated young people.
- poor basic social services and infrastructure.
- lack of housing.
- lack of land.
- high food prices due to low agricultural productivity, high transport costs and
restrictions on petty trade.
* The Batwa
- discriminated against, many excluded from participating in and benefiting from
development projects, suffering intimidation and violence.
- limited access to social services such as water, health and education.
- some are losing natural habitats as deforestation continues.
- stigmatized by mainstream society
- landless, homeless.
26



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
6.0 DESCRIPTION OF WORLD BANK ENVIRONMENTAL
& SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS POLICIES & TRIGGERS
This ESMF has been designed so that all investments under the DCDP will comply with
all the laws of Rwanda and the Environmental and Social Safeguard Policies of the
World Bank . In this chapter, the Bank's safeguards policies and their applicability is
discussed and in the subsequent chapter those of Rwanda are presented.
The World Bank Safeguard Policies are;
1.    Environmental Assessment (OP4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)
2.    Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)
3.    Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)
4.    Pest Management (OP 4.09)
5.    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)
6.    Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)
7.    Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)
8.    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)
9.    Projects on International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)
10.   Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)
In preparing this ESMF, a consideration of the type of future investments planned vis-a-
vis the baseline data presented in Chapter 5 against the requirements of the Bank
Safeguard policies, has led to the determination that only the following Bank policy
triggered is likely to apply in the project areas.:
Environmental Assessment (OP4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)
Notwithstanding, since the exact location of the investments was not known at the time
of preparation of the DCDP, and since the geographic coverage is being increased to
include an additional 28 districts (from 11 to 39), other bank policies may apply. In this
case the screening process prepared as part of the ESMF will either exclude such sub-
project activities from funding, suggest a new design, or ensure that appropriate social
and environmental mitigations measures are implemented.
Therefore, a complete description of the bank safeguards and their triggers for
applicability can be found on the World Bank's official web site www.worldbank.org and
summarized in Annex 2.0, to be used as part of the Environmental and Social
Management process presented in chapter 9. of this ESMF.
* 6.1    Environmental Assessment (0P4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)
This policy requires environmental assessment (EA) of projects/investments proposed
for Bank financing to help ensure that they are environmentally sound and sustainable,
and thus improve decision making . The EA is a process whose depth, and type of
analysis depend on the nature, scale, and potential environmental impact of the activities
proposed for funding under the DCDP. The EA process takes into account the natural
environment (air, water, and land): human health and safety; social aspects (involuntary
resettlement, indigenous peoples, and cultural property) and transboundary and global
environmental aspects.
27



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The environmental and social impacts of the DCDP will come from the activities and
investments to be made under Component 3 of the project. However, since the exact
technical details and location of the investments will not be identified before appraisal of
this project, the EA process calls for the Government of Rwanda (GoR), represented by
the MINALOC, to prepare a Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF)
report which will establish a mechanism to determine and assess future potential
environmental and social impacts of the selected District project investments under the
proposed DCDP, and then to set out mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures to
be taken during implementation and operation of the project investments to eliminate
adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable
levels.
OP 4.01 further requires that the ESMF report must be disclosed as a separate and
stand alone document by the GoR and the World Bank as a condition for Bank appraisal
of the DCDP. The disclosure should be both in Rwanda where it can be accessed by the
general public and at the Infoshop of the World Bank and that the date for disclosure
must precede the date for appraisal of the project.
This ESMF stipulates that each district project investment (sub projects) will use the
screening form and checklist contained in Annex 3.0, to identify potential adverse
impacts and determine the effective and corresponding mitigation measure  their
planned activities. Section 10.0 and Annex 3.0 sets the relevant process and
requirements for environmental and social management.
6.2   Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)
"The Bank's broad objective towards indigenous people, as for all the people in its
member countries, is to ensure that the development process fosters full respect for their
dignity, human rights, and cultural uniqueness. More specifically, the objective at the
center of this directive is to ensure that indigenous peoples do not suffer adverse effects
during the development process, particularly from Bank-financed projects, and that they
receive culturally compatible social and economic benefits." OD 4.20 al.6. OD 4.20
further states the Bank's policy is that the strategy for addressing the issues pertaining to
indigenous peoples must be based on the informed participation of the indigenous
people themselves. Thus, identifying local preferences through direct consultation,
incorporation of indigenous knowledge into project approaches, and appropriate early
use of experienced specialists are core activities for any project that affects indigenous
peoples and their rights to natural and economic resources. The strategic approach and
overall  objective of the OD 4.20 is consistent with the overall consultative and
participatory project design and with the bottom up planning approach adopted and
used in Districts in Rwanda when Five year Local Development Plans are prepared.
The DCDP is a community based, demand-driven and participatory project. Its activities
will therefore not negatively impact local communities, and it is assumed that the Batwa
in project areas will benefit from project's activities along with other beneficiaries. In this
context, there is no need to prepare a specific IPDP, a Batwa Development Plan.
However, given the history of discrimination against members of Batwa groups and
given their vulnerability, specific attention will be paid during project implementation and
monitoring and evaluation to the Batwa in order to ensure that they are actually included
among project's beneficiaries. Specifically, this will be done through the Monitoring and
28



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA          ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Evaluation measures described in Section 10.2, the consultation framework outlined in
Section 12.0, and the screening form presented in Annex 3.0, of this ESMF. These
various elements will be translated in the Project's Operational Manual for project
implementers.
Summary of Requirements of Bank Safeguards Policies Triggered by the activities
in the DCDP.
Bank   Safeguards Action   Required  by  By Whom          Date action  required
Policy Triggered.  Triggered Policy                       by.
OP 4.01            1)Preparation of ESMF  1) ESMF by      1) ESMF to be approved
Environmental      (this document)      MINALOC           by Bank and disclosed in
Assessment                                                 Rwanda and Bank
2) Use of screening  2) Districts or    Infoshop before project
forms to identify    where applicable,  appraisal date.
adverse impacts and  local communities
corresponding                          2) Sub project proposals
mitigation measures                    to be approved by
(see section 10.0 of this              respective District
report)                                Council, after use of
screening form and
checklist
Table 6.1
29



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
7.0 DESCRIPTION OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE, POLICY, LEGISLATIVE
AND REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
The current political, economic and social structures of present day Rwanda are a direct
consequence of the recent political and administrative history of the country, the apex of
which was the genocidal war of 1994, in which approximately 1,000,000 Rwandese were
killed in just 100 days. The people of Rwanda recognize that the magnitude of the
killings and the speed at which it occurred were due to the highly centralized
administrative and planning processes of the pre-genocide war era, a system that
excluded the Rwandese people from participating in their governments and got them use
to being led, taking and implementing instructions from their leaders.
All Rwandese people have resolved through their Constitution, Government (central and
local), Judiciary and way of life, to never let the past be repeated, by seeking their
consultation and participation in national development.
7.1   The Administrative Framework for Decentralization
The Republic of Rwanda is divided into 12 Prefectures, which are further divided into
districts (there are 106 districts ), which are further divided into Sectors and the Sectors
are divided into Cellules. The Cellules are the smallest administrative bodies and the
closest to the local communities.
The 12 Districts are: i) The City of Kigali, ii) Butare, (iii) Byumba, (iv) Cyangugu, (v)
Gikongoro, (vi) Gisenyi, (vii) Gitarama, (viii) Kibungo, (ix) Kibuye (x) Kigali-Ngali, (xi)
Ruhengeri, (xii) Umutara.
In Kinyarwanda, the Prefectures are known as Intara, the Districts as Akerere, The
Sectors as Umurenge and the Cellules as the Akagari.
The DCDP will continue to operate in the original five Prefectures it operated in during
the CRDP", namely, Gisenyi, Byumba, Umutara, Gikongoro and Butare, but in the
DCDP, it will more than triple the number of districts it operated in the CRDP, from 11 to
39.
The Prefectures are headed by a Prefect.
The District is an autonomous administrative structure with a legal status and financial
autonomy, with two principal political bodies:
(a)   The District Council - is responsible to enforce the laws of Rwanda, promote
governance based on democracy, prepare regulations governing the District,
implement Government decisions, to adopt the development action plan of
the district, to adopt the district budget and to fix the maximum amount to
release fro the District's funds, to follow up the activities of the Executive
Committee, to coordinate activities of the sectors, to approve grants, bequest
and credits that the District may receive, inter alia.
The first project.
30



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA        ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(b)   The Executive Committee - is responsible for administration of the District,
preparation of the District Development Action Plan, implementation of the
district budget, preparation of quarterly and yearly reports, examination and
resolution of problems that could not find solutions at the level of the Sectos,
inter alia.
The District Council is composed of the following members:
(a) elected Councilors at the level of the Sector
(b) Women representatives at the District level who are elected from a third of
the number of Councilors elected to the District Council as representatives of
sectors.
(c) Youth representatives at District level who are elected from a third of the
number of Councilors elected to represent sectors to the District Council.
The District Executive Committee is made up of:
(a) The District Mayor who is also in charge of policy.
(b) Vice Mayor/The Secretary in Charge of Finances, Economy and
Development.
(c) Vice Mayor/The Secretary in charge of Welfare and Culture
(d) Vice Mayor/The Secretary in charge of Women's Affairs
(e) Vice Mayor/The Secretary in Charge of Youth Affairs
In collaboration with the District Executive Committee, the Mayor of the District is in
charge of day-to-day administration of the District. The Mayor signs minutes, regulations,
notices, contracts and all agreements involving the District. The Mayor of the District is
the representative of the State at the District Level.
Specific assignments of the Mayor of the District are:
(a) to make the country's political line of action known and to sensitize the
population into the implementation of decisions taken at national or District
level
(b) to control the implementation of decisions taken by the District Council as
well as regulations from higher levels of the administration in the country
(c) to supervise and coordinate activities at the level of the District
(d) to convene and preside over meetings of the Executive Committee and of the
District Council and
(e) to present quarterly and annual reports on the situation prevailing in the
District to Council and to higher administrative authorities of the country.
The above two political and administrative structures are assisted by two more technical
level structures:
(a) The Executive Secretary
(b) The District Development Committee is more commonly referred to as the
Community Development Committee (CDC).
The Executive Secretary is responsible to coordinate, prepare directives and control
activities at the level of the District on the basis of decisions taken by the District Council
31



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
on political and administrative matters; to examine all documents that have to be
approved or signed by the Mayor of the District; to supervise the activities executed at
the level of the District; to control the use of the District's assets and to prepare reports
to the Mayor of the District; to make follow up of the collection of taxes and any other
sources of revenue for the District; to closely follow-up projects executed at the level of
the District; to promote the skills and the experience of the staff of the District and
provide training opportunities to reinforce their capacities; to closely follow-up the
elaboration of programmes of activities and the preparation of reports in the District; to
chair meetings of District heads of service; to act as Secretary to the District Executive
Committee and District Council at the time of their respective meetings; to make a first
level evaluation of the Districts staff; to do structural organization work; to keep all
documents of the District; and to carry out any other duties assigned by the District
Council and the District Executive Committee.
The District Development Committee or CDC are to prepare the District's Development
Action Plan; to make the follow-up and the control of activities and development projects
of the District; to supervise the administration and finance of projects in the District; to
prepare the draft development budget of the District; and to organize the sensitization of
the population with regard to development activities.
The District Development Committee is made up of:
a)    The Vice Mayor/ Secretary of Finance and Economic Affairs in the
District  Executive  Committee,  who   is    also   the
Chairperson/President;
b)    The Executive Secretary;
c)    Chairpersons of Sub-committees in charge of welfare of the
population, the economy and the promotion of Development in the
Sectors;
d)    The Secretary in charge of Women's Affairs within the District
Executive Committee;
e)    The Secretary in charge of Youth welfare in the District Executive
Committee;
f)    All CDC presidents at the Sector level.
The CDC also exists at the Sector and Cellule Levels and have similar functions as the
CDC/DDC at the District levels, such as planning at the Sector and Cellule levels. The
CDC at the Sector and Cellule levels is made up of 6 members each.
The Sectors are headed by a Coordinator.
The DCDP will be implemented through the Ministry of Local Government,
Information and Social Affairs, commonly referred to as MINALOC, which is
responsible as the name implies for the administration, coordination and implementation
of the national decentralization policy through the local government structures, inter alia.
32



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA         ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
_ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~~~-                        -.
District Councils                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~Executive Committee    District Development
Committee (DDC)/ Community
Development Committee (CDC
Executive Secretary                                                       CDC at the
Sector Level
7             ~~~~~CDC at the
Cellule Level
33
1Fig 7.1: Local Government Management Structure



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
7.1.1 District Tender Committee
The District Tender Committee ensures that tenders are given, in a transparent manner
and ensures that they are given in conformity with the cost-benefitlvalue for money
principles. The tender committee shall furnish a list of local tenderers who are not
registered by the National Tender Board with a view of facilitating and promoting local
entrepreneurship. This list shall be up-dated and revised regularly. The tender
committee shall evaluate the quality of goods and services provided by the tenderers.
This evaluation shall give the basic information necessary to award tenders. The
Secretary to the Tender Committee whose post is provided for in the internal
management of the Committee, gives the Executive Secretary quarterly reports. The
detailed functioning of the Tender Committee are found under procurement and
tendering procedures.
7.1.2 The Commission for National Unity and Reconciliation (URC)
The genocide gave rise to deep mistrust and division in Rwandan society. People were
fearful of their neighbors. The victims of genocide had to live alongside the perpetrators
and suspects of genocide in the same place, sometimes sharing the same house and/or
farming adjacent plots.
The Government of National Unity regarded dialogue between the citizens as the key
ingredient to rebuilding social capital. Dialogue was encouraged in communities and
high government officials traveled around the country and even the refugee camps
outside the country to engage in dialogue. Discussions, were initiated within
communities across the country. Relief agencies and NGO's in addition to providing
humanitarian assistance, promoted dialogue in the communities they worked. Initially, it
was very difficult, as people were either afraid or too angry to talk. But in time, the ice
broke and people began to talk and plan and work together for the common good.
Today, even though the scars are still present and the hurt and pain are only skin deep,
people freely and openly talk and are still encouraged to talk with each other about what
happened during the genocide.
In 1998, the President convened the political, religious and civil society leaders for
weekly meetings (every Saturday) in Urugwiro Village, to search for solutions to the
problems facing the country. Two of the decisions that resulted from these meetings
were: (i) to hold elections at grass roots level to promote and formalize regular dialogue
around the country, and (ii) to establish the National Unity and Reconciliation
Commission (URC) to conduct discussions on national unity and reconciliation across
the country. The elections of March 1999 established local committees in every cellule
and sector in the country. These committees met regularly (about every fortnight) to
discuss their problems and plan and work for the future - contributing to building social
capital. Further elections were held in March 2001, to elect decentralized administrations
at commune levels.
In 1999, the National Assembly established the URC with the mandate to:
* Organize and oversee national debates aimed at promoting national unity and
reconciliation, sensitize Rwandans on unity to lay it on a firm foundation.
34



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
* Conceive and disseminate ideas and initiatives for promoting peace and
encourage a culture of unity and reconciliation.
* Prepare and coordinate programs of promoting unity and reconciliation.
* Denounce any written or declared ideas and material seeking to divide the
Rwandese.
* Educate Rwandese on their rights, and assist in building a culture of tolerance
and respect for other peoples rights.
* Give views to institutions charged with drafting laws aimed at fostering unity and
reconciliation.
* Closely monitor the organs of government and the political parties to determine
whether they respect and observe policies of national unity and reconciliation.
Consultations by the URC at the grassroots level started in March 1999 and in a year
had held consultations in 154 out of the 180 communes in the country. There was
special emphasis in reaching marginalized groups such as the youth and women and
also the Batwa , who had hitherto been ignored in national discussions. People used the
discussions to vent years of frustration, to protest powerlessness, poverty and
ignorance.
The URC has concluded from the discussions so far that the main obstacles to unity are
(i) bad governance and leadership, including corruption, nepotism and exclusion, (ii)
poverty and (iii) lack of justice for genocide survivors.
The law establishing the URC mandates the commission to organize a National Summit
on Unity and Reconciliation on an annual basis to bring together community leaders
drawn from all communities of Rwanda to assess the progress and accomplishments on
national unity. The first National Summit, held in Kigali in October 2000, endorsed the
approach of the URC and its conclusions from the first year of consultations. National
policy initiatives already reflect the conclusions of the URC consultations with the
decentralization and related elections, and the ongoing preparations for the use of
traditional method of justice (Gacaca) to accelerate the trials of the genocide.
7.2   The Institutional Framework for Environmental Management
7.2.1 The Rwanda Environment Management Authority
With regards to the management of the bio-physical environment throughout Rwanda,
the overall responsibility now lies with the Rwanda Environment Management Authority.
In November 2003, the Government of Rwanda approved the law establishing the
Rwanda Environment Management Authority ( REMA).
Until the REMA is up and running, the responsibilities for environmental management
would continue to be shared between line ministries as follows:
35



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA        ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
7.2.2 The Ministry of Lands, Human Settlement and Environmental
Protection (MINITERE).
MINITERE is responsible for developing land utilization policies (including surveying,
land classification, land laws and land tenure); the development of environmental
policies and procedures (including impact assessments), protection of natural resources
(water, land, flora, fauna), environmental legislation, biodiversity, and other
environmental aspects.
The Directorate of Environmental Protection (DEP) has three Divisions:
* Environmental Policy and Advocacy
* Environmental Assessment
* Environmental Monitoring and Inspection
The DEP is also responsible for environmental monitoring. Although formally responsible
for environmental assessment, there is no legal framework yet regarding environmental
assessment.
7.2.3 The Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Forestry (MINAGRI).
MINAGRI has a primary mandate for the development, transformation and
modernization of Rwandan agriculture in its broadest sense (including forestry, fisheries
and livestock). The Directorate of Rural Engineering (Genie Rural) and Soil
Conservation (DGRCS) advises the Government on land management and is the
technical agency responsible for the exploitation and management of the wetlands for
agriculture. The Department of Forestry is responsible for management of the forest
reserves and plantations.
7.2.4 The Ministry of Energy, Water and Natural Resources (MINIRENA).
MINIRENA through its Directorate of Water and Sanitation (DWS), MINIRENA is
responsible for water resource management. Its main objective is to ensure protection
and conservation of water resources, and ensure supply of water and sanitation
systems.
DWS is comprised of four divisions:
* Division of Urban Water
* Division of Rural Water
* Sanitation
* Division of Hydrology and Water Resources Management.
The Division of Hydrology and Water Resources Management is responsible for the
preparation of hydrological surveys, assessment of potential underground water
resources, maintenance of a database on national water resources, water quality
control, and monitoring water levels in lakes and river systems.
7.2.5 The Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Communication (MINITRACO).
MINITRACO plays and important role in water resources management through its
Division of Meteorology, which is located in the Directorate of Transport. The Division of
36



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
Meteorology, comprises six sections: Meteorology, Agro-meteorology, Climatology,
Meteorological Center, Data Analysis and Computers, and Hydrometeorology. It
coordinates all aspects of meteorology and provides data and information to all
interested users.
7.2.6 The Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Tourism (MINICOM).
MINICOM is responsible for tourism and the management of protected areas. It houses
the Rwanda Office for Tourism and the Protected Areas (ORTPN) that handles day-to-
day management of the protected areas.
7.3   The Legal and Regulatory Framework
7.3.1 The 2003 Constitution
The referendum of 26 May 2003 confirmed the new Constitution of the Republic of
Rwanda, which states in its preamble, inter alia, that in the wake of the genocide that
was organized and supervised by "unworthy leaders" and other perpetrators and that
decimated more than a million sons and daughters of Rwanda.
Article 45 of the constitution states that all citizens have the right to participate in
government of the country, whether directly or through freely chosen representatives in
accordance with the law. All citizens have the right of equal access to public service in
accordance with their competence and abilities.
Article 49 states that every citizen is entitled to a healthy and satisfying environment.
Every person has the duty to protect, safeguard and promote the environment. The state
shall protect the environment. The law determines the modalities for protecting,
safeguarding and promoting the environment.
7.3.2 Law No. 04/2001
This law establishes the organization and the functioning of Districts, Urban Authorities
and Kigali City empowers the Local Administrations to design plans of action, budgets as
well as mobilize the necessary resources in accordance with the procedures as provided
for by the law.
7.3.3 Environmental Laws
There is no Environmental Policy or Environmental Law in Rwanda at this present time.
One of the immediate mandates for the REMA is to prepare a National Environmental
Policy, which will become the basis for a new Environmental Law.
During the implementation of the recently completed Community Reintegration and
Development Project (CRDP), investments financed under this project were not
subjected to any environmental management process.
7.3.4 Statutory Land Laws
37



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
However, the Land Decree of July 1960 makes reference to the ownership and use of
hillsides, marshlands and other aspects of the environment. The Land Decree stipulates
that all marshlands are exclusive property of the State and are available to the people of
Rwanda for their use and profit. This decree also states implicitly that the government
has an unconditional right to take land back for redistribution or other considerations for
public benefit, in which case the original occupiers of the land should be compensated.
As a common property resource with open access, there is no security of tenure and this
has served as a disincentive to the sustainable management of wetlands.
In February 1999, a draft revised land law was prepared, defining ownership of land,
rights and obligations of land owners and transactions of land. The law recognizes
private land, land owned by the state, and land owned by the commune.
The current draft Land Law specifies:
* People with customary holdings under 2 hectares, and those with customary
holdings between 2 and 30 hectares where the owner has a project and a
development plan, will be recognized as the owners.
* Transfer of title deeds requires prior consent of all family members.
* A land tax will be imposed.
* Undeveloped land reverts to the states private domain after three years.
* Holders of ubukonde land (originally distributed by clan head), known as
abagererwa, will have the same rights as other customary owners.
7.3.5 Customary Land Laws
Two principal systems controlled land tenure in Rwanda12, the Ubukonde System and
the Igikingi System. These systems were different, but shared notions of collective
ownership of land among members of patrilineages (imiryango).
* In the Ubukonde System , predominantly observed then, in the north and north
west (currently Byumba, Gisenyi and Ruhengeri prefectures), people gained
rights to large tracts of land, by being the first to clear and valorize the land
(known as gukonda). In this system, a lineage held rights to land corporately and
major decisions about managing landholdings were taken by the lineage chef
(umutware w'umuryango or, in speaking of land specifically, umukonde). The
abakonde lineages held economic and political power over their ubukonde and
could grant rights to others to use land in their territory through a form of
clientship known as ubugererwa. Clients were required to make payments to
their patrons, most often in the form of a portion of the harvests or in manual
labor in the patron's fields or enclosure. There were three specific types of
ubukonde, including ubukonde bw'inzogera (hunting grounds), ubukinde bw'inka
(grazing lands), and ubukonde bw'isuka (agricultural lands). In all three types, the
umukonde (ubukonde owner) allowed others access to these lands in exchange
for gifts and/or labor.
12 "Women and Land in Africa", edited by L. Muthoni Wanyeki.
38



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA        ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
In the Igikingi System, predominantly observed then in the central, eastern and
southern areas of Rwanda, land was distributed by the mwami'3 or his chiefs
(abatware b'umukenke) on the approval of the mwami to either heroes (intwari)
from war or other individuals commanding respect in society. Ibikingi were vast
tracts of land designed for grazing cattle. If the holder of an igikingi lost favor with
the chief or lost his cattle, through disease, mismanagement, or raiding, the chief
seized his igikingi from him and gave it to someone else who had cattle. The
holders of ibikingi had full control over the land and thus could partition it and
allot plots (amasambu) to others in order to cultivate. These cultivators became
clients and owned seasonal gifts and servitude to continue benefiting from the
land bestowed on them.
Both these systems have undergone significant reforms due to the socio - political
turbulence Rwanda has under gone in during the immediate pre-colonial, colonial, post
colonial and post genocide eras.
7.3.6 International Conventions
Rwanda is a party to many international agreements on Biodiversity, Climate Change,
Desertification, Endangered Species, Ozone layer protection, Marine Life Conservation,
etc. Examples are:
* African Convention on the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources,
Algiers, (1968)
* Convention for the Prohibition of the Development, Production and Stockpiling of
Bacteriological ( Biological) and Toxic Weapons, and their Destruction.
* Convention on Biological Diversity
* Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and
Flora (CITES) (1973)
* Convention on the Ban of the Import into Africa and the Control of
Transboundary Movement and Management of Hazardous Wastes Within Africa,
Bamako, Mali (1991)
* UN Convention to Combat Desertification in Countries Experiencing Serious
Drought and/or Desertification particularly in Africa (1994)
* Phyto-sanitary Convention for Africa, Kinshasa (1967)
* UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (1982)
* UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (1993)
7.3.7 Membership of International River Basin Commissions.
Rwanda is a member of the following international River Basin Commissions:
* Nile Basin Commission.
* Congo River Basin
13 The mwami was the political and spiritual leader of the central Rwandan kingdom. At the beginning of
the twentieth century, the kingdom was in the midst of an expansion (through warfare) into bordering
regions (present-day Kibungo and Cyangugu) of kinyaranda speaker.
39



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
7.4   The Policy Framework
7.4.1 National Environmental Strategy
The environmental degradation resulting from the genocidal war has been a determining
factor in guiding Governments priorities. Rwanda's National Environmental Strategy
identifies the high population density and growth rate, the lack of land, and the problem
of refugees displaced during the war as major problems with significant environmental
impacts. Food insecurity and domestic energy concerns have been singled out as the
greatest factors leading to the degradation of the environment. Constraints in addressing
these issues include, inter alia, an absence of environmental legislation and policies, a
lack of reliable environmental data and information, lack of trained environmental
specialists, and a low level of environmental awareness. Key elements of the strategy
include, the integration of environmental concerns in all sectors, rational management of
natural resources, development of an environmental information system, awareness-
raising about the ecological, cultural, and economic value and role of natural resources,
and institutional strengthening and capacity-building.
7.4.2 The National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan ( BSAP)
The BSAP was approved in principle in June 2000, and defines the objectives and
priorities for the conservation and sustainable management of biodiversity. This includes
hillsides and wetlands, and also covers the government strategy vis-a-vis protected
areas.
7.4.3 Decentralization of Environmental Management.
Under the decentralization policy adopted in May 2000, the central government will
retain the function of conservation and environment protection policy while tourism and
environmental management will be transferred to the prefectures and urban local
governments. However, at the prefecture and commune level, the capacity of
implementation of environmental policy is extremely low. Although the MINITERE has
prefecture level offices, these are involved mostly with land management and
resettlement issues. There are environmental inspectors in only 4 prefectures out of a
total of 1214.
7.4.4 The Land Policy
Key Features of the Land Policy:
* All Rwandese enjoy the same rights of access to land, implying no discrimination
against women.
* All land should be registered for security. The title will be tradable, but not in a
way that fragments plots below 1 hectare
* Land use should be optimal
* Households will be encouraged to consolidate plots to ensure that each holding
is not less than 1 hectare; there will also be a ceiling of 50 hectare. This will be
4 Exact number of environmental inspectors to be confirmed.
40



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA        ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
achieved by the family cultivating in common rather than fragmenting the plot
through inheritance.
* Land administration will be based on a reformed cadastral system.
* The system of land administration is under consideration.
* The rights of occupants of urban land will be recognized, on condition that they
conform to established rules.
* Urban master plans will be developed.
* Marshlands are in the state's private domain, and will be allocated to individuals
on a concession by the MINITERE on condition of good management.
7.4.5 National Water Policy
Rwanda's National Water Policy (1998) aims to attain maximum short, medium and
long-term economically and ecologically sustainable social advantages for the well-being
of the Rwandese people, and guarantee their access to water in an equitable and
sustainable manner. To this end, the policy has adopted a holistic approach to water
resource management. Issues linked to allocation, conservation, quality control and
efficient use of water resources are to be addressed. On the supply side, the policy
stresses the importance of protecting the major sources of water, i.e. lakes, rivers,
underground water and wetlands. The policy recognizes the need to minimize losses
from inappropriate and unsustainable use of water resources. It furthermore recognizes
that sustainable use of water resources must be strongly linked with environmental
protection, and that the utilization of these water resources should take into full
consideration existing regional and international agreements and treaties. The
Government is preparing a Wetland Development Masterplan to identify suitable models
for wetland development and will subsequently prepare a wetland development strategy.
7.4.6 The National Decentralization Policy
On May 26, 2000, the Government of Rwanda adopted the National Decentralization
Policy and Strategy for its implementation. The main thrust of the policy is to ensure
political, economic, social, managerial, administrative and technical empowerment of
local communities to fight poverty by participating in planning and management of their
development process.
The strategic objectives of the decentralization policy are:
* To enable and reactivate local people to participate in initiating, making,
implementing, and monitoring decisions and plans that concern them taking into
consideration their local needs, priorities, capacities and resources by
transferring power, authority and resources from central to local government and
lower levels of administration.
* To strengthen accountability and transparency in Rwanda by making local
leaders directly accountable to the communities they serve and establishing a
clear linkage between the taxes people pay and the services that are financed by
these taxes.
* To enhance the sensitivity and responsiveness of Public Administration to the
local environment by placing the planning, financing, management, and control of
41



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA        ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
service provision at the point where services are provided, and by enabling local
leadership develop organization structures and capacities that take into
consideration the local environment and needs.
* To develop sustainable economic planning and management capacity at local
levels that serve as the driving motor for planning, mobilization, and
implementation of social, political, and economic development.
* To enhance effectiveness and efficiency in planning, monitoring, and delivery of
services by reducing the burden from central government officials who are
distanced from the point where needs are felt and services delivered.
* To mobilize the entire establishment of the government and state of Rwanda to
create an enabling environment that allows the people to own, support, sustain
and participate in the decentralization process.
* To persistently exhibit exemplary effectiveness, efficiency, and accountability in
planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of all programmes and
projects of decentralization in the country.
* To ensure local participation and instill a sense of anti-dependency and self-
reliance amongst the Rwandese people by mobilizing and effectively utilizing
local human, material, and financial resources to plan, implement, control and
sustain local governance for participative delivery of social services for all.
* To develop local capacities in infrastructure, management and administration
systems, structures, knowledge, skills, attitudes, institutions, networks,
relationships, technologies, processes, procedures, practices, and leadership
behavior that will sustain local good governance for effective, efficient,
accountable, and equitable delivery of social services and development for all.
* To strengthen participative and all engaging social communication as a tools for
reconciling and harmonizing local populations into peaceful productive
communities that are aware of and committed to upholding the rule of law, good
governance, respect for human rights and property, and defense of their rights
and fulfill their obligations.
42



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA                    ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
8.0 DETERMINATION OF POTENTIAL ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL
IMPACTS
8.1      Potential Environmental Concerns and Impacts
8.1.1    Generic Environmental Concerns
The critical environmental problems facing Rwanda today are:
* Deforestation
* Land Degradation
* Water Contamination
* Loss of Biodiversity, Habitat and Wetlands
The Tables 8.1 to 8.4, presents the root and immediate causes for these environmental
problems and discusses the impacts and their severity, providing the background
against which any potential adverse impacts on the environment from the activities of the
DCDP can be determined and analyzed. Also, the impacts on the environment from sub
project activities of the DCDP would be at the various stages of the sub-project cycle,
particularly during construction stage, day-to-day operations of the facilities constructed
when providing services and during maintenance stages. The environmental screening
form and checklist in Annex 3.0 states how each potential sub project adverse impact
can be successfully mitigated through the sub project during the planning, construction,
day-to-day operations and maintenance stages.
Deforestation: For instance, a pre-war 1994 total forest area of 417, 000 ha has fallen to approximately 226,000 ha. Gishwati
Forest has all but disappeared, the Mutara hunting reserve has completely disappeared and the Akagera National Park is now
less than one-third of its original size. Nyungwe Forest is also threatened.
Immediate Causes                     Root Causes                     Impacts                         Severity
*   Land use conversion due to      .    Poverty and population      *    Decreasing                 HIGH
increasing need for arable land      pressure leading to             vegetation/forest cover;
and grazing areas; burning           unsustainable pressure on       loss of density and
practices for land clearing and      resources; absence of           diversity.
shifting cultivation.               alternative livelihoods and
weak capacity to increase   .    Deterioration of watershed:
*   Uncontrolled logging for fuelwood    unit agricultural production.    high run-off associated with
and charcoal production for                                          increased erosion leading
domestic/household energy       .    Insufficient energy             to loss of fertile soils and
consumption, construction           alternatives to fuelwood.        sedimentation and siltation
material and local industry fuel                                     downstream.
needs.                          .    Insufficient awareness and
knowledge of sustainable    .    Energy crisis associated
*   Unsustainable and inefficient        land use practices and           with price increases due to
resource use (e.g. overgrazing,     effects of deforestation.        decreased availability of
extensive cultivation on steep hill                                  fuelwood and charcoal.
slopes and uncontrolled logging).  .  Land tenure system leading
to allocation and use of     *   Large scale habitat
*   Lack of local planting/replanting.   marginal lands and lack of       destruction and loss of
incentives for sustainable       wildlife in terms of numbers
.    Human migration and                 land use practices.              and biodiversity;
resettlement due to increasing                                       progressive disappearance
numbers of returnees and other  .    Large numbers of refugees       of National Parks.
war affected groups, encroaching     and resettlements without
into forested areas.                basic support and planning.  *   Variability in climate and
rainfall patterns.
43



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA                  ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
Table 8.1
Land Degradation: From soil erosion, soil exhaustion and overgrazing. A problem throughout Rwanda.
Immediate Causes                  Root Causes                    Impacts                      Severity
.   Massive continued loss of     .   Population pressure and    .   Loss of top soil and     HIGH
vegetative cover due to           poverty leading to            reduction of soil fertility
deforestation and loss of other   unsustainable land use        leading to decrease in
land cover, deterioration of      practices.                     agricultural production and
catchment buffer zones.                                         food security.
.   Topography (uneven relief,
.   Inappropriate agricultural        high stream flow velocities)  .  Reduction of vegetative
practices leading to decreased    and rainfall patterns (floods,  cover and loss of habitats
soil quality and erosion, such as  droughts, climate variability)  and biodiversity.
use of marginal lands,
overgrazing and free grazing.  .  Lack of land use policies and  .  Water quality degradation
improper land use             from high sediment loads,
   Lack of soil and water            management; weak               siltation of shallow lakes,
conservation measures and/or      extension service on soil      wetlands, reservoirs, and
abandonment and poor              conservation often             valley bottoms and other
maintenance of anti-erosion       connected with prevalent      low lying lands
works.                            land tenure system.            downstream.
.   Bush fires and slash and burn  .  High livestock density     .   Degradation of river beds
practices.                                                       and river bank erosion;
.   Lack of awareness of land-     desertification and wind
.                                     water interaction              erosion (northern arid
regions), sheet and rill
.   Lack of EIA's or systematic    erosion and gully formation
implementation of EIA for     (after heavy rainfall) in
infrastructure projects due to  highlands.
lack of financial and human
resources.                .    Landslides and flooding
leading to destruction of
infrastructure ( houses,
means of communication,
communal facilities, etc.)
River Bank and Lakeshore Degradation. For e.g. at Nyabarongo River.
.   Poor land use and agricultural  *  Lack of or insufficient   .   Destruction of vegetative  MODERATE
practices such as dry season      national land use plans, laws  cover especially lake shore
cultivation near banks and        and regulations, and/or        buffer zones.
destruction of vegetative cover to  enforcement of existing laws.  .  Erosion, landslides, and
increase arable land area; high                                  downstream sedimentation
animal density.               .   Population pressure and       leading to change in river
rapid growth of urban          course.
.   Drop in water levels and drying   centers.                   .   Adverse effects on riverine
up of waterways.                                                 aquatic life and lake
.   Expansion of farm lands and    ecosystems.
.   Increased urban development       inadequate agricultural
and construction and industrial   practices near river banks
activities near river banks; poorly  and shores, including
planned tourism centers.          overgrazing.
.   Land subsistence; relief and
morphological structure of
soil.
.   Climatic variability and
conditions; seasonal floods
and intermittent increase in
lake levels.
|8Table8.2 |
44



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA                 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
Water Contamination: Pollution
Immediate Causes                     Root Causes                       Impacts                  Severity
.   Discharge of run-off of untreated  *  Weak policies, laws and      .   Degradation of water  MODERATE
water from urban and industrial      regulations for environmental     quality, rendering
sources containing dissolved         protections ( e.g. EIA); insufficient  water unsuitable for
nutrients, industrial pollutants,    enforcement and monitoring        domestic, agricultural,
agricultural chemicals/fertilizers; lack  especially in respect to industrial  industrial and other
of recycling of waste matter;        facilities; low budgetary provision  uses.
uncontrolled dumping of waste.       for enforcement of existing
regulations, lack of sufficient  .  Adverse impacts on
.   Non-point source pollution from      human resources.                  water dependent flora
agriculture due to improper and high                                   and fauna, loss of
application rates of agro-chemicals.  *  Point Sources: Inadequate     habitats and bio-
funding of investments, high      diversity, nutrient
*   Degradation of vegetative cover      capital costs, high operation and  discharges leading to
especially wetlands, in basins which  maintenance costs, inadequate    increased
could act as filters.                containment and treatment of      eutrophication. .
wastes and lack of sanitary
facilities.                   .   Pollution of lakes and
tributaries, resulting in
*   Non-point sources: Unsustainable  contamination of
land use practices in combination  drinking water.
with lack of security of land
tenure.                       .   Lack of adequate
liquid and solid waste
*   Inadequate zoning regulations     disposal systems and
and/or enforcement; inadequate    accumulation of
environmental and land use        refuse.
planning.
.   Decrease in
*   Low environmental awareness       environmental quality,
and sense of value or             disappearance of
environmental protection.         natural habitats and
proliferation of water
hyacinth.
Water Contamination: Sanitation Aspects
.   Lack of water supply systems and/or  .  Lack of environmental regulations  .  Pollution of drinking  SEVERE
other reliable drinking water source;  and laws, monitoring and        water sources (ground
drinking water contamination with    enforcement and general waste     and surface water)
fecal matter leading to spread of    management strategies.            and high dissolved
pathogens.                                                             nutrient loads resulting
.   Rapid growth of urban centers    in increasing
*   Lack of or insufficient sewerage or  and lack of financial resource    eutrophication and
alternative sanitation systems ;leaks  base to build needed water      spread of infectious
and insufficient maintenance of      supply and sanitation             diseases ( diarrhea,
existing facilities; lack of urban storm  infrastructure, combined with lack  malaria, bilharzias,
water sewers and solid waste         of planning for urban expansion   dysentery, and
disposal facilities.                 and required infrastructure.      intestinal worms).
.   Insufficient sanitation and hygiene  .  High capital costs for     *   Risks to public health
training in conjunction with         investments; high operation and   due to poor sanitation
widespread poor sanitary conditions.  maintenance costs.               conditions, especially
during rainy season
*   Increased breeding ground for    .   Previous low priority given to    and floods.
mosquitoes in water weed infested    sanitation by government and
areas and irrigation canals.         agencies, lack of awareness of  .  Increased  absence
connection between sanitation    from   work  due  to
and safe drinking water; need for  sickness; increase in
better hygiene education.         malnutrition and death
rates      especially
.   Poverty and poor health condition  among    vulnerable
of large parts of the population.  groups such as small
children, the displaced
and the elderly.
45        Table 8.3



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA                   ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
Water Contamination: Water Weed Infestation, Especially along Kagera and Nyabarongo rivers and Lakes Cyohoha and
Rwero.
Immediate Causes                       Root Causes                        Impacts                   Severity
.   High dissolved nutrient levels from  *  Introduction of hyacinth,     *    Continuing spread of  MODERATE
pollutant discharge from industrial    insufficient preventive measures   weeds and infestation     TO
discharge and domestic sources and     against introduction of foreign    of lakes and rivers,    SEVERE
agricultural run-off due to poor land  species in general.                eutrophication.
use practices and lack of water
treatment.                         .   Lack of capacity in water      *   Interference with
resources and environment          ecology and economy,
*   Inadequate response mechanisms.        ministry resulting in inefficient   e.g. mats on water
enforcement of environmental       surface impair
regulations.                       navigation and fishing
activities and lead to
Delay in mobilizing funds and      decrease in fish yields
creating national/regional         as well as to
programs to combat infestation.    eutrophication.
*   Decrease in diversity
of certain fish species.
.   Increase in occurrence
of waterborne
diseases; increased
_______________________________________  water evaporation.
|.Table8.3 Cont'd l
46



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA                   ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
Loss of Biodiversity and Habitats.
Immediate Causes                       Root Causes                        Impacts                   Severity
Species loss and decline of ecosystems  .  Population pressure and poverty  Species loss and decline of  SEVERE
and unique habitats.                       combined with high reliance on  ecosystems and unique
primary natural resources and  habitats.
.   Poaching and illegal trade in valuable  income from agriculture.
species as well as intensive and                                      .   Disappearance of
unsustainable resource use and land  .  Low financial and staff capacity in  unique animal and
management, such as deforestation,     management of protected areas      plant species,
wetlands conversion, expansion of      and associated lack of control     especially endemic
agriculture (crops and livestock       and monitoring; poor enforcement   ones; decline of
farming, overfishing, uncontrolled     of laws protecting gazetted        species diversity.
burning and forest fires).            forests and game sanctuaries;
lack of financial resources for  *  Decrease in numbers
.   Lack of alternative income sources     development and implementation      of large mammals with
especially in areas or resettlement.   of effective and relevant          negative impact on
programs.                          tourism and
Loss of agrodiversity.                                                        associated decrease
.   Weak agricultural extension         in revenue.
.   Expansion of hybrid/high yielding crop  services.
and livestock varieties leading to                                    .   Decrease in forest
decrease of genetic diversity of   *   Lack of awareness of biodiversity  cover constituting
domestic/national species.             concerns and benefits from         decrease in food, fuel
conservation.                      timber and shelter.
.   Introduction of exotic species.
.   Lack of regulations to prevent  Loss of agrodiversity.
introduction of exotic species.
.   Loss of genetic base
*   Inadequate and unregulated land    (cattle breeds, crops,
use practices; insufficient        vegetables/fruits); loss
integrated programs for people     of benefits from local
living in protected areas.         variety qualities
(tolerance productivity,
resilience);
dependency on exotic
seeds and
breeds/imported
varieties.
Wetlands Degradation; e.g. Lake Cyohoha and entire Lake Bugesera area, Lake Rweru and Lake Mugesera
*   Reclamation of wetlands to expand  .   Lack of wetland protection and  .   Decrease and         SEVERE
agricultural production.               management regulations and         degradation of wetland
measures and/or lack of            areas ( reclamation,
*   Deforestation, erosion and             implementation.                    siltation, flood
sedimentation.                                                            damage; water weed
.   Poverty and population              infestation)
.   Overuse of natural resources           pressures; shortage of land;
(overfishing/hunting/over-            inadequate land use policies    .   Decreased benefits
grazing,farming practices)                                                from functioning
.   Lack of awareness of wetlands       wetlands, e.g. less
.   Pollution from industrial, agricultural  function and value, cultural     groundwater re-
and domestic sources.                  habits.                            charge, decreased
buffering of floods,
loss of filter function to
absorb and degrade
pollutants and
associated decrease
in water quality;
decreasing ability to
act as sediment trap;
destruction of habitats
and loss of
biodiversity.
7Table8.4
47



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
8.1.2 DCDP Response to Environmental Concerns
Overall, the DCDP is likely to have a positive impact on the environment in Rwanda, in
the short, medium and long term, for the following reasons;
* The implementation of this ESMF will introduce in Rwanda the practice of
subjecting development projects to an environmental management process, in
the prevailing situation where a national environmental policy and regulatory
framework are not yet in place. The ESMF offers the opportunity to identify
potential project impacts, mitigate them verifiably through monitoring while
building capacity for environmental management within institutions, local
governments and local communities.
* The activities to be financed through the DCDP, such soil conservation, water
provision and supply , will ensure sustainable use of natural resources by the
local communities themselves, thereby providing opportunities for increasing
agricultural productivity through technical knowledge transfer.
* The DCDP's other activities in providing communities with social services ( e.g.
health post, primary schools etc.) will increase the opportunities for an enhanced
public health environment .
* The DCDP will pose no risks to biodiversity, natural habitats and wetlands as it
will not fund activities in protected areas, national parks or wetlands.
8.2   Potential Social Concerns and Impacts
Rwanda's social problems stem mainly from the effects of the recent genocidal war of
1994 which have worsen poverty and left Rwandese society with a tremendous loss of
social capital. During the consultations that took place during the preparation of this
ESMF, the Rwandese people who were consulted stated the following as their main
social concerns:
* Acute poverty - many go without food for days because they have no means to
obtain food and instead rely on the good will of others in their communities. Many
also cannot afford to continue to send their school age going children to even
primary school.
* The Feeling of Powerlessness15 - many stated their inability to change/improve
their own situation for themselves makes them feel hopeless, often despondent
and resided to the belief that they would never succeed in their daily struggle to
overcome poverty.
* The situation with the returnees, internally displaced people, refugees, orphans,
widows and widowers - is impacting every aspect of social and economic life.
Many of the Rwandese poor.were direct victims of the genocide or new someone
close who was a victim. Many more are looking after the surviving victims of the
5 The Powerlessness they were referring to was NOT political power
48



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
genocide. Many felted overwhelmed with the added domestic pressure of looking
after the victims of the genocide. Also many victims were and still are separated
from their surviving relatives.
*  Lack of access to social services - very limited and often too distant access to
health care, schools, potable water, feeder roads, etc.
*  Lack of shelter- especially among the returnees and other genocide victims.
* Lack of land - for agricultural activity, human settlement, etc.
*  High unemployment - especially among the youths who cannot find work.
*  Lack of access to rnicro-credit/micro finance - many of those consulted
specifically stated that lack of access to micro-credit was keeping them in poverty
as they had no access capital to engage in micro-enterprises.
*  Lack of technological knowledge - many stated that it was more a matter of lack
of appropriate technological know how than illiteracy per se. They stated lack of
knowledge in soil conservation and other natural resources management and
farming techniques to increase productivity. They felt that lack of knowledge also
made them unemployable.
*  HIV/AIDs - the stigmatization of people living with HIV among them and the
morbidity of those suffering from AIDs was adding even more pressure.
*  Persistent social exclusion - some of the Batwa consulted stated how they felt
totally excluded from Rwandan y society, were actually excluded from
participating in planning of and benetiting from development activities. They also
stated that they were stigmatized as "lower caste" and were often the victims of
random threats and violence. They had difficult access to social services. If the
needs of the Batwa in project areas are not accounted for, they might not benefit
from project's activities.
*  Fear in some border areas (NW  areas predominantly) , of renewed rebel
incursions and conflicts/civil unrest.
8.2.1  DCDP Response to Social Concerns
During the implementation of the DCDP, special attention will be paid to these concerns
at every level of government, planning, and implementation. The DCDP is designed
partly to address some of these issues through provision of social services, soil and
natural resource management type sub projects, and capacity building at all levels of
government and community.
Political commitment from the top to resolve these problems is high, as demonstrated in
the provisions in the new constitution and legal frameworks, Government's constant
49



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
efforts, not least of all the PRSP and the Governments request of the World Bank to
assist with the financing of this project.
Therefore, the project will have meaningful positive social impacts in the following areas:
* Increase rural economic activity.
* Provision of social services.
* Increase opportunities for employment, mostly short term employment.
* Together with the other ongoing- activities of other donors and agencies, the
DCDP will demonstrate continued government effort and concern for the plight of
the Rwandese poor.
* Provide additional opportunity for participation of communities in local
development.
* Capacity building in District Governments and among communities through
learning by doing methods, formal training, etc.
* Seek the participation of all Rwandese and will not support the exclusion of any
group.
The environmental and social screening form and checklist contained in Annex 3.0 and
Annex 4.0 are specifically designed to ensure that adverse social impacts from DCDP
activities are identified and captured in the planning stages and there-in effectively
mitigated. This will be done through the Monitoring and Evaluation disposition described
in Section 10.2, the consultation framework outlined in Section 12.0, and the screening
form presented in Annex 3.0, of this ESMF.
Both environmental and social mitigation measures would be verifiable monitored during
the various stages of the project cycle.
50



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
9.0   INSTITUTIONAL ASSESSMENT & FRAMEWORK
FOR ENVIRONMENTAL & SOCIAL MANAGEMENT
9.1   Institutional Roles and Responsibilities
The main institutions with key responsibilities in this ESMF are:
* 9.1.1 The Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit (PCMU)
The PCMU, which is located in the Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development,
and Social Affairs (MINALOC) will (i) coordinate activities across all participating
Prefectures/Districts and urban areas; (i) manage an MIS for the purposes of
maintaining a formative monitoring system throughout the project to assess quality of
implementation, use of funds, and impact; (iii) transfer of funds to Districts to finance the
sub-projects; (iv) handle procurement above a certain threshold and (v) provide training
and capacity building.
Specifically with regards this ESMF, the PCMU will play an oversight role by monitoring
the Districts to ensure that they are performing and carrying out their responsibilities as
detailed in Section 11.0 of this report. The PCMU will play this role by relying on the
analysis of periodic reports of the respective Prefecture. The PCMU will forward these
reports to REMA for analysis of cumulative impacts and efficacy of corresponding
prefecture mitigation measures.
Thus the PCMU will perform a central processing and coordination role between the
Prefectures and REMA on the activities of the Districts and Local Communities by being
a channel for receiving, compiling and processing periodic monitoring reports and for
issuing necessary guidelines.
In addition, the PCMU will monitor the social aspects of the sub projects to ensure that
poverty targets are being met.
The PCMU will report to the World Bank.
* 9.1.2 The Rwanda Environment Management Authority (REMA)
One of the primary responsibilities of the newly established REMA is to ensure that all
major development projects in Rwanda are subject to mandatory Environmental Impact
Assessment (ESIA) pursuant to the new law establishing REMA.
Since REMA will still be a new organization at the time the DCDP is being implemented,
it will need time and financial and human resources to develop the skills necessary to
fully and effectively carry out its mandate Therefore, the role REMA will play in this
project will be limited to one of monitoring. Notwithstanding that the DCDP will have very
limited resources in this regard to contribute to REMA's development, however, the
DCDP would like to manifest its support for the development of REMA and its
willingness to work with it. Therefore, the DCDP will provide REMA with modest training
opportunities for key staff assigned to work on the DCDP and with other forms of
technical assistance, to carry out its limited role which will be to ensure/verify; (i) that the
51



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA        ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
DCDP is being implemented consistent with the provisions of this ESMF, (ii) that the
Prefecture's are monitoring the activities of the Districts and Local Communities during
construction and post-construction (i.e. operations stage) at all locations in the
Prefectures in which the Districts and Local Communities have their sub projects, (iii)
that the cumulative impacts at the National level from the impacts of the multiple sub
projects at the District level are adequately mitigated and monitored at the national level.
REMA will report to the PCMU and will receive the periodic monitoring reports of the
Prefectures through and from the PCMU. The activities of the REMA will be coordinated
by the PCMU.
* 9.1.3 The Prefectures
The Prefectures are to be responsible for; (i) ensuring the activities planned under this
DCDP by the Districts and Local Communities comply with Rwanda's environmental
laws and requirements, and that of the World Bank's Safeguards Policies, (ii) for
receiving, reviewing and commenting, requiring revisions where necessary and clearing
of district sub projects completed environmental and social screening form and
checklists (iii) carrying out a regular and intrusive monitoring regime of the planning,
implementation, construction, operations and maintenance stages of the Districts and
Local Communities sub projects (iii) for preparing periodic monitoring reports on the sub
projects of the Districts and Local Communities at all stages of operations and to send
these reports on a regular basis to the PCMU who will then process them and send them
to the REMA and World Bank, (v) to comply with (consistent with national laws) the
directives of REMA and PCMU, (vi) to issue directives to the Districts consistent with
national laws on environmental requirements.
* 9.1.4 The Districts
The Districts will be responsible ; (i) for complying with all national laws regarding the
environment and with all social/poverty guidelines, parameters and targets set by the
project, and all World Bank Safeguards policies, (ii) to implement this project consistent
with the provisions of this ESMF, implementing, inter alia, all appropriate mitigation
measures identified in the environmental and social screening form and checklist into the
project planning cycle, technical and engineering designs and drawings, and civil works
contracts, etc. (iv) to ensure that these mitigation measures are complied with during
construction and post construction (i.e. operations) stages of their activities, by self
monitoring of their activities and by periodically reporting to its Prefecture and, (v) to
maintain an adequate budget to implement the appropriate maintenance procedures and
practices of their operations required to ensure relevant mitigation measures identified in
the environmental and social screening form and checklist are implemented and sustain
in the sub projects and (vi) to comply with any directives that may be issued from time to
time from the PCMU, REMA and Prefecture.
In the few cases where, local communities would be implementing their own sub projects
the Districts will still be required to perform these roles.
52



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA        ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
* 9.1.5 The World Bank
The World Bank has overall responsibility to ensure that its Safeguards Polices are
complied with, and will perform this role by reviewing all periodic technical, financial and
monitoring reports of the PCMU, REMA, Prefectures and District's and will issue all its
requirements through the PCMU.
9.2   Capacity Assessment to Perform these Roles.
9.2.1 The Project Coordinating and Monitoring Unit (PCMU)
The PCMU is composed of a National Coordinator, and accountant, a project officer for
infrastructure and support personnel and will provide overall quality control and
coordination oversight. The professional staff at the PCMU are experienced and suitably
qualified to carry out this role as the PCMU has recently completed satisfactory
management of IDA funded Community Reintegration Development Project (CRDP)
which involved 11 Districts.
The PCMU is setting up provincial PCMU's (pPCMU), one in each Prefecture, to provide
technical and administrative support to Districts.
However, the ESMF is recommending that one other project officer be appointed, with
special responsibility for the Environmental and Social requirements in this ESMF, to
serve in the (PCMU) with the following key responsibilities.
* Coordinate, liaise with and monitor the sub project activities and responsibilities
of the Districts, the Prefectures and REMA as contained in this report.
*  Review  periodic Environmental and Social Audit reports from  Districts
Prefectures and REMA.
* Advice DCDP/PCMU on Environmental and Social issues.
* Compile and prepare periodic Environmental and Social reports for submission to
World Bank
* Review and Monitor the performance of Districts in meeting poverty/social targets
and goals.
* Review and compile periodic poverty/social performance reports on the Districts
and prepare periodic consolidated reports for the PCMU and the World Bank.
9.2.2  The Rwanda Environment and Management Authority (REMA)
REMA will assign one of its technical professionals to provide the necessary support
required to perform its role in this ESMF. However, as REMA is a new institution, that
individual will be provided with training, and REMA will receive some limited logistical
support from the DCDP to carry out its role.
53



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
9.2.3 The Prefectures
The five Prefectures targeted for intervention by the DCDP are Butare, Byumba,
Gikongoro, Gisenyi and Umutara. The office of the Prefect will perform four key roles in
their Prefectures in this project:
*  Review, comment and clear district sub projects screening form and checklist
*  Monitor activities/operations of the Districts during all stages (i.e. investment
planning, construction and operations/maintenance.
* Enforce national laws.
* Report to REMA and PCMU on a periodic/regular basis.
The Prefectures do not have existing capacity to carry out these roles.
The ESMF is recommending that each Prefecture assign one of its technical staff to
carry out this role on its behalf. The DCDP will support this position with a monthly
allowance, technical assistance for capacity building and training.
9.2.4 The Districts
The CDC of each participating District will in line with its mandate under the
decentralization structure of Rwanda, will be the implementing agency of the district.
The present composition of CDC (see section 7.1) will be strengthened for
environmental and social management by a new position.
The CDC's in all participating Districts will be assisted by the provincial PCMU at the
Prefecture level, to carry out the following roles/responsibilities:
* The custodian of all environmental and social issues required of the DCDP.
* Responsible for compliance with this ESMF in their districts.
* Ensure Districts comply with all national environmental guidelines and Bank
Safeguards policies during sub project planning, implementation/construction and
operations.
* Perform self monitoring of District and Local Community sub project activities at
all stages of operations.
* Liaise with their respective Prefecture.
* Prepare periodic environmental and social reports for submission to their
respective District Council, Prefecture and to the PCMU.
54



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA      ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
REMA     
PCMU
at
MINALOC
Prefectures
Districts
K( or Local commiunities
9 ~~in a few cases) 
Fia 9.1: Flow Chart of Institutional Roles and Responsibilities.
Monito          Reporting
*          *    *-  -------
55



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
9.3         Training Needs
9.3.1       Proposed Training Program
Duration
Environmental and Social Management process                      15 days
* Review of Environmental and Social Management Process.
* Use of Screening form and Checklist to determine adverse impacts from sub project
activities.
* How to measure cumulative adverse impacts
* How to manage social issues within the DCDP
* How to review and clear the sub projects
* The importance of public consultations in the ESMF process
* How to monitor sub projects performance vis-a-vis poverty targets/requirements
* How to monitor sub project mitigation measures
Environmental and Social policies, procedures and guidelines     5 days
* Review and discussion of Rwanda's national environmental policies, procedures, and
legislation.
* Review and discussion of the Bank's safeguards policies.
* Review of Rwanda's policies, laws and requirements for poverty reduction, and post-
genocide social protection.
* Strategies for consultation, participation and social inclusion
Selected topics on environmental protection           3 days/course
* Natural Resource Management, sustainable soil conservation and prevention of
Deforestation.
* Pollution of Water resources and water borne diseases
* Soil Erosion
* Disaster Preparedness for floods and Droughts
* Ground and Surface Water management
* Wetland Degradation
* Loss and destruction of valuable species and ecosystems.
9.4         Cost estimates
The costs estimates are based on the assumption that the training program will be held
at the District levels; resource persons are likely to come from other parts of the country
and therefore require travel allowances; participants will come from the PCMU, REMA,
Prefectures, Districts and some local community members and attend during the day
only but will receive a per diem. These estimates include an allowance for travel
expenses. It is proposed that the training program will be implemented in each
participating District and once in Kigali over the first two years of the project cycle. It is
estimated that one complete training module of 21days will cost in total about
US$12,500. There will be 7 modules offered separately. The total costs is estimated at
US$87,500.00
56



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA        ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
10.0 PROCEDURE FOR SUB-PROJECT'S PLANNING, REVIEW AND
APPROVAL.
10.1  Environmental and Social Management Process
(Summarized in Figs 10.1 and 10.2)
At the time the DCDP project was being prepared, the subprojects were not identified.
Consequently, specific information on numbers of subprojects, site location of sub
projects, land requirements, local communities, geo-physical land features, nature, type
and use of equipment/plant, etc. was not available. Therefore, exact details and intensity
of social and environmental impacts and their effective mitigation cannot be determined
during project preparation. This document referred to as the Environmental and Social
Management Framework (ESMF) is thus prepared to establish the mechanism to
determine and assess future potential adverse environmental and social impacts of sub
projects that are to be identified and cleared based on a community demand driven
process described here below, and then to set out mitigation, monitoring and institutional
measures to be taken during implementation and operation of the subprojects to
eliminate adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them , or reduce them to
acceptable levels.
This section therefore, identifies and illustrates the specific steps involved in the
environmental and social assessment process leading towards the clearance and
approval of the Districts/Local communities sub projects from an environmental and
social management standpoint. This process is embedded into the overall sub project
cycle, timeline, phasing and project implementation process for the entire DCDP. The
steps in the flow chart incorporate the requirements of both, relevant national laws and
the Bank's triggered safeguards policies.
The steps the environmental and social management process as illustrated in Fig. 10.1
and 10.2 are:
Step 1:     District CDC's will screen their own sub projects to identify adverse
environmental and social impacts using the screening form in Annex 3
and the checklist in Annex 4.
Step 2:     Then the District CDC's will introduce into the sub project design the
required measures to mitigate impacts identified from use of the
screening form and checklist before submission of the sub project design
to the respective Prefecture for review and subsequent environmental
and social clearance.
Step 3:     The Prefecture16 will review and clear the sub projects by ensuring sub
project designs have identified environmental and social impacts,
mitigated these impacts and have monitoring plans and institutional
measures to be taken during implementation and operation.
16 The Prefecture is only clearing the sub projects for environmental and social management. Sub projects
are approved by the District Council once they are cleared by the Prefecture from an environmental and
social management standpoint.
57



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
In applying these steps, with assistance of their environmental and social specialist, the
CDC's and Prefectures will gain initial experience with the environmental and social
management of their sub projects. This initial experience will be invaluable to them when
they assume responsibility for managing the mitigation measures involved in the
implementation, operational and monitoring stages of the sub projects.
The Environmental and Social Management process for District sub projects is
embedded in the process when detailed design of sub projects and corresponding civil
works contract are being prepared.
Operational Policy 4.01 on Environmental Assessment requires the screening of sub-
projects by the District CDC's, to ensure that they carry out the appropriate
environmental and social management process for each sub-project they propose.
Before clearing a sub project, the respective Prefecture verifies that sub projects meet
the environmental and social requirements of the Government of Rwanda and are
consistent with OP 4.01, the overall ESMF (i.e. this report) and all the other safeguards
policies of the World Bank.
That is to say that when the CDC's are preparing the sub project designs and proposals,
they would simultaneously screen their designs using the screening form in Annex 3 and
the checklist in Annex 4 to identify adverse environmental and social impacts of their
plan, and then prepare as part of their sub project design an environmental and social
management plan, that presents the appropriate mitigation measures, and the
institutional framework required for implementation, monitoring of mitigation measures
and cost associated with these measures.
Therefore, the sub projects will contain designs and proposals that have already been
screened by CDC's themselves and contain appropriate mitigation measures. The
CDC's will also be guided by the generic potential adverse environmental and social
impacts outlined in Section 8.0 of this report.
Once the CDC's have completed the screening of their sub project proposals and
designed into them the necessary mitigation measures, sub project proposals would
then be sent first to the Prefecture, for review of the completed screening form and
checklist and to check for compliance with this environmental and social management
process.
The sub project proposals that are sent for review must be accompanied by their
completed screening forms and completed checklists. If the screening form has any
"Yes" entries, or evidently unjustified "No" entries, the application would need to
adequately explain and demonstrate from its design that the issue has been managed to
avoid unacceptable adverse effects/impacts. If the application has satisfactorily
addressed these issues it will be cleared by the Prefecture and recommended to the
District Council for approval. For cleared sub projects, the Prefecture as reviewer will
determine environmental and social approval conditions the District CDC must adhere to
in the detailed planning, construction and operation of the sub project. These conditions
may include, for example, such measures as public involvement, siting or routing
restrictions, construction and operation practices, restoration of disturbed areas, the
complete implementation of a monitoring plan and, construction supervision to ensure
the approval conditions are being followed.
58



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
If, however the sub project design unsatisfactorily addresses these issues it may be
rejected out right or rejected with the requirement to carry out specific recommendations
such as to change of site, or re-design waste management, reduce pollution etc.
The rejected sub project design will then have to be re-designed and re-screened by the
District CDC and then re-submitted to the Prefecture for review. The revised application
will then have to be reviewed again and, if now acceptable, will be cleared from an
environmental and social stand point and recommended to the District Council for
approval. If it is not acceptable for the second time, it would be referred back to the CDC
for more work or denied clearance altogether.
Any proposed sub projects that do not comply with the requirements of the
Environmental Laws of Rwanda and the requirements of the World Bank Safeguards
policies will not be cleared.
This process is designed to ensure that the environmental and social assessment
process is part of and conducted during the sub project design process thereby ensuring
that sub project activities are environmentally and socially sound and sustainable.
Summary of Key roles in the Environmental and Social Review process:
IF
59



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA             ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
Prolect Start-Up                              Capacity Building and Training of District.
Implementation                                Sector, and Cellule Level CDC's and Local
Communities in preparation of realistic and
sustainable planning.
Preparatlon of 1 wear Development Plans by District CDC's
-_:,   r   h$t>          In consultation with and active participation of local communities, the District
_,             CDC's consistent with their decentralization mandate, re-stnrctures their five
1 year Dlan submitted to and aC roved  * c      year development plan into a series of rolling 1 year development plans
by the respective District Councils,           based on the districts priorities. The first years development plan will be a
list of activities the Districts want the DCDP and other sources to fund in the
first year of operation of the DCDP.
Prioritization of Sub Prolects in approved 1 year Development Plans
Once approval is given by the DCDP to make the block grants to the Districts, the
1 war olan sent to PCMU for                Districts will further prioritize their 1 year plans. This further prioritization process
approval and fundin from DCDP.   *-*         will be based on size of budget/block grant approved by the DCDP vis-a-vis the
The DCDP will make annual block              size of the budget of the 1 year plan, national sectoral policies (e.g. education for
aranbs to each district.                all (EFA), immunization and other MCH programs etc.), Distlcts Capacity to
implement, Districts crftical needs, social inclusion policies, poverty and other
criteria, etc. The District CDC'i&will seek the approval of the District Councils for
the prioritized list of sub-projects in their 1 year plan
Implementation
For approved sub projects, the District CDC's prepare sub
project dossl&ra, Including engineering designs, civil works
contracts etc.1buring this stage, the District CDC's use the
environmental and social screening form and checklist to     *                    Grant receipt and
identify sub project adverse impacts and then to identify and                     administration  by
incorporate corresponding mitigation measures. CDC's initiate                     District
contract consistent with tendering rules, sub projects are
imnlnmPntpl.
Environmental and Social Management
Continued Environmental and Social Management
(including monitoring) as sub projects implemented,
constructed, through day-to-day operations and also at
maintenance stages, as detailed in this ESMF
Fig. 10.2: Key Stages of sub oro*ect as it applies to Environmental and Social
Management only. Other key stages of the sub Dromect cycle omitted for claritv.
60



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
10.2 Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP) for Individual Sub
Projects.
Additional to completing completing/using the screening form and checklist, the District
CDC's are also required by this ESMF to prepare an Environmental and Social
Management Plan (ESMP), for each sub project, before it is sent to the Prefecture for
clearance and the District Council for approval, that will consist of a set of mitigation,
monitoring and institutional measures to be taken during implementation and operations
to eliminate adverse environmental and social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to
acceptable levels. The ESMP need not be more than a couple of pages long (which will
be part of the sub project designs, dossier) but must also include the actions needed to
implement these measures, including the following features:
Mitigation: Based on the environmental and social impacts identified through the
checklist, the ESMP should describe the technical details of each mitigation
measure, together with designs, equipment descriptions and operating
procedures as appropriate.
Monitoring:. The ESMP should include a monitoring section that will be linked to
the mitigation measures. Specifically, that monitoring section of the ESMP
should provide:
* A specific description and technical details of monitoring method,
including the indicators to be measured, how they will be measured and
by whom, , the sampling locations, the frequency of measurements,
detection limits (where appropriate), and definition of thresholds that will
signal the need for corrective actions, e.g. the need for on-site
construction supervision, or the need to test and have a medical waste
plan for health posts, etc.
*  Monitoring and reporting procedures to ensure early detection of
conditions that necessitate particular mitigation measures and to furnish
information on the progress and results of mitigation.
The ESMP should also provide a specific description of institutional arrangements, (i.e.
who is responsible for implementing the mitigation measures and carrying out the
monitoring  regime  for operations,  supervision, enforcement,  monitoring  of
implementation, remedial action, financing, reporting and staff training.)
Additionally, the ESMP should include an estimate of the costs of the measures and
activities recommended so that the District can budget the necessary funds. Similar to
the process for planning of sub projects, the mitigation and monitoring measures
recommended in the ESMP should be developed in consultation with all the affected
groups to include their concerns and views in the design of the ESMP.
61



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
10.3 Costs of the Environmental Social Management Process
The costs associated with this process would be made up of the cost of service
providers/technical assistance/allowances of staff etc, to support the efforts of the
District CDC's and the Prefectures.
These cost are already included and budgeted elsewhere, in the overall DCDP budget.
62



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
11.0 MONITORING AND EVALUATION
11.0        Goals of the Monitoring and Evaluation
This Monitoring and evaluation is not to be confused with the ESMP discussed in
section 10.2. The ESMP is sub-project specific and therefore site specific only.
The monitoring plan discussed here is for the entire DCDP project at a national level.
The objective for monitoring and evaluation plan is two fold.
1) to alert project authorities and to provide timely information about the success or
otherwise of the Environmental and Social Management process outlined in this ESMF
in such a manner that changes can be made as required to ensure continuous
improvement to the process.
2) to evaluate the performance of the ESMF by determining whether the mitigation
measures designed into the District sub project activities have been successful in such a
way that the pre- project environmental and social condition has been restored,
improved upon or worst than before and to determine what further mitigation measures
may be required.
A number of indicators would be used in order to determine the status of project's
beneficiaries and targeted groups in the project areas, as well as their environment (land
being used compared to before, number of people with access to social services
compared to before, level of new investment in soil conservation compared to before,
how many classroom/school places available compared to before, health standards, how
many clean water sources than before, how many people employed than before, are
marginalized groups being included etc). Therefore, the project's Environmental and
Social Management Framework will set three major environmental and social
performance indicators by which to evaluate its success:
*  Has the pre-project environmental state of natural resources, bio-diversity and
flora and fauna, been maintained or improved upon, and
* The extent to which access to social services by the rural poor and vulnerable
communities have improved.
* The extent to which the Batwas in project areas, (a) are aware of the project and
(b) still support the project.
In order to assess whether the goals of these environmental and social mitigations
measures are met, the sub-projects will indicate parameters to be monitored, institute
monitoring milestones and provide resources necessary to carry out the monitoring
activities.
11.1 Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators
63



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
The following are some pertinent parameters and verifiable indicators to be used to
measure the ESMF process, mitigation plans and performance;
a) ESMF Procedure
* Number of people in the PCMU, Prefectures, Districts, Local Communities
REMA, who have successfully received ESMF training in screening methods
etc., evaluate the training content, methodology and trainee response to training
through feedback.
* Number of Districts familiar with the ESMF procedure Number of Districts using
the ESMF procedure
* Number of District sub projects using the screening form and checklist.
* Number of Districts having a Consultation Plan
* Number of Districts applying a Consultation Plan
* Number of District's sub projects with a soil conservation component/aspect.
* Improvement of the environmental health and bio-physical state of the
participating District's.
* Rating of improvements in the sustainable use of land resources.
* Rating of District's sub projects maintenance and operating program .
* Number of local Communities implementing their own sub projects
* Of these, how many successfully adopting the ESMF procedure.
* Number of local communities who have adopted the ESMF procedure.
b) Sub-projects implementation
* Number of newly built! rehabilitated schools, health posts and water points are in
good working condition one year after completion
* Number of Districts with facilities maintenance program.
* Categories of vulnerable and/or Batwa associations identified in each District,
including their estimate populations number
* Categories of vulnerable and/or Batwa associations identified and targeted for
provision of access to social services
* Types and scope of social services, provided to beneficiary including targeted
vulnerable and/or Batwa associations.
* Types and scope of social services, provided exclusively to vulnerable and/or
Batwa associations
* Nature and scope of specific action(s), if any, provided exclusively to vulnerable
and/or Batwa associations
* Number of sub project's proposals submitted by vulnerable groups or Batwa
associations
* Number of sub project's proposals submitted by vulnerable groups or Batwa
associations that have been funded.
* Number of sub project's proposals submitted by vulnerable groups or Batwa
associations that have not been funded.
* Typologies of reasons why sub-project's proposals submitted by vulnerable
groups and/or Batwa associations have been not been funded.
c) Overall Project's implementation
* Frequency and rate of Prefectures monitoring of District's activities
* Number of Prefectures with up-to-date are periodic monitoring reports.
64



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
* Number of Prefecture's periodic monitoring reports received by REMA
* Nature of Monitoring concerns if any expressed by REMA
* Projects' mid term environmental and social impact evaluation
* Project's overall environmental and social impact evaluation
Other indicators can be developed based on the findings from the screening form.
65



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA         ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
11.1         Monitoring Roles and Responsibilities (refer to Fig. 9.10)
11.1.1 District CDC's: It is planned that the environmental and social impacts and their
designed mitigation measures are to be monitored during implementation
(construction/rehabilitation works) and operation (including maintenance) stages of the
district sub projects. The roles and responsibilities for monitoring impacts and mitigation
measures will be as follows (capacity building needs to achieve and sustain this have
been addressed in Section 9); the District CDC's and their environmental and social
specialist, will also be assisted by service providers/local consultants as required, to
monitor the environmental and social impacts and mitigation measures of their own sub
project activities as contained in their sub project completed screening forms, checklist
and all other documents in their individual sub project dossier. The District CDC's will
monitor and evaluate the environmental and social impacts of their sub projects and the
mitigation measures designed, regularly and as frequently as specified in the sub project
dossiers'7 and will maintain suitable records to be made available to their respective
Prefecture. The District CDC's will monitor the impacts and mitigation measures during
all phases of their sub project execution cycle, from planning stage to construction,
operations and maintenance stages. The CDC's will also be responsible for monitoring
the environmental and social impacts and mitigation measures resulting from the action
of their contractors, sub contractors, transporters, suppliers and all other third parties in
the course of their duties under the sub project. Further, the CDC's would also be
responsible for monitoring the environmental and social impacts and mitigation
measures of their subproject activities at other locations beyond their project sites, at
end user locations such as on nearby wetlands, game parks etc.
Therefore, wherever environmental and social impacts are or can be attributable to their
sub project activities the appropriate mitigation measures will apply consistent with the
this ESMF, and the CDC's would be responsible for monitoring and evaluating the same.
The CDC's will prepare and submit to their respective Prefecture and to the PCMU,
periodic monitoring reports.
11.1.2 Prefectures ( Office of the Prefect): The Prefectures will play the leading role of
monitoring the activities of the participating Districts in their prefecture. The Prefecture
will carry out this role by ensuring that the sub project environmental and social
management plan (ESMP) contained in the cleared sub project dossier is being
implemented as specified therein. That is to say that the Prefectures will monitor the
Districts monitoring procedures and reports on a regular basis, perhaps quarterly. They
will rely on a bottom up feed back system to them from the Districts by going through
their monitoring reports and making regular site visits to inspect and verify for
themselves the nature and extent of the impacts and the success or lack off, of the
mitigation measures.
The Prefectures will prepare consolidated periodic monitoring reports for submission to
the PCMU. The Prefectures will need equipment and transport to carry out their task
effectively and this will be provided by the DCDP project and is budgeted for later in this
section.
1 Sub project dossiers refer to the complete set of sub project documents including but not limited to the
completed screening forms, checklist, ESMP, technical designs, drawings, civil works contracts, etc.
66



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
11.1.3 The Rwanda Environment and Management Authority (REMA): The role of
the REMA will be monitoring as detailed in Section 9.0. They will perform this role by
reviewing periodic reports from the Prefectures, prepare consolidated periodic
monitoring reports and make spot/unannounced site inspections at the Prefecture/
District level. The REMA will report to the PCMU.
The REMA will need equipment and transport to carry out their task effectively and this
will be provided by the DCDP project and is also budgeted for later in this section.
11.1.4 The Project Coordinating and Monitoring Unit (PCMU): The PCMU will be
responsible for ensuring project compliance of the Districts with the environmental laws
of Rwanda and social requirements set by the DCDP, but will be assisted as defined
above by the Prefectures and the REMA. The PCMU will monitor their activities by
reviewing the consolidated periodic monitoring reports of the REMA and by conducting
periodic technical audits of the Districts.
In conclusion therefore, the system for monitoring functions on a bottom up approach, on
the one hand in terms of placing monitoring responsibilities on the Districts and local
communities who are then supervised and monitored by the Prefectures who in turn are
accountable to the REMA and the PCMU. On the other hand, this system is made
functional by the transfer of appropriate technology, capacity building through training
(mostly learning by doing) and technical assistance and, budget support in the top down
direction. This system for monitoring is thus strengthened and sustainable and should
yield successful results overall.
This monitoring plan consists of a set of mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures
to be taken during implementation/construction and operations of the participating
District's sub project activities, to eliminate adverse environmental and social impacts,
offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels. The plan also includes actions needed
to implement these measures. The monitoring plan specifies the monitoring measures to
be carried out with linkages to the potential adverse impacts that would have been
identified through a process contained in Section 10, by:
1. Scheduling and coordinating monitoring tasks.
2. Evaluating mitigation effectiveness
3. Identifying where applicable, corrective management practices
4. Ensuring that monitoring findings are suitably evaluated and incorporated into
future management decisions.
67



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA            ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
11.2          Costs for Implementing the Monitoring Plan
The PCMU will be responsible for implementing the monitoring plan. The Districts will be
responsible for recruiting their own service providers that would work with the CDC's.
The cost of transportation and equipment for the Districts, Prefectures, REMA and
PCMU in execution of their monitoring roles and responsibilities is included.
Cost in US $
Service Providers  Equipment18     Vehicles'9       Total
(for 3years)
Districts     750/district/year                3,000/district   204,750
(39no.)
Prefectures  1,500/prefecture/year                              18,000
(4no.)
REMA" 0
(1 o.)
PCMU            5,000/year                          -            15,000
(1 o.)
Total            120,750                         117,000     US$237,750
Table 11.1
18 Equipment cost included in overall project budget elsewhere.
19 One motorcycle per district. Vehicle cost for PCMU included project budget, elsewhere.
20 REMA may be able to seek technical assistance from the IDA Multi-Sector Capacity Building Project.
68



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA             ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
Monitorina Plan
Potential Social and    Mitigation Measures         Monitoring          Phase/Stage         Responsibility           Costs
Environmental                                     Measures
Negative Impacts
1. Deforestation     Fully implement this ESMF,  Periodic monitoring  On going throughout  1. Participating Districts  US$120,750 for service
2. Land Degradation,  use screening form and    and evaluation of   the life of the sub                        providers to assist
including soil erosion  checklist in Annex 3.0 and  verifiable indicators for  projects and project  2. Respective  Districts and
3. Water             4.0), addressing specific  all-impacts identified in  and beyond thereby  Prefectures     Prefectures for
Contamination.       mitigation measures such as  the sub project ESMP  ensuring the                           monitoring, $117,000
4.Disturbance of     training and capacity building  and examples of which  institutional  3. PCMU             transportation costs.
Natural Habitats and  to use modern and         are contained in     arrangements are
Wildlife.            appropriate technologies for  Section 11 of this  sustainable beyond the  4. REMA
5. Degradation of    design and implementation of  report.          life of the project.                       Training  budget  is
Wetlands             district sub projects,                                               5. The District's and  US$87,500
6. Social discrimination  efficiency use, environmental                                   Prefectures will be
restoration, regular and                                             assisted by service
(see Section 8. for  suitable maintenance of                                              providers and will
complete lists)      infrastructure/equipment/plant,                                      receive training.     The Grand total
etc.                                                                                      Cost for
Environmental and
NB.: no sub project activity                                                               Social Management
that results in the significant                                                           is:
reduction in the mean water
level or completely drains a
lake, river, or wetland area or                                                            US$325,250
floodplain due to pollution of
these ecosystems, to                                                                      (representing  about
extraction of water for                                                                   2.16%  of total DCDP
irrigation, or systematic                                                                 Budget)
clearing of forest areas for
agricultural purpose or any
other purpose will be
permitted/funded .
Table 11.2
69



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
12.0 CONSULTATION FRAMEWORK
The purpose of consultation is to seek the participation of the Rwandese people in
national development. This is a center piece strategy of the Government in the
decentralization process in Rwanda, in general, thereby ensuring good governance, but
more particularly to introduce transparency, accountability and sustainability into the
DCDP. Ultimately, this process would build social capital in the communities and
enhance the opportunity for equal access to and benefit from provided social and
economic services.
The key stake holders in this process are:
* The local communities in the participating Districts.
* The District Administrations
* The Prefectures
* The Government
* Local NGOs
* Other international donor agencies
* Local civil society associations
The DCDP depends on the meaningful participation of all stakeholders for success.
During the project preparation and implementation stages, the opportunities for effective
consultation in projects activities are:
*  During the preparation of the ESMF: (i) The consultant conducted a public
consultation and field visits in Rwanda, as described in detail in Section 4.0.
Social studies carried out independently as part of project preparation were also
consulted. The dissemination of disclosed ESMF in Rwanda and at the World
Bank's Infoshop.
*  During proiect Implementation: there will be consultation of project's expected
beneficiaries during the preparation of sub-projects' proposals to assess their
needs. This will be done by the cellules operating at the local level through a
participatory process defined and endorsed by the PRSP .
An outline of the consultation framework is described below as follows:
- Capacity building activities in consultation methods will be carried out at
the cellules level. The purpose of these capacity building activities is to help
ensure that the needs of all members of local communities, including
vulnerable and/or Batwa associations are also able to voice their priorities
and needs. Proposals can be prepared with the technical support or help of
local NGOs and community-based organizations .The proposals are then
submitted for discussion at the cellules level. The proposals are examined by
members of the community development committee (CDC) among which are
representatives from youth and women's groups. The CDC review the
proposals  to  ensure  that   they  meet   the  needs   of   the
70



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
communities and consolidate selected proposals into a community
development plan that is forwarded to the Sector level for review.
- The Sector reviews and approves sub-projects proposals received from
the CDC for their technical compliance with the ESMF, and consolidates
them into a sector development plan, which in turn is then forwarded up to
the District level.
- Sector development plans received by the Districts are further
consolidated into the District Plan, which is approved by the District Council
and forwarded to the Ministry of Local Government (MINALOC) for funding,
via their respective Prefecture.
- At each level of sub-projects preparation and design, the communities
have an opportunity to participate. Each district and prefecture will prepare
and submit a Monitoring method along with the environmental and mitigation
measures as indicated in Section 10.2 above
*  During the implementation of the sub proiects:There will be national and regional
workshops held throughout the implementation of the DCDP on various matters
of interest to the project.
* Furthermore, public participation and consultations would take place through
workshops, seminars, symposia, meetings, radio programs, poster campaigns,
request for written proposals/comments, filling in of questionnaires/forms, public
readings and explanations of project ideas and requirements, making public
documents available at the, central, prefecture, district and sector levels at
suitable locations like the offices of the REMA, the PCMU, the Offices of the
Prefects, District Offices, Sector offices where they exist, if not at homes of
community leaders, and at state/public libraries, complying with national laws
regarding disclosure of public documents. These measures would take into
account the low literacy levels prevalent in these communities by allowing
enough time for responses and feedback.
Monitoring and Evaluation of the Consultation framework:The consultation framework
will be monitored by PCMU and Prefectures who will set their own verifiable indicators to
assess the degree of participation of the key stakeholders during all phases of project
implementation.
The Prefectures will make recommendations to the District Councils when they
clear/review the sub project dossier, consistent with this plan.
71



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA             ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
Consultation framework
Project Stage                   Activities           Institutional Responsibilities
During Project Preparation    Preparation of ESMF and Social PCMU, MINALOC
Assessment
Capacity Building and Training in  Training courses, technical  PCMU,  REMA,   Prefectures,
consultation  and  local needs  assistance,                  Districts,  Local  Community
assessment                                                  Leaders
Preparing   and     designing  Preparation of Local Development Districts, Sectors and Cellule
proposals:                    Plans.
Monitoring  the   consultation  Review of verifiable indicators  PCMU,REMA,   Prefectures,
framework                                                    Districts, Sectors and Cellules.
Table 12.1
N.B. The costs to implement the consultation framework in the Project Implementation Stages are
included in the costs of the monitoring plan.
72



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
12.1  Methodology for Consultations with Stakeholders.
Participatory appraisal and planning techniques will be used to enable communities to
prioritize, plan and implement their own development and to give voice to the poor and
vulnerable groups in the community. Priorities will be generated from each District using
Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) methodologies, and elaborated in consultation with
communities through Extended PRAs. CDC's will be responsible for mobilization,
participatory planning and decision-making, co-production of services, implementation of
sub-projects, participatory monitoring and evaluation, supervision of contractors, and
community contribution to project costs and maintenance.
Basic project managerial training will be provided to CDC's to develop their
organizational, management, and accounting skills.
Districts will work with local civil society organizations and the network of NGO's
involved in similar activities in all stages of the sub project cycle.
73



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
13.0 ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES
The Government and people of Rwanda are totally committed to the decentralization
program underway in the country today and to achieving the objectives of this project,
which is to stabilize and expand the capacity of local governments and communities to
identify and finance their own development priorities to engender economic growth and
reduce poverty.
Sustainable decentralization has a top priority in the governments development agenda,
mainly due to the realization that the 1994 genocidal war was precipitated and facilitated
by the system of central planning that existed in Rwanda prior to 1994 , and therefore,
inter alia, the successful implementation of the decentralization program will ensure that
the troubles of the past will almost certainly never be repeated again. Also, at the heart
of the decentralization strategy is the commitment of government to consult and seek the
active participation of all Rwandese in decision making and in their socio-economic
development and struggle against poverty.
The government also realizes that the acute and severe environmental problems facing
the rural sector in Rwanda today is exacerbating the already desperate social status in
much of Rwanda. For instance, severe soil erosion and exhaustion in many areas is
lowering soil fertility to desperately low levels which in turn is lowering agricultural
productivity of not only cash crops, but also subsistence crops, which in turn is leaving
more rural Rwandese food insecure and lowering their household incomes. In a social
condition where post war impacts from returning refugees, IDPs, orphans, widowers and
widows, physically handicapped and amputees and other war affected groups, has
increased vulnerability, which in turn is adding unbearable pressure on already
desperate and poorly maintained social services. Batwa in project areas will lose a
chance of getting heard and will continue to be discriminated against
Overall, the poverty situation in Rwanda has worsen since 1994, see section 5.2.1 and
Table 5.5.
Therefore, the "do nothing" scenario will worsen the present social status and worsen
poverty at the same. This is not an option.
The Government of Rwanda with World Bank support, will therefore implement the
DCDP. During implementation of the DCDP, this ESMF will be implemented to ensure
that adverse environmental and social impacts from DCDP activities are identified and
successfully mitigated.
Alternatives to the ESMF:
* No Environmental and Social Management Process at all.
Under this scenario, World Bank Safeguards policies would not allow the Bank to
participate in this project.
Furthermore, the bio-physical baseline data presented in section 5, portrays a
country blessed with rich, diverse and enviable resources of lakes, rivers, fauna and
74



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
flora., which offers the opportunity for continued co-existence into perpetuity with
humans, that will provide their incomes, if sustainable management practices are
employed in the use of these resources.
This has not always been the case in the past. As a result , as shown in section 8, in
the pursuit of human development, uncontrolled deforestation, loss of wetlands and
other critical ecosystems, loss of fauna and flora have continued unabated.
This will continue at an accelerated pace to the detriment of nature and livelihoods, if
some form of environmental and social management process is not put in place
during the implementation of the DCDP.
Therefore, the Government and people of Rwanda have rejected this alternative.
75



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA           ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
ANNEX 1.0 List of Official & Members of Local Communities
Consulted During The Preparation of The ESMF
Shyaka Adolphe Bazatoha    -      Project Coordinator, Decentralization and Community
Development Project.
Vincent                    -      Project Accountant, Decentralization and Community
Development Project.
Alice Muhozayire           -      Project Administrator, Decentralization and Community
Development Project.
Joseph Kagabo              -      Executive Secretary, Nyakizu District, Province of Butare
Faustin Nkurikiyimana      -      President of CDC, Maraba District, Province of Butare
Innocent Mutiganda         -      President of CDC, Nyaruguru District, Province of
Gikongoro.
Protais Gahota             -      Vice Mayor, Social Affairs, Nyaruguru District.
Niyonsaba Bibiane          -      Female resident, Nyaruguru District, Province of
Gikongoro
Alphonse Mukamuyema        -      Female resident, Nyaruguru District, Province of
Gikongoro
Ruelian Habimana           -      Male resident, Nyaruguru District, Province of Gikongoro
Godeleve Nyirazanimka      -      Female resident, Nyaruguru District, Province of
Gikongoro
Alfred Gakwaya             -      Male resident, Nyaruguru District, Province of Gikongoro
Revlian Munyakazi          -      Male resident, Nyaruguru District, Province of Gikongoro
Selestian Riukwavu         -      Male resident, Nyaruguru District, Province of Gikongoro
Celestine Mpayimana        -      Male resident, Nyaruguru District, Province of Gikongoro
Salphina Mukankusi         -      Female resident, Nyaruguru District, Province of
Gikongoro
Fromina Nyirabahizi        -      Female resident, Nyaruguru District, Province of
Gikongoro
Serpia Kabatoni            -      Female resident, Nyaruguru District, Province of
Gikongoro
Beatrice Mukankiko         -      Female resident, Nyaruguru District, Province of
Gikongoro
Makeba Mzeyimana           -      Musange Sector, Butare Town, Province of Butare
Epimaque Nsanzurwanda      -      Prefecture, Head, Province of Gikongoro
76



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA           ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
Augustine Munyengabe       -      Male resident, Butare Town, Province of Butare
Gaspar Gakwaya             -      Male resident, Butare Town, Province of Butare
Innocent Rutabana          -      Male resident, Butare Town, Province of Butare
Innocent Uzaramba          -      Male resident, Butare Town, Province of Butare
Felesta Mukazamba          -      Female resident, Butare Town, Province of Butare
Mike Sebukayira            -      Male resident, Butare Town, Province of Butare
Noel Seburkeya             -      Male resident, Butare Town, Province of Butare
Dative Niyonsaba           -      Female resident, Butare Town, Province of Butare
Fransine Mukantwari        -      Female resident, Butare Town, Province of Butare
Gensine Kurumusange        -      Female resident, Butare Town, Province of Butare
Magaret Nyiramafaranga     -      Female resident, Butare Town, Province of Butare
Beatrice Niyomsaba         -      Female resident, Butare Town, Province of Butare
Nadine Umugwaleza          -      Female resident, Butare Town, Province of Butare
Emmanuel Kajeguhakwa       -      Male resident, Butare Town, Province of Butare
Francis Kabarekye          -      Male resident, Butare Town, Province of Butare
Ansila Mujawamalia         -      Female resident, Butare Town, Province of Butare
Providence Mukamana        -      Female resident, Butare Town, Province of Butare
Ansila Mukakanuma          -      Female resident, Butare Town, Province of Butare
Monique Mururunkwere       -      Female resident, Butare Town, Province of Butare
Francis Murekezi           -      Male resident, Butare Town, Province of Butare
Damascente Rugirangoga     -      Musange Sector Coordinator, Butare Town, Province of
Butare
Esperance Mukamusonera     -      Female resident, Butare Town, Province of Butare
Emaculate Kampogo          -      Female resident, Butare Town, Province of Butare
Gordance Mukampore         -      Female resident, Butare Town, Province of Butare
Felix Mutagoma             -      Mayor, Gikongoro Town, Province of Gikongoro
Paul Karenzi               -      Executive Secretary, Ginkongoro Town, Province of
Ginkongoro
F. Hateggekimana           -      Vice Mayor in charge of Social Affairs, Gikongoro
77



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA           ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
Town, Province of Ginkongoro
Jerome Arusha              -      Vice Mayor in charge of Planning Services
Gikongoro Town, Province of Ginkongoro
Karekezi Anthony           -      Vice Mayor in charge of Development, President CDC,
Gikongoro Town, Province of Gikongoro.
Isias Ndibange             -      Male resident, Maraba District, Province of Butare
Dative Mukamutari          -      Young female resident, Maraba District, Province of
Butare
Casiun Sibomana            -      Young male resident, Maraba District, Province of
Butare
Vestin Mukazera            -      Female resident, Maraba District, Province of Butare
Saville Nkundiyeze         -      Male resident, Maraba District, Province of Butare
Faustin Mutabariuka        -      Male resident, Maraba District, Province of Butare
Narcis Ngezahoguhora       -      Male resident, Maraba District, Province of Butare
Francis Matabaro           -      Male resident, Maraba District, Province of Butare
John Ntuyahaga             -      Male resident, Maraba District, Province of Butare
Jules Aimable Nwhizi       -      Mayor, Rushaki District, Province of Byumba
Misago Jean Bosco          -      President of CDC, Rebero District, Province of Byumba
Babwunda Sam               -      Executive Secretary, Muvumba District, Province of
Umutara
Boyomana Giovidas          -      Male resident, Muvumba District, Province of Umutara
Laurent Nkulikiyimana      -      Male resident, Muvumba District, Province of Umutara
Yasini Mumanwa             -      Male resident, Muvumba District, Province of Umutara
John Nizeyimana            -      Male resident, Muvumba District, Province of Umutara
Fraucine Mutansabimana     -      Female resident, Muvumba District. Province of Umutara
Julienne Kyimpaye          -      Female resident, Muvumba District, Province of Umutara
Felix Nduwamungu           -      Male resident, Muvumba District, Province of Umutara
Emmanuel Dukundane         -      Male resident, Muvumba District, Province of Umutara
Epaphrodite Turinumukiza   -      Male resident, Muvumba District, Province of Umutara
Johnson Mdahayo            -      Male resident, Muvumba District, Province of Umutara
Faustin Ntezimana          -      Male resident, Muvumba District, Province of Umutara
78



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA           ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
Jean Baptiste Ntawiheba    -      Male resident, Muvumba District, Province of Umutara
Eric Akwasibwe             -      Male resident, Muvumba District, Province of Umutara
Protegime Hategeka         -      Male resident, Muvumba District, Province of Umutara
Faustine Mbonigaba         -      Male resident, Muvumba District, Province of Umutara
A. Ntihabose               -      Male resident, Muvumba District, Province of Umutara
Nzi Mukamure               -      Female resident, Muvumba District, Province of Umutara
Venuste Kiyonza            -      Male resident, Muvumba District, Province of Umutara
J. Shaka                   -      Female resident, Muvumba District, Province of Umutara
A. Munduhavere             -      Female resident, Muvumba District, Province of Umutara
John Mugabe                -      Male resident, Muvumba District, Province of Umutara
Olivier Ngengiyunva        -      Male resident, Muvumba District, Province of Umutara
Peninah Murorunbwere       -      Female resident, Muvumba District, Province of Umutara
Olive Abaganwa             -      Female resident, Muvumba District, Province of Umutara
K. Kaloli                  -      Male resident, Muvumba District, Province of Umutara
Vincent Nyagutare          -      President CDC, Umutara Town, Province of Umutara
Claudien Mateme            -      Presdinet CDC, Mutara District, Province of Gisenyi
Jean Mundanykure           -      President CDC, Rusiza Sector, Mutara District, Province
of Gisenyi
Theoneste Ndagijimana      -      President CDC, Mugongo Sector, Mutara District,
Province of Gisenyi
Faustin Ntabazalimara      -      President CDC, Mutuvu Sector, Mutara District,
Province of Gisenyi
Aar6n Musaza               -      President CDC, Gihorwe Sector, Mutara District,
Province of Gisenyi
Felicien Nanyisimawa       -      President CDC, Tamira Sector, Mutara District,
Province of Gisenyi
Felicien Kanyamagare       -      President CDC, Cyambara Sector, Mutara District,
Province of Gisenyi
Esperance Dukundimana      -      Vice Mayor, Gender, Cyanzarwe District, Province of
Gisenyi
Jean de Dieu Mwambutsa     -      Head of Political and Admin. Affairs, Department Head
Cyanzarwe District, Province of Gisenyi
79



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
ANNEX 2.0 Summary of World Bank Environmental & Social Safeguard Policies
*  Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01). Outlines Bank policy and procedure for the
environmental assessment of Bank lending operations. The Bank undertakes
environmental screening of each proposed project to determine the appropriate
extent and type of EA process. This environmental process will apply to all sub-
projects to be funded by DCDP.
*  Natural Habitats (OP 4.04). The conservation of natural habitats, like other
measures that protect and enhance the environment, is essential for long-term
sustainable development. The Bank does not support projects involving the
significant conversion of natural habitats unless there are no feasible alternatives for
the project and its siting, and comprehensive analysis demonstrates that overall
benefits from the project substantially outweigh the environmental costs. If the
environmental assessment indicates that a project would significantly convert or
degrade natural habitats, the project includes mitigation measures acceptable to the
Bank. Such mitigation measures include, as appropriate, minimizing habitat loss (e.g.
strategic habitat retention and post-development restoration) and establishing and
maintaining an ecologically similar protected area. The Bank accepts other forms of
mitigation measures only when they are technically justified. Should use of
environmental screening form and checklist indicate that natural habitats might be
affected negatively by the proposed sub-project activities, such sub-projects will not
be funded under the DCDP .
*  Pest Management (OP     4.09). The policy supports safe, affective, and
environmentally sound pest management. It promotes the use of biological and
environmental control methods. An assessment is made of the capacity of the
country's regulatory framework and institutions to promote and support safe,
effective, and environmentally sound pest management. This policy will most likely
not apply to DCDP.
*  Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12). This policy covers direct economic and social
impacts that both result from Bank-assisted investment projects, and are caused by
(a) the involuntary taking of land resulting in (i) relocation or loss of shelter; (ii) loss of
assets or access to assets, or (iii) loss of income sources or means of livelihood,
whether or not the affected persons must move to another location; or (b) the
involuntary restriction of access to legally designated parks and protected areas
resulting in adverse impacts on the livelihoods of the displaced persons. Sub-
projects that impact people and livelihoods in this way will not be eligible for financing
under the DCDP.
*  Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20). This directive provides guidance to ensure that
indigenous peoples benefit from development projects, and to avoid or mitigate
adverse effects of Bank-financed development projects on indigenous peoples.
Measures to address issues pertaining to indigenous peoples must be based on the
informed participation of the indigenous people themselves. See details of how the
project addresses the issue of potential discrimination against the Batwa in project
areas in section 6.2
*  Forests (OP 4.36). This policy applies to the following types of Bank-financed
investment projects: (a) projects that have or may have impacts on the health and
quality of forests; (b) projects that affect the rights and welfare of people and their
80



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA        ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
level of dependence upon or interaction with forests; and (c) projects that aim to
bring about changes in the management, protection, or utilization of natural forests or
plantations, whether they are publicly, privately, or communally owned. The Bank
does not finance projects that, in its opinion, would involve significant conversion or
degradation of critical forest areas or related critical habitats. If a project involves the
significant conversion or degradation of natural forests or related natural habitats that
the Bank determines are not critical, and the Bank determines that there are no
feasible alternatives to the project and its siting, and comprehensive analysis
demonstrates that overall benefits from the project substantially outweigh the
environmental costs, the Bank may finance the project provided that it incorporates
appropriate mitigation measures. Sub-projects that are likely to have negative
impacts on forests will not be funded under DCDP.
*  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03). The term "cultural property" includes sites having
archeological (prehistoric), paleontological, historical, religious, and unique natural
values. The Bank's general policy regarding cultural property is to assist in their
preservation, and to seek to avoid their elimination. Specifically, the Bank (i) normally
declines to finance projects that will significantly damage non-replicable cultural
property, and will assist only those projects that are sited or designed so as to
prevent such damage; and (ii) will assist in the protection and enhancement of
cultural properties encountered in Bank-financed projects, rather than leaving that
protection to chance. The management of cultural property of a country is the
responsibility of the government. The government's attention should be drawn
specifically to what is known about the cultural property aspects of the proposed
project site and appropriate agencies, NGOs, or university departments should be
consulted; if there are any questions concerning cultural property in the area, a brief
reconnaissance survey should be undertaken in the field by a specialist. The DCDP
will not fund sub-projects that will have negative impacts on cultural property.
*  Safety of Dams (OP 4.37). For the life of any dam, the owner is responsible for
ensuring that appropriate measures are taken and sufficient resources provided for
the safety to the dam, irrespective of its funding sources or construction status. The
Bank distinguishes between small and large dams. Small dams are normally less
than 15 m in height; this category includes, for example, farm ponds, local silt
retention dams, and low embankment tanks. For small dams, generic dam safety
measures designed by qualified engineers are usually adequate. This policy does
not apply to DCDP since no new dams, large or small will be built or existing dams
rehabilitated.
* Projects on International Waterways (O 7.50). The Bank recognizes that the
cooperation and good will of riparians is essential for the efficient utilization and
protection of international waterways and attaches great importance to riparians
making appropriate agreements or arrangement for the entire waterway or any part
thereof. Projects that trigger this policy include hydroelectric, irrigation, flood control,
navigation, drainage, water and sewerage, industrial, and similar projects that involve
the use or potential pollution of international waterways. Rwanda is a riparian country
of the Nile and Cong river basins. Sub project activities that trigger this policy will be
funded under the DCDP.
*  Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60). Project in disputed areas may occur the Bank
and its member countries as well as between the borrower and one or more
neighbouring countries. Any dispute over an area in which a proposed project is
81



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
located requires formal procedures at the earliest possible stage. The Bank attempts
to acquire assurance that it may proceed with a project in a disputed area if the
governmentsconcerned agree that, pending the settlement of the dispute, the project
proposed can go forward without prejudice to the claims of the country having a
dispute. This policy is not expected to be triggered by sub-projects. This policy will
not to be triggered by sub-projects to be funded by DCDP.
82



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
ANNEX 3.0 Environmental & Social Screening Form
The Environmental and Social Screening Form (ESSF) has been designed to assist in
the evaluation of sub-projects of the DCDP. The form is designed to place information in
the hands of reviewers so that mitigation measures, if any, can be identified and/or that
requirements for further environmental analysis be determined.
The ESSF contains information that will allow reviewers to determine if endangered or
threatened species or their habitat, protected areas or forest are likely to be present, and
if further investigation is, therefore, required. The ESSF will also identify potential socio-
economic impacts that will require mitigation measures and or resettlement and
compensation.
Name of Sub project:
Name of Sub-project's sponsor:
Name of the District:
Name of the Prefecture
Name, department, job title, and contact details for the person who is responsible for
filling out this form.
Name:
Department and title:
Name of District Body:
Telephone number:
Fax number:
E-Mail address:
Date:
Signature:
83



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA        ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
1. Sub project Description
Please provide information on the type and scale of the sub project (sub project area,
area of plants and buildings, production capacity, amounts of power generation, amount
of waste (solid, liquid and air generation), location and lengths of distribution lines,
buried and or surface located pipes, etc.) including construction work areas and access
roads. (Complete on a separate sheet of paper if necessary).
2. The Natural Environment
(a) Describe the vegetation/trees in/adjacent to the Sub project area
(b) Estimate and indicate where vegetation/trees might need to be cleared
(c) Are there any environmentally sensitive areas or threatened species (specify below)
that could be adversely affected by the sub project? Yes_ _  No_
(i) Natural Forests Yes_ _ No_
(ii) National Parks Yes_ _ No_
(iii) Rivers Yes     No_
(iv) Lakes Yes      No_
(v) Wetlands (swamps, polder areas, seasonally inundated areas) Yes_
No_
(vi) Habitats of endangered species tor which protection is required under
Rwanda laws and/or international agreements. Yes   No_
(vii) Others (describe). Yes   No_
84



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA        ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
3. River Ecology
Is there a possibility that, due to installation of structures, such as weirs and other
irrigation structures, the river ecology will be adversely affected? Attention should be
paid to water quality and quantity; the nature, productivity and use of aquatic habitats,
and variations of these over time.
Yes        No_
4. Protected areas
Does the sub project area (or components of the sub project) occur within/adjacent to
any protected areas designated by government (national park, national reserve, world
heritage site etc.)
Yes        No_
If the sub project is outside of, but close to, any protected area, is it likely to adversely
affect the ecology within the protected area areas (e.g., interference with the migration
routes of mammals or birds)
Yes         No_
5. Geology and Soils
Based upon visual inspection or available literature, are there areas of possible geologic
or soil instability (erosion prone, landslide prone, subsidence-prone)?
Yes        No_
Based upon visual inspection or available literature, are there areas that have risks of
large scale increase in soil leaching and/or erosion?
Yes         No_
6. Landscape/aesthetics
Is there a possibility that the sub project will adversely affect the aesthetic attractiveness
of the local landscape?
Yes        No_
85



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
7. Invasive plant species along feeder road routes
Is the sub project likely to result in the spread of invasive plant species (along feeder
road routes)?
Yes        No_
8. Historical, archaeological or cultural heritage site ( such as genocide
memorials).
Based on available sources, consultation with local authorities, local knowledge and/or
observations, could the sub project alter any historical, archaeological or cultural
heritage site (including genocide memorials and graves) or require excavation near
same?
Yes        No_
9. Resettlement and/or Land Acquisition
Will involuntary resettlement, land acquisition, or loss of access to land as defined by
World Bank OP4.12 be caused by sub project implementation?
Yes        No_
10. Loss of Crops, Fruit Trees and Household Infrastructure
Will the sub project result in the permanent or temporary loss of crops, fruit trees and
household infra-structure (such as granaries, outside toilets and kitchens, etc)?
Yes_   No_
11. Noise pollution during Construction and Operations
Will the operating noise level exceed the allowable decibel level for that zone?
Yes_   No_
12.   Will the project have adverse impacts on Natural Habitats that will not have
acceptable mitigation measures according to OP 4.04 Natural Habitats.?
Yes. No.
86



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
13. Solid or Liquid Wastes.
Will the sub-project generate solid or liquid wastes?
Yes_      No_
If "Yes", does the sub project include a plan for their adequate collection and disposal?
Yes_      No_
14.   Public Consultation Process:
Briefly describe the sub project consultation process in terms of when consultations took
place, where they took place, who participated and how the criteria used to select
participants in this process, what were the contributions form the participants, was it
recorded and were contributions from participants included in decision making. Use
separate sheet if necessary and attached a consultation report.
15. Vulnerable Groups and Batwas: Were members of associations from the following
vulnerable and/or minority groups consulted?
Women:                              Yes     No
Youth groups                        Yes     No_
War affected victims
( e.g. orphans, widows/widowers, the elderly, returnees) Yes  No_
The Batwas associations:            Yes     No
If answer is Yes, provide names of groups consulted:
16. Will these groups ( in 15. above) have access to and benefit from this sub project.?
Yes         No
If answer is Yes, specify which groups and describe how they will benefit.
87



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA                  ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
ANNEX 4.021      Environmental & Social Mitigation Measures Checklist
Land Degradation                         Water                  Bio-diversity, Natural                People
Habitats and Wetlands
Planning        Soil Erosion:                          i) Promote potable water and  i) Consideration of alternative  i) No involuntary settlement
sanitation sub projects.       locations/siting of sub projects.  allowed due to land acquisition,
(i) Training of Subsistence and Cash Crop  ii) Promote environmental health  ii) Reduce biomass use through  denial or restriction of access to
Farmers and Pastoralists on soil       measures and public health     provision of alternative energy  economic resources such as
conservation methods.                   education.                    sources and construction       trees, buildings etc., used by
(ii) Rehabilitate anti-erosion infrastructure  iii) Improve management of  materials (cooking stoves,  members of communities.
such as, micro-basins, micro dams, hill side  household and solid waste,  photovoltaics).           ii) Provide social services in areas
terracing, soil bunds etc.             including infrastructure for   iii) Strengthen natural resource  of:
(iii) Construct new anti-erosion infrastructure  collection and treatment of liquid  management capacities  .  Primary education
as listed in(ii) above.                 waste and waste water.        iv) Develop alternatives to slash  .   Primary health care
(iv) Introduce crop rotation management,  iv) Review, update and enforce  and burning clearing, decrease  *  Water supply
use of fertilizers, tree planting and soil  pollution control legislation.  overgrazing.                 .   Micro-finance
drainage.                              v) Strengthen enforcement      v) Promote agroforestry.           .   Feeder roads
(v) Control bush burning and fires.    capacity.                      vi) Wetlands management and        *   Soil conservation and
vi) Protection of roadsides by planting of  vi) Develop and implement rural  small irrigation development.   natural resources
vegetation.                            water supply and sanitation    vii) Protect sensitive ecosystems      management.
vii) Protection of outlet of drainage canals  policy.                 such as forests and wetlands,      .   Basic and required
and culverts to avoid gully forming    vii) Locate sub projects at far/safe  prevent further encroachment in  training at district and
downstream of the canal or culvert,     distances from water points and  protected areas.                    community levels.
viii) Prepare an effective and sustainable  sources.                  viii) Enforce existing laws.   Ensure that theses services are
maintenance plan.                      viii) Increase public awareness.  ix) Locate sub projects     equitably distributed throughout
appropriately.                 the districts and that as access is
x) Training of communities of  open to all ethnic groups
sustainable uses of resources.  irrespective of status.
xi) Identify certain species of trees  iii) Ensure that vulnerable groups
and animals that must be       and Batwa in projects areas are
protected.                     included in project activities and
xii) Exclude ecosystems that   benefit from them levels of
provided and important habitat for  decision making and
protected species.             implementation.
iv) Provide employment
xiii) Establish buffer zones around  opportunities during contracting of
protected parks and wetlands   civil works etc.
21 On completion of the screening form, the CDC's would have identified their potential sub project adverse impacts. The CDC's will then use this checklist
(Annex 4.0) to identify the corresponding mitigation measures to successfully manage these impacts.
88



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA                  ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
*   Construction in dry season. Protection of soil surfaces during construction.
Construction 
.   Adequate protection from livestock entry by fencing the site perimeters.
*   Employ all unskilled labor from local districts and semi-skilled labor first from local districts when available there in.
*   Source goods and services from local districts first, when available.
*   Control and daily cleaning at construction sites.
.   Provision of adequate waste disposal services. Proper disposal of chemicals and other hazardous materials.
*   Dust control by water, appropriate design and siting, restrict construction to certain times.
*   Appropriate and suitable storage of building materials on site.
*   Siting of Latrines at safe distances from wells and other water points and using closed systems for sewage drainage.
*   Restrict construction to certain hours
*   Minimize loss of natural vegetation during construction; alternative sites; various special measures for sensitive species
.   Restoration of vegetation; cleanup of construction sites.
*   Safety designs (signage)
*   Ensure availability of clean potable water for use in latrines, canteens and for drinking.
Use of appropriate building materials. No asbestos etc.
Day to Day       i) Use facilities/infrastructure as designed and as intended.
Operations       ii) Employ trained staff to man and secure facilities.
iii) Log and report any damages done and repairs needed.
iv) Perform periodic monitoring of al aspects as contained in the sub project Environmental and Social Monitoring Plan.
i) Prepare and adopt suitable maintenance plan.
Maintenance      ii) Maintain appropriate budget necessary to implement maintenance plan.
iii) Implement maintenance plan in two stages: for activities requiring day-to-to maintenance such as repairs to damages done, regular inspections etc and
longer/periodic term maintenance.
iv) Have suitably trained staff to carry out maintenance and access to materials/goods/equipment.
89



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA             ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT
FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
ANNEX 5.0 Environmental Mitigation Plan for DCDP
Project         Potential       Mitigations Measures    Implementing    Monitoring     Timing       Costs
activities      negative impact                                         responsibility
Sub-projects    Poor consultation  Consultation framework,  District CDC's  District   Ongoing on a  Total cost is
Preparation and  and needs      sensitization/participation             Councils       sub-project's  US$237,750
selection       assessments                                             Prefectures    cyclical basis  (See Tables
MINALOC                     1.1 and 1.2
Subproject's    Environmental   Screening form          District CDC's  PPCMU at       Before sub   for details.)
planning        degradation or                                          Prefecture     projects are
social                                                  level          approved
discrimination
Subprojects     Poor            *   Monitoring and      *   District    *   PPCMU      *   During
implementation  implementation      evaluation plan        CDC's and        at            construct
of ESMF                                     works local     Prefectur      ion
communes        e level
*   Environmental       *  District                    *  During
guidelines/requirem     works       *   PPCMU          construct
ents for contractors    contractors     at
Prefectur
*   Operations and      *  District         e level
Regular                 CDC's works
maintenance of          contractors  *  REMA       *   Post
completed sub                                          construct
projects                                              ion
Training        Not adequate    Capacity Enhancement    PCMU in         REMA           On-going     $87,500
technical skill                         MINALOC and                    throughout
service                        project life
providers                      at periodic
_                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~intervals  ______
Total Costs                                                                                         $325,250
90



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA      ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT
FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
ANNEX 6.0 A Social Report
A Social Report
prepared for
THE GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
(DCDP)
Scholas Murebwayire
January 2004
91



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA        ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT
FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
Contexte:
Dans la formulation et la d6finition des procedures du projet CDDP, le bailleur (World
Bank) et le gouvernement du Rwanda ont le souci de rendre le projet b6n6fique pour
toutes les couches de la population des zones d'intervention du projet.
Apres de rapides 6valuations environnementale et sociale avant projet, il s'est av6r6
que I'attention 6tait attir6e par les personnes d6signees sous l'appellation Batwa, et
dont on ne serait pas certain de leur participation au projet ni dans la d6finition des
priorit6s ni dans les ben6fices gener6s par les activites du projet.
Cette rapide descente sur le terrain tend a clarifier la position des vuln6rables en
g6neral et des , Batwa " en particulier dans le processus de d6veloppement a travers
la politique de d6centralisation et la participation communautaire
Methodologie:
Les cinq provinces dans lesquels operera le projet sont diff6rentes g6ographiquement,
6conomiquement, socialement et historiquement. Par ailleurs, on peut supposer que
les Batwa existent dans toutes les provinces mais ne vivent pas toujours dans les
memes conditions, c'est a ce titre qu'une descente sur le terrain a travers toutes les
provinces d'op6ration du projet s'est av6r6e n6cessaire.
Les personnes rencontr6es:
Les autorit6s de provinces en particulier les charg6s des affaires sociales
Les populations autochtones (Batwa et autres)
Les leaders religieux occup6s dans le d6veloppement des communautes et s'occupant
particulierement des vuln6rables.
Des personnes connues pour s'interesser aux dits (( Batwa
Contraintes:
*  La grande difficulte est de trouver les chiffres de populations selon un critere
inusit6 dans l'administration rwandaise; les ethnies n'6tant plus recensees en
tant que telles depuis 1994
*  Avec les changements geographiques, historiques, politiques et culturels, les
terroirs ont disparu ou sont trop modifi6s.
*  II est aussi difficile de faire ce travail dans un d6lai si court: une semaine de
terrain pour 5 provinces.
92



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT
FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
93



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA          ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
Calendrier d'activites sur le terrains et resume des discussions
LIEU           DATE      DISTRICTS                ACTIVITES                          Resume des idees des interviewes
MINALOC        14/01                   Infrastructures/                  Le projet travaille avec les comites de base au niveau des cellules. La
MICROFINANCES/ Projet finance     designation des vulnerables laissait les << Batwa >> a l'ecart sous
par l'Union Europeenne            pretexte qu'ils n'ont aucun sens de la prdvoyance. En fait les Batwa
de Ruhengeri ont ete ddsappointes quand l'ORTPN les a sorti des
Interview avec la coordination du  forets des volcans sans programme de rdinsertion. Ils n'avaient pas de
projet, personne chargee des projets  terre et pas de betail. Ils ont cause beaucoup de problemes sur le plan
en faveur des Batwa en province de  environnement par ce qu'ils utilisent beaucoup de bois de chauffe (il
Ruhengeri                        fait tres froid dans la region des volcans). Ce sont les survivants des
pygmees des forets des hautes montagnes <IMPUNYU >> qui vivaient
de la cueillette et de la chasse. Ils vivent en communaut6 autour d'un
chef de clan, considerent les autres rwandais comme inferieurs a eux
ne comprennent pas qu'il faut se stabiliser et faire de l'agriculture.
UMUTARA        16/01     - Ville de    Discussion avec le secretaire executif Ils sont etonnes par notre demarche: recherche  identitaire
Umutara       de la province et le charge des  << ethnique >>,
- Murambi     affaires sociales                 Les populations difficiles a integrer ont en commun la non stabilite
Visite de sites de nouvelles      sur les terres  attribuees. Ces populations  font comme  si
installations de populations      l'administration territoriale n'existait pas. Le probleme est aigu avec
les pasteurs et les supposes << Batwa >>
II ne faut pas de ddveloppement s6pare, il faut ddvelopper le monde
rural. Au niveau des jeunes, il faut former dans les m6tiers,
menuiserie, forge, ceramique, danse.
Nos plus grands problemes dans l'ensemble de la population sont: la
faible production agricole, les maladies comme le SIDA et la malaria,
la faible qualite de l'enseignement.
BYUMBA         17/01     - Ville de    Conversation avec le charge des   Notre demarche est jugee curieuse dans un pays ou l'on se bat pour
Byumba        affaires sociales au niveau de la  l'Unitd et la reconciliation.
- Bungwe      province                          On fait remarquer que la mention ethnique sur la carte d'identite
n'existe plus, qu'il est par consequent difficile pour l'administration
de savoir combien de Twa, de Hutu ou de Tutsi vivent dans la
province
94



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA           ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
Discussion avec groupes informels de  Les twa profitent de ce qu'ils ne sont jamais punis pour se servir dans
jeunes, de femmes et hommes,      nos champs, ils vendent les toles de leur maison, ainsi ils sont
comptes dans les sans abri et re,oivent de ['aide tout le temps. Les
agents de EER (Eglises Episcopales du Rwanda) leur ont donne du
betail et ils l'ont mange.
Les Batwa ont fait un voyage d'etudes dans les pays etrangers, et ce
que ce sont eux qui representent les Rwandais ?
C'est vrai que beaucoup de Twa sont vulnerables, ne s'integrent pas
facilement aux autres mais c'est surtout par ce qu'ils n'ont pas les
memes activites. Les twa font surtout de la poterie tandis que les
autres << rwandais >> font I'agriculture et 1'elevage.
II n'y a pas longtemps que les twa envoient leurs enfants a l'ecole,
mais ils sont aussi intelligents que les autres !
Nous savons qu'il y a des Batwa par ce que nous nous connaissons
Conversation avec les charges du  entre voisins. Notre critere d'embauche pour la main d'ceuvre est la
programme d'encadrement d'activites  vulnerabilite et non l'ethnie ou le sexe. Nous avons fait l'experience
d'aide aux pauvres du diocese de  avec les p6pinieres de fleurs et la construction de notre batiment en
Byumba (EER)                      ville et cela marche. Nous avons des hutu, des tutsi et des twa.
Visite de chantier de construction  II y a dans le district (Bungwe) une emergence de petites associations
d'un immeuble 3 etage ou travaillent  mixtes notamment pour la culture de la pomme de terre.
des populations melangees         Les groupements par ethnie pourraient aboutir a une marginalisation
ethniquement et par sexe sous     sociale des uns ou des autres et pourraient etre source de conflits.
l'initiative de I'Eveque (EER)
Visite de populations sinistrees par  Les pluies n'ont pas choisi les maisons des uns et des autres, elles
les pluies. 562 familles recenses  sont arrivees c'est tout. Les toits de nos maisons se sont envoles, nos
victimes des pluies               cultures emportees, les ecoles detruites, Batwa ou pas il faut nous
aider.
BUTARE         19         - Ville de    Collecte de statistiques sur les  Notre demarche est jugee pour le moins etonnant pour un projet
Butare        vuln6rables au niveau province.   dependant du Ministere de ['Administration Locale.
95



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA           ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
Nous avons le nombre de vulnerables par categories (Veuves,
Rencontre avec le charge de la    handicapes ... ), nous n'avons pas les chiffres par ethnie.
planification. Ia chargee des affaires
sociales et
le directeur d'arrondissement scolaire  Ce qui m'int6resse, c'est le nombre d'enfants qui suivent ou
abandonnent l'ecole. Les autres sont connus par les autorit6s de base
Kibingo       Discussion avec Mr Runyange,       chargees des affaires sociales et de l'education.
enseignant au college St Fran,ois a
Kansi et preparant un memoire de fin  Mon probleme est toujours de concilier les informations ecrites dans
d'etudes sociales sur les << BATWA >> les livres d'histoire ecrits il y a longtemps et les informations que je
peux recueillir aujourd'hui. Les distinctions physiques ne sont pas
faciles ni constantes, les distinctions par activite se heurtent au
problemes que il n y a pas que les Batwa qui font de la poterie. La
ceramique est aussi enseignee 'a qui veut dans les ecoles techniques.
Les Batwa et les autres ne me reqoivent pas toujours facilement a
cause du probleme de distinction ethnique.
3ans que j'y travaille, je ne peux toujours pas presenter mon m6moire.
Maraba        Secteurs Sovu, et Tare cellules   Mais que nous voulez-vous ? vous etes venu nous dire qu'il faut nous
Gashikiri et Tare                 separer des autres par ce que nous avons un retard de d6veloppement,
vous avez cr6e l'association pour nous << Abakundamurimo >> (ceux
qui aiment le travail) pour faire I'agriculture mais la terre est trop
petite.
Le comptage ethnique n'a jamais rapporte du bon dans ce pays ! vous
nous avez baptises ABASANGWABUTAKA maintenant, depuis
quand est ce que les Batwa ont colonise la terre ? (discours du vieux
de la famille elargie << Twa >>)
Nous sommes pauvres c'est vrai mais nous ne faisons pas la
mendicite dans les rues de la ville
Une   femme    <<TWA >>   est  representante  des  structures
Organisationnelles  des    Femmes      et    siege   comme
INYANGAMUGAYO (irr6prochable) des tribunaux GACACA
Un jeune homme exprime son souhait de reprendre l'ecole technique
par ce qu'il a arret6 ses 6tudes en 1994
96



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA           ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
GIKONGORO      20         - Ville de    Discussion avec le secretaire Executif La surprise de la demarche passee, on a bien voulu nous parler des
Gikongoro     de la province, collecte des      << Batwa >>.Ils sont la majorite dans notre trope de chants et danses.
statistiques sur les vulnerables,  Nous avons construit des maisons pour eux dont ils ont enleve le
Visite des sites d'accueil des    pavement en ciment avant de les occuper. Quelques uns n'ont pas
nouveaux retournes                rompu avec le nomadisme, ils s'adaptent difficilement au travail de la
terre, mais ils ne sont pas les seuls, les personnes venant de la foret de
Gishwati ne sont pas mieux, et la province d' Umutara connait le
desordre de la non stabilite des pasteurs !! (le Secrdtaire Executif de la
province est un ancien Sous -Prefet de la prefecture d'Umutara)
GISENYI        21-23      - Ville de    Discussion avec le secretaire executif Nous n'avons pas de chiffres de ce type et ne faisons pas de
Gisenyi       de la province,                   distinction ethnique en attribuant les terres. Toutefois, les gens se
connaissent entre eux. A Ruhengeri il y a meme des activitds soit
disant pour les Batwa uniquement allez savoir ! mon avis est que
dans ces zones beaucoup de gens ont iriteret a se faire passer pour
<< Twa >> ou d6fenseurs de ceux-ci;
l'inspecteur d'arrondissement     Ce que nous avons essaye est de repertorier les raisons d'abandons
scolaire,                         scolaires et d'attirer l'attention des autorites de base sur ces questions.
Batwa ou autres doivent envoyer les enfants a l'ecole surtout que
maintenant l'ecole est gratuite et obligatoire.
le Maire du district de Mutura    Nous avons eu des gens qui venaient du c6te des volcans, qui
n'avaient pas de carte d'identite et qui disaient: nous sommes Twa et
n'avons pas de photo pour opposer sur la carte >>. j'ai propose
personnellement d'offrir les photos, mais alors ce n'etait plus des
dizaines mais des centaines de gens qui se sont presentes. Je sais que
beaucoup mentaient mais comment le prouver ?
District de   Le secretaire executif de district de  Avec toutes les categories de vuln6rables dont nous faisons rapport
Nyamyumba, la Vice maire charg6e  regulierement ce n'est pas encore assez ? vous allez creer une
Nyamyumba     du Gender, la secretaire de district qui nouvelle categorie basee sur l'ethnie ?
a ressuscit6 l'association        Allons sur le terrain vous allez voir vous-meme s'ils sont vraiment
97



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA           ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
majoritairement << Twa >>,        diffdrents des autres.
Quelques uns sont alle a 1'ecole mais ils ne poursuivent pas plus loin
que l'ecole primaire.
Ils font toujours la poterie, ce qui ne rapporte pas beaucoup d'argent.
visite de la population du secteur Nous sommes Twa mais nous sommes Rwandais.
Busoro,  cellule  Kabushonga  ou  Parmi nous il y a des pauvres et des indigents mais il y a aussi ceux
vivent en famille elargie quelques 7  qui vivent normalement. Moi j'ai decide de pratiquer l'agriculture, ma
menages << batwa >>.             femme et la progeniture continuent la poterie et le jeune petit fils va
vendre les produits. Ma fille est la secretaire du village, elle a fait le
CERAI et a meme etait elue INYANGAMUGAYO. Mon fils ainm
joue l'imbecile et m'a abandonne sa femme et ses enfants.
Nous avions une association et le president s'est tire avec l'argent,
c'est cette gentille fille (la secretaire de district) et ce bon monsieur
(le Secretaire Executif de district) qui nous aident a faire renaitre
I'association; mais nous pensons que c'est bien de nous mettre avec
d'autres rwandais de la cellule.
Nous ne nous presentons pas aux elections des autorites de structures
de base par ce que beaucoup d'entre nous ne savent pas lire et ecrire,
et peut etre que d'autres ne voudraient pas etre diriges par un Twa,
mais ma fille sait lire et ecrire et a ete elue. Les enfants vont a l'ecole,
je vais veiller personnellement a ce que chaque menage envoie les
enfants en age scolaire; on a qu'a chercher l'argile a d'autres
moments.
La vie est difficile depuis qu'on est rentre d'exile. On trouve
difficilement de la bonne argile, et les gens n'achetent pas beaucoup
les produits en terre.
98



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA        ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
De La Description des Batwa
Dans les anciens livres d'histoire du Rwanda 6crits durant la p6riode coloniale, nous
trouvons des diff6renciations entre les diff6rentes ethnies/races du Rwanda. Les hutus,
les tutsi et les twa
A~~~~~
Type de race twa (Nyakisozi, Terr. dAstridaj.
I.".
ti~~~~~~~~r
-; F   - -t  A -   .--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
Type de race hutw  Riso iyinya, 7rr.  d'Astrida)
99



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA      ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
rutsi portant la coiffure traditionnelle en formne de crois-
rants: amasunzu (Kigali).
A cette 6poque, on supposait que le pays abritait 81 % de Hutu, 16% de Tutsi et 3% de
Batwa.
Traditionnellement les rwandais s'identifiaient en clans dont les plus importants sont au
nombre de 1 0 :Gesera, Nyiginya, Bega, Banda, Cyaba, Ungura, Shambo, Singa, Sindi
Zigaba
Au moment de la colonisation, les diff6renciations 6taient bas6es sur la taille et les
mesures du crcane, et la confirmation d'appartenance ethnique 6tait donn6e par le
nombre de t6tes de gros b6tail en possession de l'individu. Ainsi l'ancien grand chef
Kayihura Michel s'est vu class6 Tutsi et son frbre cadet class6 Hutu (t6moignage
rapport6 par l'int6ress6 lui-.m6me lors d'une 6mission radiodiffus6e et t6l6vis6e & la
radiot6l6vision rwandaise), le Rwanda 6tant un pays A lignage patrilin6aire, les
descendants de ces deux frbres sont d'ethnies/races diff6rentes par carte d'identit6 ~i
mention ethnique.
L'histoire moderne se heurte & la non visibilit6 de cette 6poque. Tout ce pass6 chiffr6
porte a controverse 'au niveau de la compr6hension des populations du Rwanda ancien
et au niveau des m6thodes employ6es pour comptabiliser et classifier ces populations
100



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
en ethnies/races qui s'apparentent plut6t a des classes ou categories sociales en
fonction de l'activit6 principale exercee (agriculture, 6levage, poterie) plut6t qu'a des
ethnies. En effet, plus de 15 tetes de gros betail (vaches) on etait classe Tutsi, moins de
15 tetes de gros b6tail, on tait class6 Hutu, les potiers 6tant classes Twa.
Au cours des ann6es 60, brusquement les Hutu sont , devenus > 89%, les Tutsi 10% et
les Twa 1%. Au fil du temps on ne parle des Batwa que tres evasivement sous le
principe de "minorite insignifiante >>, au point que l'on parle de deux ethnies seulement
au Rwanda: Hutu et Tutsi. Durant les annees 90 et toute la p6riode de la guerre et le
g6nocide de 1994, on parle meme de pres de 8% de Tutsi et de plus de 91% de Hutu
sans dire un chiffre sur les Twa. Si l'on sait les trag6dies qui ont frapp6 la population
Tutsi, on ignore tout des raisons de la diminution du nombre des Twa.
Actuellement, I'6tablissement des chiffres par ethnies/races est impossible au niveau
des administrations rwandaises a moins de faire du porte a porte et encore il faudrait un
climat de confiance par ce que les gens se m6fient de telle curiosit6. Les rwandais
seraient peut-etre en meilleurs dispositions si on leur demandait leur clan
d'appartenance plut6t que de parler de Hutu, Tutsi et Twa.
La mention ethnique sur la carte d'identit6 impos6e durant la p6riode coloniale et les
deux pr6c6dentes r6publique a ete abolie d6ja par les accords d'Arusha en 1993
Depuis la fin de la guerre, cette mention n'est plus portee sur la carte d'identit6 ni sur
aucune autre piece administrative.
Procedant des lectures sur I'ancien Rwanda et des conversations avec les gens de
l'entourage professionnel et de voisinage, nous avons essay6 d'identifier les Twa.
Seulement ni les gens ni les choses ne sont figes dans l'histoire. Nous n'avons trouv6 ni
les Hutu, ni les Tutsi ni les Twa tels que l'on nous les avait d6crit. Les prototypes
rencontr6s sont comme des hasards historiques. Nous avons rencontr6 des Hutu et des
Twa trop grands et des Tutsi trop petits au gout des " ethnologues specialistes du
Rwanda ,. Ils se sont melang6s au fil du temps et ont 6pous6 la meme culture hybride
entre le moderne et le traditionnel. II n'y a presque plus de paiens, les rwandais sont
majoritairement dans les religions chretiennes et une ", minorit6 d'entre eux a 6pous6 la
101



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA        ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
religion musulmane; une minorit6 encore se d6clare sans appartenance religieuse22. 11
en est de meme pour les quelques groupes de Twa que nous avons rencontre.
Sur le plan physique, eux-memes disent se reconnaitre par ce qu'ils se connaissent a
travers les lignages, somme toute comme tous les autres rwandais. Seulement ceux qui
sont install6s depuis longtemps dans la marche globale du pays ne veulent pas etre
confondus avec les nouveaux arrivants des forets (ils ont plusieurs denominations
diff6rentes mais le temps ne nous a pas permis de les repertorier ni d'approfondir la
_|v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7~
question) Ici les gens m'ont declar6 etre d'origine diff6rente mais je ne mettrais pas avec
certitude une 6tiquette sur chaque tete.
Sur le mode de d'habitat
11 y a un probleme aigu des sans abri dans le nord-Ouest du pays et dans le Nord
(Byumba)
Pour le Nord-Ouest  (Gisenyi, Ruhengeri et Byumba), la situation est due aux
cons6quences de la guerre, cette r6gion a connu l'ins6curit6 jusque il y a peu, et des
retourn6s continuent d'arriver.
La province de Byumba a 6te frapp6e par les pluies torrentielles emportant les
logements et les champs. En province de Gisenyi il y a eu des inondations.
Les " impunyu , (encore une classification parmi les Twa) ont dO quitter les foret des
volcans a cause de l'ins6curit6 d'une part, et a cause des activit6s de l'Office du
22 Enqu&e realisee par S.Murebwayire en Novembre 2003. Sur 101 hommes et 72 femmes interroges, 59% sont
catholiques, 36% appartiennent a d'autres religions chretiennes, 1% appartiennent a la religion Islam et, 5% se sont
declares sans appartenance religieuse
102



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
Tourisme d'autre part. Ces gens n'ont pas I'habitude de la s6dentarite avec les activit6s
qui vont de pair. [Is pratiquaient la chasse et la cueillette et lls avaient l'habitude des
abris plut6t que de maisons;
A Byumba dans le district de Bungwe, nous avons visit6 l'umudugudu (habitat
group6) de Manyagiro dans lequel il y a un flot ou vivent quelques familles Batwa:
3maisons etaient a moitie d6coup6es (ils vendent les t6les de couverture du toit des
parties de la maison dont ils n'ont pas besoins) et dans une de ces maisons on avait
construit une petite hutte en paille a l'int6rieur de la partie restante de la maison.
Ces maisons sont a l'origine les memes que celles des autres familles r6install6es en
habitat group6, et ces maisons ont ete construites soit par I'administration soit par
I'6glise EER Vraisemblablement ils ne s'adaptent pas encore au volume et aux
mat6riaux utilis6s, et ne realisent pas encore le pourquoi d'une maison semi-durable.
Cela n'est pas une generalite
*     Nous avons quand meme trouv6 deux vaches de race amelior6es et quelques
chevres. Les trois quarts des champs sont cultiv6s et les Batwa nient la cueillette (le
vol) des r6coltes
Dans le Nord-Est, province de Umutara, il y a un probleme d'instabilite des populations
pasteurs qui pratiquent l'6levage extensif et un semi-nomadisme en fonctions des
besoins du betail quand ils ne s'installent pas carr6ment dans les zones du parc
Akagera ou de I'autre c6te des frontieres (Uganda, Tanzanie). La se trouvent aussi des
groupuscules Twa en mouvement instable et qui auraient tendance a pratiquer la
cueillette dans les champs agricoles.
Les pasteurs ont le meme probleme que les Twa vis-a-vis des maisons en t6le ondul6e.
Ces maisons ne sont pas thermiquement adaptees ni aux gens ni au stockage du
lait en ce qui concerne les pasteurs. En effet, ces maisons sont trop chaudes le jour
et trop froides la nuit. En Umutara on trouve de plus en plus de huttes en pise et paille
ou uniquement paille a c6te de la maison en t6le ondul6e.
103



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
S~~~~            ~~                    .1_''  .  E'i  -, ,
En province de l'Umutara, maison en paille seche construite ai proximite des maisons en t6les
ondul es de l'umudugudu.
A Gikongoro, on nous a rapport6 le fait que les Twa d6mantelaient le pavement en
ciment avant de s'installer dans la maison ou construisaient une hutte en paille sbche ou
en pis6 et paille s6che 6 c6t6. Ils invoquent de nouveau le probleme de chaud et de
froid qui ne convient pash la poterie.
Du temps obi les rwandais avaient de r6coltes abondantes, les agriculteurs portaient les
mEmes griefs aux maisons en t ple ondul6es, disant qu'elles faisaient pourrir les r6coltes
Butare, Byumba, Gisenyi : les groupes de families Twa qui ont adopt6 le mode de vie
s6dentaire se plaignent de 1'exiguft6 des terres et de manque de b6tail
Acces aux services:
Ecoles: les enfants des Twa fr6quentent les memes 6coles que les autres enfants,
mais il n'y a pas de chiffres pouvant permettre de contr6ler si tous les enfants en age
scolaire vont a 1'6cole. Et quand bien meme ils y vont, il y a beaucoup de d6perditions et
d'abandons scolaires.
104



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA        ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
Tableau abandons scolaires Gisenyi
ABANDON 2003
DISTRICT                    ABANDON              OBSERVATION
GARCONS FILLES TOTAL
1. NYAMYUMBA             11,2     12,7      1 1,9 Pauvrete des parents
2. GASEKE                17,7     16,1       16,8 Cultures de th6
3. GASIZA                44,6     44,4      44,6 Pauvret6 et ignorance des parents
Cultures de the
4. CYANZARWE             21,9      16        18,9 Enfants responsables de m6nages
5. MAIRIE DE
GISENYI                   6,7      5,6       16,3 Enfants errant en ville
6. NYAGISAGARA           12,4      9,8      21,2 Coltan
7. KAGEYO                12,8     11,9      22,7 Pauvret6 des parents
8. KAYOVE                                    13,8 Malaria, Travaux m6nagers
Exploitation des minerais
9. KANAMA                21,5     21,6      21,1 Ignorance et n6gligence des parents
10. MUTURA                                   11,2 Indigence
Centres de Sante: les centres de sante accueillent tout le monde qui se presente sans
distinction aucune. La difficult6 r6side dans les habitudes de gens de se soigner par des
moyens alternatifs et de se pr6senter quand il est trop tard. Les problemes
d'autom6dication par les plantes et ou par des medicaments achet6s en pharmacie sans
prescription et contr6le medical sont fr6quents. On peut supposer que les Twa
pratiquent ces methodes de soins plus que d'autres puisqu'ils sont reput6s de bien
connaitre les plantes m6dicinales. A ces problemes s'ajoute le probleme de non
affiliation aux mutuelles de sant6, ce qui accroit consid6rablement le coat des soins de
sant6. C'est un probleme en cercle vicieux chez les vuln6rables.
Les lieux de culte: les twa m'ont affirm6 frequenter les memes 6glises que les autres
rwandais au gre des conversions et d'amiti6. En effet, il avait des appartenances
religieuses differentes entre les membres de m6me famille. II y a meme des conversions
105



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
de Twa a la religion Islam pour ceux qui sont en ville ou en proximite imm6diate
(Byumba, Gisenyi, Kigali).
Le point de vue social selon les lieux de residence: actuellement l'occupation des
sols est en fonction des activites exerc6s; agriculture, 6levage, commerce..., nous ne
savons pas s'il y a des sites identifies pour 1'extraction de I'argile.
Mais en g6n6ral, les Ta vivent differemment selon les districts et les provinces comme
les autres populations. 11 y a parmi eux des gens ais6s et des indigents. Ils sont
englobes dans les structures administratives, religieuses, participent a la vie politique
(6lections) -nous avons rencontre une femme Twa repr6sentante des structures
organisationnelles des femmes et qui siege aux juridictions GACACA a Butare et une a
Gisenyi qui siege aussi aux juridictions GACACA, quelques uns sont dans les
associations mixtes ou s6par6es. Ils sont les mieux cot6s dans les troupes
(pratiquement tous) mixtes de chants et de danse. Au sein de toutes les grandes
troupes (balais national, troupe du mus6 national etc.. ;) on trouve des Twa. Ils sont
pay6s comme chacun des membres de la troupe pour leurs prestations, mais ce n'est
pas assez pour en vivre car ce n'est pas tous les jours la fete.
Zo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
Sous 1'encouragement de I'Evdque de Byumba EER, les travailleurs sur ce chantier d'un btitiment
c~ 6tage sont melanges , hommes- femmes, Hutu, Tutsi et Twa.
Le point de vue 6conomique: il y a eu beaucoup de mouvement de populations A
cause de Ia guerre. La nouvelle politique d'6tablissement des populations rend quelque
peu compliqu6 I'adaptation de beaucoup de Rwandais.
106



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
En effet, traditionnellement le Rwandais avait ses champs en proximit6 imm6diate de sa
maison. Aujourd'hui les maisons sont agglom6rees en pr6visions des infrastructures de
base comme 1'eau, les ecoles et 1'61ectricite, les zones de cultures et de paturage sont
6loign6es des habitations. Cette localisation induit les problemes de deplacement avec
incidence sur le temps de travail, les problemes de surveillance des champs, des
r6coltes et du b6tail.
Les twa ont un probleme suppl6mentaire: on les dit (certains d'entre eux) non adapt6s a
la vie s6dentaire. Ceux qui exercent le travail de poterie ont un grand probleme de
marche encore plus grand que celui de trouver de la bonne argile. Les produits de
poterie sont en perte de vitesse car entre autres raisons, le march6 est gagn6 par
differents ustensiles en plastique ou en metal.
Les famille Twa rencontr6es & Nyamyumba (Gisenyi), ont commenc6 & produire des
chandeliers et des feux malgaches am6lior6s 6 consommation r6duite d'6nergie en plus
des traditionnelles cruches et marmites qui n'ont plus assez de march6. Reste A voir le
prix qu'ils en tirent compar6 au prix que les revendeurs en tirent.
Revenu par tate d'habitant: [es imp6ts et taxes sont pr6lev6s en fonction des revenus
professionnels ou sur les possessions. lis sont g6n6ralement faibles dans le monde
rural. MWme au niveau des recettes du marchk, nous n'avons aucun moyen de savoir
quel est la part des Twa et des autres car il n'existe aucun chiffre dans ce sens.
Seulement ~i partir du moment oii ils sont parmi les moins solidement 6tablis
107



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA        ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
professionnellement et 6conomiquement, nous pouvons supposer qu'ils sont dans les
differents groupes vuln6rables dont les cat6gories suivent en exemples dans le tableau
ci-dessous
Quelques chiffres de vulnerables
Enfants
Orphelins  chefs                 Eleves
Veuves    En      de   Personnes Familles Sans  Vuln6rables Handicapes Enfants
families menage  agees   pauvres moyens                     de rue
Butare      31.629   13.442  6.575    14.963  26.935  4.768     5.384     4.863
Umutara     19.367   17.191    831     2.907                               3.500
Byumba                        8.282                                                 32
Gikongoro    17.746   5.123   5.782   13.817                   72.497      9.063   839
Total        68.742  35.756  21.470   31.687  26.935  4.768    77.881     17.426   871
A Byuma, il faut ajouter 9.602 enfants orphelins refugies de la Republique Democratique du
Congo.
Sur le plan national, on considere qu'il y a 62% de Rwandais qui vivent en dessous du
seul de la pauvret6.
Conclusions generales et recommandations
L'absence de chiffres sur le plan administratif n'efface pas que les Twa existent. Cela
complique certes le comptage des membres de ce groupe et d'6valuer sa pr6sence
numerique dans les provinces et districts, mais comme ils le disent eux-memes et leurs
voisins, il y a moyen de les identifier en utilisant les m6thodes et le temps en
cons6quence.
Seulement la demarche est en parfaite contradiction avec les lois et la Constitution
Nationale du Rwanda article 9/2: "I'eradication des divisions ethniques, r6gionales et
autres et la promotion de l'unit6 nationale ,.
Et les interesses eux-memes ne sont pas favorables aux initiatives entreprises en leur
nom uniquement. Ils ont eux-memes exprim6 l'inqui6tude de se voir separes des autres,
meme pour leur bien. ll serait mieux de les aider comme les autres membres a l'int6rieur
des communaut6s de base qui sont dans les memes conditions de pauvret6. D'autant
plus que 62% de rwandais vivent en dessous du seul de la pauvret6
108



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
Les familles Twa vulnerables que nous avons rencontr6es peuvent figurer dans les
differentes categories de vuln6rables dont nous avons l'exemple qui, comme nous
l'avons vu sont tres importants num6riquement dans chaque province. Tout programme
d'activit6s de d6veloppement communautaire devrait commencer par une identification
plus approfondie des vuln6rables notamment les caract6ristiques d6taill6es de ces
groupes au sein des communautes de base a fin de mieux fixer les strat6gies et les
indicateurs de performance.
Les familles Twa nous ont dit qu'elles participaient a la vie politique communautaire mais
surtout en termes d'exprimer les id6es et le vote, mais ne peuvent g6n6ralement pas se
pr6senter eux-m6mes aux 6lections puisque la majorit6 d'entre eux est analphabete.
Avoir des centres d'alphab6tisation pour adultes est une chose, les frequenter en est
une autre. 11 faudrait un travail d'animation sociale et de motivation a la base pour que
ceux qui ne savent pas lire et ecrire (Twa et autres) profitent mieux de ce service. Pour
ce faire, il faut d'abord les r6pertorier.
Les vuln6rables sont identifi6s par les communaut6s de base notamment pour l'octroi de
credits betail (cr6dit rotatif), il faudrait s'assurer de la participation du maximum de
vuln6rable dans ces r6unions.
Actuellement les personnes elues a la base s'acquittent de leur tache ben6volement,
n'ont pas toujours les capacites et les moyens n6cessaires pour la r6alisation de leurs
engagements. 11 serait bon de trouver des moyens financiers et d'avoir une personne
competente pour l'encadrement, et notamment instaurer un format de rapports a fournir
r6gulierement en matieres des affaires sociales. Ceci serait tres important en matiere
d'6ducation, de sante, d'emploi, d'infrastructures de base, de sante, de vuln6rables en
particulier.
De meme, les donnees statistiques sur diff6rents sujets sont inexistantes ou ne sont pas
tenues a jour. Un effort est a faire pour le d6veloppement des capacit6s techniques mais
aussi pour l'equipement. Au niveau des cellules les gens n'ont pas de local tenant lieu
de bureau et n'ont souvent pas de cahier ou book notes pour garder les informations
ecrites
109



GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA       ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (DCDP)
Le rapide reconnaissance de terrain effectu6 sur le sujet particulier des Twa n'est pas
suffisant en matiere de renseignements sur la r6alite de la situation socio-economique
de leurs m6nages. Une recherche plus approfondie permettrait de mieux identifier les
possibilit6s d'insertion et d'adaptation des "< Impunyu >> et autres Twa qui eprouvent des
difficult6s d'insertion socio-economique du fait d'avoir change de milieu social et ou
environnemental.
110



| puemH lo duVW L X=3NNV 
' ~ ~~~    ~~~~~ z>t| N n d n e     z    >S1'          , :   -,-;
VIS N  ,ZNV
tINtZNt1 g f _ _ > - - ~mmm          vo-w      or.
/      rw  . _, >, ,J; 1A z 
i~~~~~~~~AM                              '~1V NW,   JN ,"rAD et :T< 
_  -   t        \   ~~ =  S K-  : X F, X 1 s  _ 4p
j ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~m    M . no  s,;   a'1isllirld          NI93d .
~~~~~m            r -M            _d]DI       _D f d   N  _  _ - Dli  F_
/   _     44                   /          53ttt^33~~~~liN WWO   N lV3tWVdlND3
>''' w :r ~~~n_w  a
,, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~~~ODO w^_ __ _ _JOlNlWDNOWItl3
\~~~~ N            v   o   .tneM
v~~~~~(ao)L3oi     _NI O-A   A.LlNwwo   _N   N0.   VdN0G
\~~~~~~~~~NIMWE=     ..W3)VV   ivioo   aN  IVNW01N  GV/  1  NIANM



