                           Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)

                                                                                          Report No: AC410
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 01/08/2004
A. Basic Project Data (from PDS)
I.A.1. Project Statistics
Country: RWANDA                                         Project ID: P074102
Project: Decentralization and Community Development     Task Team Leader: Susan Opper
Project
Authorized to Appraise Date: February 2, 2004           IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: May 27, 2004                             IDA Amount ($m):
                                                              IDA GRANT FOR DEBT VULNERABLE: 15

Managing Unit: AFTH3                                    Sector: Other social services (100%)
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)      Theme: Participation and civic engagement (P);
Status: Lending                                         Decentralization (P); Rural services and
                                                        infrastructure (P); Conflict prevention and
                                                        post-conflict reconstruction (S); Other social
                                                        protection and risk management (S)

I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
The project aims to stabilize and expand the capacity of local governments and communities to
identify and secure financing for their own development priorities to bring about economic growth
and improve social services at the local level. This approach is central to Rwanda's poverty
reduction strategy and is underpinned by the Government's decentralization policy.

The main development objective of the project is to strengthen and scale up the previous
Community Reintegration and Development Project, "CRDP" (IDA CR 3138-RW) through
community demand driven (CDD) methodologies, using transparent and sustainable mechanisms
which decentralize planning, project cycle management, and financial management to Districts and
their Community Development Committees.

The CRDP, financed by IDA through a Learning and Innovation Loan, established "best practice"
in providing a tangible foundation for the decentralization program of the Government of Rwanda
(GoR). Progress toward the new project's development objective will more than triple the
CRDP's geographic coverage (increase from 11 to 39 Districts) and will boost the emergence of a
more dynamic local economy through communities who are empowered to lead their own
development process. The new project supports a phased program for Rwanda to progress over
ten to fifteen years to the envisaged end goal for decentralization which foresees the realignment
of central government's mandate as a result of the empowerment and improved accountability of
all local governments and communities.

The specific objectives of the new project include: (a) a mechanism in practice that decentralizes
planning, project cycle management and financial management to District and Community
Development Committees (CDCs), so that local governments and communities identify and
finance their own development priorities; (b) reinforcement of this mechanism for

                                                  2
                                                                                                     ISDS


decentralization, by having encouraged and tested local ownership of the development
investments; and (c) strengthened capacities of CDCs, local and central government units to
facilitate and implement the CDD projects.

I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):
Component 1 [IDA US$7.5M]. Institutional Capacity Building and Information, Education
and Communications to Support Decentralization: The project will assist to develop
mechanisms and build capacity for community driven development. It aims to finance a capacity
building program to support the decentralization policy and strengthen the skills and
understanding of the institutions and communities involved to plan, implement, manage, finance
and sustain a development process. This component will finance a broad spectrum of capacity
building activities at different levels of implementation ­ national, provincial, district, secteur and
cellule levels ­ according to identified assets and needs. The component will contribute to the
establishment and improved management of control mechanisms, which will build accountability
and transparency of the local administrations vis-à-vis the communities they serve. The project
will also support and strengthen participatory planning systems, which will allow communities to
take part in development planning and which will provide means for targeting the most vulnerable.
This planning system will complement Rwanda's Poverty Reduction Strategy planning and
implementation, and GoR's Vision 2020.

A sub-component will develop and implement an Information, Education and Communications
Strategy to support the process of decentralization and specifically to inform and mobilize the
population regarding the project. The strategy will recognize that communication and information
are a two-way process: from the top down to Provinces, districts, cellules and individuals; and up
from the communities to the districts, and thus to the provinces. Both directions in the
information flow are of equal importance as they enhance participation at all levels. The
sub-component will aim to inform and educate different players at all levels regarding the aims,
activities and modalities of decentralization and the relevant laws and regulations, as well as
various other development assistance activities in which they can become involved at local level,
so that populations are aware of their rights and are included in the development processes.

Component 2 [IDA US$6.2M] Community Initiatives: This component will finance grants to
participating communities in supported districts for community based sub-projects which have
been identified in a participatory planning process that resulted in agreement on Five-Year
Development Plans and One-Year Action Plans, and which meet the priority needs of the
respective communities. The sub-projects will be well defined and narrow in scope. They might
include investments in education, health, nutrition, social protection; community road repair and
water supply; income-generating activities; youth skills training; and HIV/AIDS awareness and
prevention. The sub-projects complement Component 1 by providing decentralized entities and
civil society the opportunity to "learn by doing" during the planning, preparation and
implementation of the sub-projects. This is intended to assist GoR to strengthen mechanisms to
manage decentralized capital development.

Component 3 [IDA US$1.0M] Project Coordination and Monitoring: The component will
support a Project Management and Coordination Unit at the national level within the Ministry of

                                                        3
                                                                                                          ISDS


Local Administration and Social Affairs (MINALOC), and four small Coordination Offices at the
provincial level. The operating costs, equipment, materials and supplies will be financed. This
component will also support two external and two internal evaluations at the midterm and end of
the project, as well as annual audits.



                                                 Indicative Costs and Project Financing Plan



    Component                  Indicative                    % of                Bank            % of
                                  Costs                      Total             financing         Bank
                                (US$M)                                         (US$M)          financing
1. Institutional                   7.5                       50.0                 7.5             50.0
Capacity
Building & IEC                     6.2                       41.0                 6.2             41.0
2. Community
Initiatives                        1.0                        7.0                 1.0              7.0
3. Project                         0.3                        2.0                 0.3              2.0
Coordination &
Monitoring
4. Unallocated
     Total Project                15.00                     100.00               15.00           100.00
              Costs
  Total Financing                 15.00                     100.00               15.00           100.00
          Required




I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or
critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
This is a national program that will especially target 39 Districts of which 33 are rural and 6 are
peri-urban areas. The project will cover four provinces in their entirety (Butare, Byumba,
Gikongoro, Gisenyi) and part of a fifth province (Umutara). These provinces are in the central
south west, the northeast and the northwest of the country. The relief is mountainous with altitude
declining from west to east. Grassy bits predominate although in Gisenyi, volcanic mountains rise
steeply from Lake Kivu in the west. The coverage area of the project is mainly free of critical
natural habitats. Only a small portion of northern Gisenyi and southern Gikongoro are habitats of
protected species, respectively: one of the last sanctuaries of the mountain gorilla in the Parc des
Volcans of Gisenyi, and the rainforest habitat of the Colobus monkeys in the Nyungwe National
Park of Gikongoro. The project will not be active in these sensitive areas. Since Rwanda is one of
the most densely populated countries in Africa, its terrain, including in the project areas, has fallen

                                                        4
                                                                                                       ISDS


victim to deforestation and erosion from uncontrolled cutting of trees for fuel and overgrazing,
and soil exhaustion from over-farming.


B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)

Comments:


C. Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on  for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
                                     Policy                                          Triggered
    Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)                        Yes     No
    Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                                Yes     No
    Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                                 Yes     No
    Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                                   Yes     No
    Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                               Yes     No
    Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                                Yes     No
    Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                       Yes     No
    Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                           Yes     No
    Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)                Yes     No
    Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*                     Yes     No



Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.

II.D.1a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and describe
any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Some potential environmental impacts may occur in Component 2: Community Initiatives. On the
whole, these are expected to be positive. Impacts associated with this component can generally be
characterized as due to the activities of private operators (e.g. construction enterprises engaged
for classroom rehabilitation) and the general public (e.g. community groups repairing small
bridges for rural roads) supported under this component. It is not envisaged that Component 1:
Institutional Capacity Development and IEC would result in significant negative environmental
impact.

The risk level for environmental impacts is low. The project is designed after the precursor CRDP
which itself was the outgrowth of a program supported by the World Bank in the early 1990s.
From this extensive experience, it is possible to anticipate the range of initiatives which
communities will undertake and to predict that the general environmental impact of the new
project will be positive. For example, the project will promote good practice in land
improvements such as protection against erosion. No involuntary resettlement will be involved.
This will be screened out and not financed.

II.D.1b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.

                                                       5
                                                                                                          ISDS


Not applicable.

II.D.1c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
Possible negative impacts would be water pollution, soil erosion, or degradation of fauna and flora.

II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
Not required.

II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Activities for Component 2 will be screened at the point they are considered for financing, in
order to quality and quantify the likely negative and positive environmental impacts and to
propose the required mitigation measures to be implemented to avoid negative impacts. The
screening mechanisms, and implementation and monitoring of any safeguards actions connected
with the sub-projects will be established by an Environmental and Social Management Framework
(ESMF) that will be approved prior to project appraisal. The ESMF will also determine criteria
for the nature and level of capacity needed to manage the above process, in conformity with the
laws and regulations of Rwanda and the safeguards policies of the World Bank. The ESMF will
outline management principles and organizational mechanisms including: (i) an environmental
screening form for Districts and project coordinators to use, to identify, assess and determine
potential adverse environmental effects pertaining to sub-project activities before they are
approved for grant funding; (ii) a checklist of generic indirect and direct impacts and mitigation
measures specific to the sectors (e.g. health, education, agriculture) which will be used in
screening and monitoring, and adapted to specific tender documents; (iii) an environmental
monitoring plan to ensure that the issues will be managed effectively by all appropriate actors in
the project; (iv) training in relation to safeguard and awareness needs in the public and private
sectors; (v) a public consultation plan for the life of the project, to seek the participation of
communities, NGOs and all other stakeholders in the project activities, thereby introducing
transparency and accountability in the project; (vi) a menu of 4-5 typical, easily implementable
natural resource management sub-projects with instructions to adjust to local conditions, so these
can be introduced into project areas; and (vii) specific proposed corrective actions according to
the anticipated dimensions of risk for adverse environmental impact associated with
implementation of any sub-project. The above management principles and organizational
mechanisms will be included in the project's Manual of Procedures.

II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on safeguard
policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Grassroots communities and members of District development committees: The key to success is
to involve the primary beneficiaries in identifying possible environmental risks, at the earliest
stages of selecting actions from the Districts' Development Plans for grant funding under the
project. This process is assisted by the project coordinators at provincial and national levels. The
agreed development sub-projects will then be implemented by civil society groups and small
private enterprises.

Proposed actions:

l Inform and mobilize to deepen understanding of environmental regulatory imperatives and

                                                   6
                                                                                                  ISDS


   procedures. This will be done through the two major channels of: (i) the regular participatory
   planning processes of the project through which Districts confer with secteurs and cellules, to
   decide on development initiatives to present for funding, and (ii) the more general public
   consultation plan described in II.D.3. above.
l Assess the government's and implementing agents' capacities to manage the project's
   environmental issues and propose how to reinforce their capacity (ESMF).
l Develop capacity and institutional strengthening: Address environmental safeguards issues
   directly and consistently during training regularly provided by the project, beginning in the
   preparation phase before effectiveness: (i) training of project coordination staff at national and
   provincial levels; and (ii) mobilization and training of stakeholders at cellule, secteur and
   District levels.
l Define levels of institutional responsibilities for implementing and monitoring an
   environmental management plan, and criteria for who will screen projects.
l Establish appropriate institutional and social arrangements for implementing an environmental
   management plan: (i) Identify and empower the District level officers (i.e. Community
   Development Committee members) to be accountable for environmental screening,
   monitoring and mitigation measures, and impact assessment pertaining to this project, (ii)
   guide social working groups at cellule, secteur and District levels to participate in
   environmental management through their regular involvement in project cycle management,
   and (iii) formalize these processes and accountabilities in operations described in the project
   Procedures Manual (e.g. environmental checklists, terms of reference).
l Technical assistance to (i) develop and implement the screening, monitoring and evaluation
   program of the operators with a process for triggering a supplementary environmental
   assessment if necessary; (ii) incorporate environmental safeguards measures into bidding
   documents for the selection of small scale enterprises operating in the project locations; (iii)
   build awareness among consumers and technical ministries staff; and (iv) develop a grievance
   mechanism and appeals structure.
l In addition to spot checks during project implementation, the project coordinators will include
   assessment of environmental impacts in the project midterm and project end evaluations.
l Project coordinators will organize feedback sessions from ongoing monitoring to improve
   project selection, siting planning, design and implementation by preventing, minimizing,
   mitigating or compensating for potentially adverse environmental impacts.
l In the overall project financing plan, include financing arrangements for environmental
   mitigation measures and supervision.


The participatory approach of the project also includes collaboration between small private sector
enterprises (SMEs) who will be involved e.g. in rehabilitation of small infrastructure. Further,
there will be some linkages with other donor funded programs active in community development.

Proposed actions for this project are:

l Inform and mobilize the other actors described above, through activities financed by the
   Information, Education and Communications sub-component of Component 1.
l Promote further community based environmental management through regular consultations
   and harmonization of procedures with representatives of other donor funded projects, at

                                                      7
                                                                                                           ISDS


    ministerial, provincial and district levels.
l Include representatives from SMEs, NGOs or other civil society organizations, and other
    development projects, as appropriate, in the training and capacity building for environmental
    management, provided through Component 1.

The ESMF report, agreed between the Bank and the Borrower, will be the basis for finalizing the
measures outlined above, before project appraisal. The ESMF will be disclosed prior to appraisal.

E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or
on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.

[ ] S1. ­ Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks in
         management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. ­ One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
         technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. ­ No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. ­ Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or similar
         projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard
         issues.

                                                     8
                                                                                                     ISDS




F. Disclosure Requirements

Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:                        Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              11/30/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          1/15/2004
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           1/15/2004
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the Executive        Not Applicable Not Applicable
Directors (For category A projects)

Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                                       Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable

Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:                            Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable

Pest Management Plan:                                                     Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable

Dam Safety Management Plan:                                               Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                              Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                                          Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.

Signed and submitted by               Name                                               Date
Task Team Leader:                     Susan Opper                                        October 27, 2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:

Approved by:                         Name                                                Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Thomas E. Walton                                        January 8, 2004
Sector Manager/Director               Laura Frigenti                                     November 10,2003

