                                                    Documentof
                                               The World Bank

                                          FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                                       ReportNo: 27632-RW




                                     PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                       ONA

                                               PROPOSEDGRANT

                                  INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR13.7 MILLION
                                       (US$20 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)


                                                      TO THE

                                            REPUBLICOF RWANDA

                                                       FORA

                 DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENTPROJECT

                                                   May 12,2004




HumanDevelopment I11
Country Department 9
Africa Regional Office

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                                   (ExchangeRateEffective16January2004)
                                        CurrencyUnit = RwF(Rwanda Francs)
                                             57ORwF = US$l.OO
                                                  US$ =


                                             January 1 -- December31
                                                 FISCALYEAR


                                    ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

BNR    National Bank of Rwanda                           MINALOC    Ministry of Local Administration, Community
                                                                    Developmentand SocialAffairs
CAS    CountryAssistanceStrategy                         MINECOFM   Ministry of Financeand Economic Planning
CBO    CommunityBasedOrganization                        MINITERE   Ministry for Lands, Human Resettlementand
                                                                    EnvironmentalProtection
CDC    CommunityDevelopmentCommittee                     MIS        ManagementInformation System
CDD    CommunityDriven Development                       MTEF       Medium TermExpenditureFramework
CDF    Common DevelopmentFund                            NBF        Not Bank-financed
CEPEX  Central Projectsand ExtemalFinancingBureau        NCB        National CompetitiveBidding
CIDA   Canadian IntemationalDevelopmentAgency            NGO        Non-Govemmental Organization
CPA    Committee for Political and Administrative        NTB        National Tender Board
       Issues
CPAR   Country ProcurementAssessment Reviews             OAG        Office of Auditor General
CPPR   Country Portfolio PerformanceReview               OP         Operational Policy
CQ     SelectionBasedonConsultants' Qualifications       OPCPR       ProcurementPolicy and ServiceGroup
CRDP   Community Reintegration and Development           PAD         Project Appraisal Document       ,
       Project
CSF    CommuneSolidarity Fund                            PCC         Provincial CoordinatingCommittees
DA     District Accountant                               PCMU        Project Coordinationand MonitoringUnit
DCDP   Decentralization and Community Development        PCO         Provincial CoordinationOffices
       Project
DDP    District DevelopmentPlan                          PDO         Project DevelopmentObjective



DES    District Executive Secretary                      PDP         Provincial DevelopmentPlan
DFID   Department for Intemational Development -         PHRD        Policy and Human Resources Development
       UnitedKingdom                                                 Fund
DIP    DecentralizationImplementation Program            PIM         Project ImplementationManual
DMU    DecentralizationManagementUnit                    PIP         Project ImplementationPlan
DODI   Institutional   Support     for  Development      PISTE       Program of Social, Technical and Economic
       Organizations Project                                         Initiatives
DPP    DetailedProcurementPlan                           PNAS        Programme Nationale d Yciion Sociale
EA     EnvironmentalAssessment                           PPF         ProjectPreparationFacility
EMP    EnvironmentalMonitoring Plan                      PPO         Project Provincial Officer
ESMF   Environmental     and    Social  Management       PRS         Poverty ReductionStrategy
       Framework
ESMP   Environmentaland Social ScreeningForm             PRSC        Poverty ReductionSupportCredit
ESW    Economic and Sector Work        ,                 PRSP        Poverty Reduction StrategyPaper
EU     EuropeanUnion                                     PSR         ProjectStatus Report
FAPMLA Financial and Accounting Procedures Manual        QBS         Quality-based Selection
       for LocalAdministration
FMR    FinancialMonitoring Report                        QCBS        Quality andCost Based Selection
FMS    FinancialManagementSystem                         RALGA       Association of Local GovernmentAuthorities
FrW    RwandaFrancs                                      REMA        Rwanda       Environmental     Management
                                                                     Authority
FY     Fiscal Year                                       RSSP        Rural Sector Support Project
GDP    Gross Domestic Product                            SA          Special Account

GoR    Govemmentof Rwanda                                SBD         StandardBidding Document
GPN    GeneralProcurementNotice                          SDR         Special Drawing Rights
GPP    Global ProcurementPlan                            SEA         Strategic EnvironmentalAssessments
GTZ    Deutsche     Gesellschaji    fur  Technische      SFB         Selectionunder FixedBudget
       Zusammenarbeit

                                                                 FOROFFICIALUSEONLY




   HIM0    Intensive Public Works Program                  SIDA          SwedishIntemationalDevelopmentAgency
   HNIAIDS Human     Immunodeficiency    VirusiAcquired    SOE           Statement of Expenditure
           ImmunodeficiencySyndrome
   IAPSO   Inter-agencyProcurementServices Office          SPN           Special ProcurementNotice
   IBRD    Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and        SWAP          Sector-Wide Approach
           Development
   ICB     IntemationalCompetitive Bidding                 TA            Technical Assistance
   ICR     ImplementationCompletion Report                 TOR           Terms of Reference
   IDA     IntemationalDevelopmentAssociation              UNDP          UnitedNations DevelopmentProgram
   ICT     Information andCommunicationsTechnology         UNFPA         UnitedNationsPopulationFund
   IEC     Information, Educationand Communications        UNHCR         United Nations     High Commission for
                                                                         Refugees
   IFC     IntemationalFinanceCorporation                  UNICEF        UnitedNationsChildren's Fund
   IRC     IntemationalRescueCommittee                     USAID         United States Agency for    Intemational
                                                                         Development
   LA      Local Administration                            VAT           Value added Tax
   LCS     Least-CostSelection
   LG      Local Government
   LIL     Learningand InnovationLoan
   MAP     Multi-sector AIDS Program
   MDG     Millenium DevelopmentGoals
   M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation



                                          Vice President :    Callisto Madavo
                            Country Managermirector      :    Emmanuel Mbi
                              Sector ManagedDirector     :    Laura Frigenti
                   Task Team Leader/Task Manager         :    Susan Opper




This document has a restricteddistributionand may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
lwithout World Bank authorization.                                                               2


                                     REPUBLICOF RWANDA
            DECENTRALIZATIONAND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENTPROJECT

                                            CONTENTS


A. ProjectDevelopment Objective                                                         Page
   1. Project development objective                                                       2
   2. Keyperformance indicators                                                           2
B. Strategic Context
   1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      3
   2. Main sector issues and Govemment strategy                                           4
   3. Sector issues to be addressedby the project and strategic choices                   8
C. ProjectDescriptionSummary
   1. Project components                                                                  10
   2. Key policy and institutionalreforms supported by the project                        12
   3. Benefits and target population                                                      12
   4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       13
D. ProjectRationale
   1. Projectalternatives considered andreasons for rejection                             19
   2. Major relatedprojects financedby the Bank andor other development agencies          19
   3. Lessons leamed and reflected inthe project design                                   21
   4. Indications ofrecipient commitment andownership                                     24
   5. Value added of Bank support inthis project                                          24
E.SummaryProjectAnalysis
   1. Economic                                                                            25
   2. Financial                                                                           26
   3. Technical                                                                           27
   4. Institutional                                                                       27
   5. Environmental                                                                       30
   6. Social                                                                              31
   7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  35
F.SustainabilityandRisks
   1. Sustainability                                                                      35
   2. Critical risks                                                                      36
   3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      36
G. Main Conditions
   1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             37
   2. Other                                                                               37
H. Readinessfor Implementation                                                            37
I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                              37

Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          38
Annex 2: Detailed ProjectDescription                                                     42
Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs                                                          46
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           47
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    53
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                    54
          (B)FinancialManagement andDisbursement Arrangements                            61
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     73
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                                                    75
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  76
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            78
Annex 11:Decentralization and Community Development Policies                             80
Annex 12: Information, Educationand Communication Strategy                               87
Annex 13: Major RelatedProjects - Donor/DevelopmentPartners                              93
Annex 14: Monitoring andEvaluationFramework for the DCDP                                 98
Annex 15: EnvironmentalMitigationPlan and Social Consultation Framework                  108




MAP(S)IBRD32003

                                                REPUBLIC OF RWANDA
                                  Decentralization and Community Development Project

                                         Project Appraisal Document
                                                 Africa RegionalOffice
                                                        AFTH3


Date: M a y 12,2004                                      Team Leader: Susan Opper
Sector ManagerDirector: Laura Frigenti                   Sector(s): Other social services (100%)
Country ManagerDirector: Emmanuel Mbi                    Theme(s):     Participation and civic engagement (P),
Project ID: PO74102                                      Decentralization (P), Rural services and infrastructure (P),
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)       Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (S),

P
[ ]Loan        [ ]Credit     [XI Grant       [ ]Guarantee       [ ]Other:

For Loans/CreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m):20.0




BorrowerlRecipient: GOVERNMENTOFRWANDA


Address: P.O. Box 3445 - Kigali - Rwanda
Responsibleagency: MINISTRY OF LOCAL ADMIN,COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT,SOCIAL AFFAIRS

Contact Person: Mr.Adolphe Shyaka
Tel: 250 87285              Fax:                Email:




Projectimplementationperiod: 5 years
Expected effectivenessdate: 09/30/2004     Expected closing date: 09/30/2009




                                                        1

A. Project Development Objective

1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)

The Decentralizationand Community DevelopmentProject (DCDP) will consolidate a framework infour
entire Provinces and two Districts in a fifth Province, to boost the emergence o f a dynamic local
economy, through communities who are empowered to lead their own development process under an
effective local govemment. This i s a key plank in the national poverty reduction strategy and is
underpinned by the Government's decentralization policy. The project therefore contributes to Rwanda's
long term goal for decentralization and a realigned mandate for central govemment, through the
empowerment and improved accountability o f local govemments and communities.

The short term objective is for the DCDP to scale out validated project experience in the country,
particularly by extending the community-driven development (CDD) strategy o f the precursor
Community Reintegration and Development Project (a LIL), from 11 to 39 Districts. The specific
development objectives are to: (i)strengthen District capacity to lead a process o f planning and
consultation with local communities, translating their development priorities into sub-projects which are
incorporated into Districts' strategic development plans; (ii)develop a matching grants system to finance
the sub-projects; (iii)validate procedures for decentralized project cycle management and financial
management, through implementing the sub-projects, to replicate as basic operating procedure in
Rwanda's overall decentralization program; and (iv) introduce and promote public awarenessprograms.

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)

Outcome/Impact Indicators

Byyear 2:

         0  All the Districts have beentrained inpriority setting, project planning, financial management, ,
            monitoring and evaluation, problem resolution and the participatory development planning
            process;
         0  All the Districts have 5-Year DevelopmentPlans, andannual Action Planswithbudgets;
         0  At least 40% ofthe Districts selectedfor training have implemented or are implementing sub-
            projects inaccordance with proposals made intheir Development Plans;
         0  A project inter-ministerialworlung group is established at national andprovincial levels.

Byyear 4:

         0  Participatory assessments indicate that at least 60% ofDistricts and local stakeholders such as
            CDCs and civil society organizations express satisfaction with their District participatory
            development planningprocess;
         0  75% o f Districts are implementing their development plans;
         0  All annual audits are upto date and submitted as requiredby law;
            75% of all Districts are current in updating their rolling development plans through a
            consultative process.




                                                     2

Performance o f the project will be tracked using a comprehensive Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
framework (Annex 14). This captures data on: (i) and sub project operations; (ii) finance,
                                                     project                               project
procurement and cost accounting (described in Annex 4); (iii)the consultation and communication
strategy; (iv) the identification and mitigation of social and environmental impacts; and (v) the impact o f
the DCDP on poverty reduction and community development. The approach i s to track progress on the
strategic objectives, not individual activities. The core set of indicators balances the need for
comprehensiveness with the capacity at the District and Provincial levels to deliver timely and robust
data.

The indicator selection, and training and capacity building activities, have been designed to ensure that
the DCDP complements and reinforces broader institutional strengthening activities at the Provincial,
District, Secteur and Cellule levels, particularly the Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS) and Public
Expenditure Management Strategy linked via the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF). This
enhances the potential to harmonize DCDP activities with the evolution o f Rwanda's Common
Development Fund(CDF) described inSection Bbelow.


B. Strategic Context

1. Sector-relatedCountryAssistanceStrategy (CAS) goalsupportedbythe project: (see Annex 1)

Documentnumber: 24501-RW              Dateof latestCASdiscussion      Discussedby Board onDecember 2,2002

The Base Case Assistance Program of the CAS positions the Decentralization and Community
Development Project (DCDP) as a core investment to improve rural living conditions and strengthen the
rural economy. The CAS indicates that grants under the IDA 13 could be used to fund the Community
Development project.

The Base Case o f the CAS is shaped around the priorities o f the PRSP (July 2002). The CAS maintains
that Rwanda needs external assistance to implement its poverty reduction program, to consolidate its
efforts on national reconciliation and to build a legitimate state. Government i s using the PRSP as the
instrument for mainstreamingpoverty reduction inRwanda's development agenda. The Bank i s playinga
major role indonor coordination which i s progressivelybecoming harmonized around Rwanda's national
budget cycle and the spending priorities which, since 2001, have accommodated the poverty-focused
priority areas identified inthe PRSP. These include revitalizing the rural economy, developing human and
social resources, building up the private sector, creating employment, and rendering public sector actions
and governance more effective. Inthis context, poverty reduction i s defined inthe broad sense o fbuilding
active participation and capacity o f the population to meet basic needs for food, shelter, good health,
knowledge, security and social inclusion. Action by the recently decentralized administrations is slated to
make major, sustaining improvements in these areas. Progress suffers in the short-term because o f weak
capacity, and the CAS therefore underscores that strengthening decentralized administrations and the
effectiveness of civil society participation are instrumental to unleash further community support and
ownership inthe development process.

Consistent with the CAS, the aim o f this project i s to empower communities and local governments to
take charge o f their own development, and to improve their access to social services and basic
infrastructure through an approachbasedonthe principles o f community driven development (CDD).




                                                       3

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:

The experience o f the war and genocide in 1994 made it clear that poor governance was at the root o f
Rwanda's tragic history. The Government o f National Unity, acting within the framework o f the Arusha
accords, resolved that decentralization and democratization were necessary to reconcile the Rwandese
people and to fight poverty. Buildinggovernance after the genocide began with a massive deficit interms
o f institutions, and human, financial and material resources. Even before this, Rwanda had decades of
unsuccessful efforts at community development stemming from the top-down approach in which
programs were conceived, andno prior consultation with local populations.

Duringthe emergency period, most efforts were directed onresettlement andrehabilitation. During1998-
2001Government undertook a broader "National Program for strengthening good governance for poverty
reduction in Rwanda." This resulted in public sector and administrative reform; a strengthening of
Parliament; rehabilitation o f the justice sector; promotion and greater awareness o f National Unity and
Reconciliation, the protection of humanrights, gender equity and women's empowerment; demobilization
o f the army; and improved economic and financial management that stabilizedthe economy. Public sector
reforms pursued since 1997 have largely addressed areas that constitute key aspects of the
DecentralizationPolicy that was ultimately adopted in 2000 by the National Assembly. Decentralization
i s now at the heart of Rwanda's poverty reduction strategy (PRSP 2002). A national decentralization
program i s beingrolledout inthree phases. Rwanda is enteringthe secondphase: 2004-2008.

The main sector issues arenow to

     Unleash thefull potential of local populations to initiate and monitor development actions, taking
     account o f local assets, needs andpriorities;
     Mainstream accountability and transparency : Encourage local populations to evaluate the impact of
     decisions and plans that concern them, so that local leaders are held directly accountable to
     communities they serve, particularly for the services financed from tax revenues;
     Increase the responsiveness of public administration to the local environment : Place the planning,
     financing, management, and control o f service provision at the point where services are provided, but
     withinthe parameters ofsectoral policies;
     Improve the predictability of funding, and strengthen economic and financial planning and
     management at local levels so these are the driving forces for social, political and economic
     development.
     Scale out decentralization and democratization (Rwanda 's approach to CDD) through a coherently
     related set ofprocesses.

Donor-supportedpilot programs such as the CRDP have ledto positive developments. The need now is to
coordinate and harmonize these interventions to reinforce the CDD process nationally through more
effective decentralized management, sustained local participation, and connecting planning with
budgeting functions. There i s a disconnect at local levels between planning o f activities and their
financing.

2.2       Government Strategy

Government i s working on priority interventions in the inter-related areas o f (i)   decentralization, (ii)
community development, ,civil society capacity building and advocacy, and (iii) decentralization.
                                                                                    fiscal
These three combined constitute the strategy for CDD. The policy and institutional framework are
described inAnnex 11.Highlightso f the strategy are immediately below.




                                                      4

DecentralizationPolicy

The decentralization framework provides for four levels o f administration below central level: The
Provinces or prefectures (Intara), Districts (Akerere), Secteurs (Umurenge) and Cellules (Akagare). The
Province i s a deconcentrated entity responsible for coordinating the execution o f central government
programs within its jurisdiction. The District as the legally decentralized government entity i s the center
o f economic and social development. Below the District are the administrative entities of Secteurs and
Cellules. The District has a coordinating role over the Secteur, and the Secteur coordinates activities
across Cellules. There are slight variations in this pattern for administration in urban areas. As the
capacities o f Secteur and Cellule councils strengthen over time, it i s expected that Districts will take on
more responsibilities currently vested in the Provinces, and the Districts will transfer some functions to
the Secteurs.

The March 1999national election established the decentralized structures, commencing at the grassroots
level. Ineach o f Rwanda's eleven Provinces community representatives were elected to form the Secteur
and Cellule councils and executive committees. In March 2001 the population elected members to the
District city councils. The successful organization of democratic elections i s one o f the most remarkable
successes o f good governance initiatives in Rwanda. Further noteworthy i s that gender policy and legal
framework now guaranteeone third o f elective local government positions for women on councils.

Responsibility for development programs resides inthe Community Development Committees (CDC) of
the Cellules, Secteurs and Districts. A District CDC is one of two sub-coqnittees of the Executive
Committee and manages the formulation and implementation of District Five-Year Development Plans.
Service deliverv i s also being devolved to District governments. The process i s still evolving so that
effective coordination o f stakeholder activities at national and local levels is yet to be maintained in
practice. The overarching considerations are now to strengthen the institutional framework and
administrative coherence particularly for the sectoral coordination o f technical activities at the Province
and District levels and define more clearly the areas for which they are responsible as distinct from
responsibilities o f central line ministries. Ensuring the recruitment and retention of an adequate
complement o f qualified and experienced staff at all levels is a prerequisite for deepening the
decentralization process.

These developments call for continuous dialogue between the Government and development partners,
especially for putting in place a comprehensive fiscal and financial management system that guarantees
accountability in the use o f funds made available for the implementation o f the decentralization policy.
Buildingan efficient resource base for local governanceby translating local government requirements for
capital improvements and recurrent costs in service delivery, and mobilizing budget to meet these costs,
play a prominent role inmanagingthe implementationprocess as expected.

The priority actions for the decentralization program over 2004-2008 are to strengthen institutional
capacities, improve coordination, establish sustainable civic education functions, strengthen local revenue
capacities and financial management, and establish a monitoring and evaluation framework. Closely
linkedwith these is the importance of ensuringan operational and functional program of communications
inorder to provideinformationandpromoteresponsive leadership andcivic engagement.

Community DevelopmentPolicy

The Community Development Policy and Strategy (2001) incorporated within the legal framework for
decentralization are key to link it with poverty reduction. To leverage this, the community development
strategy encourages and facilitates all stakeholders to contribute optimally to innovate and design, and
implement development programs. The aim i s to increasepublic investments at the grassroots level where


                                                      5

                                                                                      \
the beneficiaries live. The development planning process optimally begins with assets inventory and
defmition o f needs at the Cellule. Plans emerge, which the Cellule CDC transmits for consolidation at the
Secteur level, and for further amalgamation by the District CDC, with input from the technical sector
departments (e.g. Education). The Districts construct Five-year strategic development plans on which
they have final decision authority. The plans are presented to the Provincial Coordinating Committees to
ensure that activities meet their sector-specific policy requirements. The plans are then transmitted to
MINALDC and the Ministryo f Finance. The Provincial Heads o f department for the sectors also present
the Districts' sector plans to their line ministries at the central level. The process i s iterative, and as
situations and priorities change, the five-year plans are reviewed and updated. Diagram 1 depicts the
bottom-up development planning structure, fiom Cellule to District level. Part of this structure are the
formalized channels for representatives of women, youth, and other civil society associations.




 Diagram 1 :




                                            ZOMITE EXECUTIFDU DISTRICT
                                              %ldmt(Mai~)
                                            0 Le SCCF~~IK,chargedes financeset
                                              dudeveloppcmcntco"unauuirc
                                            . Le SCCF~~IK. charge du Genreet de
                                              la promotion FCminine
                                              LeSecrCuirc.chargede laJeunasc.
                                              des Sponset de la Culture
                                                                               .
                L                   1        I                                        I




                                                         6

FiscalDecentralizationPolicy

Decisionmaking is presentlybeing devolved to local authorities who, with the exception of Kigali, lack a
significant revenue base to finance programs arising from their decisions, All other aspects of
decentralization therefore dependonhow fiscal decentralization i s handled.

The Fiscal DecentralizationPolicy (2001) aims to broaden the revenue base for local governments over
the long term, by devolving authority to levy taxes to that level and re-directing revenues from central to
local government. The long term vision i s a sustainable finance system for Districts, derived fromrevenue
collection, central transfers, borrowing, grant funding, and Districts' counterpart funding. Since 2002, the
budgetingprocess has been devolved to provincial level, and District authorities are able to prepare their
ownMediumTermExpenditureFrameworks(MTEF). The changes require local govemments to exercise
rigor in financial management and thus demand considerable strengthening o f skills. Presently there i s
poor understanding of basic accounting procedures and few of the Districts' Five-year strategic
development plans containbudgets.

Major economic activities within Districts' jurisdictional areas were formerly not subject to local
taxation; thus made no direct contribution to the local revenue base. The new fiscal decentralization
policy introduced criteria for redistribution in tax sharing with central government to empower local
authorities to set tax and license rates and levy service fees. Some changes are underway, as laws have
been passed that allow local governments to raise their own taxes on licenses and rents. Legislation i s
pendingto allow Districts to collect revenue on property. Districts have recruitedrevenue collectors, and
collection has started insome Districts.

Inter-governmentaltransfers are beingapplied to fulfill local service responsibilities and to support local
governments' development investments. For recurrent costs the Government o f Rwanda transfers 1.5
percent o f previous year's domestic revenue to the Districts (see Table 1) and has recently (2004) decided
to increase the amount to 3%.


 FinancialYear                                           2001             2002         2003         2004
 Recurrent                                                                1.37       1I 1.53    II  1.77
 (1.5% o f previousyear's domestic revenue
 CDF                                                                      1.18          3.80        5.50
 (progressively aiming for 10% domestic budget)
 Total budget for Districts                                               2.55          5.33        7.27
Source: MINECOFIN

Capital investment and the development of infrastructure finance are treated separately from recurrent
costs because of the longer life o f these investments and the volume o f resources required for a single
infrastructure. Currently, most development investment at local level i s financed by small transfers from
the Districts' operating budgets to the development budget, or by parallel donor funding that does not
enter into District budgets. Government recognizes that this i s insufficient in the face o f pressing social
and economic needs, and not sustainable over time. Government i s therefore buildingthe foundation for
an approach that combines multi-year capital budgeting, including debt capacity analysis, with a
restructuring of local government budgets to incorporate donor funds. Government is channeling grants
for development through a new, Common Development Fund, "CDF," established inMay 2002 (law no.
20/02; see Table 1above and Annex 11) and encourages all donors to plan eventually to administer their
funding for community based development through this mechanism. In2002,2.5% o f central tax receipts
were transferred to Districts through the CDF; 5% were transferred in 2003. The CDF reports to an
independent Board of Directors, and once it has adequate capacity it will use the planning processes and


                                                      7

administration o f the decentralized administrations. Government i s exploring mechanisms to apply
formula funding to the CDF, to be able to allocate proportionately higher levels o f grant funding to local
governments situated at the "poorer" end of the scale according to predefined criteria. The formula i s not
yet inoperation.

Constraints and Challenges :Institutional Capacity

These achievements notwithstanding, the decentralization and community development process continues
to face a number o f constraints and challenges. Inadequate funding and delayed disbursement of central
government grants have been raised extensively by the provincial administrations and District authorities
as major constraints to effective decentralization. But the overwhelming constraint i s capacity within the
institutions. A number o f new institutions have been established, but they are still weak, and the
functional linkages between and among them and other actors are yet to be developed.

Mechanisms at the Province and District are inadequate for monitoring budgeting andpublic expenditure.
Certain good govemance institutions e.g. National Tender Board and Office o f the Auditor General, are
not adequately represented inthe Provinces, so it i s difficult to supervise and provide the neededcapacity
building of local institutions. One of the attributions of Provincial authorities i s to provide technical
guidance to Districts, but the provincial planning and finance directorates are not yet adequately involved.
Local governance institutions (e.g. District Councils) have not entirely intemalized their roles and
responsibilities for ensuring transparency and accountability. This i s exacerbated by their difficulty to
attract and retain high caliber personnel in accounting and auditing. Technical staff in service delivery
sectors (e.g. agriculture, education) for most Districts are not integratedinto local administrationbudgets
and management schedules. As a result, the technicians are not accountable to the Districtleadership, and
this has been detrimental to service delivery in many Districts. Finally, low literacy levels among
communities and elected leaders are a constraint.

Planning exercises from Cellule to Districtlevel are weak becausethere i s little sense o f a fixedbudgetary
envelope. Provinces and Districts have begun to construct MTEF, but Districts have inadequate
knowledge o f existing and potential sources of revenue, so revenue projection and expansion strategy are
difficult. Officially, the MTEF planning -- from Cellule to District levels - i s to be consolidated into a
coherent system of resource allocation coordinated by the CDCs, by ultimately transmitting the MTEF
devised at decentralized levels to inform the Ministryo f Finance which shapes the national budget. There
i s a real risk that the volume of information flowing up through the system could overwhelm the central
level. This could be addressed by considering the application of larger scale block grants to Districts
against agreement on certainkey results.

The decentralization implementation process has reached the crucial stage where all involved actors,
especially local and central government institutions but also civil society, the private sector and Rwanda's
development partners, need to build capacities and marshal resources to sustain and consolidate the
process. Strengthening capacity throughout the systemi s one of Government's highestpriorities.

3. Sector issuesto be addressedby the project and strategic choices:

While Rwanda's program of decentralization and community development faces numerous challenges,
the IDA operation will selectively address a number o f key issues. The goal i s to complement activities
supported by other development partners, as described in other sections o f this PAD. The unique
contribution o f the IDA project is that it (a) supports the entire series o f institutional responsibilities and
actions along the chain that amalgamates development plans from Celluleto Secteur to District level, and
ultimately (b) connects the planning (sub-project proposals) with a fundingmechanismbasedon a defined
financial envelope. The latter i s the DCDP grant allocation per District. This brings together the two


                                                      8

  processes-planning and budgeting- at local levels. The secondunique feature of the IDA project is that
  it works directly on the skills that Districts now need, to mobilize "matching" or complementary funding
  from various sources to mount their development projects.

  The entry point for the project is to finance sub-projects in the Development Plans of the targeted
  Districts. But the project takes a "systems" perspective in order to maximize the externalities for
  Government's national strategy. The specific sector issues to be addressedare:


   0       Weak implementation and institutional cauacities. Districts are pivotal in Rwanda's vision for
   development, but they are a weak tier of govemment in terms o f technical and organizational capacities.
  Particularly weak are the District Councils and CDCs. The challenges include severe limitations in the
  availability o f people to fill positions, and perhaps more seriously, lack of qualifications and training of
  personnel who are in place. The gaps cannot be addressed through limited workshop-based training, or
  simply through producing administrative manuals. Rather, a systems perspective is needed (a) to define
  and reinforce roles and responsibilities within a cadre organique, that explains what i s expected of the
  various organizational responsibilities which are interrelated within the overall administrative structure;
  and (b) to promote the strategic use of outsourcing methods to fill in where there are capacity gaps in
   stakeholder skills and knowledge. Also important i s (c) to provide appropriate infrastructure (facilities,
   equipment, financing) to support the planning, management and control functions for leveraging
   investments at local level and making efficient use of these resources.

   The project's technical assistancewill provide training and mentoring to foster mutual trust betweenlocal
   administration and local community while also increasing quality and throughput of services in
   (decentralized) public administration: strengthening local govemment and civil society groups in
  participatory assessments and other capacity building initiatives; training District govemment and CDCs
   in budgeting, planning, financial management, procurement and disbursement, monitoring; and
   improving accountability and transparency among other things by supporting local participation and
   public access to budgets, development plans and accounts inthe Districts.


   0       Unuredictable funding and weak financial ulanninn and management at local level. The project
   will provide a defined envelope, per District, for them to decide on the allocation across sub-projects
   which they have designated as priority in their development plans. The IDA financing i s not likely to
   cover the entire range o f sub-projects for any one Annual Action Plan. Districts will have to decide how
   to leverage the IDA funds for capital investment, vis-A-vis other fundingthat is, or needsto be, mobilized.
   Inthe meantime, the communities' leaming by doing in managing the IDA grants to implement the
   infrastructure sub-projects, assistedby the project's training, will strengthen local planning, management
   and control functions. Thus the communities should be empowered by seeing tangible results o f the IDA
   grants over a 3-4 year period, while they work on establishing a more durable mechanism for
   development financing for the longer term. The process inthe IDA project will also train in"monetizing"
   and valuing community in-kind contributions for financing local infrastructure investments, to
   supplement District govemment budgets, and cost-recovery mechanisms to improve prospects for
   sustainability over time.


   0       Need to harmonize and scale out uronrams nationallv. Rwanda i s now covered with donor
   supported projects in community development, decentralization and related areas (see Annex 13). The
   development partners are committed, but many operate in the confines o f their respective Provinces and
   Districts with limitedknowledge o f Rwanda's sociopolitical, economic and cultural environment. Some
   projects do have national coverage, such as USAID'S support to MINALOC in training District
#  accountants. Government is strivingto bringthese various efforts into a composite to harmonize actions
   around common procedures e.g. guidelines for financial management by local administrations, tendering
   and procurement o f goods and services. Duringpreparation o f the DCDP, the Bank team actively pursued


                                                         9

cooperation with other development efforts, also to organize cross-support (e.g. training). This will
continue after effectiveness, under MINALOC oversight. Furthermore, nongovernmental organizations,
women's associations, community groups, and youth organizations have a demonstrated track record in
local development, but work with relatively small population groups and in geographically limitedareas.
The DCDP will provide these organizations with financial and technical assistance to introduce or scale
out promisingapproaches, rather than define upfront a set of activities to be funded. The project will build
on models for funding community groups that were successfully developed and implemented under
earlier projects inRwanda, includingthe CRDP.

C. Project DescriptionSummary
1. Projectcomponents(see Annex 2 for a detailed description andAnnex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project includes four components: (1) Institutional Capacity Building,(2) Information, Education and
Communications, (3) Community Development Initiatives, and (4) Programmanagement, monitoring and
evaluation. The project design takes into account that Rwanda's post-conflict environment is dynamic, yet
somewhat unbalanced. The volume of external funding that potentially can be tapped by proactive
stakeholders at District and local levels i s increasing; yet there are severe capacity constraints for doing
so. For this reason the project will be implemented through the existing administrative and civil society
infrastructure, and it emphasizes capacity building, informatiodcommunications, and "learning by
doing." The project also capitalizes on the widespread familiarity with the CRDP. This i s considered by
policy makers and population alike to be the most effective approach to CDD inRwanda, and they wish
to scale out the benefits from the initial 11Districts. Giventhe pivotal role the Districts play inRwanda's
CDD strategy, these are the project's entry point: most specifically, the District development plans.

Component 1: Institutional Capacity Building (US$7.0 million). The Project will support the
Government's decentralization policy by strengthening institutions' and communities' capacity to plan,
implement, manage, finance, and maintain development activities. Through this component, the project
will contribute to the establishment and improved management o f control mechanisms to improve
accountability and transparency o f the local administrations vis-a-vis the communities they serve. The
project will also support and strengthen participatory planning systems to allow communities to
participate in development planning and provide mechanisms for targeting the most vulnerable groups.
Activities to be financed by the project include a broad spectrum o f training workshops and on-the-job
training at all levels o f implementation - national, Provincial, District, Secteur, and Cellule levels -
accordingto identified needs.

Training programs for 8 people at MINALOC, a total o f 30 Province administrators for the 5 Provinces,
390 District administrators for the 39 Districts, as well as civil society groups will concentrate on:
planning; participatory assessments of assets and needs; communications techniques; proposal writing,
including budget estimates; program management; financial management; procurement; screening to
offset risk of detrimental environmental or social impact; monitoring and evaluation; and conflict
resolution. At the Secteur and Cellule levels, the project will provide training to 631Secteurs and 3,3 14
Cellules,mainly inparticipatoryplanning and techniques to identify andreach consensus on development
priorities. Recurrent training in procurement will be provided for 350 agents at national, Provincial, and
District levels.

Component 2: Information,Education and Communication (US$2.3 million). This component will
develop and implement an Information, Education and Communications Strategy (IEC) following
guidelines agreed in Annex 12. The IEC generally supports the process of decentralization, and
specifically informs and mobilizes the population regarding the DCDP. The IEC i s a two-way process:
from the top down to Provinces, Districts, Secteurs, Cellules and communities; and from the communities


                                                       10

to the Districts, on to the Provinces. Both directions in the information flow are of equal importance to
facilitate participation at all levels. The component will inform and educate different players at all levels
regarding the objectives, activities and modalities of decentralization and the relevant laws and
regulations, so that populations are aware of their rights and are included in the processes. The
communications strategy will also support the project's participatory monitoring and evaluation,
including "social audits" for feedback from the communities onproject process and results.

Component 3: Community Development Initiatives (US$8.5 million). This component will finance
grants to participating communities inthe 39 supported Districts for community-based sub-projects. The
sub-projects to be financed must be identified in a participatory planning process, resulting in
communities' agreement on Districts' Five-Year Strategic Development Plans and Annual Action Plans.
Sub-projects would include: education, health, nutrition, social protection, income-generating activities,
youth skills training, HIV/AIDS, community roads, and water supply. This component will complement
the training activities financed under Component 1, by providing decentralized entities and communities
the opportunity to "leam by doing" during the planning, preparation, and implementation o f the sub-
projects. The component will assist the Govemment to strengthen mechanisms to manage decentralized
capital development. The component will also finance the design and piloting o f micro-finance activities.
Incontrast to the infrastructuresub-projects, the micro-finance activities will beimplementedonapilot
basis. In the first year o f the DCDP, the micro-finance activities will begin as revolving livestock or
similar funds, to which the DCDP will provide funds for seed capital only once. There will be two
windows: one for vulnerable groups, and another for the less vulnerable.

Component 4: Project Coordination and Monitoring (US$1.6 million). The project will adopt a
decentralized approach to coordination and management. It will support a small Project Coordination and
Monitoring Unit (PCMU) at the national level within MINALOC, and four Project Provincial
Coordination Offices (PCO) to assist in the five Provinces. The PCMU, in collaboration with the
Provincial offices and other partners, will be responsible for the overall monitoring and evaluation of the
project's progress. The PCOs will be responsible for outreach and technical assistance to the Districts in
their respective Provinces. The project will assist the PCMU and the PCOs to coordinate and monitor
local activities, and provide training. The project will finance:     a National Coordinator, a Financial
Controller, an Accountant, an Officer for Capacity building and IEC, a Management and Information

and financial audits, two external evaluations -- at mid- and end o f project -- and studies on the
System Officer, and support staff. Consultancy services will be financed under the project for technical

decentralization process. The project will also finance the purchase o f vehicles, equipment, materials and
the associatedrecurrent costs to complement counterpart funding, as well as supervision missions by the
national project team, both at the national and provincial levels, particularly for the newly integrated
Provinces and Districts. Phasing o f project activities at the decentralized levels, and the roles and
responsibilities of the project unit at central level vis-&vis the Provinces, will occur based on terms o f
reference agreedupon withinthe govemment team and spelled out inthe Project ProceduresManual.

MINALOC's Planning Directorate for the Coordination of Local Development is national coordinator of
all programs and projects which support Rwanda's decentralization and community development,
including but not limited to the DCDP. To support this Directorate, the project will complement
Govemment funding and finance the purchase o f a vehicle and equipment, and the associated
maintenance costs.

Project Preparation Facility (PPF) Refinancing: (US$0.5 million). The PPF finances consultant
services and studies to: assess the Districts' capacity, to evaluate the strengths and weaknesses in
fiscaYfinancia1 decentralization and recommend improvements, evaluate the availability and capacity o f
small- and medium-scale enterprises to undertake constructioncontracts inthe Districts; recommend steps
for closer harmonizing CDD components across IDA-financed projects in Rwanda; and to propose the


                                                      11

technical specifications for setting up the DCDP MIS. Very importantly, the PPF finances training and
workshops coordinated by the Project preparation team at national, Provincial and District levels with the
aim to complete District plans and prepare the sub-project dossiers (budgets, procurement plans etc.) in
order for the IDA fundingto disburse rapidly after Projecteffectiveness.




2. Keypolicyand institutionalreformssupportedbythe project:
The project supports a CDD approach to poverty reduction, and fosters decentralization through the
promotion of strong local participation in decision-making and resource allocation. As discussed in
Section 2, the existing policy in Rwanda is quite supportive of these objectives and i s not expected to
inhibitthe project's viability. The Government has instituteda transfer of power to local level through a
decentralization strategy that permits Districts and towns to be largely autonomous intalung decisions on
development investments. The DCDP will engage local populations in a participatory development
process that has already been tried and proven through the CRDP and that is now part of mainstream
policy through supportinglegislation.

3. Benefitsandtarget population:
Implementation o f Rwanda's new paradigm for CDD - decentralization, community development, fiscal
decentralization  - will be incremental, in line with the availability of financing and human resource
capability. Consequently, half of the DCDP benefits and costs (IDA portion) will be inthe area of public
sector and civil society capacity buildingand communications to support these institutional reforms. The
main focus will be development planning and financial management. Fortypercent ofproject benefits and
costs (IDA portion) will be incurred on the District development initiatives, to implement sub-projects
contained in their strategic plans. In the latter, the project will direct some preferential treatment for
vulnerable groups who will be encouraged to create associations and propose revenue-generating
activities. Important externalities would accrue to society in tems o f communities' access to better
quality infrastructure and services.

Benefits: As aresult ofthe Project,

Particiuatina communities (6300 elected representatives from 631 Secteurs; 33,400 elected
representatives from 3341 Cellules) will benefit from improved service delivery, and improved capacity
to plan, manage and implement their own development which will be sustained. The benefits will be
realized primarily in the areas o f (i) construction and rehabilitation o f basic infrastructure; (ii)
                                                                                                    income
generating activities; (iii) youth slulls training; and (iv) HIV/AIDs prevention activities. Community
groups (women's groups, youth groups and others) will benefit from an increase intheir capabilities and
also from enhanced basic infrastructure, and greater access to income generating activities to improve




                                                      12

their welfare. Particular benefits would accrue to identified vulnerable groups e.g. widows, as
mechanisms to support them are developed.

Local decentralized institutions: 39 District administrations (390 District agents from Councils, CDC,
CPA) will benefit from increase in their own capacities to derive advantage from the project and from
other budget assistance possible through fiscal decentralization and the CDF. Specifically, the local
institutions will benefit from improved capacity to manage development, which inturn will enhancetheir
reputation and standing inthe community, can attract more capital investment from various sources, and
should allow them to render better services and facilitate communities' access to better quality
infrastructure.

The 5 Provincial institutions (30 Provincial agents) will benefit from improved capacity to provide
technical advice and support for development planning and coordination, environmental management,
procurement and other functions such as monitoring and evaluation which are critical to the successful
implementation o f the decentralization policy, especially inits early stages.

The country as a whole will benefit from the implementation o f a successful decentralization and
community development policy, contributing to stability, and a change in mentality from one o f
dependency to empowerment and ability to take and act on decisions. Thepopulation at large will benefit
from participatinginlocal affairs, and inthe productiono f goods and services usingresources available in
their own environment. The project will have aided local groups to identify indigent and vulnerable
households and conceive mechanisms for their care at community level.

4. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements:
The most important features o f the project are         (i)the decentralized structure which distributes
responsibility between government and communities to manage and execute the project, and (ii)     the large
range of stakeholders in the institutional arrangements. The project works with and i s executed through
the normal channels o f government, so it implicates the Districts, Provinces and central govemment. The
Ministry of Local Administration, Community Development and Social Affairs will have overall
responsibility for proiect oversight and coordination.

4.1      InstitutionalArrangements

The institutional structure of Rwanda's decentralized administration i s described inAnnex 11. Inkeeping
with the political objective that seeks dynamic, bottom-up input to the national development agenda, the
project aims to assure effective capacity at CelZule andSecteur levels to mobilizepopular participationin
identifying development priorities and implementing Community Development Initiatives (Component
3).

The project support will be primarily concentrated on the District Level, and especially on the District
CDCs, as they will be the principal executing agents of the Community Development Initiatives which
should correspond to the priorities expressed by Cellules and Secteurs. These sub-projects will be
selected from the Annual Action Plans in the Districts' Five-Year Plans. By legal mandate (Laws no.
04/2001 and 05/2001 regarding function o f Districts and urban centers, and ministerial order no.
003/07.04 on the function o f CDCs) the CDCs formulate the Five-Year District Development Plans and
the Annual Plans and budget. The CDCs will be responsible inthe DCDP for: (i)       ensuring the relevance,
technical and financial soundness o f all activities contained in the development plan; (ii)identifying the
sub-projects in the plan that IDA should co-finance; (iii)       preparing the detailed estimated budgets,
procurement plans, etc. and conducting environmental and social screening to conform with IDA
requirements; (iv) supervising the implementation o f sub-projects, most o f which will be contracted to



                                                      13

local firms e.g. for infrastructure construction; (v) managing the flow of funds for sub-projects; and (vi)
organizing capacity buildingactivities at all levels of the District.

The Provinces by mandate (Law no. 43/2000) coordinate, monitor and evaluate activities of Districts in
their jurisdiction. For this, the Provincial Coordinating Committees (PCC) have a lead role. They (a)
ensure that District plans are feasible and follow national sector policies; (b) consolidate District plans
and budgets into a Provincial Development Plan (PDP); (c) provide technical advice and assistance to
Districts on a demand-led basis; (d) monitor the technical quality o f infrastructure sub-projects; (e)
monitor procurement activities at District level and facilitate the appropriate processes; (f)monitor and
evaluate the budgets o f District plans; and (g) commission technical and financial audits as required. The
DCDP's entry point at Provincial level will be the PCC. In particular, the Provinces will have
accountability for (i)ensuring the District financial procedures are functioning including internal audits o f
sub-project accounts; (ii)conducting technical audits on sub-projects; and (iii)        providing technical
assistance to the Districts upon request. Provincial administration examines the conformity o f decisions
taken by Districts to the national policies, but Provincial authorities have no veto power over Districts'
decisions on sub-projects they identify for funding.

At Central Level, MINALOC is responsible for the decentralization and community development
policies; technical oversight; and coordination, harmonization and quality/ performance improvement o f
programs and projects (donor, civil society, private sector and government interventions) through
protocols of collaboration, and by disseminating and training in standards and critical guidelines (e.g.
Manual for Financial Management at LocalAdministration). The locus for this oversight is MINALOC's
Directorate o f Planning and Coordination of Local Development which reports, through the Secretary
General, to the Secretary o f State for Good Governance and the Secretary of State for Community
Development and Social Affairs. The Planning Directorate is assistedby the Coordination Committee, le
Comitd de coordination du suivi des activitds de ddcentralisation. The Committee was created as a
consultative infrastructure to facilitate the application of decentralization by all line ministries.
Coordination Committee members represent all levels o f decentralization: central, Province, District,
Secteur, Cellule. The Coordination Committee will participate in the annual reviews which the
Government and development partners conduct on the DCDP.

4.2      ImplementationArrangements

Project oversight

The project will be structured to place responsibility at District level, specifically the CDCs, to manage
and execute the Community Initiatives component. The Provinces -- specifically the PCCs -- will support
the Districts' sub-project execution with training and other capacity building activities tailored to the
technical skills required, e.g. participatory planning methodologies, budgeting, procurement, project
monitoring. Technical assistance will be coordinated with the national Decentralization Implementation
Program of Government, and relevant actions o f other donors. The consequences o f this decentralized
structure for project management and execution are that MINALOC requires only a small team at central
level for (a) overall project oversight and coordination, and (b) disbursement of IDA funds to the Districts
to finance their sub-projects, and to finance various capacity buildingactivities.

In addition to this oversight at central level, the Provinces will also have technical oversight
responsibilities, and so will the Districts inregard to progress inthe sub-project cycle o f the Community
Initiatives. Project oversightresponsibility ends with the CDCs o f the Districts.

For the central oversight, overall responsibility rests with the State Minister for Community Development
and Social Affairs at the Ministry o f Local Administration, Community Development and Social Affairs


                                                      14

(MINALOC). A Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit (PCMU) will be formed as a semi-
autonomous unit within the Planning Directorate for the Coordination o f Local Development (PDCLD).
This assures that DCDP complements the variety of community development initiatives inRwanda, and
that financial, procurement, monitoring and evaluation procedures are harmonized across all similar
programs (see Diagram2).


Diagram 2: Project Oversight at CentralLevel




                                       MINISTEROF LOCAL
                                ADMINISTRATION AND SOCIAL
                                              AFFAIRS




     Secretary of State for                                                        Secretary of State for
     Community Deve.&                                                              Good Governance




                                     b       Secretary General




                                     '      Decentralization and
                                         Community Development
                                                   Project



The PCMU will : (a) assist the CDCs in all aspects of their responsibilities, although this will be
delegated to the extent possible to the PCOs (see below); (b) clear CDC funding proposals and cosign
grant agreements betweenMINALOC and the CDCs; (c) coordinate the different project components at
all levels of intervention, (community, Cellule, Secteur,District, Province and National) with the national
framework o f focal points, the sector ministries, and other development partners; (d) develop DCDP

effective monitoring and evaluation of the project; (0 manage financial disbursements following agreed
annual work plans and budgets; (e) establish a decentralized monitoring and evaluation system and ensure

procedures of approval and endorsement to Districts and Provinces; (g) develop a capacity building
program, with input from and to be carried out mainly by the PPOs; (i)    manage the overall finances and
administration of the project; u)compile and circulate quarterly and annual reports on the project, and (k)
organize studies, audits and evaluationreports.



                                                    15

The keypositions of the PCMUwill beas follows:


0  The National Project Coordinator will be responsible for the strategic planning, overall
   coordination, and supervision of the project, ensuring that it supports Government's decentralization
   and sector policies. The Project Coordinator will also develop and manage mechanisms or protocols
   o f collaboration with cooperating partners at policy and operations levels. Partnerships will be based
   on the policy and operational guidelines endorsedby the Government. The National Coordinator will
   be responsible for reporting all the project activities necessary to support the autonomous
    development o f Provinces, Districts, Secteurs and Cellules

0  A Capacity Building, Participation and Communications Officer, working with the Provincial
    Coordinating Offices, will beresponsible for the planning, coordination, organization, monitoring and
   evaluation o f the capacity building programs at all levels, including national, Province, District,
   Secteur, Cellule and communities, according to the training program outlined during project
   preparations. The Officer will also be responsible for the development and operation of a
   communications strategy for the Project. This strategy shouldhave national coverage.

0   A FinancialController and Support Staffwill be responsible for the financial administrationo fthe
    Project according to procedures agreedbetween the Government and IDA, and detailed inthe Project
    ProceduresManual.

0   A Management andInformationSystem(MIS) Officer will leadthe implementation o f the DCDP
    monitoring and evaluation (M&E) strategy at the national level and coordinate, liaise with, and train
    counterparts at the Provincial and District levels. The primary function of the MIS Officer i s to
    monitor and evaluate the grant transfers to Districts as a means for promoting community
    development and poverty reduction. This will require liaising, at the national level, with the Ministry
    of Finance as they roll out Poverty Reduction Strategy indicator data collection at the District level,
    exploiting opportunities to enhance community development planning, sub-project implementation
    and District level M&E. The MIS Officer will work with the Project Provincial Officers (see below)
    to build M&E capacity at the District level especially for using results-oriented performance
    indicators. This officer will design methodologies for DCDP sub-project performance monitoring,
    including participatory assessments such as beneficiary assessments and/or citizen report cards.
    Working with the other officers at the PCMU, covering all five elements o f the M&E strategy, the
    MISOfficer will prepare biannual and annual reports, and contributeto reviews at the Provincialand
    District levels, with reference to agreedperformance indicators.

The Ministry of Local Administration, Community Development and Social Affairs, as the umbrella
organization for programs supporting the decentralization and community development policies, will
regularly organize consultations among the various programs and partners to exchange lessons learned,
and to harmonize operating procedures and financing mechanisms particularly affecting District level.
The ministrywill ensure that the CEPEX, CDF and other national agencies as relevant are updated on the
progress of the DCDP. As the DCDP reinforces management and implementation capacity at District and
Provincial levels, it will be strengthening the same mechanisms which will ultimately implement the CDF
when it becomes fully operational.

Duringproject preparation, MINALOC organized a series of workshops at national and local levels to
learn from the experiences gained from all the interventions in decentralization and community
development (see Annex 13) in order to harmonize the institutional arrangements and implementation




                                                     16

mechanisms, in particular at the District level. These lessons were used to fine-tune the design o f the
DCDP.

Executing agencies and project management

The investment activities of the project will be mainly of two types : the capacity building actions in
Components 1-2, and infrastructure sub-projects and income generating activities under Component 3.
Activities will be executed by public and private organizations, and civil society.

District CDCs execute and manage infrastructure sub-projects and income generating activities. A sub-
project approval committee will be established inthe District CDCs to screen and approve proposals from
the District Annual Action plans, for funding under the DCDP. Sectoral focal points will validate

proposals via the PCCs to the PCMU. Once the PCMU -- on advice from the Provinces -- clears the
proposals to ensure their conformity with sector strategies. The Districts will subsequently submit these

proposals for their technical aspects (e.g. environmental mitigation aspects), an agreement i s formalized
between the PCMU and respective Districts. The agreement attaches the project description(s), including
the work program, budget and procurement plan, performance indicators, and maintenance plan when
relevant. Once the PCMUtransfers funds to the District accounts, the CDCs proceed with the processes of
tendering, preparation of consultancy contracts, disbursement of funds to execute the sub-project(s). The
funds the District receives from the DCDP will be complemented with contributions from the
communities (as stipulated in the respective sub-project budgets) and other sources, when relevant, to
ensure that adequate resources are put at the disposal o f all stakeholders.

    Provincial Coordinating Offices manage part of the capacity building activities in addition to their
    oversight role. The project will establish four Provincial Coordinating Offices (PCO) to support these
    Provinces and two Districts in a fifth Province. The function of the PCO will be to support the PCCs
    to : (i) to plan, implement, manage, monitor and evaluate capacity building activities at
             assist
    different levels o f intervention (Cellules, Secteurs and Districts); (ii)
                                                                            receive the requests for funding
    from the Districts, ensure that agreed criteria have been applied and endorse recommendations to the
    PCMU for the funding o f sub-projects; (iii)    facilitate the provision o f technical assistance, usually
    contracted in from individual consultants or firms, to Provinces and Districts; (iv) ensure that the
    financial management o f project funds follows agreed procedures and arrange financial audits as
    necessary; (v) monitor procurement, ensure that it follows agreed procedures and arrange
    procurement audits as necessary; (vi) facilitate and ensure regular technical audits; (vii) report on
    project activities in the Province as required; (viii) coordinate DCDP Project activities with other
    interventions, NGOs, sector ministries and donors in the Province; and (ix) assist with monitoring
    and evaluation o f project interventions in the Districts o f the Province, ensuring value for money,
    community participation in development and assessment o f the interventions' contribution to
    reducingpoverty.

    The project technical assistanceat Provincelevel will be ledbythe Project ProvincialOfficer (PPO;
    hired on long-term consultancy contract by the PCMU) who will be responsible for ensuring
    coordination of the project's investment activities with other development interventions in the
    Province. The PPO will also support and strengthen the PCC so that it functions effectively. The PPO
    will ensure that Districts are facilitated in project cycle activities as requested by them and will be
    proactive inoffering assistance.

    The project will employ two Infrastructure Officers with procurement expertise who will work
    across the 5 Provinces. The Infrastructure Officers will support the Provincial teams intheir advisory
    role to Districts. They will provide Districts with technical input at the design stage o f sub projects
    and during their implementation, to ensure that budgeting, procurement, contracts and maintenance


                                                      17

    are managedeffectively and according to professional and legal standards. The InfrastructureOfficers
    will also monitor the sub projects on a regular basis to evaluate the technical quality; to identify
    capacity needs and facilitate capacity buildingprograms as needed throughout the project cycle.

    An Accountant financed for the project ineachofthePCOswill monitor DistrictDCDP accounts,
    will ensurethat Districts follow the agreedfinancial managementprocedures and will identify and
   respond to capacity strengthening requirements at the District level.

    Short-termconsultants will be available to Districts and financed by the project. The skills mix of
    the persons to be contracted will depend upon the Districts' respective needs and are likely to include
    expertise in: participatory facilitation and planning; financial management, accounting and
   procurement; adult education andor literacy training; and human resource management. Upon credit
    effectiveness, advisors may initially be based in some Districts for extended periods, to work
    alongside and mentor e.g. District accountants until they are evaluated to have adequate capacity to
    manage their own community activities and finances. With assistance from the PPOs, the Districts
    will contract the consultants themselves, and use DCDP capacity building funds to pay for the
    services. The project mid term review will propose whether or not these consultancy services should
    continue to be available to the Districts.


0   Civil society and private sector organizations will participate in project execution through two
    channels: (i)on-granting arrangements to implement the infrastructure projects and training, whereby
    organizations that have the technical expertise in construction, focus group mobilization, capacity
    building, and other pertinent technical expertise and who have a track record of working effectively
    with grass-roots civil society groups   --including the most vulnerable population -- will be solicited
    by the Districts or Provinces to submit proposals, explaining how they will manage the on-granting
    arrangement and the types o f organizations and content areas that they plan to support; and (ii)
    implementing the Community Initiative sub-projects: as described elsewhere in this document, civil
    society participates in identifying development priorities, contributes in cash or in kind to
    infrastructure sub-projects, and monitors and evaluates sub-project processesandresults.

Procurement

For quick disbursement under the project, a simplifiedmechanism will govern the flow of funds (see
Annex 6). The law authorizes the District and city councils to create ad hoc procurementcommissions for
quality control of procurement processing. The procedures applied under the DCDP will conform to the
laws and regulations of Rwandaand the regulations o fthe World Bank.

OperationalManual

An OperationalManual has been prepared with financial support from a grant provided by the Japanese
government for the preparation of this project. The draft Operational Manual was adopted by the
government and submitted to the Bank inJanuary 2004. It was refined duringproject Appraisal and will
be reviewed again to be adopted at Negotiations. The Manual describes in detail the institutional and
implementation arrangements for the project, including the roles and responsibilities o f all key
stakeholders. It defines the procedures for accessing project funds and the criteria for the selection and
approval o f work plans. The Manual spells out the contractual arrangementsbetween MINALOC and the
implementing agents for the project, and includes standard contracts to be utilized. The Manual defines
financial management arrangements, procurementprocedures andthresholds, andreportingrequirements.




                                                     18

D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives consideredand reasons for rejection:
The reconstructionneeds of the country are nearly infiniteand acute, when consideringthe abject level of
poverty especially inthe rural areas. The conditions and levels o f preparednesso f individual communities
to meet their needs lie at different points inthe spectrum from emergency conditions to those favorable
for longer term development initiatives. Projects financed by other donors and the World Bank which
directly target local levels in the decentralization structure are becoming ever more numerous. The
Ministryof Local Administration, Community Development and Social Affairs is steering this financing
to strengthen good governance practices in all Districts and urban areas of Rwanda, by promoting local
participationindecision making and transparenceinpublic sector management.

A generalized project approach for the DCDP could not do justice to the specific situations and
requirements o f individual Districts and communities. The project will therefore fund a variety o f sub-
project types as and when identified by the communities and endorsed in the Districts' Five-Year
development plans.

Design options considered:

(a) Workingwith NGOs as intermediaries for communities: Rejected.
Rationale:
0   Government rejects the idea;
0   Itis not consistent withthe management autonomy the Government ofRwandahas assignedto the
    Districts;
0   There i s ariskthat this approach, inwhichthe intermediary would be responsible for implementation;
    disbursement andprocurement, would separate communities from administrations (largely local, but
    also at Provincial and central levels), counteracting the overall needto buildtrust between
    Government and its people.

(b) Channelingfinancing into the CDFat national level,from whichfunds wouldflow to and be
managed by the Districts: Rejected.
Rationale:
0   This option was rejectedat least for the first two years of the projectinorder to give time to observe
    results of the CDF, by project midterm.(See Annex 6B for the evaluationo fpresent CDF capacity.)

(c) Working directly with local governments from a decentralized project coordination unit to facilitate
implementation o f sub-projects by beneficiaries at District level: Alternative chosen.
Rationale:
0    CRDP has demonstrated success usingthis approach;
0    Thisimplementationmechanismi s the first choice of Government;
0    This approach concentrates support onadministrators and civil society groups who bymandate are
     accountable for local development. Itthus holds the strongest prospect for benefitsbeyondthe
     lifetime o f the project.

2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
In proposing the DCDP, the Ministry of Local Administration, Community Development and Social
Affairs assessedresults of, and possibilities to buildsynergies with, other programs inthe same or related
sectors. Annex 13 describes the scope o fmajor ongoing activities, andthe results expected. The following
projects are of key importance:


                                                      19

   The program of institutional support at central level, for coordinatingdecentralization (financed by
   the UNDP, the Netherlands and Switzerland), and the Fiscal DecentralizationProject (financed by
   USAID);

   The Support Project in Cyangugu Province, and the Decentralization and Participatory Economic
   Development Project in the Province of Ruhengeri (both financed by the Netherlands); the Social
   Infrastructure Project, Pilot micro projects to support vulnerable groups, and the Intensive Public
   Works Project (all three are financed by the EuropeanUnion).

   Projects financedby the World Bank includingthe CRDP, the Rural Sector Support Program, the
   Rural Water and Sanitation Project, the Project to Develop Markets inruralAreas, the Rwanda
   Demobilization and ReintegrationProgram, and the Multi-Sector Capacity BuildingProject.

The World Bank co-financed projects active or completedinthe last five years are listedimmediately
below. A full list ofrelevant projects financed by other agenciesi s inAnnex 13.




                                                     20

                         Transport Sector                                               S                S
                         Health & Population                                            U                S
                         Community Reintegration& Development                          HS                HS
                         Amicultural & RuralMarket DeveloDment                          S                S
                       I HumanResource DevelopmentProject &                             S                S
                         Rural Water Supply & Sanitation                                U                S
                         Rural Sector Support Project                                                    S

                         Competitiveness & Enterprise Development                       H S              S
                         Demobilization & Reintegration                                  S               S
                         Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS                                         S               S
                         Institutional Reform Credit                                     S               S
                         Regional Trade Facilitation                                     S               S
                         Energy Sector Rehabilitation                                    S               S
                         Economic Recoverv Credit                                        S               S


I-                     I Education Sector Proiect
                       ISecond                                                  I        S        I      S   I
                                  CommunicationProject                                   S                S


IIPlDORatings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)


3. Lessons learnedand reflectedinthe project design:
Rwanda has incorporated into the proposed project design the validated experience of the CRDP inthat
country and lessons of CDD and decentralization programs in a large number o f countries. The lessons
point to the need for:

    Demonstrating commitment at the highest level of government and civil society for the enabling
    environment of institutional andpolicy (CDD) reform;
    Developing capacity systematically through intensive support to institutions at local andnational
    levels, to sustain the whole system o f intergovernmental relations;
    Recognizingthat local level participationis necessarybutnot sufficient to sustain development
    initiatives: central Government needs to be proactive inmonitoring, technical assistanceand other
    support;
    Adopting a differentiated approach inmobilizingsociety since there is a broad spectrum o f technical
    competence, and interest and capacities for social engagement.

The fundamental lesson of the CRDP is that certain features o f a decentralization strategy can be
realized even in a country with as tragic a history as Rwanda. The CRDP developed socioeconomic


                                                        21

micro-projects which galvanized a common vision and a common goal within severely disrupted
communities characterized by displaced andnon-displaced Rwandese, ethnic mixtures, and impoverished
households, many o f which were further weakened from the imprisonment o f household heads and from
effects o f HIV.The CRDP's most telling success i s that it allowed Rwandese o f all walks of life to talk to
each other again and to engage inlocal development around common interests, largely overcoming ethnic
and other constraints.

Preparation o f the CRDP in 1998 coincided with broad-ranging Presidential consultations with villages,
meetings o f the National Unityand Reconciliation Commission, and the process that generatedthe PRSP.
All ofthese revitalizedaparticipatory ethos, butthe CRDP was the test case becauseit tried to implement
something on the ground. Success was powerful - some Districts implemented sub-projects for an annual
total value o f US$400,000 by project close - even despite disruptions causedby the country's transition
into the new regulatory framework for decentralization and community development. For example, while
the CRDP was under implementation, the new laws redefined relationships between the CDCs and the
District mayors, and redrew the boundaries of the former municipalities to create fewer entities, renamed
"Districts".

The second lesson of the CRDP i s that to achieve results, there must be systematic and intensive training
and capacity building of stakeholders. This is also the lesson from other projects in the World Bank
portfolio which attempted to disburse through CDCs without first investing in intensive capacity
building.All the other projects raninto disbursementproblems. Oneproject, inthe water sector, remedied
this by sub-contracting the CRDP to manage its activities inDistricts where the two projects were both
present. The new, Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Project (MAP) drew lessons from this and has already
arranged with the national team preparing the DCDP to assist in disbursing MAP'Scommunity grants to
Districts who participatedinthe CRDP.

Other important lessons are derived from internationalexperience of CDD, that its potential is greatest
for goods and services which are small in scale and not complex. These are activities within the
management capacity o f community organizations and which require local cooperation: common pool
goods (e.g. surface water irrigation systems), public goods (e.g. local road maintenance), and civil goods
(e.g. public advocacy and social monitoring inthe campaign against HIV/AIDS).The necessaryelements
for sustainability are: (i)
                          demand-basedapproach, articulating priorities defined by the people themselves
and expressed through community contributions; (ii)     social mobilization and the organizational capacity
of local community groups; and (iii) financial viability. Significant community contributions (including in
cash) toward initial capital cost and, in many sectors full recovery o f operating and management costs,
promote rationality in the selection of options and contribute to the sustainability o f community-driven
actions.

The lessons from decentralization - definedbroadly as the transfer o f public authority, resources and
personnel from the national level to sub-national jurisdictions - are many, as this has been a recurrent
theme in Ahcan countries since independence. The impetus for decentralization stems from various
factors: sub-national claims for greater autonomy as an extension of democratization; governments who
are pressed to shed functions and commitments due to external and internal demands for a leaner, more
efficient and enabling state; governments who are eager to decentralize authority andresources becauseo f
legitimacy concerns over their poor performance; and from major development donors who promote
decentralization to improve governance and service delivery. The lesson i s that the relative significance o f
these respective factors in any one country may well predict the extent to which decentralization
succeeds. When reviewing the policy framework for decentralization, it is not sufficient to examine only
decentralization-specific laws. Also important, for consistency, is related legislation mandating service
delivery, civil service, budgeting.




                                                     22

Research has shown that successful decentralization requires some degree o f local participation. Sub-
national governments' proximity to their constituents will only enable them to respond better to local
needs and efficiently match public spending to private needs if there is some information flow between
citizens and the local government. On the other hand, the process of decentralizing itself enhances
opportunities for participation by placing more power and resources at a closer, more familiar, more
easily influenced level of government. In environments with poor traditions o f citizen participation,
decentralization can be an important first step in creating regular, predictable opportunities for citizen-
state interaction, as was exemplifiedby the CRDP.

The legal andregulatory framework shouldbe designed to recognize differences inmanagement capacity.
Assignment of functional responsibilities at District etc. levels often implicitly recognizes varying
capabilities, but a more dynamic framework which recognizes capacity based on performance over time
would be more desirable in the iong run. Matching degree o f autonomy and privileges to a set of
performance indicators (e.g. total expenditure, degree o f self-sufficiency, service performance) is more
propitious for the legal and regulatory framework to adjust for changes in local capacity. The experience
o f the Nicaragua Rural Municipalities Project suggests that the central Government should be proactive,
even to the extent that providing a differentiated system of incentives and penalties to local governments
could be considered.

Theory and evidence suggest strongly that it is important to state expenditure responsibilitiesas clearly as
possible inorder to enhance accountability andreduce unproductive overlap, duplication o f authority, and
legal challenges. The literature is replete with the argument that decision making should occur according
to the principle of "subsidiarity", i.e. at the lowest level of government consistent with allocative
efficiency (the geographic area that internalizes the benefits and costs of decisionmaking for a particular
public service).

Organizational theory suggests that there are four fundamental functions which each tier in a
decentralized structure, including local communities, mustbe able to do inorder to reachtheir objectives:
(i) decision-making which includes planning and evaluation; (ii)   resource mobilization and management;
(iii) resolution;and(iv)communicationandcoordination.Localgovernmentresponsiveness,one
     conflict
o f the main rationales for decentralizing, cannot be realized when there are no mechanisms for
transferring information between the local government and its constituents.

Insum, the lessons from decentralization are the following general guidelines for country-specific
strategies: (a) a legal framework that clearly defines responsibilities and standards; (b) consistency and
transparency to gain support; (c) reporting mechanisms that are clear and precise; (d) careful planning o f
transitions from the existing system to new systems to avoid conflict betweennew reporting arrangements
and enduring mechanisms; (e) channels for citizen-civil servant communication; (f) training to contribute
to the formation o f new working relationships; and (g) pacing. There is evidence that abrupt
decentralization campaigns have generally failed. Inparticular, Latin American countries who tried them
(ref. World Bank case studies on Colombia, Chile, Brazil) have had to return to incremental
decentralization, with differentiatedrules accordingto the distinct administrative skills of their territories.

The DCDP design incorporates the lessons learned from CRDP, CDD and decentralization through:

     Mainstreaming participatory methodology by strengthening District capacity to lead a process of
     planning and consultation with local communities, translating their development priorities into sub-
     projects which are incorporatedinto Districts' strategic development plans;
e    Developing a matching grants system to finance sub-projects so (a) responsibility i s shared by
     community, District and external funders; and (b) the flow of funds i s decentralized. Each CDC will
     open an account in a local commercial bank, into which the PCMU will transfer funds (from the


                                                      23

    Special Account) for the agreed sub-projects. Payments from the local account will be managed by
    the District accountant and will be made directly by the bank to the beneficiary's account.
    Communities will provide co-financing and in-kmdcontributions;
0   Validating decentralized procedures for project cycle management and financial management
    through the "learning by doing" of implementing sub-projects;
0   Investing substantially in capacity building and leadership training o f Districts and CBOsbecause
    community-based organizations rely on volunteer efforts, which can dissipate at critical stages or can
    lack continuity;
0   Ensuring that guidelines andpolicies are clear regardingi.a. ownership, maintenance, and
    sustainability o f projects once they are completed, andraising awareness among communities and
    implementingagents about their legalrightsandresponsibilities;
0   Monitoring and continuousformative) evaluation including "social audits" (stakeholder participatory
    M&E).

4. Indications of recipient commitmentand ownership
Government has demonstrated commitment and ownership to the CRDP which initially required
considerable negotiation to be accepted. Government has extended and reinforced its commitment at a
broader policy level as seen in the recent legislation on decentralization and community development.
This is a critical first step toward scaling out CDD, even if fiscal decentralization is not yet fully
operational and authorities are short on the requisites for effective administration and development
response to local community needs. Government i s however settingup the CDF mechanism according to
the changed post-war social and political realities, the Vision 2020, and the PRSP; and Government is
cooperating with the large number o f local governance and community development projects cited inthis
Section, which bringina wide range o f stakeholders and external donors that can add further resourcesto
advance progress on replicating procedures for decentralized project cycle management and financial
management which will be validated inthe proposedproject.

Parallel with its implementation of the CRDP, MINALOC has already undertaken preparatory fieldwork
for the new project. It is also encouraging local administrations to participate in the task of local
development planning and encourage community participation.

5. Value added of Banksupportinthis project:
The value added of the new project i s that it will carry out the CRDP approach through mechanisms
which are rooted in the new policies and institutional framework, and boost the potential impact o f the
Districts onpoverty reduction across a greater geographic coverage.

The Government envisagesa comprehensive approachto decentralization andcommunity development as
described inprevious sections. However, this approach may not receive adequate attentionbecauseo f the
real or perceived possibility that the public sector infrastructure would not be sufficiently capable and
fiscally able, and that the linkages between the public and civil society groups would not achieve mutual
trust and transparency. The Bank may therefore be able to reduce these risks through:


0   The multi-sector dialogue established with the Government through the CAS and ongoingprojects;
0   The Bank's global experience ininstitutionalreformprojects;
0   The Bank's ability to work withboththe central and decentralized levels ofgovernment;
0   The existence ofBank sector-specific operations that can helpinduce localdemand for investments,
    thuspromotingthe project's financingmechanism among Districts and communities;
0   Assistance inlinkingthe project to the overall monitoring of progress under the PRSP.




                                                      24

Inaddition the World Bank:

0   offers highlevel technical expertise (and oversight) to provide an element o f accountability and
    transparency inthe operations;
0   extensive experience with community-driven approachesand partnership between governments and
    NGOs,and so is ina positionto advise the Government on the advantagesand disadvantagesofthe
    project design and in-timequality enhancements as the project's progress is monitoredon an on-going
    basis;
0   has an ongoing relationshipwith Government, inwhich the technical and financial support for, and
    supervisiono f the CRDP operation, are seen by the Government andpotential foreign donors as
    essential elements inpromoting operational success and confidence inthe integrity o f the proposed
    project.

E. SummaryProjectAnalysis(Detailed assessmentsareinthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):

0 Costbenefit            NFV=US$ million; ERR= % (see Annex 4)

    Cost effectiveness
0 Other (specify)

As inother social fund operations, the demand-driven character ofthe microprojectsprecludes the use of
traditional methods o f cost-benefit analysis ex-ante for the proposed Project. Duringimplementation, all
community projects will be subject to a simple cost-effectiveness analysis basedonproject size, financing
mechanism, cost per beneficiary, local capacity, and physical output on microprojects. During Project
Mid-Term Review, the timing o f a full scale cost-effectiveness review will be discussed, based on the
status o f implementation of community sub-projects. The analysis will examine: (i) project rationale
                                                                                         the
within the broader economic context of the CAS and Rwanda's public investment program; and (ii)           the
cost-effectiveness in the use o f funds from the proposed Project for community projects compared with
fundsprovidedbyNGOsand other donors working inRwanda.

A detailed economic analysis will be carried out covering the Community Initiatives Component: (a)
direct costs (capital costs covering labor, materials and services costs at project site) and indirect costs
(overhead costs covering transport and travel costs and office overheads); (b) the employment effect and
the demand for materials and services based on the analysis in (a); and (c) cost effectiveness indicators
(measurable physical outputs for each type o f sub-project e.g. cost per unit of pipeline, or cost per unit of
school rehabilitation). The analysis will also examine the socioeconomic background of the population
affectedby the projects. Data on community sub-projects maintainedand updated inthe MISwill be used
and made available for carrying out the cost effectiveness exercise.

Inimplementingthe proposed Project, community investmentprojects fundedwill be selectedaccording
to criteria described in the Operational Manual, which integrate simple quantitative economic analysis,
consistent with the size o f the microproject, cost per beneficiary, and local capacity. The project will help
communities to use least-cost analysis in comparing various technical solutions, including the expected
cost o f operations and maintenance.

Inqualitative terms, the Cost-Effectiveness Analysis is to demonstrate larger far-reaching benefits since
the proposed Project is a scale-up of a previous community development project which IDA financed at
the level o f US$5 million. This now-closed (Cr. 3138-RW: CRDP) project demonstrated that it improved
living conditions of many low-income communities by supporting basic small-scale social and economic


                                                      25

infrastructure rehabilitation(e.g., schools, water supply and sewerage, health clinics, and roads). With an
investment o f about US$8 million for seed capital, the proposed Project will respond to community
demands for priority social needs and i s expected to produce tangible benefits to thousands of community
members.

The majority of the microprojectsi s expected to:


0   rehabilitate or construct primary and secondary schools to helpimplement basic education programs;
0   improve water supply and sewerage for rural and urban communities;
0   rehabilitate or construct neighborhoodaccess roads, and thereby improve mobility and access to
    services;
0   rehabilitate or construct primary health-care clinics to support health services at the community level;
    and
0   rehabilitate or construct local community centers to promote social cohesion and inter-ethnic
    participation incommon activities.

The proposed Project will generate short-term employment for the poor through the constructionphase of
a micro-project. It will also stimulate the development of the local construction industry through
introducing competitive procurement and encouraging small-scale contracting firms - building upon the
success in this field from the previous IDA-financed CRDP. More importantly, through the use of
participatory mechanisms and its demand-driven approach, significant qualitative benefits from the
proposed Project will be the increased sense of ownership, trust, social cohesion, and empowerment in
many communities.

2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NpV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
Financial Management. The project will benefit from the effective financial controls established under
the previous Project (CRDP), with trained staff who have been handling financial responsibilities and
accounting for the past four years. The proposed Project will also benefit from an accounting system
effectively linkedto the Management Information System developed under the CRDP. Accounts will be
maintained in accordance with the required financial standards and World Bank guidelines, and will be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. In addition, a simplified cost accounting
system will be integrated with the upgraded MIS inthe new project, to strengthen monitoring and ensure
the cost-effectiveness of microprojects.

Cost Recovery. As in the case of the previous Project, community investments will be in the areas of
social and economic infrastructure, community services, and environmental improvements. Priority will
be given to projects with highsocial, economic and environmentalimpacts. Over 80% o f investments will
be non-revenue generating ones. For revenue-generating investments, because they are in a pilot phase,
the project will investigate the feasibility o f establishing cost recovery mechanisms. The objective i s to
provide guidance to communities on how to establish the organizational capacity to operate and maintain
their system(s), as well as how to determine the level o f user fees. The focus on cost recovery i s to build
local awarenesso f the need to pay for such services and help increase the local revenue base to ensure the
sustainability o f investmentsand thereby reduce the demand for future subsidies.

Cost Sharing. Communities are required to contribute 5 percent of the cost of the sub-projects, or an
estimated US$0.4 million equivalent. This is a feasible target since community contributions under the
previous Project have averaged minimum o f 5 percent to date. The contribution may come from the
community itself and/or from the local District authority. It i s also anticipated that the communities will




                                                      26

contribute in kind according to ability. The cash contribution must be provided to the Project in full
before contracting. Communities determine their own means of collecting the contribution.

Cost sharing between the proposed Project andproject beneficiaries i s considered essential to: (i)  develop
community sense o f ownership of the Project; (ii)    the proposed Project addresses a legitimate need; and
(iii)communities are given the proper incentive to keep sub-projects no larger than needed and in line
with the local capacity to sustainthem.

Fiscal Impact:
The principal fiscal benefit from the project will be substantial savings inpublic expenditures, mainly on
education, water supply, and roads, that would have been necessary in the absence o f the Project. There
will be no fiscal burden on the Government from this project, as financing is grant-based, and the
recurrent costs required to support the investment under this Project, for which IDA i s financing 96%,
will not continue at the end of the Project. This is because the recurrent costs are mainly to pay the
contractual staff for the PCMU, and Government i s not planning to absorb this staff after the Project has
closed. There will be some minimal operating cost to Government following the project; for example,
maintenance o f vehicles and equipmentpurchased under the Project. The Project financing will contribute
to meetingfinancial requirements necessary to develop local infrastructure (e.g. schools) to a reasonable
level. Government resources to support the proposed Project inthe form o f making available office space
to house the PCMU within MINALOC and the PPOs at Provincial level were taken into account in the
total project costs as local contribution in addition to local counterpart funding for local expenditures.
However, as Government's contribution to Project costs above and beyond the required local counterpart
fundingis assumednot negligible, the cost accounting framework included as part of the monitoring and
evaluation exercise to be conducted during Project implementation to evaluate the Project's cost
effectiveness will provide a better estimate of Government total contribution to Project costs. This is
important if the analysis is to capture all costs, direct and indirect, related to Project implementation to
assess the efficiency inthe utilization o f public funds inmeeting the Project's objectives inparticular, and
poverty alleviation in general. The fiscal impact with respect to tax revenues (income taxes from project
staff salaries and wages, and profit taxes paid by contractors executing microprojects) will be negligible
becauseof the standardtax exempt policy for all IDA financedprojects.

3. Technical:
This is a technically solid project. Its design draws from a previous Learning and Innovation Loan --
CRDP -- which has been well documented, and awarded by the World Bank as "Best Practice." The
previous national team that managed the CRDP i s also preparing the new project and will become its
PCMU upon effectiveness. The new project design draws upon analyses (e.g. environmental, social
assessments: see Sections E.5 and E.6; studies and site visits to other CDD projects) which have further
refinedthe technical design andmethodology of the CRDP.

4. Institutional:
Institutional assessments o f the key stakeholders at District, Secteur and Cellule levels were carried out in
June-August 2003 and November-December 2003, undera PHRD grant for projectpreparations. The first
of these examined District infrastructure and staffing (extent to which personnel were inplace), training
backgroundand work practices, and availability o f resources. The second assessed the nature and degree
of participation of civil society indevelopment planning. The Appraisal mission inFebruary-March 2004
again assessedconditions on the ground inDistricts targeted for the DCDP.

The assessmentsfound a number of capacity gaps which are being addressedbefore project effectiveness:




                                                      27

    Administrative and stajing arrangements: The key finding was that not all Districts have trained
    accountants in place. MINALOC is addressing this in two ways: (i)       requiring that all Districts be
    staffed with accountants who have a minimumtraining of a level established by MINALOC, and (ii)
    providingback-up support to the District accountants through the training and advisors mentionedin
    SectionC.4.

0   Workload and ability to bring results: The capacity assessment found limited familiarity with the
    nature and volume of work that would be requiredto execute the community sub-projects, especially
    in Districts which had not participated in the CRDP. The project preparation team is using this
    information to determine the schedule and content of training and other technical assistanceunder the
    new project. Further, it i s phasing and targeting the training to give more intensive treatment to the
    Districts who did not participate in CRDP. The training begins during preparations -- with assistance
    from the PHRD grant and Project Preparation Fund -- to assure that project execution can begin at
    effectiveness.

4.1 Executing agencies:

See Section C.4 of this PAD.

4.2 Project management:

The Government of Rwanda has appointed the PCMU National Coordinator and staff of the former
CRDP as responsible for preparations of the DCDP. Government has confirmed to the Bank its intention
to maintain the PCMU within MINALOC for overall coordination and management o f the DCDP upon
project effectiveness, andto contract the same team that preparesthe project to have overall oversight and
coordinationresponsibility for the project upon effectiveness. Duringthe pre-appraisal mission o f April -
September 2003, the Bank team agreed with Rwandan authorities on a timetable for establishing and
staffing the PCMU. The Appraisal mission confirmed that the core team i s in place in form and with
functions and resources satisfactory to IDA.

4.3 Procurement issues:

As described inAnnex 6, the last Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) is no longerrelevant
since the procurement systemhas been changed. The Government i s carrying out a new CPAR inFY04,
and the process is expected to result in new procurement laws and regulations inspired by the World
Bank's standard models.

The Government has reinforcedthe decentralization process initiated with the CRDP by legally instituting
procurement commissions at District level. Presently, Districts can only attribute markets up to a
threshold o f three million Rwandese Francs, or the equivalent o f U S $ 6,000. Markets superior to this
level are prepared and monitored by the Districts but require the non-objection from the National Tender
Board(NTB) at each key step. Provisionsinthe regulating legislationallow for adjusting the prior review
thresholds depending upon District capacity. This varies, but generally across the country is quite weak,
and the training to date does not appear to have prepared Districts to perform at the level o f the tasks
given to them.

Capacity buildingpresents a major challenge, and this not only for the future DCDP. It is also critical for
all IDA-funded projects which disburse through the CDCs, and more broadly for Rwanda's entire
development policy. The success of the Community Development Fundthat should eventually channel up
to ten percent o f domestic revenues for implementation of Districts' development plans also depends
upon the ability to process tenders and monitor the attribution o f markets at local level. Mounting


                                                     28

pressure from the increasing volume of initiatives and resources the Government and donors are
channeling to local administration is now a source o f difficulty insofar as the efforts to harmonize,
reinforce and consolidate procurement procedures and instruments have not yet produced a coherent
program.

To make greater headway, the Government intends to reinforce resources of the DCDP PCMU. Priority
will be given to staffing the PCMU and Provincial Project Offices with appropriate expertise and to
designing and implementing a capacity building program based on an inventory o f needs at PCMU,
Provincial and District levels. During the pre-appraisal April - September 2003, the Bank team agreed
with Rwandan authorities on the profile and terms of reference for the persons who would take on the
procurement functions inthe DCDP, and the timetable for training. With assistance from the PHRD grant
and Project Preparation Facility, the MINALOC team i s evaluating the various, existing procurement
instruments developed at District level, initiatives to strengthenprocurement capacity, and the capacity of
small and medium sized constructioncompanies inthe Provinces where the project will be conducted.

To further strengthen knowledge o f Bank procurement procedures during project implementation, the
NTB will: (i)   strengthen procurement planning inpublic sector agencies; (ii)  improve procurement filing
and documentation systems in the public sector; (iii) action to reduce delays in the procurement
                                                           take
process; and (iv) ensure consistency and transparency inprocurement decisions. The project will provide
support to the NTB to address the weaknesses and strengthen overall procurement capacities of
institutions to benefit from this operation. Specifically, the DCDP will finance: (a) an international
consultant to upgrade the NTB's guidelines on simplified procurement procedures for District level; the
objective i s to produce a manual for use not only in the DCDP but also in other similar projects in
Rwanda; (b) a training of NTB trainers; and (c) the transport and per diem costs for the NTB trainers
when they travel to the Provinces andDistricts to deliver training for the DCDP.

Based on the procurement assessment carried out during the Pre-apprasial and reviewed again at
Appraisal, the overall risk assessment is high, particularly as the District commissions are expected to
play a major role and they have a limited track record as well as a high turn-over rate among their
members.

4.4 Financialmanagement issues:

The key financial management risks arising from the financial assessment (Annex 6B) which may impede
implementation include: (a) weak Districtgovernment capacity which may not be sufficient to implement
all the control procedures as intended (accounting, internal audit and inspection); (b)weaknessesmore
broadly inbudgetary processes, public sector accounting andreporting and auditing (Office o fAuditor
General); and (c) counterpart funds may not be sufficient given the low levels o f locally generated
revenues.

To addressthese financial management risks, the Government has agreedto implement the following
mitigation measuresinthe framework o f the proposed project:

     Put inplace adequateJinancia1 management arrangements, including efficient flow o f funds
     mechanisms; establishing a Special Account at central level and special accounts inthe Districts;
     organizing for external audits; documenting and widely circulating internal control procedures as part
     o f the project's OperationalManual, ina way that is coherent withthe Financial andAccounting
     ProceduresManual for Local Administration inRwanda (issued by ministerial decree inJuly 2003);
     Provideperiodic training during the life o f the project onWorld Bankprocedures and guidelines (e.g.
     financial management, disbursement, project planning, budgetingandmonitoring and evaluation);



                                                      29

e  Assure adequate support is given to the District accountants by the Provincial Offices and the PCMU
    which will have an adequatenumber and mix of skilled and experienced staff, and can further support
    District accountants with advisors who are recruitedon short-term consultancies;
e  Assess the accounting capacity of local governments before they receive grants;
e  Make efforts at central level to support local government initiatives, to enhance their revenues.

5. Environmental:                                Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultationand disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emergingfrom this analysis.

The environmental impact of the project i s not expected to pose a risk, given that (a) communities choose
sub-projects and follow them closely; (b) the criteria to validate sub-projects take environmental aspects
into account; and (c) there i s widespread recognition in Rwanda o f the importance of optimal land use
management.

Duringproject preparation, the Government recruited a consultant with assistance from the PHRD grant,
to assess potential environmental impacts. This involved extensive fieldwork inRwanda and resulted in
an "Environmental and Social Management Framework" (ESMF). The terms o f reference for the ESMF
were agreed in advance between MINALOC and the World Bank, to ensure compliance with Bank
safeguard policies. The report was clearedbyASPEN and disclosed before Appraisal.

The ESMF examines the administrative, policy, legislative and regulatory framework, as well as human
resource capacities for environmental management. The report provides detailed and comprehensive
environmental and social data to serve the project's environmental and social management process with
key baseline information to identify project impacts regarding bio-physical environmental features
(ecosystems, geology, hydrology in terms o f ground and surface water resources, major and sensitive
wetlands, flora and fauna) and features of Rwanda's demographics, public health and poverty. On social
baselines, MINALOC supplemented the ESMF with more intensive and participatory social assessments,
reportedinSection E.6.

The ESMF summarized critical environmentalproblems facing Rwandatoday and described the roles and
responsibilities of key institutions and stakeholders to ensure that activities planned under the DCDP by
the Districts and local communities comply with Rwanda's environmental laws and requirements, and
those o f the World Bank's Safeguards Policies -- and that the overall impact o f the project will be
positive. For example, the project will promote good practice in land improvements such as protection
against erosion. The ESMF identified the Community Initiatives as the most likely among all components
of the DCDP to have environmental impact potentially due to the activities o f private operators (e.g.
construction enterprises) and the local communities (e.g. community groups repairing small bridges for
ruralroads).

5.2 What are the main features o fthe EMP and are they adequate?

Emerging from this analysis, the ESMFrecommended the following: (a) inform all project stakeholders
to deepen understanding of environmental regulatory imperatives and procedures, and the key institutions
responsible for environmental management (e.g. PCMU, Rwanda Environment Management Authority);
(b) use the checklist to screen sub-projects at the point they are considered for financing, in order to
qualify and quantify the likely negative and positive environmental impacts and to propose the required
mitigation measures to be implemented to avoid negative impact; (c) establish and carry out when
applicable an EnvironmentalMonitoringPlan, with verifiable indicators, to ensure that the issues will
be managed effectively by all appropriate actors in the project, and provide a budget to implement this
Plan; (d) develop a public consultation plan for the life o f the project, to seek the participation of


                                                    30

communities, NGOs and all other stakeholders in the project activities, thereby introducing transparency
and accountability in the project; and (e) organize a training program for project coordination staff at
national andprovincial levels, and for stakeholders at District level.

The guidelines, screening and decision-making processes that the DCDP will use to avoid or minimize
adverse environmental and social impacts o f the sub-projects have been incorporated into the Project
Procedures Manual and will be monitoredregularly as part o f the Project's overall M&E framework (see
Annex 15). ASPEN reviewedthe adequacy o f these measures, thereby ensuring that they meet with the
requirements o f IDA as described in the World Bank safeguards policies on Environmental Assessment
(OP 4.01), Natural Habitats (OP 4.04), Forestry (OP 4.36), Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12) and OP
4.20 on IndigenousPeoples.

5.3 For Category A and Bprojects, timeline and status of EA:
                    Date ofreceipt o f final draft: January 2004

5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment managementplan? Describe mechanisms
o f consultationthat were usedandwhich groups were consulted?

The consultant for the ESMF visited eachProvince targeted for the project under preparation. Discussions
with Prefectures and Districts were highlyparticipatory, inthe form of "town hall" meetings. Duringthe
discussions on the use, scope and efficacy o f existing environmental requirements at the national level,
mutually agreed conclusions were drawn for the implementation of these requirements at District level.
These form the basis for most of the measures contained inthe ESMF and which were incorporatedinto
the Project Procedures Manual.

5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results o fthe EMP?

The draft Operational Manual endorsed by the Govemment and transmitted to the Bank team prescribes
activities for environmental screening andmeasuresto mitigate impacts.

6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issuesrelevantto the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.

The key social challenges stem mainly from the effects o f the genocidal war of 1994 which have
worsened poverty and left society with a tremendous loss o f social capital. Analytical work undertaken by
the Borrower and the Bank, including the Poverty Reduction Strategy, amply documents the scale o f the
problem. The ESMF and the subsequent Rapid Social and Institutional Assessment formulated during
project preparation with assistance from the PHRD grant drew from stakeholder consultations. These
highlighted the following challenges for individual communities attempting to make themselves into
peaceful and productive units : acute poverty; citizens' feelings o f powerlessness and inability to change
or improve their own situation; weakened social support systems from the impacts o f internally displaced
people, refugees, orphanhood and widowhood, and the effects o f HIV/AIDS; lack of access to capital to
engage in micro-enterprise; lack o f technical knowledge such as farming techniques to increase
productivity; limited access to social services; and in some geographic locations, fear of persisting civil
unrest.

The above assessments concluded that the project will have significant social development outcomes
because o f its participatory nature. This ensures that stakeholders have voice and decision making


                                                     31

authority to implement activities. The stakeholder groups in this context are the communities living in
Cellules, mainly in rural areas; civil society associations which represent various segments of the
population e.g. women's associations, development councils (CDCs) at Cellule, Secteur and District
levels; and local government administrators.

The relationships between stakeholder groups which will most affect the project are (a) the ways in
which behavior is regulated between the CDCs and the population and civil society groups, and (b) the
interaction between the CDCs and the District administration, which takes the decision on priorities to
finance. The development planning process has mechanisms inplace to avoid elite capture. For example,
information i s widely shared about the way in which the development planning i s conducted. Duringthe
planning itself, there is broad consultation on development priorities with all the different community
groups. What is initially proposed from Cellule and then to Secteur level is cross-checked by
representatives from the District CDC who retum to the more local levels for focus group discussions and
interviews. If there are conflicting demands on the same resources (which i s relevant, since the IDA
budgetary allocation cannot finance all sub-projects in the Districts' Annual Plans), the mayors take on
conflict mediation for resolution. Further along in the project cycle, there is transparent posting o f
information on which firms received the contracts, on the respective levels o f co-financing and expected
results. Communities have opportunities to monitor and give feedback on progress andresults.

The main social issues are thus: (i)  vulnerable groups could risk exclusion if outreach methods are not
effective; (ii)
              infrastructure sub-projects-- e.g.agricultural extension, water and sanitation-- may  not take
women's needs into consideration; (iii) resolution mechanisms couldbe ineffective; (iv) targeting
                                        conflict
and delivery mechanisms at the local level could be ineffective, depending upon the degree of
administrative andtechnical capacity for program execution, and the geographic location of social groups
or individuals. The potential for adverse social impact was addressed inproject preparationby the social
screening and monitoring criteria developed from recommendations o f the Rapid Social and Institutional
Assessment andthe ESMF.

6.2 ParticipatoryApproach: How are key stakeholders participatinginthe project?

The decentralization process inRwandahas created an enablingenvironment for civil society at all levels
to participate inthe development discourse. This leads the way for the project to seek the involvement o f
the primary stakeholders inthe earliest stages so they are ready to execute the project. There are two foci:
(i)the iterative process that produces the District development plans, and (ii)implementation of
Community Initiative sub-projects.

In the iterative planning process, the Cellules, Secteurs and Districts are assisted by the project to use
participatory, rapid rural appraisal techniques as well as other participatory techniques for local
community consultations on their assets and needs. The project interventions (e.g. training, advisors)
facilitate communities to identify their own problems and solutions, prioritize those solutions and then
develop plans, setting indicators of success. Decisions on priorities are taken inthe CDCs with approval
o f the communities. The CRDP has had good success from encouraging communities also to assess
whether the very marginal and vulnerable groups have been addressed, and ifnot, which measurescould
be taken.

Communities also participate in the implementation of sub-projects through in-kindcontributions (local
materials, labor, land, time) and monitoring. Feedback mechanisms allow regular discussions between
local government agents implementing the projectand stakeholder communities.




                                                    32

6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaborationwith NGOsor other civil society
organizations?

The population i s represented by numerous civil society organizations e.g. associations of women, from
Cellule to national levels. The mechanism for consultation and collaboration under the current project is
the CDC. CDCs bring together the civil society and the private sector to encourage debate on goals and
methods o f development. This consultative approach builds on the traditional Rwandan practice and
cultural value of working together (Ubudehe) to solve problems. The newer aspect injected by the project
i s the direct funding of community development sub-projects through the instrument o f the District 5-
Year Development Plan.

National and international NGOs active in development in Rwanda have usually operated parallel
initiatives rather than work within the existing government structure. It i s however possible inthe current
project that Districts could contract NGOs for training programs on specific topics, or to assist civil
society organizations to formulate compelling development proposals for consideration at CDC level.
Duringproject preparations, the national team and the Bank team convened NGOs active incommunity
development, gender issues, youth groups, support to vulnerable groups, micro-enterprise to consult on
the project design. In particular, the women's organizations are exploring ways in which to assist in
project implementation.

6.4 What institutional arrangementshave beenprovidedto ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?

The arrangements focus on participation and social inclusion, information and training, monitoring and
evaluation. The specific arrangementsare as follows:

     Institutional and social assessment identified subgroups among the poor, especially those at risk o f
     exclusion;
     Projectrules andprocedures are structured to promote participation;
     Training will ensure that intermediaries (local government, civil society organizations etc.) working
     with communities have expertise usingparticipatory techniques, and inworking with groups at riskof
     exclusion;
     Where existing systems o f social organization are inequitable, technical assistance fkom the project
     brings inparticipatory techniques to facilitate involvement o f subgroups among the poor, especially
     those at risk o f exclusion;
     Monitoring and evaluation systems will involve all stakeholders in monitoring and evaluation and
     include specific indicators relatedto groups at risko f exclusion.
     Community needs/ capacity assessment i s part o f the formal process o f articulating development
     priorities

Institutional and social assessment. The project builds on the CRDP's on-the-ground experience and
Implementation Completion Report (No. 25647), the analytical work in connection with the PRSP, and
the ESMF and other analyses conducted expressly for the DCDP. These analyses explored crucial
questions regarding how communities are organized, the decision making and appeal processes inplace,
the stakeholders and vulnerable groups, and community resources the project can tap into. These were
explored both from an informative (i.e. what exists now) perspective as well as a dynamic (i.e. how can
the project creatively adapt, change or build on existing social features) perspective. To help assure the
project would be properly targeted, socially acceptable and implementable, the social analyses focused on
(a) understanding the traditions, values and social organization o f intended beneficiaries; (b) dominant
attitudes and values towards growth, environment, biodiversity and community participation; (c) patterns



                                                      33

o f interaction between group members; (d) attitudes and interest of the targeted communities towards the
proposedproject; (e) the capacity of local institutions to participate in decision making, implementation,
operations and evaluation;  (0thenatural   resource management issues inthe targeted Districts; and (g) the
potential negative consequencesof thisproject.

Procedures to promote partickation. Results of the ESMF and social analyses are operationalized into the
Project Procedures Manual. Results of the analyses were used to refine methodologies developed under
the CRDP. The newproject therefore gives greater emphasis to:


0    Communication strategy to (i)      facilitate timely dissemination and feedback on DCDP related
     information, documentation and dissemination o f good practices and lessons leamed from the sub-
     projects. Communication should be both horizontal (people communicating and sharing knowledge
     and information amongst themselves on a frequent basis) and vertical (information flow to and from
     local community and central govemment); (ii)     use medium of communication that is most effective
     for reaching the targeted population, to include the most marginalized and vulnerable groups to
     ensure participation; (iii)
                               regular and timely meetings about issues relating to project implementation.
     Team meeting should be representative of people from the community, to include gender, youth,
     elderly etc. Timingo f meetingsshouldreflect all stakeholders' availability;
0    Incentives for committee participation/ project management: The CDC will provide non-monetary
     incentives within an identified small budget at the local govemment level. Such incentives will
     include refreshments, reimbursementfor travel costs etc.;
     Technical assistancefor outreach to vulnerable groups and distinctive segments of civil society, e.g.
     widow-headedhouseholds;
     Participatory stakeholder evaluation ("social audits").

6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms o f social development outcomes?

The DCDP M&E framework which is detailed in Annex 14 captures data on the consultation and
communication strategy, the identification and mitigation o f social and environmental impacts, and the
impact o f the DCDP on poverty reduction and community development.

In particular, participatory stakeholder evaluations will complement the PCMU and Provincial and
District levelauthorities' monitoring and evaluation:
0    A sample o fpeople from communities (Cellules,Secteurs) willbe incorporatedas primary informants
     feeding into the project's annual evaluation. This sample will include the range o f community sub-
     groups, including groups that have been identified through the participatory process as "vulnerable"
     or needing special incentives. The District CDC members will visit a Cellule, Secteur for feedback at
     least once every six months;
0    "Social audits": community involvement in the performance evaluation o f local governments will be
     regularized and made legitimate in the project. The communities will develop criteria during
     implementationthat can be usedas indicators to monitor over time; the CDC should meet on a regular
     basis to review progress o f work to date andwhat needs to be updated or changed.




                                                      34

7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Are any o f the following safeguardpolicies triggered by the project?




7.2 Describe provisions made bythe project to ensurecompliance with applicable safeguard policies.

An Environmental and Social Management Framework was produced during preparations and was
disclosed in Rwanda and in the World Bank Infoshop before Appraisal. Recommendations are
operationalized into the Project Procedures Manual. The DCDP M&E framework has been designed to
capture data on the identification and mitigationof social and environmentalimpacts.

F. Sustainability andRisks
1. Sustainability:
Prospects are strong that the benefits andresults of this project will be sustained. The measuresthat are
beingtaken are chiefly:

   Institutional sustainability: The project is executed through the existing government and
    administrativeinfrastructure, whose capacity i s reinforced as a foremost objective o f the project;
    Financial sustainability: A realistic cost-recovery plan must be established for the infrastructure sub-
    projects and approved by the CDCs before the applications are accepted for financing. The probable
    impact of these recurrent charges on the various sector ministries (e.g. education for recurrent costs of
    schools) will be a focus of attention for the project. MINALOC i s working with the other ministries
    on an overall strategy regarding recurrent costs, taking account o f possibilities for the new funding
    allocation mechanism to top upDistricts which are under-resource&
    Social sustainability: The confidence level between local populations and local administrators i s the
    key element in this project. The project will assist the authorities to gain this confidence by (i)
    providing efficient and transparent service; (ii)     having local populations participate in decision
    malung on resource use inthe Districts; (iii) promoting interactions, communication and exchange o f
    information to encourage a "climate" of confidence between the population and the local
    administration, as well as within the populationitself;
    Political sustainability: The Government's commitment to decentralization and community
    development i s primordial to sustain all the above. The project will support the translation of policy
    into tangible action that demonstrates the acceptance o f local solutions to local problems, within an
    enabling environment for popular participation in planning, execution and monitoring development
    projects. International comparisons (Ndegwa: Decentralization in Africa: A Stocktaking Survey,
    World Bank, November 2002) measured the extent o f decentralization by three indices : political,
    administrative and fiscal. Rwanda was ratedat the moderate to highlevel onall three counts,




                                                     35

  2. CriticalRisks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found inthe fourth column of Annex 1):

                       Risk                        RiskRating                       RiskMitigationMeasure
            FromOutputsto Objective
Lack oftransparency andaccountabilityin               M          The projecthas an IEC componentandtrainingto educate
decisions on support to sub-projects.                            beneficiariesinthese areas. The ProjectMonitoring &
                                                                 Evaluationframeworkcontainsperformanceindicatorsto
                                                                 track participationindecisionmaking.Participatory
                                                                 stakeholderevaluations will complementthe PCMUand
                                                                 ProvincialandDistrict levelauthorities'M&E.
Limited level of trust betweenlocal administration    M          The PCMUandPPOswill assist meetingsofthe CDC to
and local community                                              foster communityspirit, and monitor stakeholder
                                                                 participationat District andSecteur levels, identify areas of
                                                                 conflict, deviselocal conflict mediationmechanisms.
Political insecurity                                  M          Stakeholderparticipationmaywork towards increased
                                                                 cohesiveness ofcommunitieswhich may prevent the
                                                                 occurrence of small or larger scale violence. The PCMUwill
                                                                 liaiseregularly on anationallevel (with the CDF, line
                                                                 ministries,MINECOFIN) to monitor the political situation.
Despiteyears of Governmentcommitmentat                 S         Political commitmentis expectedto bemaintainedbut there
policy level, MINALOC mayhave difficulty                         are concernsabout the govemment'sability to assurethat
implementingthe projectthroughRwanda's                           adequatehumanand financialresourceswill bemaintainedat
governancestructures (decentralized                              District level to facilitate effectiveimplementation.To help
administration).                                                 mitigatethis risk, an institutionalassessmentwas financedby
                                                                 the PPFandPHRD to identify gaps andweaknesses inthe
                                                                 project'sexecutingagents (e.g. District adhoc tender
                                                                 commissions) and financingstructures, including the
                                                                 provision of counterpart funds. Projectstructureshavebeen
                                                                 strengthenedto ensureautonomyandexternalmonitoring
                                                                 processeshave beenadded. The Bank will continueto
                                                                 monitor the political situationandclosely supervise
                                                                 implementationof the project.
FromComponentsto Outputs
Transparencyinfinancial management                     M         The projectdevelopedfundmanagementproceduresthat
                                                                 includelocal officials andbeneficiariesandrequirean
                                                                 accountingsystem, regularfinancial monitoring andreporting
                                                                 which mustbe undertakeninaccordancewith the Manualof
                                                                 Procedures.The projectprovidesmentoringandtechnical
                                                                 back-upto District FMS.
Ability to complete the procurement process in         S         The projectprovidesrecurrent training for District tender
time andto quality                                               commissions andmonitorstheir performance.The project
                                                                 provides resourcesto strengthenthe National Tender Board.
OverallRiskRating                                      M         Lessonsdrawn from the CRDP andother projectsof similar
                                                                 naturewould allow for reductionofrisksthrough systematic
                                                                 monitoring and capacitybuilding during project
                                                                 implementation.
Risk Rating- H(High Risk), S (SubstantialRisk), M(ModestRisk), Nmegligible or Low Risk)




  3. PossibleControversialAspects: N/A




                                                           36

                                                                                         \

G. Main Grant Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The Government has:
(i)Establishedthe4ProvincialCoordinationOffices(PCO) inaformandwithfunctions andresources
satisfactory to IDA; and recruited a Project Provincial Officer and Accountant (consultants) for each PCO;
and2 Infrastructure Officers each having qualifications and experience, including inrelation to
procurement, satisfactory to IDA, to assist the 4 PCOs.
(ii)TheRecipienthasestablishedanadequatefinancialmanagementsystem, satisfactorytoIDA,toensure
proper execution and monitoring o f Project activities.
(iii)TheRecipienthasopenedaProjectAccountanddepositedthereinaninitialdepositofUSS30,OOO.

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the LegalAgreements.]

Negotiations Condition

The Government has:
(i)PutinplacethecoreoftheProjectCoordinationandMonitoringUnitinaformandwithfunctionsand
resources satisfactory to IDA.

H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1.a) Theengineeringdesigndocuments for thefrstyear'sactivitiesarecomplete andready forthestart
         o f project implementation.
la 1. b) Not applicable.

182.Theprocurementdocuments forthefirstyear's activitiesarecomplete andreadyforthestartof
      project implementation.
I2 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and o f satisfactory
      quality.
c
'1Thefollowingitemsarelackingandarediscussedunderloanconditions(SectionG):
   4.




I. Compliance with Bank Policies
a  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
   2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
      all other applicable Bank policies.




Team Leader                              Sector ManagedDirector                  Country ManagerlDirector




                                                       37

                                             Annex 1: ProjectDesignSummary
                 REPUBLIC OFRWANDA:Decentralization andCommunityDevelopmentProject

    Hierarchy of Objectives       Key Performance Indicators        Data Collection Strategy
Sector-related CAS Goal:        iector Indicators:                ector/ country reports:         rom Goal to Bank Mission)
Stabilizeandexpandthe               Progress with national           District Development Plans,    Stablepolitical environment
capacityof local govemment          decentralizationprogram          budgets                        Stablemacro-economicpolicy
and communitiesto identify and      GoR channelsresources for        Local govemment financial      framework
finance their own development       community/local                  assessmentreports              Political support for
prioritiesto engender economic      developmentthroughthe            Provinceand District           decentralizationand localself-
growthand reducepoverty             multi-sectorfinancing            govemment management           government continueand
accordingto the Govemment           mechanismestablished             informationsystem in place     mature
decentralizationandcommunity                                         PRSP progressreport            Sector support facilitating
developmentpolicies.                                                 ("DCDP povertyimpact" in       decentralizedserviceprovision
                                                                     M&E Framework)                 Community-driven
                                                                                                    developmentapproaches are
                                                                                                    adoptedby other ministries
~~
ProjectDevelopment              Outcome / Impact Indicators:     'roject reports:                 +om Objective to Goal)
Objective:
Scale out validatedproject      By year 2:
experienceinthe countryby                                         D   DevelopmentPlans               Govemmentcommittedto
extending the CRDP strategy         All the DistrictsKDCs have    D   District govemments'           implementationofthe multi-
for CDD from 11to 39                beentrainedinpriority             financialstatements            sector financingmechanismto
Districts.                          setting, projectplanning,    D    Local governments              empowercommunitiesto lead
                                    financialmanagement,              technicalandfinancial audit    their own localdevelopment
Specific objectives:                monitoring andevaluation,         reports                        process
                                    problemresolutionandthe           Annual assessmentreports       Humanresourcesare available
i)StrengthenDistrictcapacity        participatorydevelopment          Physicalinfrastructure         for developmentof local
to leadaprocessofplanning           planningprocess.                  monitoring report              capacity
andconsultationwith local           All the Districts/CDCshave        Beneficiaryassessments         Commitmentand adequate
communities, translatingtheir       formulatedtheir                   Stakeholderparticipatory       capacity incentralgovemment
developmentpriorities into sub-     developmentplan and               monitoring & evaluation        to mentor andprovide
projectsinDistricts'                budget.                           Bi-annualmonitoring            technicalback-up support to
developmentplans;                   At least40% ofall Districts       reports (M&E Framework         District govemmentandCDCs
ii)developamatchinggrants           selectedfor capacitybuilding      "DCDP Operations")            Other programsdo not
systemto financethe sub-            have implementedor are            Mid-Term Evaluation           underminethe DCDP
projects                            implementingsub-projectsin   ,   ImplementationCompletion
iii)validateproceduresfor           accordancewith proposals         Report
decentralizedproject cycle          made intheir development
managementand financial             plans.
management, through                 Projectinter-ministerial
implementingthe sub-projects,       working group establishedat
to replicateas basic operating      nationalandprovincial
procedureinRwanda's                 levels.
decentralizationprogram
iv) introduceandpromote
public awarenessprogramson
the designand implementation
ofthe DCDP, androles/
responsibilitiesof stakeholders
indesigning/implementing
District developmentplans.




                                                                38

                                [OutcomeI ImpactIndicators
                                continued)

                                By year 4:
                                      Beneficiaryassessments
                                      indicatethat at least60% of
                                      Districtsandlocal
                                      stakeholderssuchas CDCs
                                      andcivil society
                                      organizations express
                                      satisfactionwith their
                                      District participatory
                                      developmentplanning
                                      process.
                                      75% of Districts are
                                      implementingtheir
                                      developmentplans
                                      All annualauditsupto date
                                       and submitted as required
                                      by law.
                                      75% of all Districts are
                                      current in updatingtheir
                                      rollingdevelopmentplans
                                      throughconsultative
                                      processes.
Dutput from each Component:     Output Indicators:                Project reports:              (fromOutputsto Objective)


Institutionalcapacity building

[a) Local (DistricVCDC) capacity  (a) Local capacity building        Bi-annualmonitoring        Civil society, NGOs, donors,
improved(planning, managerial,                                       reports                    private sector, and centralandlocal
financial, technical)             1   Nb of CDCs established,        Participatoryappraisal,    levelsofgovernment work
                                      trainedand satisfactorily      evaluation                 effectively together.
                                      functioning                    Annualbudget reports             Effectivenessoftraining and

                                 1    Nb of DistricVCDC                                               awarenessprograms on
                                      accountantstrainedand                                           decentralization,projectcycle
                                      satisfactorilyfunctioning                                       andparticipatoryprocesses
                                  1   Nb of CDCs with at least                                   a    Localbanksand financial
                                      75% oftheir AnnualAction                                        institutionsare availableto
                                      Planssatisfactorily                                             channelDCDP funds
                                      completed                                                  a    Availability of community
                                                                                                      counterpart contributionsfor
                                                                                                      sub-projects
                                                                                                      District development plans
                                                                                                      reflect atransparent and
                                                                                                      participatoryprocess



(b) Provincial capacityimproved   (b) Provincialcapacitybuilding      Projectquarterlyreports,   Willingnessof Provincesto useTA
                                       Nb ofPlanningOfficers in       biannualmonitoring reports and services financedby the
                                       place, trainedand              Participatoryappraisal,    project.
                                       functioning                    evaluation
                                  1   Functioning                     Annual budget reports




                                                                 39

                                         communication/
                                         knowledgesharing
                                         networkbetweenlocal
                                         andprovincial levels
                                         establishedwith
                                         participating
                                         DistrictdCDCs
                                         Work program
                                         establishedbetween
                                         Provinceand
                                         DistrictsKDCs in
                                         financialmanagement
                                         andprocurement,
                                         capacity building and
                                         technicalassistance,
                                         monitoring and
                                         evaluation

(c) National capacity improved    (c) National capacity building        Projectquarterlyreports,      Civil society, NGOs, donors,
                                           Comprehensivecapacity        biannualmonitoringreports     privatesector, andcentral and
                                           building plan (PCMU) and     Participatoryappraisal,       local levelsof government
                                           nb oftrainingscompleted at   evaluation                    work effectively together.
                                           national,Provincial and      Annualbudget reports          MINALOC effectively
                                           District levels                                            coordinatesthe project at
                                           Nb of cross-ministerial                                    centrallevel andwith donors
                                           trainings completedon                                      Goodcoordinationbetween
                                           implementing                                               DCDP activitiesand sector
                                           decentralizationpolicy                                     policies
                                                                                                      Willingnessofthe sector
                                                                                                      ministries to participate



Infrastructuresub-projects and            Nb financedsub-projects      Participatoryappraisal,    Provincial administrationand
other activitiesthat directly             75% of sub-projects          evaluation                 District electedgovernments do not
addresssocial developmentare              implementedare technically   Annualbudgetreports        interfereinfunding andoperation
realizedand sustainably                   sound andhave a              Quarterly& biannualreports
managed, e.g. school                      maintenanceplan               ( M&E Framework
reconstruction,water supplyand                                          "Finance & Cost
sanitation, rural roads, soil and                                       Accounting," "Sub-project
water conservation, structural                                          database")
support for micro-finance
networks.

Administration, monitoring           'roject managementand             Annualbudget reports         1 Decentralizeddecision
and coordinationofthe project        nonitoring                        Quarterly& biannual            makingprocessesused
                                                                        reports                     1 World Bankprovides
                                    '     Nb sub-projects approve,      (M&E Framework                sufficientresourcesfor
                                          intimely fashion              "Finance & Cost               projectsupervision
                                    '     Nb satisfactorytechnical      Accounting," "Sub-          1 Informedchoice of
                                          audits                        projectdatabase")             investmentsmadeby
                                     '    Decreaseinthe time lag                                      communities
                                          betweenCDC contract                                       1 Availability of local
                                          anddisbursementof                                           enterprisesto executeworks




                                                                     40

                                      funds                                             Availability of District ad

                                    1  Nb of serviceprovider                            hoc tender commissions
                                       contractssatisfactorily                          with adequatecapacity.
                                       completedwithin the                              NationalTenderboard
                                       giventime andbudget                              provides back-up support.
                                       frame

                                    Inputs: (budget for each     'roject reports:    :fromComponentsto Outputs)
                                    component)

Component 1:Institutional           JS$ 7.0 million
CapacityBuilding
     Participatoryassessments
~* Training
     Organizational&
     managementsupport
     Technicalsupport

Component 2: Communication,         JS$ 2.3 million
Information andEducation
     Training
     Radioprogramming
     Leafletsfwritten
     guidelines
     Exchangeof experiences
     betweenCellules,
     Secteurs, Districts,
     Provinces; acrossprojects

Component 3: Community              JS$8.5 million
DevelopmentInitiatives

 Eachof the participatingDistricts
will receive a specifiedaverage
 amount of grant financingto be
 usedfor
 i)implementationof
 infrastructuresub-projects
 ii)incomegeneratingsub-
 projects

 Component 4: Project               JS$ 1.6 million
 coordinationandmonitoring
     Training
     Support for national
     coordination(training,
     equipment, operating
     costs)
     Supportto the national
     programfor decentralized
     development(workshops,
     studies, impactevaluation,
     equipment)




                                                                41

                                  Annex 2: DetailedProjectDescription

         REPUBLICOFRWANDA: Decentralizationand CommunityDevelopmentProject

The proposed project will support the implementationof the inter-related policies for "Good Governance"
(CDD) described under Section 2. The project includes four components: (1) Institutional Capacity
Building,(2) Information, Education and Communications, (3) Community Development Initiatives, and
(4) Program management, monitoring and evaluation. The project design takes into account Rwanda's
dynamic, yet somewhat unbalanced, post-conflict environment characterized by severe local capacity
constraints and an increasing volume o f external funding that potentially can be tapped by proactive
stakeholders at District and local levels. The project also responds to the Government's concern that
existing administrative and civil society structures need to be strengthened in order to manage
development initiatives and service delivery on a sustainable, long-term basis. Consequently, the
Government seeks to avoid "parachuting in" project management structures which run parallel to the
existing institutional infrastructure. The project i s therefore to be implemented through the existing
administrative and civil society infrastructure, and it places a strong emphasis on capacity building,
informatiodcommunications, and "learning by doing" through managing development sub-projects and
observing their tangible results. Finally, the project capitalizes on the great familiarity with the CRDP
among policy makers and population alike, who consider it the most effective approach to CDD in
Rwanda and wish to scale out the benefits it brought to the initial 11Districts. Given the pivotalrole the
Districts play in Rwanda's CDD strategy, they are the project's entry point, most specifically, their
strategic development plans.

By Component:

Project Component US$7.00 million
                    -
INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING. The purpose of this component is to assist the
development o f mechanisms and build capacity for community-driven development through a capacity
buildingprogram to (a) support implementation of the DCDP; and (b) broaden the base of expertise to
execute and sustain the Government's decentralization and community development policies. The
Rwandan public sector and inparticular the local administration i s expected to play a leadership role in
unleashing community involvement in CDD. The project will contribute to the establishment and
improved management of control mechanisms to improve accountability and transparency of the local
administrations vis-a-vis the communities they serve. The project will also support participatory planning
systems to devise mechanisms for reachingthe most vulnerable.

This component will be implementedat all levels ofgovernment, inparticular the decentralized entities at
District level and below. The principles are coordination and partnerships, learning by doing, iterative
approach, and subsidiarity. The component will use a variety o f targeted mechanisms to strengthen the
respective stakeholders' abilities to plan, implement, manage, finance, and maintain development
activities. Mechanisms will include training workshops, on-the-job training, in-service short residential
courses for specific positions, exchange programs, and development of processes and information
systems.

Training programs for 8 people at MINALOC, a total o f 30 Province administrators for the 5 Provinces
and 390 District administrators for the 39 Districts, as well as civil society groups will concentrate
participatory assessments o f assets and needs; communications techniques; formulation o f the District
plan and its Annual Plan and Budget; sub project cycle stages, including preparation, design, costing and
budgeting, appraisal, screening to offset risk of detrimental environmental or social impact,
implementation, monitoring, evaluation, maintenance and management; procurement o f contractors,
materials, consultants; financial management and auditing; management o f revenue collection; general



                                                     42

District administration and management; and information and reporting systems; and conflict resolution.
At the Secteur and Cellule levels, the project will provide training to 631Secteurs and 3,3 14 Cellules,
mainly in participatory planning and techniques to identify and reach consensus on development
priorities. Recurrent training in procurement will be provided for 350 agents at national, Provincial, and
District levels.

The training and capacity buildingof Districts will primarily be carried out through the Provincial Project
Offices, and will involve contractingo f individuals and firms who have the requisite expertise.

Project Component 2 US$2.30 million
                      -
COMMUNICATION, INFORMATION AND EDUCATION. The Information, Education and
Communications strategy will develop messages of two kinds: (i)    on laws, regulations, roles and rightsof
decentralization; and (ii) specifically on the objectives, scope, and means of participation inthe DCDP.
The communications strategy will also support the project's participatory monitoring and evaluation,
including "social audits" for feedback from the communities on project process and results (Annex 12).
The communications strategy will use a variety of mechanisms of information transfer, including radio,
print, workshops, community theatre, and traditional mechanisms. The mechanisms used by the project
will ensure that there are opportunities for two way information flows. The project will also support the
development and implementation of a two-way management information system, from the decentralized
entities to MINALOC to enhance coordination.

The component will be managed by the Capacity Building, Participation and CommunicationsManager,
supported by the Provincial Officers. Much o f the training will be sub contracted to training consultants
and the component will be closely coordinated with other capacity buildingprograms in Rwanda which
support decentralization and community development.

Project Component3 US$8.50 million
                      -
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT INITIATIVES. The entry point for this Component is the District
Community Development Plan. This component will finance grants to participating communities in the
39 supported Districts for community-based sub-projects. The sub-projects have been identified in a
participatory planning process, resulting in agreement on Districts' Five-Year Strategic Development
Plans and One-Year Action Plans, to meet the priority needs o f the respective communities. Sub-projects
would include:     education, health, nutrition, social protection, micro-finance activities, youth skills
training, HIV/AIDS, community roads, and water supply. This component will complement the training
activities financed under Component 1, by providing decentralized entities and communities the
opportunity to "learn by doing" duringthe planning, preparation, and implementation of the sub-projects.
Itwill assistthe Government to strengthenmechanisms to managedecentralized capital development.

Development planning. The process starts with the identification of the needs and problems o f the
communities which are prioritized. The Cellule Community Development Plan i s developed and is then
consolidated with other Cellule plans at the Secteur level and presented to the District Community
Development Committee (CDC). The CDC, with input from the service providers, then puts together a
Five-Year District strategic Development Plan, which i s presented to the Provincial Coordinating
Committee. The sector departments, at the Provincial level, ensure that the District Plans meet the sector
policy requirements and then present the plans to MINALOC's Department o f Planning and Coordination
o f LocalDevelopment.

The contents ofa development planinclude: (a) description ofthe methodology used; (b) briefdescription
o f the community/ District: economic and social infrastructure; (c) summary reference to the major
orientation of poverty reduction and development priorities, nationally; (d) analysis o f problems and
proposed solutions, in order o f priority, in each Secteur o f the District; (e) logframe o f proposed


                                                      43

interventions, implementation strategies and progress indicators for assessing results; (f) list of sub-
projects, based on expressedneeds of communities. In addition, for the subset o f projects proposed for
financing under the DCDP: technical specifications on the approximate costs, procurement plan,
environmental and social screening etc.

Selection of developmentprojectsforfinancing through the DCDP. Sub-projects will be supported ifthey
are priorities for the community and identified in the planning process. The CDC and appropriate
technical department staff either at the District or the Provincial level develop the project with the
community and prepare the documentation, costing and budgeting. The District Council approves
expenditure for the project, and then it is presentedto the Provincial level for technical advice, assistance
withprocurement and endorsementthat the project complies with sector policy. The PCMUthentransfers
the finances for the project to the District account and the project is implemented. Communities are
expected to contribute a minimumof 5% of the project costs, in cash or in kind, and are involved with
implementation and management of the project.

The component will finance the design and piloting of micro-finance activities. In contrast to the
infrastructure sub-projects, the micro-finance activities will be implemented on a pilot basis. Inthe first
year of the DCDP, the micro-finance activities will beginas revolving livestock or similar funds, to which
the DCDP will provide funds for seed capital only once. There will be two windows: one for vulnerable
groups, and another for the less vulnerable. The PCMU will develop the eligibility criteria, set the
maximum amount for each group, explain where the proceeds from the revolving funds are to be kept as
well as mechanisms for disbursement, monitoring, and proceedrecovery. The PCMU will also assess the
extent to which individuals and communities can contribute or provide their own equity, inorder to build
a cost-recovery system into the programto achieve long-term sustainability.

At the outset, the micro-finance activities will not involve formal mechanisms from-the financial sector,
to complement funds from the DCDP. Demand for financing from the formal financial system is likely to
arise, however, to finance working capital and/or additional loans for expansion as communities increase
their assets under the DCDP. During the course of the project, the PCMU will study promising
approaches in other revolving loan schemes. The aim i s to link the DCDP communities to other
successful loan schemes, rather than have the PCMU create and manage a separateone for the DCDP.

Project Component4 US$l.SO million
                      -
PROJECT COORDINATION AND MONITORING. This component will support the project's
decentralized approach to coordination and management. It will support a small Project Coordination and
Management Unit (PCMU) at the national level within MINALOC, and four Project Provincial
Coordination Offices (PCO) in the participating Provinces. The PCMU, in collaboration with the
Provincial offices and other partners, will be responsible for the overall monitoring and evaluation o f the
project's progress. The PCOs will be responsible for outreach and technical assistance to the Dis,tricts in
their respective Provinces. The project will assist the PCMU and the PCOs to coordinate and monitor
local activities, and carry out advocacy and training. The project will finance: a National Coordinator, a
Financial Controller, an Accountant, an Officer for Capacity building and IEC, a Management and
Information System Officer, and support staff. It will finance consultancy services for technical and
financial audits, two external evaluations-- at mid- and end o f project -- and studies on decentralization
process. The project will also finance the purchase of vehicles, equipment, materials and the associated
recurrent costs to complement counterpart funding, as well as supervisionmissionsby the national project
team, both at the national and provincial levels, particularly for the newly integrated provinces and
districts. Phasing o f project activities at the decentralized levels, and the roles andresponsibilities of the
project unit at central level vis-a-vis the Provinces will occur based on terms of reference agreed upon
withinthe government team and spelledout inthe ProjectProcedures Manual.




                                                      44

To support the MINALOC Planning Directorate in its role as national coordinator of all programs and
projects which support Rwanda's decentralization and community development program (including but
not limited to the DCDP), the project will complement Government fundingand finance the purchase of a
vehicle and equipmentand the associatedrecurrent costs.

Project Component PPF Refinancing US$O.SO million
                                    -
The PPF will finance consultant services and studies to:   assess the districts' capacity, fiscaYfinancia1
decentralization, and the construction sector for small- and medium-scale enterprises; harmonize CDD
components across IDA-financed projects in Rwanda; and set up the MIS. It will also finance training
and workshops at national, Provincial and District levels, as well as support to the Project preparation
national team.




                                                   45

                                                   Annex 3: EstimatedProject Costs

               REPUBLICOFRWANDA:Decentralization and Community Development Project




PhysicalContingencies                                                                                 0.70                 0.20                    0.90
Price Contingencies                                                                                   0.60                  0.10                   0.70
                                          Total ProjectCosts'                                        18.00                  2.80                 20.80
                                     Total FinancingRequired                                         18.00                  2.80                 20.80




        Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m)and the total project cost, net of taxes, i s 20.7 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 96.62%
      of total project cost net of taxes.




                                                                          46

                           Annex 4: Cost EffectivenessAnalysis Summary

    REPUBLIC OF RWANDA: Decentralization and Community DevelopmentProject


Summary ofbenefitsandcosts:

Introduction. The objective of this annex is to assess the cost-effectiveness of the Project as a
poverty alleviation mechanism. The demand-driven nature of the project               which responds to
microproject proposals from poor communities during the life of the project     ----clearlyprecludes the
ex-ante use o f traditional methods of cost-benefit analysis. Instead, the approach adopted is to assess
the project at the macro and micro levels. At the macro level, the focus is on assessingthe project
rationale within the broader context of Rwanda's development objectives, govemment strategy, and
the Bank's country assistance strategy (CAS) and programs. At the micro level, the focus will be to
examine the cost-effectiveness of microprojects completed under the Project compared with those
completedthrough NGOprograms or other donors.

Benefits and Costs. The Project is expected to generate far-reaching benefits to a larger number of
low-income communities, as it i s a scale-up of the previous project. With a project size of US$5
million, the previous CRDP improved the living standards of many low-income communities by
supporting basic small-scale social and economic infrastructurerehabilitation (schools, potable water
supply, health clinics, and access roads).     Building upon this experience, the Project with an
investment of about US$8.5 million would respond to community demands for priority social needs
and i s expected to producetangible benefits to a large number o fpoor communities ina cost-effective
manner, provided that standards o f technical and cost efficiency are maintainedor improved. While a
variety o f microprojects are expected to be financed under the project, the majority of these are
expected to comprise:


0   the rehabilitation or construction o f primary and secondary schools to help implement basic
    education programs;
0   improvement o f water supply and sewerage for rural and urban communities;
0   the rehabilitation or construction of neighborhood roads, thereby improving mobility and access
    to services;
0   the rehabilitation or construction of primary health-care clinics to support health services at the
    community level; and
0   the rehabilitation or construction o f local community centers to promote social cohesion and
    inter-ethnic participationincommon activities

The Project will generate short-term employment for the poor, at least through the constructionphase
o f a microproject. It will also stimulate the development of the local construction industry through
introducing competitive procurement and encouraging small-scale contracting firms.                 More
importantly, through the use of participatory mechanisms and its demand-driven approach, significant
qualitative benefits from the Project will be the increased sense of ownership, trust, and social
cohesion inmany communities throughout the Districts covered by the Project.

MainAssumptions:
0   the Project is consistent with Rwanda's development strategy;
0   the microprojects under the Project will be more cost-effective than those carried out byNGOs;
0   the unit costs o f construction and impact upon communities will be more favorable than under
    altemative projects; and



                                                47

    0   microprojects will be selected according to criteria described in the Project Procedures Manual,
        which integrate simple quantitative economic
    0   analysis, consistent with the size of the microproject, cost perbeneficiary, and local capacity.

Part I:The rationale of the Project within Rwanda's CDD strategy in the overall framework of the
country's economic development, supported by the bilateral and multi-lateral development partners, has
outlined four broadpriorities:


    0   Fostering economic development and growth, and increasing employment, through creating the
        conditions for a market economy;
    0   Improvingthe living standards o f vulnerable groups, and enhancing the quality o f and access to
        education and health;
    0   Ensuringanefficient andtransparent public administration; and
    0   Providing equal opportunities for all citizens.

The Project supports all four. Interventions directly target the second, third, and fourth of the priorities
mentioned above, through the project's focus on rehabilitation o f social and economic infrastructure,
especially in the education and health sectors, and the provision of social services, to help improve the
livingstandards ofthe poor andvulnerable groups. Results inthese areas indirectly facilitate achievement
under the first priority, above. The project's support for capacity buildingat the local level i s designed to
enhance the capacity of local government officials and communities to addresspost-conflict and poverty-
relatedissues effectively and on a sustainable basis.

The previous IDA-financed project, CRDP, has proved to be an important tool for poverty alleviation
within a post-conflict environment. It forms an integral component of the Government's goal to improve
accessibility, sustainability and quality o f social services provided to the poor. It has been effective in
carrying out this mandate by financing the construction and rehabilitation of social and economic
infrastructure, to complement the work o f other line ministries. The previous project has also been crucial
inmalung a start inthe activation of a significant number of local contractors, and providing short-term
employment opportunities to the low income groups.

The objectives of the Bank's CAS, as explained in Section 2, are consistent with the above priorities. The
CAS focuses primarily on poverty alleviation, limited budget support, with an extensive program o f
analytical work. The latter, in particular, i s designed to respond to the priorities of the Rwanda
Government to promote economic growth, poverty reduction, fiscal sustainability, and good governance.

The Project will support the CAS objective of poverty alleviation, through its support for small-scale
infrastructure and social services at the local level, and its operation in a demand-driven manner, with
strong emphasis on community participation. The previous Project performed highly satisfactorily in            '
meetingits key objective o f improvingthe quality and availability o f community infrastructure and social
services inpoor and conflict-affected communities. The project targeted poor communities in 11Districts
of Rwanda, responding to community priority needs through community infrastructure microprojects
(works), mainly comprising potable water supply, school infrastructure, roads, and sewerage, making up
70 percent of the project portfolio. Residents inthese communities are now benefitingfrom better access,
quality and availability o f community infrastructure. A fuller assessment o f the CRDP's results i s
available inthe Implementation Completion Report (November 24,2003).

Apart from its main focus on promoting economic growthand development, the DCDPenvisagespositive
impacts on poverty. This i s to be achieved through improved allocation o f resources inline with medium-
term priorities and ensuringadequate and sustainable service delivery - which would progressively target



                                                      48

public spending towards improving access to, and quality of, services to the poor. Inaddition, the Project,
through its programs for rehabilitating or constructing schools, would complement the Bank-financed
Education Project (US$35 million) under execution, and the Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC)
under preparation, which aim at improving educational attainments at the primary and secondary levels,
and at enhancing the access o f vulnerable groups to education. The Project i s also consistent with the
main findings and recommendations of the Bank's Economic and Sector Work (ESW). The various
Poverty Assessments and household surveys conducted for the PRSP found, inter alia, poor educational
attainment and poor health status to be strong correlates o f poverty. The same point i s emphasized inthe
Public Expenditure Review. Through its social infrastructure programs, the Project will help implement
corrective actions inthese two areas.

Part 11:Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of Microprojects

Since an ex-ante analysis of microprojects i s precluded by the demand-driven nature o f the microprojects,
the approach adopted is: (i)to assess the cost-effectiveness o f the microprojects visd-vis projects
completed by other NGOs and other donor-assisted projects; and (ii)        if the results are favorable, to
assume that the microprojects will also be as cost-effective, providedthe same standards of technical and
economic efficiency are maintained.

Cost-effectiveness indicators:

Analysis of Microprojects. Inaccordance with the above approach, the cost-effectiveness analysis will
be undertaken throughout the project through a cost-accounting system to be established as part o f the
M&E exercise of the project and the financial management system described below. Indicators will
account for all microprojects, and invalue terms take into account average costs of microprojcts and their
respective unit cost (cost per square meter, cost per meter, etc.). Indicators will also include the number
of direct and indirect beneficiaries from completed microprojects, such as:

        Project                Total               Direct              Indirect          Cost per Direct
         Type              Investment          Beneficiaries         Beneficiaries         Beneficiary
                            (US$ eq.1               (No4                 m0.1               (US$ eq.1

Cost Effectiveness Comparisons. A comparaison of construction costs with those of a selected number
of comparator NGOs and other donor-assisted projects will be conducted. The selection o f these
comparator organizations will be based on the similarity o f their completed microprojects with those
under the DCDP to show, for example, comparative costs o f school rehabilitation and construction, roads
projects, etc. The analysis will also compare cost construction in terms o f the speed o f getting results on
the ground, on the whole, expecting the DCDP to be speedierrelative to its comparators.

          Project               Project CostKJnit         NGOCosWnit                Project/NGO Cost
           Type                      (US$ eq.)                 (US$ eq.1                     ("/.I

Cost-effectiveness indicators:

The main indicators used for project monitoring will be: (a) the average cost per each type of
microproject; and (b) impact andefficiency indicators which are listedbelow:




                                                     49

ImpactandEfficiencyIndicators

ProjectType              Cost-EffectivenessIndicators
Schools                  Cost per beneficiary, Cost per unit area.
Water Supply             Cost per beneficiary, Cost per unitlengtho f water pipe
Sewerage                 Cost per beneficiary, Cost per unit lengtho f sewerage pipe
Access Roads             Cost per beneficiary, Cost per unit lengthof road
Average                  Average Cost per Microproject

Norms for each type o f microproject as well as for impact and efficiency indicators will need to be
developed by the Project under the cost-accounting system.

The degree of cost-efficiency and effectiveness of alternatives can significantly vary depending on the
nature, mandate, and modus-operandi of an organization. For instance, project cost comparisons are not
sufficient to reveal the principal differences among the demand-driven (IDA-financed proposed project,
NGOs) and supply-driven (government) agencies interms of their efficacy and impact.

Basedon the above analysis, and data available inthe PCMU, unit cost and cost per beneficiary indicators
will be used to monitor the cost efficiency and the cost-effectiveness of the DCDP. With a view to
ensuring cost-effectiveness, a cost-accounting system will be introducedand implemented. The necessary
software will be integrated with the existing Management Information System (MIS), and PCMU Staff
will be trained inthe usageofthe software. The framework for such a systemi s set out below.

A FRAMEWORK FOR COSTACCOUNTING

Objective

The main objective o f the cost-accounting system outlined inthis annex i s to provide the MINALOC and
PCMU staff with a well-organized information system for the Project to ensure greater cost-effectiveness
in the use of project funds in meeting the basic social and economic infrastructure needs of the poor.
Although the present MIS and the PCMU have ample information on cost data, further work i s needed to
analyze and present such data ina more explicit form for use by MINALOC and PCMU alike, preferably
on a quarterly basis. Inspecific terms, the objectives of such areporting format are to:

0   provide information on the full cost of microprojects, including DCDP overheads, more explicitly;
0    help monitor, on a regularbasis, the cost of providingbasic social infrastructure for the poor;
0   review trends inproject costs, and unit costs inrelation to estimatespresented inwork programs and
    budgets, analyze variances, and examine underlying causes;
0    develop a framework for implementingcost-efficiency measures; and
0   provide abasis for formulating budgets for future years.

Such a framework will include: (i)  average costs o f microprojects by typology; (ii) composition o f the
                                                                                     full
direct costs o f microprojects; (iii)overhead expenditures; and (iv) unit costs o f providing social
infrastructure (cost per microproject, cost per beneficiary, cost per unit length o f pipeline rehabilitated
etc.). These are described below, together with some suggestions on how such a system might be
incorporated into the MIS, and on implementingthe system within the Project.

The discussion below is presented in three modules inthe following sequence, given that the analyses in
the secondandthirdmodules are dependent on those o f the precedingones:




                                                     50

    a) the economic analysis module;
    b) the managementinformation module; and
    c) the social impact module.

1. Measuring the Economic Impact--Analysis ofDirect Costs

The principal aim of the analysis o f direct costs of microprojects i s to measure their impact on the
country's economy. Information available on the composition of the direct cost o f each microproject in
terms of labor, materials and services (mainly equipment services) will be used. The labor component,
when aggregated over all the microprojects of the Project, will provide a measure of its short-term
employment impact. Likewise, local material costs (when disaggregated into foreign and local
components, ifpossible) will provide an estimate of the demand created for local materials by the Project.
At the same time, the aggregation of foreign costs will provide a measure ofthe foreign exchangeimpact.
Finally, the aggregation o f the service component will indicate the demand for local construction services
created by the Project.

The direct cost analysis o f microprojects may be presented in a separate cost accounting section of the
quarterly progress reports as follows:


0   direct cost analysis of DCDP microprojects completed, classifiedby typology;
0   the direct cost analysis of the total of microprojects completed at the endo f the quarter.

2. Managingthe Cost of Operations-Analysis           of Overhead Expenditures

The DCDP's operating (overhead) cost statements are prepared on a monthly basis, classified by major
expenditure categories (salaries, transport, communications, utilities, office supplies, etc.). The average of
total operating costs relative to total disbursements per year on microprojects as a percentage, an update,
or a quarterly moving average may be applied across the board to each microproject as overhead costs.
These estimates couldthen be usedto calculate the total cost of microprojects including overheads.

The above analysis, which i s essentially a planning, management and monitoring tool, could provide
some options to improving cost effectiveness. For example, time trends in costs of microprojects in
relationto budget estimates may indicate significant variances which would warrant a close examination
                                                                  -
o f underlying causes. Likewise, historical trends in costs of microprojects can provide useful norms for
future project selection. The estimated cost o f a particular microproject, compared against norms, may
then point to the need for re-design.

3. Assessingthe Cost Effectiveness of Microprojects inMeeting SocialNeeds

The main objective o f the analysis i s to monitor the cost effectiveness inproviding social infrastructure to
the poor, on aquarterlybasis, usingthe followingindicators:

Cost-Effectiveness Indicators

Project Type             Cost-Effectiveness Indicators

Schools                  Cost per beneficiary, Cost per unitarea.
Water Supply             Cost per beneficiary, Cost per unit lengtho f water
Sewerage                 Cost per beneficiary, Cost per unit area o f seweragepipe
Access Roads             Cost per beneficiary, Cost per unit length o froad
Average                  Average Cost per Micro-project


                                                      51

The above indicators, if assembled on a budgeted and actual basis, and on a quarterly and cumulative
basis, would provide the information for analyzing trends, and for comparing cost-effectiveness with
NGO and other donor-assisted projects for construction. The following format, using water supply as an
illustration, may be used inthe annual progress report, to present the cost-effectiveness of the main types
of microproject:

Water SupplyProjects                  CompletedinYear             Cumulativeto Date
                                      Planned      Actual          Planned        Actual
Number of Projects
Average Cost per Project
Number of Beneficiaries
Cost per Beneficiary
Cost per unit length o fpipe (urban)
Cost per unitlength of pipe (rural)
(Repeat for each type o f micro-project)

Integratingwith the M I S

Upgrading of MIS supported by the proposed Project will provide an opportunity to integrate a cost
accounting module inthe overall MIS.The detailed design o f this module should include a clear format
for presenting cost accounting information to MINALOC and the PCMU. This presentation need not
follow the sequential order described above. Given the nature o f the Project, it would be more appropriate
to present the social impact section first, followed by the sections on economic impact and management
information systems.

ReportingRequirements

The annual progress reports sent to the World Bank, through PCMU, should contain cost statements for
the relevant year. Such a report will provide MINALOC and the Bank a clearer picture on how Grant
funds are beingused, and progress inimplementingcost-efficiency measures.

ConcludingComments

Implementing the cost accounting system will require the full cooperation o f all staff. The PCMU, in
particular, will have a major role to play inproviding and analyzing basic cost accounting data. It would
therefore be important for MINALOC to widely disseminate the purpose and the scope of the simple cost-
accounting system outlined above. The presentation o f cost-effectiveness considerations at meetings and
seminars with Government officials, donors, and other key stakeholders, can contribute significantly
towards more effective use of project funds. Fullimplementation o f the system will no doubt demonstrate
the proposed Project's commitment to meetingthe social and economic infrastructureneeds of the poor in
the most cost-effective manner.




                                                     52

                                Annex 5: FinancialSummary

           REPUBLIC OF RWANDA: Decentralizationand Community Development Project
                                       Years Ending




                         Year 1  Year 2    Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6     Year 7
Total Financing Required
 Project Costs
 Investment Costs           3.9      3.3       3.7      4.1       3.2      0.0      0.0
 Recurrent Costs            0.5      0.5       0.5      0.5       0.5      0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs         4.4      3.8       4.2      4.6       3.7      0.0      0.0




Other                       0.0      0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0

 Total Project Financing    4.3      3.8       4.2       4.6      3.6      0.0      0.0




                                            53

                                 Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements

         REPUBLICOFRWANDA: DecentralizationandCommunityDevelopmentProject

Procurement

General

The last Rwanda Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) was conducted more than fifteen
years ago. Since then, the institutional and legal framework, and procurement practices, have changed
significantly. A CPAR i s beingundertaken inFY04.The main part o f the field assessment takes place in
March 2004. The final report i s due to be issued by May 2004.

The CPAR will be undertaken while the Rwandapublic procurement system is undergoingreform. The
National Tender Board (NTB) is now formally created since the publication o f the Prime Minister's order
no 91/03 of 31/12/2002 establishing and organizing the NTB. It has in fact been in place since 1997,
following a recommendation o f the Cabinet, but without a formal status or mandate established in
compliance with the country regulations.

The Government also published Presidential decree no 21/03 of 12/07/2003                  establishing the
administrative and financial manual for central administration. Chapter six of this manual i s devoted to
procurement procedures and methods to be used by Rwanda's administration. The procedures and
methods spelled out in this decree are based on World Bank guidelines, and so the procedures and
methods are not inconflict with the Bank`s. Inaddition, the country procurementregulationsand practices
allow IDAprocedures to take precedence over any conflicting provisions inthe national regulations.

Use of BankGuidelines

Procurement o f goods required for the project and to be financed from the proceeds of the credit shall be
governed by the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credit, published in January
 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999; Bank Standard
BiddingDocument (SBD) and the StandardEvaluationReport will be usedfor International Competitive
Bidding (ICB). National Competitive Bidding (NCB) will be carried out in accordance with Rwanda
procurement laws and regulations acceptable to IDA. The NCB i s consistent with key procurement
objectives o f IDA and ensures that : (i)bids will be advertised in national newspapers with wide
circulation; (ii) bid documents clearly explain the bid evaluation and award criteria; (iii) are
                the                                                                             bidders
given adequate response time (minimum four weeks) to prepare and submit bids; (iv) bids will be
awarded to the lowest evaluated bidder and not arbitrarily; (v) eligible bidders, including foreign bidders,
will not be precluded from participation and ; (vi) no domestic preference margins are applicable to
domestic manufacturers and suppliers.

Consultant service contracts financed by IDA will be procured inaccordance with the Bank's Guidelines
for the Selection of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised in September 1997,
January 1999 and May 2002). The World Bank's Standard Request For Proposal (SRFP) will be used for
the appointment o f consultants, as well as forms of contracts as relevant and needed (lump-sum, time
based and/or simplified contract for short term assignment and individual consultants), and the Sample
Formof Evaluation Report for the Selection o f Consultants (October 1999).

Community based sub-projects (Component 3: Community Initiatives) will be procured in accordance
with paragraph 3.15 of the Bank's Procurement Guidelines (Community Participation in Procurement)


                                                     54

and the Bank's Guidelines for Simplijied Procurement and Disbursement for Community-Based
Investments (February 1998). The Project Implementation Manual (PIM) would describe in detail the
specific procurementarrangementsof the Community basedcomponent.

Advertising

Upon World Bank Board approval of the project, a General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be prepared
and submittedto IDA for publication inthe UnitedNations Development Business online (UNDB online)
and in the Development Gateway Market (dg Market) following Board approval, to announce major
consulting assignments and any ICB. The notice will list all goods contracts above U S 150,000 equivalent
and contracts for consultant services above US$ 100,000 equivalent to obtain expression of interest. The
GPN will be updated on a yearly basis as long as ICB for goods contracts and consultant contracts
exceeding the above mentioned amounts are foreseen in the annual procurement plan. Specific
Procurement Notices (SPN) will berequiredfor all goods contracts procuredby ICB and NCB. SPNs will
bepublishedinnationalnewspapersofwide circulationandinternationally for large contracts (ICB).

ProcurementCapacityassessment

An assessment ofthe capacity ofthe agencies andthe institutions to be involvedinthe implementationof
the project was carried out in October 2003 in accordance with Procurement Policy and Service Group
(OPCPR) guidelines dated July 15, 2002. The overall procurement risk i s highsince the key role will be
playedby the Tender commissions at the District level which have weak procurement capacity.

In order to mitigate the risks, an action plan was agreed with the Borrower, comprising the following
points:

0   The Project Coordination and Management Unit (PCMU) will be strengthened by : (i)         recruiting at
    least two engineerdarchitects to supervise and monitor the civil works activities derived from the
    community based sub-projects ;(ii)    hiringat least one accountant who is also trainedinprocurement,
    for each o f the four Provincial Project Coordination Offices (PPOs); (iii)      hiring a consultant to
    provide training and support to improve the procurement filing system; (iv) setting up a data base to
    be regularly updated with the names, references and performance o f contractors established in the
    Provinces covered by the project.

0   Theprocurement tools will be updated and tailored to the needs and the capacity of the main users:
    The PIM (i)   will take account the lessons learned from implementing the CRDP; and (ii)   include the
    standard bidding documents to be used for local bidding and requests for quotations, the guiding
    principles for the establishment of technical specifications and evaluation reports. All the bidding
    documents and guides will be translated into the national language (kinyanuanda) with examples and
    illustrations so they can easily be understood and mastered by the tender commissions at the District
    level  .

0   Theprocurement training o f the District tender commissions will be a permanent activity during the
    lifetime o f the project: (i) PCMU and the NTB will designate a procurement training coordinator ;
                               the
    (ii) assessmentofprocurementtrainingneedswillbeconductedbefore theproject'seffectiveness
        the
    (financed by the PPF or PHRD grant and carried out by a consultant) ;(iii)    the procurement training
    will begin during the project preparation ; and (iv) once the project is launched, the procurement
    training programwill deliver a minimumo f 500 person days o f procurement training annually.




                                                     55

ProcurementPlan.

The community basedsub-projects will be derived from the annual community development planrealized
at the District level. These plans will be established each year through a participatory process. Hence the
exact mix o f goods, works and services resulting from the annual community development plan i s
difficult to forecast at this stage. However as a rule each agreement to be signed with a District for the
implementation of a community development plan will include a procurement plan containing relevant
information on the procurement methods and the estimated cost of each procurement package as well as
the timingo f the procurement process.For the other components, aplan covering the Global Procurement
Plan (GPP) for the whole project and a Detailed Procurement Plan (DPP) for the first year were agreed
upon duringnegotiations. The DPP includes the procurement methods and the timingo f eachmilestone in
the procurement process for each activity. The DPP will be updated every six months and submitted to
IDA for prior review.

ProcurementImplementationArrangements

Procurement will be the responsibility o f the following institutions: (i) Project Coordination and
                                                                             The
Monitoring Unit (PCMU); (ii)       The National Tender Board ; and (iii) tender commissions of the
                                                                            the
Districts.

The PCMU will be responsible for all procurement activities apart from the community based sub-
projects. The PCMU will prepare and update annual procurement plans, prepare bidding documents,
evaluate the bids and prepare the evaluationreports, monitor and manage the execution o f contracts. The
PCMU, through the Provincial Project Coordination Offices, will oversee procurement activities
conducted at the District level. Inparticular, the PCMU will review the procurement plan to be included
in the Community development plan. The bidding documents for all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent o f U S 25,000 or more will be subject to prior review by the procurement unit o f the PCMU.
Special treatment will be devoted to work contracts to be procured through national competitive bidding.
For these activities the PCMU will ensure that tender commissions are adequately staffed to conduct the
procurement process of contracts that appear to be to some extent complicated. Finally, the PCMU in
close collaboration with the National Tender Board will have to ensure that the procurement training
program for Districts i s implemented, and that the content o f the course is regularly adapted so that the
program is inline with the findings of the post procurement reviews and the technical audits .

The National Tender Board will review on a no objection basis all the bidding documents, the bidding
reports and the contracts for procurement activities estimated to cost the equivalent o f US$ 30,000 or
more. The NTBwill be responsible for the design of the procurement training program and will supervise
its implementation. Finally the NTB will be responsible for the implementation o f the procurements
audits to be conducted annually, no latter than four months after the endthe calendar year.

The District through their Tender Commissions will be responsible for the implementation of
procurement activities derived from the community development plans incompliance with the procedures
and the methods described in the PIM. For each contract estimated to cost more than the equivalent o f
US$2,500, the Districts will be askedto send a copy of the procurement documents to the PCMU, via the
Provincial Project Coordination Offices, starting from the invitation to bid, to the contract closure. These
documents would be of assistance for the P C W to facilitate suitable monitoring o f the observance of
procurement procedures. In addition, the documents will provide first hand information that will help
inform the design o f training programs and thus will facilitate tailoring procurement training to the needs
o f the Districts. For contracts estimated to cost more than the equivalent o f US$ 25,000, the District will
have to obtain the no objection o f the PCMU prior to publication o f the biddingdocument and award o f




                                                     56

the contract. Contracts that require the no objection of the NTB will be sent to this institution through the
PCMU.

 Procurement methods(TableA)

Procurement Methods

Procurement of community basedsub-projects. As already indicated, the exact mix of the community
based procurement activities is difficult to forecast. However, based on the experience of the CRDP, the
sub-projects will mainly constitute small-scale works. These include the construction or the rehabilitation
of basic infrastructures for health, education ,roadrehabilitations, water and sanitation, buildingfacilities
for the Districts such as offices, and environmental activities such as erosion control. The PIM will
contain adequate information and details on the procurement process and the standardbiddingdocuments.

Community based sub-projects of works estimated to cost the equivalent o f US$50,000 or more would be
awarded using NCB procedures. Community based sub-projects of works estimated to cost between the
equivalent o f US$ 5,000 and US$ 50,000 would be procured under lump sum fixed price contract
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified domestic contractors inresponse
to a written invitation, which will include the time and place of the quotation, the place the works will be
realized, the basic technical specifications, bill of quantities, the required completion date. The contract
shallbe awarded to the contractor who offers the lowest price for the required work. For small works of a
value less than the equivalent of US$ 5,000, simplified procedures under "community participation in
procurement'' or direct contractingmay be applied.

Community based sub-projects o f goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 25,000 or more will be
awarded usingNCB procedures. Community based sub-projects o f goods estimated to cost between the
equivalent o f US$500 and US$20,000 will beprocuredunder lump sumfixed price contract awarded on
the basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified contractors in response to a written
invitation, which will include time and place o f the quotation, and the time and place for delivery o f the

evaluated at the same time .
goods, a clear description/ specifications and quantity o f the goods. The quotations will be opened and


Goods (US$ 1.2 million). Procurement o f vehicles, motorcycles, computers and equipment for the
PCMU estimated to cost US$ 150,000 equivalent per contract will be procured using international
competitive bidding (ICB) procedures. Goods estimated to cost US$ 150,000 equivalent or less per
contract may be awarded usingnational competitive bidding(NCB). The biddingdocuments to be used
for NCB, includingthe evaluation criteria and the contract, will be described inthe PIM agreedwith IDA.
Goods including vehicles and computers estimated to cost less than US$ 250,000 equivalent per contract
may be procured using IAPSO in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph 3.9 o f World Bank
guidelines. Office equipment, motorcycles, purchases o f off-the-shelf items may be procured through
prudentshoppingprocedures inpackagesestimated to cost US$30,000 equivalent, or less, per contract.

Consultant Services (US$ 0.8 million). These services among others, include consultants who will be
engaged for training in the capacity building activities at the various decentralized levels of the project
and for project evaluations and audits. As a rule, all consultant services estimated to cost US$ 100,000 or
more will be procured though Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) methods. In the case of
assignments estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000, the shortlist may be made up entirely o f national
consultants, provided that at least three qualified national firms are available in the country, and foreign
consultants who wish to participate arenot excluded from consideration.




                                                      57

Consultant services estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$ 25,000.00 may be contracted by
comparing the qualifications of individual consultants who have expressed an interest in the job or who
have been identified. All consulting services of individual consultants will be procured under individual
contracts in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 to 5.3 of the World Bank Guidelines. Some
individual consulting services may, with the agreement of IDA,be selectedunder single-source basis.

Training and workshop and study tours (US$7.2 million) will be carried out on the basis of approved
annual work programs which identify the general framework o f training or similar activities for the year,
including the nature of traininghtudy tours/workshops, number of participants, and cost estimates.
Selection o f training institutions would be based on a competitive process using the Quality based
selection method or single source selection inaccordancewith provisions of paragraph 3.7 and 3.8 to 3.11
o f the World Bank consultant guidelines, respectively

                                TableA: Pro                             nt Arrangements


Expenditure Category




 11     Figures inparenthesesare the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant. All costs include contingencies.
 21     Includes civil works and goods to be procuredthrough national shopping, consulting services, services o f
        contracted staff o fthe project management office, training, technical assistanceservices, and incremental operating
        costs related to (i)managing the project, and (ii)
                                                        re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                         58

                         Table Al: Consultant SelectionArrangements(optional)
                                           (US$ million equivalent)




    1\ Including contingencies
         Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
               QBS = Quality-based Selection
               SFB= Selection under a FixedBudget
               LCS =Least-Cost Selection
               CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
               Other = Selection o f individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
               Commercial Practices, etc.
               N.B.F.=NotBank-financed
               Figures inparenthesesare the amounts to be financed by the Bank Grant.


 Priorreview thresholds(TableB)

Bankprior review.

Goods contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 150,000 or more, and civil works contracts
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 200,000 or more, will be subject to prior review procedures. The
first three contracts for goods estimated to cost less than US$ 150,000 equivalent per contract will be
subject to prior review procedures. In addition, under the Community Initiatives Component, the first
three contracts for goods estimated to cost US$ 30,000 equivalent per contract or more, and the first three
contracts for works estimated to cost US$ 50,000 equivalent or more per contract will be subject to IDA
prior review. All other contracts will be subject to post review by IDA during implementation support
missions and by auditors.

Consultant services. All terms of reference and all single source selection regardless of contract cost,
will be subject to prior review. Contracts estimated to cost US$ 50,000 or more for individuals and
US$lOO,OOO or more for firms will be subject to prior review procedures. All other contracts will be
subject to post review by IDA during implementation support missions and by auditors during the
technical audits.

Procurementsupervisionandtechnicalaudit

Duringthe first year ofproject activities, implementation support missionswill be carried out every four
months, and thereafter every six months, provided the performance o f the project permits. Duringthese
missions, a selective post review o f contracts awarded below the threshold will apply to at least one in
seven contracts.



                                                    59

                         Table B: Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethods and Prior Review'

                                                                                               Contracts Subject to
                                          Inres                                                    Prior Review
                                                                                                  (US$ thousands)
1. Works

2. Goods                                    >150                           ICB                    All contract >150

                                              >3 0                          NCB                    The first 3 contracts
                                                                                                        4 5 0

                                               <30                      Three quotations                None
3. Services

Consultant firms                            >loo
                                             <loo                         QCBS                            All
                                                                     QCBS, LCS, CQ              Review of TOR only

                                             >50                     See Section V o f        All (TOR, contract, CV)
Individual consultants                                           Consultants Guidelines

                                             <50                     See Section V o f          Review of TOR only
                                                                 Consultants Guidelines
4. Sub-grants for                         All values              Paragraph3.15 of the        All contract ofworks and
Community Development                                                   Guidelines                   goods >150
Initiatives                                                                                    All contract ofservices
                                                                                               >lo0 for firms and >50
                                                                                              for Individual consultants
                                                                                               The first three contracts
                                                                                                    for goods > 30
                                                                                               The first three contracts
                                                                                                    for works > 50


                    Total value of contracts subject to prior review:        N / A
                             OverallProcurement RiskAssessment:              High
        Frequencyof procurement supervision missions proposed:               One every 6 months
                                                                             (includes special procurement supervision
                                                                             for post-review/audits)



      1\ Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult "Assessment o f Agency's Capacity to Implement
      Procurement" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.




                                                            60

                 Annex 6(B): FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements

           REPUBLICOFRWANDA:DecentralizationandCommunityDevelopmentProject

FinancialManagement
1. Summaryofthe FinancialManagementAssessment

CountryIssues

A financial accountability review was carried out by the Government of Rwanda and the World Bank in
2003 as part o f the public expenditure management review process supported by the World Bank, DFID
and other donors. The review noted that the Government o f Rwanda has made considerable strides
towards improving accountability, but that some weaknesses still exist. The Government i s fully
committed to develop its decentralization policy which is operationalized through a set of laws governing
local administrations, and the Manual of Financial Procedures for Local Governments that was issued in
2003 by Ministerial Decree. The review also notes the weak capacity in financial management and
mentions various efforts that are targeted to building this up. The next stage o f the review process will
involve the Government and its donor partners indetermining short, medium and long term actions that
need to be taken to addressthe weaknesses identified inthe diagnostic phase.The next stage o f the review
i s expected to be completedby June 2004.

InstitutionalandImplementationArrangements

A description of the project is contained inother sections of this Project Appraisal Document (PAD). The
main implementing agency for the project is the Ministry o f Local Administration, Community
Development and Social Affairs (MINALOC) through a Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit
(PCMU). The PCMU has experience in World Bank financed projects, having implemented the
Community Reintegration and Development Project (CRDP).

Activities financed by the project and implemented by local administrations will be implemented in
accordance with the relevant law and regulations. Each District supported by the project shall enter into a
participating agreement setting out obligations and responsibilities o f either party. In addition, relevant
agreements containing obligations and responsibilities o f each District and subordinate local
administration will govern the financing o f sub-projects.

A more detailed descriptionof the overall institutional arrangements for the project is set out inSection C
of the PAD.

SummaryRiskAnalysis

The objectives of the project's financial management system are: to ensure that funds are used only for
their intended purposes in an efficient and economical way while implementing agreed activities; to
enable the preparation o f accurate and timely financial reports; to ensure that funds are properly managed
and flow smoothly, adequately, regularly and predictably to implementing agencies; to enable project
management to monitor the efficient implementation o f the project; and to safeguard the project assets
andresources.

Furthermore, the following are necessaryfeatures o f a strong financial management system:

         (i)andPCIvfUshouldhave an adequatenumber andmix of skilled and experienced staff;
              the
                  adequate support shouldbe given to Districtaccountants;


                                                    61

           (ii)theinternalcontrolsystemshouldensuretheconductofanorderlyandefficientpaymentand
                procurement process, andproper recording and safeguarding of assets andresources;
           (iii)theaccountingsystemshouldsupporttheproject'srequestsforfindingandmeetits
                 reporting obligations to fundproviders including Government of Rwanda, IDA, and local
                 communities;
           (iv) the systemshould becapable ofproviding financial datato measureperformance when
                  linkedto the output of the project; and
           (v) an independent, qualified auditor shouldbe appointed to review the Project's financial
                  statementsand internal controls.

   The table below identifies the key risks that management may face in achieving these objectives and
   provides a basis for determininghow management should address these risks.

                 Risk:                    Rating                               Mitigation:
                                                                                    -
Funds,especially for sub-projects,          M           Accountability for sub-projects will be set out in
may not be usedinan efficient and                       accordancewith LGstatutory regulations; guidelines will
economical way and exclusively for                     be issuedand widely circulated by MINALOC.
purposes intended, and such funds                     . ThePCMUwillprovide support fromtheProvincial
may not be properly accounted for.                      Project Offices, for District accountants inorder to
                                                        account properly for project transactions.
                                                        Communities will be involved inthe monitoring of sub-
                                                        project expenditures
LGcapacity maynot be sufficient to           S     I   The PCMUwill provide assistance from Provincial
implement all the control procedures                   Project Offices, for District accountants
as intended(accounting, intemal                      * The project will provide funds for capacity building
audit and inspection)                                  under a separate component
                                                       Accounting capacity o f LGswill be assessedbefore
                                                       they receive grants
                                                       Internal control procedures will be documented in
                                                       guidelines and these will be widely circulated to LG.
Counterpart funds may not be                 S      Arrangements will be made at the Central level to support
sufficient given the low levels of                  efforts by local govemments, to enhancetheir revenues.
locally generatedrevenues
DistrictDevelopmentPlans (DDPs)              M      Planningguidelines andparticipatory planning approaches
may not fully reflect community                     will support the LGsinplanning andbudgetingo f
needs due to inadequatemechanisms                   investment funds and addressinclusion o f community
usedto identifv these.                              plans inconsolidated DDPs
Approval o f workplans may be               M       The PCMUwill establish clear guidelines for the approval
delayed due to unnecessaryexternal                  o f sub-projects.
interference
Internal audit functions may not be          S      PCMU to complement IntemalAudit capacity at local
sufficiently carried out at the District            governments
level due io capacity shortfalls
The Auditor General may be unable            S        OAGto prepare a strategy for developing the
to audit district expenditures due to                 Office.
limited capacity                                      Fundswillbeprovidedunder the projectto subcontract
                                                      the audits o f Districtfinancial statements
       Risk Rating -H (HighRisk), S




                                                          62

Flow of Funds

Bank accounts

The followingbank accounts will be maintainedby the PCMUfor project funds:

e   Special Account : Denominated inUS dollars, this will serve as the main project account into which
    IDAwill deposit project implementationfunds;
e   Project Account: This will be denominated in local currency and counterpart funds from the
    Government o f Rwandamay be deposited onthis account inaccordancewith project objectives.

The Special dollar account will be maintained in the Central Bank of Rwanda (Banque Nationale du
Rwanda) inaccordance with the country's legal requirements. The Project Account will be maintainedin
a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. Signatories on both accounts will be determined and documented
inthe FPM.

Inadditiontothese, every participatingDistrictshallestablisha separatebankaccount for theproject to
be usedexclusively for project funds inaccordance with Local Administration regulations.

A valid financing agreement will be a requirement for both initial and subsequent disbursements to a
District.

2. Audit Arrangements

Internal Auditing

As an important part of the ongoing monitoring o f the system o f internal controls, the internal audit
function will provide an independentassessment of the adequacy of, and compliance with, the established
controls and procedures. Reporting directly to the project senior management, the Internal Audit
Department will be staffed with competent, well-trained individuals who have a clear understanding o f
their role and responsibilities. The frequency and extent of intemal audit review and testingo f the internal
controls, will be consistent with the nature, complexity, and risk associated with the project's activities.
Internal audit reports will address intemal control deficiencies, or ineffective policies or procedures.
Projectmanagement will be expectedto correct the deficiencies ina timely manner.

Internal audit arrangements relating to Local Administrations will be executed as provided for in the
relevant legal and regulatory framework. Reliance shall be placed by the PCMU on the District Internal
Auditor who will conduct regular audit verification of sub-project transactions to ascertain whether
individual expenditure i s eligible for financing under the project and fully supported by adequate
documentation. Furthermore, they will ensure that supporting documents are reliable and accurate.
District internal audit reports will be prepared and submitted to the District CDC and to the PCMU
internal auditor. Technical supervision and financial audits carried out regularly by the technical District
staff and the intemal auditors will be used as part o f the monitoring and evaluation exercise. The PCMU
will make arrangements to support Districts where necessaryand to monitor compliance with procedures
inthe useoffunds for sub-projects andperformance benchmarks maintainedbythe Districts for directly-
funded sub-projects.

ExternalAuditing

The Auditor General is responsible for auditing all government projects. The audit may be subcontracted
to a firm of private auditors, with the final report beingissued by the Auditor General based on the tests


                                                     63

carried out by the subcontracted firm. Where the audit i s subcontracted, the selected external auditor will
be acceptable to IDA interms of independence, qualifications and experience and will conduct a year-end
audit based on Terms of Reference cleared by IDA. The audited financial statements together with the
auditor's report and management letter covering identified internal control and accounting system
weaknesses will be submitted to IDA within six months after the end of each financial year. A single
audit opinion will be issued on project income and expenditures, special accounts and Financial
MonitoringReports (FMRs).

The audit approach adopted for the project will encompass a review of the expenditures o f the PCMU
together with their disbursement o f the grants. For expenditures incurred by the Districts and financed
using the community development grants, assurance will be obtained from the normal District audit
requirements in accordance with relevant laws and regulations. These require that the OAG audits the
annual accounts o f all Districts, and these would reflect expenditures financed using community
development grants.

The OAG i s not yet fully resourced to fulfill its legal mandate and duty to audit all District financial
statements. The Office currently has 60 staff, and they have only just commenced the audits o f Districts,
starting with those with highlevels of expenditure, mostly around the City o f Kigali. The Office i s inthe
process of finalizing a document setting out its strategy for development for a period ending in 2006.
Technical assistance has been provided to the OAG by the Auditor General of Sweden and the
Netherlands, and this i s intended to support the development o f an audit methodology, a manual o f
procedures, installationof an information systemand training o f staff.

The project preparationteam and the OAGwill agree on Terms o f Reference for the audit o f the Districts,
particularly those in which the project will operate. The team will explore the options through which the
OAG could be funded to subcontract the performance of these audits. This option is envisaged in the
Local Government manual o f financial and accounting procedures and would be a short term bridging
solution while sufficient capacity i s developed within the OAG, through its Strategy, to enable it to take
upits duties.

3. DisbursementArrangements

DisbursementofIDAFundsto the PCMU

Disbursementonthe basis ofFinancialMonitoringReuorts

Inthe long term, disbursement of IDA funds to the PCMU, for activities, will be based on FMRs that
integrate financial reporting, procurement and contract management with physical implementation
progress. The FMRs will include the following: a project financial statement which incorporates a
summary of sources and uses o f funds, an updated six-month forecast, a Special Account activity
statement; a statement of eligible expenditures by disbursement category; a project progress report
explaining variances between actual physical and financial progress versus forecasts; a Summary
Statement of Special Account Expenditures for Contracts subject to Prior Review; and a Summary
Statement of SA Expenditures not subject to Prior Review.

An advance will be made into the Special Account at the time o f conversion to this method of
disbursement. The advance will be meant to cover project expenditures for six months as indicated inthe
initial six-month cashflow forecast. After every subsequent quarter, the project will submit FMRs which
include a cashflow forecast for the following six-month period. The cashrequest at the reporting date will
be the amount required for the forecast period as shown in the approved FMRs less the balance in the



                                                    64

Special Account at the end o f the quarter. Subsequent disbursements of the IDA funds will be made in
respect of this request.

The option o f disbursingthe funds through direct payments from IDA on contracts above a predetermined
threshold will also be available. Withdrawal applications for such payments will be accompanied by
relevant supporting documents such as copies of the contract, contractors' invoices and appropriate
certifications.

Transitional arrangements for disbursement

In the intervening period after Credit effectiveness but before the project adopts report-based
disbursements, the IDA Credit will be disbursedusing traditional methods. An advance into the Special
Account will be made at the inception of the project, and subsequent replenishments will be made on the
basis of withdrawal applications and Statements of Expenditure (SOE's). Duringthis period, FMRs that
are required under FMR-based disbursements will be prepared by the project and submitted to IDA for
review.They will be usedto assessprogress towards meetingthe requirements o fFMR-basedmethods of
disbursement. At the time of conversion, the project will prepare a reconciliation o f project expenditures,
disbursements received, and Special Account movements up to the proposed date o f the conversion. Other
details for the conversion will be worked out closer to the time o f conversion between the project team
and IDA.

Disbursementof funds from the Special Account to Local Governments

Mechanism: Inthe long run,the Government intends to use its Common Development Fund(CDF), once
strengthened, as the mechanism through which all development funds (including those sourced from
Development Partners) are channeled from the Central to the local government level. Until then,
community sub-project funds will be disbursed from the Special Account to special purpose District
accounts in tranches, depending on the nature and size o f the funding and the length of the
implementation period. Once a District Community Development Committee (CDC) approves an annual
worlcplan and budget, an initial tranche will normally be based on the approved sub-projects' proposals.
Subsequent payments will be based on progress reports (physical and financial). The PCMU will then
undertake reviews on a sample basis to verify these reports and ensure continuing eligibility of
expenditures and compliance with project objectives. Insome cases, for example, where the total cost o f a
sub-project i s minimal or where the nature of the sub-project's transactions demands a substantial portion
o f its expenditures at the outset, the disbursement in respect o f such sub-projects will be made in one
tranche. Inthese cases, a more detailedcompletion report will be required.

Payments for services by Local Governments: Sub-projects approved by the CDCs will indicate the
arrangements through which payments for goods or services will be made. These include the payee
details, schedules of payments, and conditions to be satisfied before stage payments are made. Payments
will be made by drawing on the District CDC account. Incertain cases, Districts may request the PCMU
to make a direct payment to suppliers on their behalf. Insuch cases, the PCMU will ensure that such total
sub-project expenditures will not exceed those indicated inthe approved annual workplans.

Eligibilitv of expenditures: For the purposes o f reimbursement o f expenditures, periodic disbursements
made by the PCMU inrespect o f sub-projects will be considered to be eligible payments. This is because
they will be made against physical progress as regularly reportedto the PCMU.




                                                    65

                                      FUNDSFLOWMECHANISM

    The diagrambelow depicts the funds flow mechanism that will be deployed for the project.




Counterpart funds

The Government of Rwanda will provide counterpart funds in a percentage as agreed in the financing
plan described earlier inthis PAD. Contributions from LGs and communities have been estimated as part
of this financing plan, and specific amounts will be determined and agreed on a sub-project basis as part
of the sub-project grant agreements, during executiono f the Project.

Remediesagainstnon-submissionof returns andother financial information

IDA will have the right, as reflected in the Credit Agreement, to suspend disbursement to PCMU if
reporting requirements are not complied with. Similarly, participating agreements will grant a right of
suspension to PCMU and the District if proper supporting documentation i s not submitted from lower
levels o f implementationas required.




                                                   66

4.       Detailedfinancial managementprocedures

FinancialManagement Framework for Local Governments

A sufficient legal andregulatory framework governing the financial management of public funds inlocal
governments forms a sufficient basis for accounting for project funds used at that level. This framework
consists of a new constitution promulgated in June 2003 which defined the existence of decentralized
entities and conferred upon Districts legal and financial autonomy. Furthermore, laws have been enacted
by Parliament that govern the administration and functioning of Districts. The Financial and Accounting
Procedures Manual for Local Administration inRwanda (FAPMLA)was issued by ministerial decree in
July 2003, thereby attaining a legal basis upon which the procedures contained therein can be enforced.
The manual, which has been circulated to all Districts, establishes a set of regulations which relate to
governance in the local administrations and covers the following areas: institutional responsibilities for
financial management; budgeting in Local Governments; revenue management; procurement procedure;
expenditure/payments management; Local Government accounts (the types o f accounts, books of
accounts, processes of maintaining accounts, and financial reports); and audit functions both for internal
and external audit.

The law governing the Local Administrations states that the District Executive Secretary (DES) shall be
the chief accounting officer for the District. The Finance Department o f each LA i s headedby a District
Accountant (DA). The DA reports to the DES for all financial transactions and accounts in the LA,
including those financed under the project. The DA will ensure that the Finance Department has the
necessary staff resources to enable it to carry out its responsibilities relating to the accounting functions
necessary for project transactions. The functions of the DA are described in the FAPMLA.Evidence of
the availability of satisfactory staff resources, obtained through regular institutional evaluations, will be a
prerequisite for the receipt o f funds from the PCMU.

Various appraisals of the decentralization process carried out by the Borrower, the World Bank and other
donor partners have identified the financial management capacity at the LG level as weak. In order to
address this, the Government, supported by its developmental partners, embarked on a training program
to ensure that accounting staff are equipped with the knowledge and skills necessary for them to perform
their duties. A needs assessment will be carried out by MINALOC to fully assess the benefits derived
from the ongoing capacity buildingactivities and more accurately define any existing gaps. This would
form the basis of the preparation and design o f suitable additional capacity building tasks that can be
financed under the project.

Staffingat the PCMU

The PCMU is headedby the Project Coordinator who reports to the SecretaireD'Etat inMINALOC. The
Project Financial Controler will head the financial management function within the project. The Project
Financial Controler's functions will include: overall supervision o f Accounts Unit; planning and
allocation of work amongst staff; signing checks as one of the principal signatories; monitoring the
implementation of financial management procedures outlined in the Financial section o f the Project
Procedures Manual; taking a lead role in budget preparation and budgetary control; liaising with the
World Bank implementation support missions on all matters pertaining to credit utilization, financial
covenants and audit compliance; and supervising the payment o f foreign and local contractors and the
disbursement o f funds to Districts.

Given the current weakness in accounting capacity at District and lower levels o f administration, the
project will also fund accountants on a contract basis, to be posted at the Project Provincial Office, with
the specific task o f providingback-up support to the staff already hiredby the District administrations in


                                                       67

their records management and reporting responsibilities relevant to the project, and coordinate the
preparation o f reports that will be required for submission to the PCMU. They will be attached to the
project but will work in close collaboration with Provincial Monitoring teams under MINALOC that
already exist. Appropriate Terms o f Reference setting out the allocation of duties and responsibilities for
these accountants have been preparedbefore Credit Effectiveness of the project. There i s already a pool
o f accountants who were attachedto the Districtsto provide assistanceunder the CRDP, and these may be
reappointedunder the newproject iftheir experience and qualifications matchrequirements.

Written position descriptions that clearly define duties, responsibilities, lines of supervision, and limits of
authority for all o f the officers, managers, and staff with project financial management responsibilities
will be drawn up and documented in the Financial section of the Project Procedures Manual. An
appropriate training program which will include World Bank financial management procedures will be
designed for staff. The allocation of responsibilities should enable the appropriate segregation o f duties to
ensure proper accountability.

PlanningandBudgeting

A project budget and a disbursement schedule have been drawn up and are included in the Project
Appraisal Document and the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). It i s from this disbursement schedule (as
may be subsequently revised) that annual budgets will be drawn. The project's annual budget will be
prepared under the supervision of the National Coordinator, based on the policy guidelines issued by the
Ministry of Finance. The annual estimates will be finalized three months before the beginning of the
financial year. The budget format will be based on the Program categories and sub-categories. It will
show expenditure estimatesper quarter and a total expenditure for the whole year. It will also show funds
expected from IDA and from the Government of Rwanda.

The project will ensure the existence o f suitable development planning capacity in a District before
disbursingfunds. Planning and budgeting for project funded expenditure will be done within the Local
Administration legal and regulatory framework. Planning guidelines issued by the MINALOC will
support the LGs in planning and budgeting for investment funds and address inclusion of community
plans in consolidated District DevelopmentPlans (DDPs). Expenditure under the project has to be inline
with council-approvedannual plans. The disbursement of grants to LGswill bebasedon their workplans.

At the community level, sub-project plans will be generated by the communities with the help of a
District based facilitator. The Ubudehe mu Kunvanya Ubukene principle will be used as the basis for
participatory planning at the community level. Proposals for funding the sub-projects identified through
thismethodwillbe forwardedto the CDC andthen, once approved, to the PCMUfor funding.

The PCMU will verify the work plans. Following decision by the CDC and approval by the PCMU, a
Grant Agreement will be entered into between the PCMU and the CDC regarding the implementation of
the planand the activities proposedtherein.

Accounting SystemsandProcedures

Financial ProceduresManual

The project's accounting policies will specify the accounting treatment for the project's financial
transactions and will constitute basic principles designed to ensure that the accounting records are
complete, relevant and reliable and that accounting practices are followed consistently. The accounting
systems, policies and procedures employed by the PCMU in accounting for and managingproject funds
will be documented inthe Financial section o f the Project's Procedures Manual. The Manual will be used


                                                      68

by: IDA to assess the acceptability of the project accounting, reporting and control systems; staff as a
reference manual; and by the auditors to assess project accounting systems and controls and in designing
specific project audit procedures.

Specific procedures will be documented for each significant accounting function, depicting document and
transaction flows, the appropriate filing o f project documents, management approvals and organizational
duties and responsibilities. The accounting system will consist of the methods and records established to
identify, assemble, analyze, classify, record and report transactions of a project, and to maintain
accountability for the related assets and liabilities. The aspects to be covered inthe Manual will include:
flow o f funds; financial and accounting policies; accounting System(including centers for maintenance of
accounting records, Chart of Accounts, formats of books and records, accounting and financial
procedures); procedures for authorization o f transactions, budgeting, and financial forecasting; and
Financial Reporting (including formats o f reports, linkages with Chart of Accounts and procedures for
reviewing financial information); auditing arrangements; and humanresource aspects

In addition, the Manual will document the arrangements that have been made for recording project
impacts, outcomes, outputs, and inputs that are required to assess progress toward the achievement of
project objectives. It also documents the procedures undertaken for the replenishment o f the Special
Account.

Accounting; system

The project's accounts will be prepared on a cash basis in accordance with International Accounting
Standards. The PCMU will have an accounting system that allows for the proper recording of project
financial transactions, including the allocation of expenditures in accordance with the respective
components, disbursement categories, and sources o f funds. Controls over the preparationand approval of
transactions should be put in place to ensure that all transactions are correctly made, recorded and
reported upon. A list of accounts codes (Chart of Accounts) should also be drawn up. This should match
with the classification of expenditures and sources and application of funds indicated in the Credit
Agreement. The Chart of accounts should be developed in a way that allows project costs to be directly
relatedto specific work activities and outputs of the project.

The accounting system for the PCMU shall be computerized. This will facilitate the production of the
necessaryproject financial reports. Accounting staff will be adequately trained to maintain the system and
appropriate controls will be instituted to safeguard the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the
data. The PCMU will upgrade its accounting system to enable it to generate financial monitoring reports
automatically

Books o f accounts

Books o f accounts will be set up and regularly maintained to record project transactions. These will
include a general ledger, cashbook and subsidiary ledgers A proper filing system that allows authorized
users easy access will be set up to ensure that all accounting and supporting documents are retained on a
permanent basis and properly maintained. Districts will be responsible for ensuring the maintenance of
accounting records and books of accounts for sub-project transactions inaccordance withFAPMLA.

Financial Reporting

Formats and responsibilities for preparing periodic financial reports to be generated from the financial
management system will be defined. There will be clear linkages between the information inthese reports
and the Chart of Accounts. The financial reports will be designed to provide quality and timely


                                                       69

     information to project management, implementing agencies, and various stakeholders on project
     performance. These reports include financial statements (e.g. sources and application of funds;
     expenditure classified by project components, disbursement categories, expenditure types and
     implementing agencies, and comparison with budgets; short-term forecasts of expenditure; unit costs for
     key items and comparison with budgets; etc.). The reports will closely follow sample formats that are
     indicated inthe Guidelines for Borrowers on FinancialMonitoringReports.

     Annual Financial Statements and Annexes for the project will include: a Statement of Sources and Uses
     of Funds showing funds from IDA and Government of Rwanda separately; a summary o f expenditures
     analyzed under the main headings and by main category o f expenditures; Notes inrespect of significant
     accounting policies and accounting standards adopted by management; a Special Account
     Reconciliation Statement showing IDA disbursements, payments substantiated by withdrawal
     applications, interest that may be earned on the account and the balance at the end o f the fiscal year; an
     Implementation Report, which would be a narrative summary of the implementation progress for the
     project; and a Summary of Withdrawals using Statements o f Expenditures or FMR's, listing individual
     withdrawal applications by reference number, date and amount. Indicative formats of these statements
     will be developed by Credit Effectiveness.

     For LGs, every local government i s requiredto produce statements of final accounts and the FAPMLA
     provides formats and schedules to guide the preparation o f these accounts. The District Executive
     Secretary is requiredto submit the accounts to the Auditor General. Separateconsolidated reports shallbe
     made and submittedto the PCMU on a quarterly basis to account for project funds.

     Financial management action plan

        Issue                                  Remedial Action Recommended                                      Due Date
Financial Procedures     The Financial section o f the Project Procedures Manual will be preparedto     Credit Effectiveness
Manual                   document the financial management procedures to be used for the project.
                         The PCMUwill prepare guidelines for CDCs that will include the format
                         andproposed content o f these periodic reports
Guidelines for Districts Guidelines will be preparedfor FMprocedures to be adopted by Districts in
                        I                                                                                Credit
                         accounting for project transactions                                           1 Effectiveness
Reporting               IFormats o fFinancial Monitoring Reports (FMRS) willbe determined and       ICredit     Effectiveness




Arrangements




                         coverage o fthe audit, which exclude examination o f LGproject




                                                                70

    5. Conclusionof the Assessment

    Given the experience o f the PCMU in executing IDA funded projects, the financial management
    arrangements meet the minimum requirements for financial management as defined in OPBP 10.02.
    However, the assessment of the arrangementsidentified several areas that require strengthening, and these
    have beendocumented above. A plan of actions that are aimed at strengtheningthe financial management
    systemhas been agreed.

    6. SupervisionPlan

    An implementation support missionwill be conducted at least every six months. The mission's objectives
    will include that of ensuring that strong financial management systems are maintained for the project
    throughout its life. A review will be carried out regularly to ensure that expenditures incurred by the
    project remain eligible for IDA funding. The Project Status Report (PSR) will include a financial
    management rating for the component. This will be arrived at by the Country Office financial
    management specialist after an appropriate review.




           ExpenditureCategory                       Amount in                   FinancingPercentage
                                                     US$million
(1) Sub-Grants for Community                             8.50                  100% of amounts disbursed
     Development Initiatives
(2) Goods
. ,                                                      0.90               100% o f foreign expenditures and
                                                                                90% of local expenditures
(3) Consultants' services                                1.50               100% o f foreign expenditures and
     (including audits)                                                         85% o f local expenditures
(4) Training                                             5.60                             100%
(5) Incremental operating costs                          2.00               100% o f foreign expenditures and
                                                                                90% of local expenditures
(6) Refunding ofthe Project                              0.50                          Amount due
     Preparation Advance
(7) Unallocated                                          1.oo
TotalProjectCostswith BankFinancing                      20.00

Total                                                   20.00

Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):

    Contracts not subject to IDA prior review will be reimbursed against certified SOEs. Thus SOEs will be
    used for expenditures under goods contracts costing less than US$ 150,000 equivalent, contracts of
    services by consulting firms costing less than US$ 100,000 equivalent each, and for services by individual
    consultants costing less than US$ 50,000 equivalent each, sub-projects under the Community Initiatives
    component, training expenditures not subject to contract, and incremental operating costs. A simplified
    format will be used for SOEs in which expenditures are summarized by category. The Project
    Coordination and MonitoringUnitwould retain the documentation for withdrawal under SOEs for review
    by IDA duringimplementation support missions and for annual audits. All disbursements are subject to
    the conditions of the Grant Agreement and to the procedures defined inthe disbursement letter.



                                                       71

 Special account:

To ensure timely and reliable flow of funds to all stakeholders, the Project Coordination and Monitoring
Unitwill open one Dollar Special Account (SA) inthe Central Bank of Rwanda (BanqueNationale du
Rwanda). This will serve as the main project account into which IDA will deposit project implementation
funds. The account will be replenished on the basis of SOEs or specific withdrawal applications to be
submittedto IDAon amonthly basis. The administrationofthe Special Account, includingpreparation of
withdrawal applications and replenishment of accounts, will be the responsibility of the Project
Coordination andMonitoringUnit.

The Special Account replenishment applications will include reconciled bank statements as well as other
appropriate supporting documents.

The authorized allocation for the special account under transaction-based disbursements will be
US$ 1,500,000.




                                                    72

                                    Annex 7: ProjectProcessingSchedule
        REPUBLIC OFRWANDA:Decentralization and CommunityDevelopmentProject




Preparedby:
The project was prepared under the leadership of Susan Opper (Task Team Leader). An identification
mission was conducted inNovember 2002 to agree on the objectives and content o f the proposed project
which Govemment had requested to follow on, and scale out, the successful LIL (CRDP). The new
Project was prepared invery good collaboration with govemment counterparts and development partners
in Rwanda. The World Bank and the national preparation team used video and audio conferencing to
work closely on all aspects o f project preparations, including the detailed costing and the harmonization
of procedures with other development partners in Rwanda. This facilitated the fieldwork for the Pre-
appraisal and Appraisal missions which required lengthy and thorough capacity assessments due to the
fact that the Project i s to be executed through the newly decentralized governance structures. The Pre-
appraisal straddled national elections in Rwanda and was conducted in three phases (April - May, 2003
October 2003 for the procurement assessment). The Appraisal was conducted inFebruary- March, 2004.
for the main mission, with follow-ups in September 2003 for the financial management preparation, and


The Bank teamthat worked onthe project is listedbelow.

Preparationassistance:
A PHRD grant (TF05 1879) for US$725,000 was received for project preparation. The Govemment-
managed grant was instrumental in funding a number o f priority activities: (i)   Environmental and Social
Assessments Related to Safeguards Policies; (ii)   Feasibility Study for model Village; (iii) on the
                                                                                              Study
role o f decentralized capital and development financing; (iv) Socioeconomic Assessment; (v)
Development o f Project Operations Manual; (vi) Technical Assessment and Preparation o f Harmonized
Decentralization Procedures; and (vii) Institutional Assessment o f key stakeholders. The grant was
instrumental in assisting Rwandan authorities to carry out broad based consultations to ensure there will
be adequate capacity and consensus at Provincial and District levels and in local communities to
implement the project within the framework o f the new decentralization legislation. All PHRD activities
are to be completedbythe closing date o f May 27,2004.

A Project Preparation Facility (Q 3860-RW) for US$460,000 was also received for project preparation.
The Govemment used this fund for : (i)Feasibility studies and capacity assessments; (ii)
Traininflorkshops       at national, Provincial and District levels primarily to ensure all participating
Districts had formulated their 5-Year rolling Development Plans by project effectiveness; (iii) Technical
work (7 local consultancies) on project procedures and coordination with other line ministries, and
agencies including the National Tender Board and Auditor General's Office, and development partners;
(iv) Equipment and minor incrementaloperating costs.




                                                     73

The peer reviewerswere:
0  Robert Ebel, LeadEconomist Decentralization, WBIRC
0  Jacomina P. de Regt, LeadSpecialist, AFTS1
0  WillemZijp, formerly Operations adviser, AFTOS
0  Richard Cambridge, Operations adviser, AFTOS
0  Eva Jarawan, LeadHealth Specialist
e  Thomas Walton, LeadRegional Coordinator, Environmental Safeguards
0  Serigne Omar Fye, Senior Environmental Specialist

Bank staff who worked on the project included:

        Name                                              Speciality

 Susan Opper                               Senior Education Specialist, Task Team Leader
Mohamed A. Toure                           Country Manager Rwanda, Implementation Specialist
 JosephKizito Mubiru                       Senior FinancialManagement Specialist
 Toni Kayonga                              Operations Officer
 Pierre Morin                              Senior Procurement Specialist
 Prosper Nindorera                         Procurement Specialist
 ChantalKajangwe                           Procurement Analyst
 MichaelFowler                              Senior Finance Officer
 Juvenal Nzambimana                        Finance Analyst
 Sameena Dost                              Counsel
 RoxanneHakim                              Anthropologist
 Yvette Djachechi  '                        Senior SocialDevelopment Specialist
 Nathalie Lopez-Diouf                       Language ProgramAssistant
 Antoinette Kamanzi                         ProgramAssistant


 Non-Bank staff

 Clare Barkworth                            Consultant, Social Funds & Implementation
 Samuel Bartlett                            Consultant, Monitoringand Evaluation
 Gabrielle Rooz                             Consultant, FinancialAnalysis
 Nadia Schechter                            Consultant, Communication and CDD
 Souleymane Zerbo                           Consultant, Civil Works




                                                 74

                                 Annex 8: Documentsinthe Project File*

        REPUBLIC OF RWANDA:DecentralizationandCommunityDevelopment Project


A. Project ImplementationPlan
The Project ImplementationPlanfor the First Year ofthe Project

B. Bank Staff Assessments
   RwandaCommunity Reintegrationand Development Project (IDA-31380) Implementation
   CompletionReport No. 25647, November 24,2003.
   Aide-Memoire, ICR Planning and Pre-identificationof the new Decentralization and Community
   DevelopmentProject, May 16-31,2002.
   Aide-MCmoire, RwandaDecentralizationand Community Development Project, November 4-16,
   2002 (Identification).
   Aides-MCmoire: RwandaDecentralizationand Community Development Project, June 5,2003;
   FinancialManagement Assessment, September 19,2003; Procurement Assessment, October 16,
   2003 (Pre-Appraisal).
   Aide-Mtmoire: RwandaDecentralizationand Community Development Project, March 9, '2004
   (Appraisal).

C. Other

Project Procurement Plan

   Ministkre de 1'Administration Locale du DCveloppement Communautaire et des Affaires Sociales
   (January 2004) Projet de DCcentralisation et de DCveloppement Communautaire. Manuel d'ExCcution
   duProjet;.
   Environmental and Social Management Framework;
   MinistryofLocalGovernment & SocialAffairs/ VNGInternational.(September 2003) Appraisalof
   the Decentralisation ProcessinRwanda.
                       .(April2003) FinancialManagement andAccounting ProceduresManualfor
    LocalAdministration inRwanda.
                       .(February 2003) Guidelines for SustainableCommunity DevelopmentinRwanda;
    Ministkre de 1'Administration Locale du DCveloppement Communautaire et des Affaires
    SocialedAmbassade du Royaume des Pays-Bas (Novembre 2003) Province de Ruhengeri: Etude
    BudgCtaire et des PotentialitCs Fiscales des EntitCs DCcentralisCes,Rapport proviso ire;
   Ndegwa. (November 2002) DecentralizationinAfrica: A Stocktaking survey. (Available from the
    World Bank.);
    Republic of Rwanda. (July 2002) Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper;
                       .(May 2000) ImplementationPlanfor National DecentralisationPolicy;
                       .(May 2001) MinistryofLocalGovernment & SocialAffairs andMinistryof
    Finance & Economic Planning, Fiscal and Financial, DecentralizationPolicy.
                       .(May 2001) MinistryofLocalGovernment & SocialAffairs, Community
    Development Policy;
                        (May 2003) Ministryo f Local Government, Community Development & Social
    Affairs, Rwanda Five-Year DecentralisationImplementation Programme for 2004-2008.

    *Including electronic files




                                                     75

                                                   \

                                          Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                        RWANDA: Decentralizationand Community Development Project
                                                               29-Am-2004
                                                                                                                     Difference between expected
                                                                                                                              and actual
                                                                    Original Amount in US$ Millions                         disbursements'
Project ID  FY    Purpose                                       IBRD         IDA                      Cancel. Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO71374     2003 Multisect.HIWAIDS                                 0.00       0.00                       0.00   30.69         1.71      0.00
PO66385     2003 RWANDA INSTITUTIONALREFORMCREDIT
                           -                                       0.00      85.00                       0.00   44.98       38.95       0.00
PO75129     2002 RW:Emerg.Dermbilization8 Reintegration            0.00      25.00                       0.00   30.31         7.69      0.00
PO65788     2001 Regional Trade Fac. Prq. Rwanda
                                         ~                         0.00       7.50                       0.00     5.95        3.25      0.00
PO64965     2001 Rwanda-RuralSector Support Project                0.00      48.00                       0.00   45.37       24.68       0.00
PO57295     2001 Competitiveness8 EnterpriseDevelopment            0.00      40.80                       0.00    33.02       14.61      0.00
PO45091     2000 Human Res. Dev.                                   0.00      35.00                       0.00    24.42      22.99       1.27
PO45182     2000 RW-Rural Water Supply & SanitationPrqe            0.00      20.00                       0.00    19.22        3.60      0.00

                                                                                                                                      ~~      ~

                                                        Total:    0.00      261.30                       0.00   233.97      117.49       1.27




                                                                    76

                                            RWANDA
                                      STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                     Held and DisbursedPortfolio
                                           Mar 2004
                                                 -
                                      InMillions USDollars

                                                         Committed                        Disbursed
                                                       IFC                              IFC
FY Approval    Company                           Loan   Equity     Quasi  Partic  Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1987           SORWAL                            1.12     0.00      0.00    0.00   1.12   0.00    0.00  0.00
                     Total Portfolio:            1.12     0.00      0.00    0.00     1.12  0.00    0.00  0.00



                                                     ApprovalsPendingCommitment
FY Approval   Company                               Loan     Equity     Quasi    Partic


              Total PendingCommitment:              0.00        0.00     0.00     0.00




                                                 77

                                                    Annex 10: Countryat a Glance

       REPUBLICOFRWANDA: DecentralizationandCommunityDevelopmentProject
                                                                                     Sub-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                                                Saharan         Low-
                                                                  Rwanda            Africa     Income            Developmentdiamond'
2002
Population,mid-year (millions)                                          8.2           688        2,495                         Life expectancy
GNI percapita (Atlas method, US$)                                      230            450          430
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                                         1.9           306        1,072

Average annual growth, 199642                                                                                                          T
Population(%)                                                           8.0            2.4         1.9
Laborforce (%)                                                          5.0            2.5         2.3           GNI                                       Gross
                                                                                                                 per                                     primaly
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199642)                                                             capita                               enrollment
Poverty(% ofpopulation below nationalpovertyline)
Urbanpopulation(% of total population)                                    8             33          30
Life expectancy at birth (years)                                         40             46          59                                 i
Infantmortality(per 7,000live births)                                    99           105           81
Child malnutrition(% of childrenunder 5)                                 24                                            Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)                       41             58          76
Illiteracy(% of populationage 75+)                                       31             37          37
Gross primaryenrollment (% ofschool-age population)                    119              86          95                   -Rwanda
    Male                                                                119             92         103                           Low-income group
    Female                                                              118             80          87

KEY ECONOMICRATIOS and LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                           1982       1992            2001        2002           Economicratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                            1.4        2.0            1.7         1.7
Grossdomestic investmenffGDP                                17.8       15.6           18.4         18.8
Exportsof goods and serviceslGDP                            11.6         5.8           9.3          8.1                              Trade

GrossdomesticsavingdGDP                                      5.2         2.9            1.9         1.9
Gross nationalsavingslGDP                                   13.8         7.9          11.8          7.9                                T
Current,accountbalancelGDP                                   -5.7      -7.7            -6.5       -11.5
InterestpaymentslGDP                                         0.1         0.3            0.5         0.6
Total debffGDP                                              15.5       42.1           75.4
Total debt servicelexports                                   5.2       17.3           24.6
Presentvalue of debffGDP                                                              39.3
Presentvalue of debffexports                                                         386.6                                         Indebtedness
                                           1982-92 199242             2001            2002     200246
(average annualgrowth)                                                                                          1         -Rwanda
GDP                                             1.4           4.2        6.7            9.4
GDP Der caoita                                 -1.5           1.8        3.7            6.3                                        Low-income group
                                                                                                                           ~




STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                           1982        1992           2001        2002          1 Growth of  investmentand GDP (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                 39.8       33.2           40.5         41.6           40

industry                                                    21.7       18.7           21.8         21.8           20
    Manufacturing                                           13.5       12.1             9.8        10.4
Services                                                    38.5       48.1           37.9         36.6            0

Privateconsumption                                          81.9       82.6           86.4         86.1          2 0
Generalgovernment consumption                               12.9       14.5           11.7         12.1
Imports of goods and services                               24.2       18.3           25.8         25.0

                                                        1982-92 199242                2001        2002           Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annualgrowth)                                                                                                                                          I
Agriculture                                                   0.4        6.4            8.3        10.4          50 T

Industry                                                     -0.4        2.6            7.6         7.9
    Manufacturing                                             0.0       -0.2            7.8         9.0
Services                                                      3.7        2.9            4.4          8.6

Privateconsumption                                            2.2        3.3            2.3          9.5
Generalgovernment consumption                                 7.2        2.4           18.2        11.2
Grossdomesticinvestment                                      -2.7        5.8            3.0          5.1
Imports of goods and services                                 3.2        1.3            4.0         -0.3

* The diamonds show four key indicatorsin the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will be incomplete.




                                                                            78

                                                                                                                            Rwanda

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                              1982      1992        2001     2002
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumerprices                                 12.6      9.6          3.4     2.0
ImplicitGDP deflator                            4.9      7.3          0.2     0.0

Governmentfinance
(% of GDP,includes currentgrants)
Currentrevenue                                          16.3         19.8    21.o
Currentbudgetbalance                                    -0.5          5.6     5.8   I                                                 I
OverallSurDluddeficit                                    -8.1        -1.I -1.I                    -GDPdeflator       d C P I


TRADE
                                              1982      1992        2001     2002
(US$millions)                                                                           Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                               88      69           93      78     1400
  Coffee                                                  35           19      23
  Tea                                                     21           23      24      300
  Manufactures                                              2          48      27
Total imports (cif)                                      319          340     342      200

  Food                                                    29           52      55
  Fueland energy                                          37           73      74      100

  Capitalgoods                                            69           51      53          0

Exportprice index (1995=100)                              57           70      67               86  97    98    99    M)    01    02

Import priceindex (1995=100)                              98           96      97                  Exports       w Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                  58          73      69

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                              1982      1992        2001     2002
(US$ millions)                                                                            Current account balanceto GDP ph)
Exportsof goods and services                    122      114          159     143         0
 Importsof goods and services                   324      372          440     443
 Resourcebalance                               -202     -259         -281    -300

 Net income                                       11      -10         -20     -25         -5

 Net currenttransfers                            110     112          191     124

Currentaccountbalance                            -81    -157         -110    -200       -10

 Financingitems (net)                             14     116          121     205
 Changesin net reserves                           67       41         -11      -5

 Memo:
 Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)
 Conversionrate (DEC, ioca//US$)                92.8    133.4       443.0    475.4

 EXTERNAL DEBTand RESOURCE FLOWS
                                               1982     1992         2001    2002
 (US%millions)                                                                            Composition of 2001debt (US$ mill.)
 Total debt outstandingand disbursed             218      a57       1,283
   IBRD                                            0        0           0                                =. . G:36
   IDA                                            77     408          713

 Total debt service                                7       21          43
   IBRD                                            0        0           0
   IDA                                             1        5          18

 Compositionof net resourceflows
   Officialgrants                                 70      190         160
   Officialcreditors                              26       72          43
   Privatecreditors                                3       -1           0
   Foreigndirect investment                       21        2           5
   Portfolioequity                                 0        0           0

 World Bank program
   Commitments                                    56       19         119                 A IBRD                           E Bilateral
   Disbursements                                  12       32          53                 B IDA     D Othermultilateral
                                                                                                      -                    F Private
   Principalrepayments                             0        2          11                 C IMF
                                                                                            ---                            G Short-tern
                                                                                                                            ---
   Netflows                                       12       30          42
   Interestpayments                                1        3           7
   Net transfers                                  11       27          35

'mote: InistaDE was proaucea from me ueveiopment tconomics central aataoase.




                                                             79

               AdditionalAnnex 11:Decentralizationand CommunityDevelopment Policies
         REPUBLICOFRWANDA:Decentralization andCommunity DevelopmentProject

I.Introduction

Historically, Rwanda's society is hierarchical with strongly centralized powers. Governments since
independence have maintained tight control, allowing very little consultation at the lower levels of
government administration or the local population, talung decision at the central level on their behalf. As
a result, the local population did not feel responsible for decisions, nor did they participate in their own
development. Despite the marked centralization, there was no clear framework or mechanism for
coordinating development programs, nor a harmonizationof approaches.

In 1996-1997, as refugees returned to Rwanda, the government entered into consultations both at
community and national levels. In 1998 a process of decentralization was initiated to support community
participation in all aspects o f decision making in development activities. Decentralized local governance
and participatory community development are now regardedas tools for poverty reduction.

Government intends to support the process by strengthening the capacities o f (i)      local government to
receive, manage, and effectively use development funds, and (ii)    local communities to participate in the
planning and management o f their own development. At the same time, the local communities would
need to be mobilized inorder that they are better able to participate. LocalDistrictadministrations need to
bebetter equippedandmore accountable to the populations they serve.

11. Community DevelopmentPolicies

Projects targeting development at community level have a long history inRwanda even though Rwandese
society by tradition i s hierarchical and highly centralized. In 1977, Government initiated a Commune
Development Fund (CDF) to reduce disparities across communes by givingaccess to credit inthe form o f
direct loans or a Guarantee Fundto enable communes to borrow from banks. The CDF never took much
root in communities because o f the top-down approach in which the program was conceived, with no
prior consultation with local populations. The CDF was replaced by an Intercommunal Development
Credit which in turn was abolished in 1990. In 1991, the Government created a Commune Solidarity
Fund (CSF). This was interruptedby the war and genocide of 1994.

In 1995, efforts for community development were once again takenup, among others, through the IDA
co-financed Programme National d 'Action Sociale (PNAS). This supported the recovery and
rehabilitation of communities' social and economic infrastructure, promoted small-scale productive
activities, created temporary and permanent employment, and improved the nutrition o f relatively poor
and vulnerable groups. In 1998, the PNAS took on an added dimension o f financing community sub-
projects coupled with local capacity building, usinga new participation and decentralization approach of
the Ministry for Lands, Human Resettlement and Environmental Protection (MINITERE). From this
followed the CRDP which further strengthened grassroots civil society and government capacity to
implement community-based development projects, a portion of which was explicitly targeted to support
the reintegrationofreturnees to Rwanda and other vulnerable groups. Parallel to the CRDP, other donors,
notably the Netherlands, USAID and UNDP, initiated programs tailored along the same lines.

Preparation of the CRDP in 1998 coincided with the Presidential consultations with villages, meetings of
the National Unity and Reconciliation Commission, and the process that generated the PRSP, which
revitalized a consultative and participatory ethos. The various consultations identified poor governance as
at the root of Rwanda's tragic history and resolved that decentralization and democratization would be
necessaryto reconcile the Rwandese people andto fight poverty.


                                                     80

111. Principles and Objectives ofDecentralization inRwanda

Decentralization in Rwanda envisages a transfer of power, authority, functions, responsibilities and
resources from the central to the local decentralized level for political and administrative, legal, social and
economic activities. Inimplementingdecentralization, the Government i s committed to:

0   Respect the principlesof nationalunity, indivisibilityand a balanced development;
0   Ensure local autonomy and identity and acknowledge local interests, and respect the diversity of the
    local populations;
0   Separatethe political from the technical and administrative responsibilities; and
0   Support the transferred responsibilities with transfer of financial, human and materialresources.

The objectives o f decentralization are to:

0   Mobilize localcommunities to beresponsible for and to participateindecision makingandplanning
    which concern them;
0   Reinforce and strengthen the sense of responsibility, transparency and accountability o f local leaders
    inrelationto localcommunitiesthey representandserve;
0   Create awarenessand commitment to the principles ofparticipatory development and ensure local
    leadership are capable o f managing a processwhich meets the needs o f the local population;
0   Develop a sustainable planning system, basedon the efficient and effective management of local
    resources.

The strategy adoptedbyRwandacombines the principles o f deconcentration, delegation, anddevolution.

IV.      Progress of DecentralizationinRwanda

The Ministry o f Local Administration, Community Development and Social Affairs was set up to take
charge o f planning and monitoring the implementation o f the decentralization policy and has been
operational since 1999. A Decentralization Management Unit (DMU) was established as well as a
Steering Committee for the Refoms. In2000, a FocalPoint Forumwas established which encouragedthe
different sector ministries, local government and delegated entities, civil society and donors to build
partnerships duringimplementation o f decentralization. As a result, synergies betweenpartners have been
achieved and there i s widespread support for implementingthe decentralization policy.

The policy o f decentralization was adopted in 2000, a three-year implementation program designed,
followed by the adoption o f complementary policies including the Community Development policy and
policy for Fiscal and Financial decentralization in 2001 with the relevant laws and regulations. The
successful accomplishment o f two rounds of local District and City Council and Executive Committee
elections has reinforced the idea o f local participationindecision making and the local administration are
becoming more intune to the needs of the communities.

A Common Development Fund(CDF) at the national level has been established to transfer funds to the
local level for development projects. In 2002, 2.5% o f central tax receipts were transferred to Districts
through the CDF mechanism, and 5% was transferred in 2003. Once capacity i s built, the CDF should
start transferring funds to Districts on a project support basis, i.e.funding onproject presentation.




                                                       81

                   COMMONDEVELOPMENTFUND(CDF'):FlNANCINGMEcHANlsM




        Lawestablishing                                                AggreementwthGOR
        org&fimct o fCDF                                               maprojectapproved
                                                                  by@EX                               Guidance,

                        I                                                                             Dispatching,
                          Sub-account   Sub-account   sub-account    subaccount    subaccolmt         suknisioi,
                                                                                                      steering

                                                                                                      PROVINCE

                                                                                                      I-ialmDnisatiOn,
                                                                                                      coordination,
                                                                                                      FO~OW-UP




            t                7         I                                 t
      SAGoR              S/ADonor1           YA donor2..   -          SADonorn                        Fordation,

                                                                                                      Inpiementation


      Batchof           Batchof         Batchof            Batchof              Batchof               Roleofeach

                                        projects           projects              projects     /        Inprojects
                                                                                                      funding



Several extemal donor funded projects including the IDA financed Community Reintegration and
Development Project (CRDP) made funds available for capacity building, infrastructure projects and
revolving funds at the decentralized level (see Annex 13). Support has also been available to Provinces,
Districts and cities in the process o f budgeting and planning, and some training has strengthened the
capacities o f technical and elected members o f committees and District Councils. By early 2003, most o f
the 106Districts had embarked on or finished formulating 5-Year Development Plans.

Financial resources have been transferred to all districts for the administration of the District Council.
Guidelines for sectoral decentralization, especially o f the service delivery sectors, are being developed,
and a policy framework is inthe final stages of design.

V. Constraintsand Challenges ofDecentralization

Govemment have identified the following constraints and challenges facing decentralization inRwanda:

0   Poor coordination and harmonization o f development at both the national and the local levels in
    development planning, decision malung and program implementation;




                                                    82

0   Mechanisms that allow partnerships and synergy between public sector, civil society and private
    sector which provide services to communities have been slow to become established;
0   Weak capacity o f individuals and institutions, in terms o f human resources, financial and materials
    means, equipment, technology, and legal, judiciary and political aspects, which are necessary to
    achieve participatory social and economic development are slowing progress;
    Needs o f the local communitiesare far greater than the available resources; ad
0   Changing an entrenched mentality o f central control to one of participationi s difficult and i s meeting
    some resistance.

Govemment plans to address these constraints by:

    Strengthening the harmonization and coordination between institutions, partners and their
    interventionsby developing mechanisms for partnerships;
0   Developing and strengtheningparticipatory systemswhich are transparent;
0   Establishinga multidimensionalcapacity buildingprogramfor individuals and institutions at all
    levels of administration;
0   Developing a program o f civil education that would create awarenesso f andpromote a community
    drivenmulti-sectoral approach to development;
0   Mobilizingthe necessaryfunds to finance these procedures o f decentralization.

VI.      AdministrativeStructuresandResponsibilities

The decentralization strategy has five levels of administrationwith the appropriate responsibilities. These
are: central Govemment, Provincial, District, Secteur, andcellule levels.

CentralGovernment

Central Government is responsible for the formulation o f policy, mobilization o f resources; strengthening
the capacity o f decentralized entities at Province, city and district levels; monitoring and management of
policies and national programs; facilitating the exchange o f experience; and ensuring that different
entities follow agreedmodalities.

At central national level there are various entities responsible for the coordination o f local development.
These include the forum for the focal points for community development from different sector ministries.
The CommonDevelopment Fundand its Steering Committee, Cellule de Suivides Projets a Financement
Exterieur (CEPEX), a central unit that oversees externally financed programs, and the various fora for
donors and civil society. The Decentralization Management Unit in MINALOC was established as an
interimmeasure to coordinate the various processes, but coordinationresponsibilities are now transferred
to the PlanningDirectorate o f MINALOC.

Provinces(Number: 11)

The Provinces and the City o f Kigali are responsible for ensuring the effective implementation of sector
policies and national programs in their regions. The monitoring, evaluation and coordination o f the
implementation o f district and city programs i s provided by the provincial administration as well as
technical advice to, and capacity building of, the districts and cities. The Provincial Coordinating
Committee (PCC) has been established to consolidate district plans and present them to MINALOC as a
Provincial Development Plan. The PCC also provides a link between districts and central govemment
ministries. The members o f the PCC include the Executive Secretariesfrom the districts, an Infrastructure
Specialist, Provincial Heads o f Departments and a local auditor. They shouldmeet once a month.



                                                      83

Districts(Number: 106)

District governments are responsible for establishing local management systems following the legal
framework provided by central government. The local administration develops and implements integrated
community development plans, mobilizes the necessary resources and coordinates development activities
at the local level.

Laws and regulations have been passed which give the district financial autonomy to administer the
district, promote democracy and form a basis for development. The District i s administered by the District
Council and the Executive Committee of the District Council. These entities receive technical support
from the Executive Secretary, the Community Development Committee and technical committees,
illustratedinFigure xx.

The District Council i s made up of elected Councilors from the Secteur level. A Mayor is elected from
among the Councilors for a five-year term. The District Council i s responsible for the formulation,
management andrevision of the budget, mobilization of resources, approval of internal audit and financial
reporting; approving the Council reports. The District Council also approves the appointment of Heads o f
Sector Departments and can recommend their removalto the relevant Ministry.

The District mayor is responsible for fund raising for development. The District accountant manages the
District's financial accounts and has signature authority on all disbursements.

There are several sub-committees which support the Council, the Economic and Technical, Culture and
Social Affairs, and Administration, Policy and Legal Committees support the District Council and
monitor and verify the progress made by the departments in their jurisdiction, ensuring value for money,
and analyzing financial and audit reports. The Council also has a Works and Procurement Committee,
which monitors awarding of works contracts to ensure that this is done ina transparent and cost effective
manner. The Works and Procurement Council maintains a list of contractors and suppliers, which will be
evaluated and reviewed regularly. The Council also has an Establishment Committee for the purpose of
recruitment o f staff and the application of disciplinary measures, if required to do so by the District
Council.

The Executive Committee of the District Council i s led by the Mayor supported by Councilors elected
from within the Council and who have special responsibilities for finance and development, social
services, gender and youth, sports and culture. The members o f the Executive Committeereceive salaries.
The Executive Committee ensuresthat the financial management conforms to agreedprinciples; evaluates
and approves departmental and Council work programs and budgets; monitors the implementation o f
policies approved by the council; receives financial reports and recommends supplements to budget;
approves budgets and any changes; evaluates work programs and use o f resources approved y the
Community Development Committee; and monitors the Council accounts.

The Executive Committee o f the District Council is supported by a team of qualified, salaried and
recruited technicians. The Executive Secretariat forms the link between central government and the
district. The team is led by the Executive Secretary and is supported by a Planner, Accountant, Internal
Auditor and a Revenue Collector.

The Executive Secretariat generally manages the District Council, coordinates sector heads of
departments, prepares the budget, accounts for the funds, ensures that the funds are being used as
approved, prepares reports for presentation to the Executive Committee, ensures that the decisions made
bythe Council, Auditor general, CentralGovernment are effected.


                                                    84

The Community Development Committee (CDC) facilitates and coordinates development activities in
the District. The CDC i s involved with development planning and oversees and monitors development
project activities. The CDC also monitors the management o f development funds, formulates a
development budget for the District and will organize training and capacity buildingfor all those involved
in development. The CDC is comprised of two main sub-committees: the management sub-committee
and the administrative sub-committee responsible for administration, finance and management o f
development programs. The CDC meets quarterly and i s chaired by the Finance and Development
Secretary o f the Executive Committee o f the District Council. The remaining members o f the CDC are:
(i)ExecutiveSecretary;(ii)      Presidents o f sub-committees on social welfare, on the economy, and on
sector development; (iii) a Coordinator o f the Districts' executive committees on women's affairs; (iv) a
Coordinator of the Districts' executive committees on youth. The Executive Secretary, who coordinates
all sector departments inthe district, provides an important linkbetween departments and development in
the district.

Although sector ministries are not yet decentralized, some Health, Education, Social Affairs and
Agriculture (including agriculture, forestry and veterinary) professionals connected with the line
ministries are represented at the rural district levels and their appointment i s approved by the District
Council. These Heads o f Department execute the sector programs, following sector ministrypolicies and
programs which originate from the central level. The Heads o f sector Departments present annual and
quarterly departmental work plans accompaniedbyrequests for fundingandjustifications for the previous
quarter to the District Council. They manage their sector program and their departmental budget and
justify expenditures reporting to the Executive Committee of the district, and to the relevant committee
under which their sector falls, sending copies o f correspondence to their Department. The Department
Heads advise District Committees on technical issues concerning their sector as well as progress and
results. The Executive Secretary coordinates the Heads o f Departments.

Secteurs(number: 1545)

The Secteur i s representedby elected members of the Cellule level. A Chairperson is elected from among
them as well as representatives from Women's and Youth Committees at the Cellule level. On average,
one Secteur represented 6-7 Cellules. The Secteurs are responsible for the coordination of all the activities
within the Secteur. The community Development Council is formed at the Secteur level which assists
with the preparation o f the community development plans at the cellule level and consolidates these to
form the Secteur Development Plan, representing the needs of the local population within the Secteur.
The Secteur level CDC monitors implementation of the projects and improvementsinservice delivery.

Cellules(number: 9176)

Between 100 and 300 members o f a community are representedby elected members o f the Cellule, with
representatives from Women's andYouth Committees at the community level. The Cellule i s responsible,
with the participation of the population, for identifying problems, needs, priorities,           solutions and
available resources inorder to form a Community Development Plan (CDP) for the Cellule. The Cellule
i s also responsible for creating awareness among the community o f the importance o f participation in
their own development. The Cellule implements and monitors projects and ensures that service delivery
reachestheir communities. As explained inthe PRSP :

Each Cellule will go through a process o f collectively defining and analyzing the nature of poverty in
their community. This will be done using a number of standard analysis tools including social
mapping.. .The first step i s to look at local categories of poverty.. ..The Cellule will then go on to identify
and analyze the characteristics of the problems they face. This list o f analyzed problems is then ranked in


                                                       85

terms of priority, and the one that the community wants to spend the most o f its own time, effort and
resources to resolve i s selected. From there, they develop action plans to address the problems they have
prioritized. This will promote the development of community-led problem solving and rural
recapitalization.

VI. ProcessofDevelopmentPlanning

The vision of Governmentis that all districtswill have a development planwhich is basedonthe needsof
the people. All programs, projects and development activities will be based on a District strategic
Development Plan. In addition, the Government recognizes that the Poverty Reduction Strategy, MTEF
and the National Plan for Development ought to be based on the needs o f the people, and that resources
should be transferred in order to respond to these needs. To achieve this aim, Government has provided
resources to support districts to produce development plans which are usually formulated with the
assistance o f consultants. Inaddition any program which plans to work in the district i s obliged to assist
the district to develop its development plan or implement the priorities contained therein. A standard
participatory format, using Rapid Participatory Appraisal (PRS) i s used. By April 2003, MINALOC
reported that 38 districts had development plans, 35 were in the process, and a further 25 would be
available at the end of the year.




                                                     86

              Additional Annex 12: Information, Educationand CommunicationStrategy
         REPUBLICOFRWANDA: DecentralizationandCommunityDevelopmentProject

I.IntroductionandRationale

The Rwanda Decentralization and Community Development (DCDP) capacity building and
empowerment objectives are embedded in and rely on innovative bottom up institutional arrangement,
multi-sectoral collaborations, and the active participation of multiplestakeholders at every segment of the
economy. Such CDD related project characteristics are likely to require a significant change in the
institutional, socio-cultural and managerial practices according to which development work has
traditionally been done in Rwanda. A comprehensive and detailed web of communication activities and
channels i s therefore requiredas a critical support mechanism in order to ensure that new relationship
paradigms and development processes proposed by the project are fully supported by informed,
collaborative and actively participating stakeholders. More specifically, a key objective for the strategy i s
to ensure that beneficiaries at all levels become active participants inproject design and implementation,
and are consequently willing and able to assume their respective roles and responsibilities. Another
critical objective of the communications strategy i s to ensure that decisions regarding development
priorities and implementation are basedon knowledge and information, and are reachedinan accountable
and transparent manner within and across stakeholder groups.

Additionally, the following are some of the critical reasons for the integration o f a communication
strategy to support the project's mainobjectives:

     Communications activities are critical tools for community mobilization and empowerment: A
     comprehensive communications strategy i s not only required to enable some of the community
     mobilization and local development activities implied in the DCDP operation, but i s also likely to
     leadto lastingpositive externalities toward community capacity buildingand empowerment;

     Cultural diversity of local populationsmay require carefully crafted and segmented messages
     and channels of community mobilization: One o f the ramifications of the war and the return of
     refugees into the country i s the rather eclectic cultural background that characterizes many o f the
     project's target communities. A strategic communication framework i s thus critical inorder to ensure
     that local development plans and activities are designed and implemented in a participatory and
     culturally relevant and sensitive manner, accounting for the diversity of needs and perspectives o f the
     local population;

     Social inclusion and the development of a knowledge sharing culture are critical for the
     development of sustainable social capital: In order to overcome traditions o f gender related, age-
     based and other forms o f local discrimination it is important that information regarding sub-project
     cycle, and local development priorities i s available free to all members of the participating Cellules,
     Secteurs and Districts. Such transparency and availability o f information i s critical to avoid elite
     capture and to ensure that the perspectives of the poorest and most in-need are accounted for inlocal
     development activities;

     Learning by doing and critical reflectionactivities at the Cellule, Secteur and District levels are
     instrumental for capacity building and scaling up purposes: Given that some Districts in each
     participatingProvince have already beenpart o f the previous CDD operations (CRDP), it i s important
     that Districts will leverage off existing knowledge and lessons learned. The opportunity o f Districts,
     Secteurs and Cellules to learn from one another and to collaborate will also enhance their sense of
     ownership and empowerment;



                                                      87

0 Importance of clarity of project objectives,processes, roles and responsibilities vis-&vis existing
  practices and institutions: Local customs, organizations and institutions already exist, formally and
  informally, and are responsible, in absence of functional local governments, for the management of
  local development projects. It i s therefore particularly important, in order to avoid confusion and
  alienation among logical stakeholders, to ensure that local practices are leveraged and accounted for,
  and that all local stakeholders are fully informed of the trade-offs, benefits and incentives o f
  organizationalchange requiredby the newproject;


0 Importance of quality and timeliness of sector based knowledge dissemination at the
  community level: As part o f the CDD practices of this operation, communities are offered an open
  menu of multi- sectoral sub-projects that could potentially be financed and implemented locally. In
  order to ensure that communities are well informed about the pros, cons, costs, synergies, trade-offs
  and benefits o f each project, a communication strategy will call for a timely and coordinated
  dissemination of community fiiendly, culturally relevant sector-related information to the
  communities;


0 Communication activities are critical to support capacity building of local (District)
  governments: The process o f District government capacity is based to a large extent on a
  transformation inthe mutual roles and allocation of responsibilities between central government and
  District government, and between District governments and the communities they serve. Such inter-
  relationalchange incapacity andresponsibilitiesrequires ongoing collaboration, relationshipbuilding
  and communication between the various stakeholders. A communication strategy should not only
  facilitate the timely and open flow o f informationbetweenDistrict, Province and central governments
  for negotiation, coordination and accountability purposes, but even more so, build District
  government capacity to exchange information and communicate actively with their constituent
  population. Additionally, a communication strategy designed to support capacity buildingo f District
  governments will ensure horizontal information exchange within agencies at the government level to
  respond to the multi- sectoral development priorities o f local populations, to avoid bureaucratic
  bottlenecks, identify synergies and better serve their communities;


0 District governments are new and may require consistent, strategic, continuous and clear
  articulation   -- as well as monitoring     -- of project related management roles: It i s therefore
  important that processes, organizational structure, roles and responsibilities required at the District
  level are clearly expressed and continuously transparent to all involved. Communication activities at
  this level will ensure that stakeholders at each participating District government are appropriately
  sensitized, are able to access project related information easily, as well as continuously communicate
  regarding challenges, concerns, and bottlenecks inthe system through periodic reports, meetings, and
  a management information system (MIS);


0 Local development plans are multi-sectoral and require continuous information exchange
  among various line ministries: Most district governments and CDCs are new and may not yet have
  established channels of inter-agency communication and collaboration. The facilitation of such
  processes by the project will not only enable more effective service delivery and resource allocation
  to community projects, but will also facilitate the capacity buildingo f District governments beyond
  the duration of the project;

e A paradigm shift in relationship between Cellules, Secteurs and District governments requires
  the institution of systematic new communication channels for transparency and accountability:
  One o f the key objectives o f the DCDP is the facilitation o f a new relationship o f trust and



                                                    88

    collaborationbetween Cellules, Secteurs and their District governments. Such relationship, promoted
    by the project's operational processes, may require systematic communication channels between
    these primary stakeholder groups;


0   Local developmentplans ought to be harmonizedwith District and national developmentplans:
    While members o f the Cellules and Secteurs are encouraged to contribute to the identification of a
    local development plan, its approval i s dependent to a great extent on its strategic fit with national
    sectoral priorities and policy guidelines. Communities shouldbe aware of and provide inputinto such
    macro plans.

11. Target Audience

Successful implementation o f the DCDP ingeneral and its community based micro-projects inparticular
will depend on extensive sensitization of several distinct audience groups. While the extent o f efforts
directed at each audience may vary, the strategic outreach should include but may not be limitedto : (i)
Central Ministry o f Local Administration, Community Development and Social Affairs, and the Project
Coordination and Monitoring Unit; (ii)Central line ministries; (iii)Provincial governments; (iv)
participating District governments (and non-participating governments for message control); (v)
community development specialists; (vi) development associations at the community level (or other
recognized community based development authorities); (vii) Secteur authorities; (viii) traditional and
recognized opinion leaders at Cellule level; (ix) female members and youth o f the Cellules, Secteurs,
Districts (possibly through the community based associations; (x) private contractors and entrepreneurs;
(xi)journalists andreporters; and (xii) other donor agenciesoperating inRwanda.

111. Type of CommunicationActivities

The communication strategy must address three primary types o f informationneeds:

(i)Processorientedactivities:Communicationactivitiesassociatedwiththeparticipatorydesignand
implementation processesof the DCDP ingeneral, and o f micro-community basedprojects inparticular;
(ii)Relationshiuandcauacitvbuildingorientedactivities: Communicationactivitiesassociatedwith
relationship building, accountability and transparency issues within and among Cellules, Secteurs, and
between these and District governments (the CDCs)
(iii)Sectorlearningorientedactivities:technicaltrainingandlearningassociatedwitheachparticipating
line ministry and sector.
(iv) Process-related information should stress participation, accountability and transparency, and should
articulate the following key messagecategories to eacho f the audience groups:


    0    General information and key objectives:Eachaudience group should become familiar withthe
         broad concept of the DCDP, its general objectives and key principles. For example, participating
         communities should be aware of the role o f the specialists whom the project will locate at
         Provincial level, the availability of funds, the types o f projects that can be funded, and the time
         frame as well as the process o f grant approval andproject implementation;


    0    Action and mobilization required: Each target group should be fully aware o f the roles and
         responsibilities it must assume (and must avoid) in order to transition from one point in the
         process to another. For example, CDCs should be fully aware o f the review criteria and
         timeframe associatedwith approvals o f local development plans;




                                                      89

0   Expected benefits and potential trade-offs: Each target group should be fully aware of the
    positive and negative incentives for its involvement and contribution to the project. For example,
    CDCs should know that their responsive participation inthe development and generation of local
    development plans will enhance their long term relationship with and credibility among their
    constituents, will increase their changes of re-election, and will increase the likelihood of their
    receipt o f additional future development funds. Additionally, each group should be aware o f the
    potential trade-offs of certain required actions For example, community development specialists
    should be aware of the trade-offs women's groups make when invited to participate inmeetings
    as they may be compromising their ability to go to the market or to take care o f the children.
    Additionally, by asking the community to change its behavior regarding usage o f certain water
    sources, appropriate alternatives should be discussed to ensure that the community accepts and
    understands the associatedtrade-offs;

a   MonitoringandEvaluation:Eachtarget group shouldbe aware of and involved incollaborative
    communication responsibilities designed to monitor and evaluate project implementation and
    stakeholders performance. Therefore, all stakeholders should establish and recognize processes
    and mechanisms through which messages are conveyed, and through which they assume
    responsibilities for gathering, processing and publicizing information. For example, District
    governments should provide periodic reports to members o f the Cellules and Secteurs regarding
    progress made.

(v) Relationship and capacity building oriented communications activities should include the
following key opportunities;

    Cellule-District Governments: This project provides an opportunity to builda relationship of trust
    and collaboration between Districts and their constituencies. Much i s dependent on the CDCs'
    level of accountability, transparency, and consultationwith membersof the Cellules and Secteurs.
    The following are some ofthe systematic communicationneeds:

    -Cellules, Secteurs should communicate regularly to CDCs regarding their local development
    needs andpriorities;
    - Cellules, Secteurs shouldbe able to provide feedback to CDCs regarding their performance and
    quality o f service delivery.

    District - District: This project also provides an opportunity for capacity building o f District
    governments through critical reflection and knowledge sharing. For example:

    -CDCs should be able to learn from each other's experience and thus benefit from cross-District
    knowledge sharing and information exchange.

    Cellule - Cellule and Secteur - Secteur: This project provides an opportunity for empowerment
    of members o f communities through the development of a knowledge sharing culture and
    mobilization:

    - Cellules, Secteurs should be able to mobilize together to "pull" (demand) quality service from
    District administrators;
    -Cellules, Secteurs should learn from each others' experiences and priority setting and be able to
    identify geographic (or other) synergies and economies o f scale
    - Members of Cellules, Secteurs should be able to communicate to one another about market
    opportunities for income generating activities.



                                                 90

(vi) Sector learning. andtechnicalinformation which includethe following:

    e    "How-to" type informationregardingthe design, implementation, operationand maintenance of a
         broadrange of specific sub-projects ineach sector;

    e    Information about trade offs and specific sector-based alternative "solutions" for community
         managed project selection underbudget and capacity constraints;

         Information about technical expectations and guidelines as well as environmental and social
         safeguards enforced by the central and District governments as well as the World Bank during
         project reviews;

    e    "How to" type information regarding basic steps communities can refer to in their efforts to
         implement and maintain community based projects, and in the absence o f community
         development consultants or other source of technical support.

IV.      Strategic Scope and Delivery Style

The strategic communication framework shouldbe tightly targeted inits population scope, and primarily
interpersonal inits delivery style. The following factors provide the rationale for this approach:

     Given that the DCDP does not cover all Districts in the country, it is important to adapt a well
    targeted information, education and communication campaign, and avoid negative ramifications o f
     false promotions and expectations;

     Given the significance o f each stakeholder group to the success o f the project, it i s important to
    provide comprehensive, well defined, culturally sensitive, and highly accurate information to each o f
     the target groups;

     Giventhe weak communicationinfrastructure, highilliteracy rate andtraditional, community oriented
     lifestyle o f the majority o f the population, it is important to utilize accessible, credible, well
     recognized and interpersonal means of communicationparticularly at the Cellule level;

     Given the potential exclusion o f certain population groups from community based decision making
     processes, it is important to segment the population, and therefore any community based mobilization
     and communication activities into smaller sub-groups in order to achieve the desired level of
     participation;

     Given the cultural diversity of the population across Districts, it is important to modify the
     communication strategy to the characteristics of eacharea.

V. CommunicationCapacity

e    At the National Level: It i s important to identify any type o f relevant communication capacity within
     the country (NGOs, private public relations firms, and media consultancies with a wide range of
     community mobilization and outreach capabilities) in order to leverage their experience and
     potentially contract out some o f the responsibilities for communication product and program
     development. Additionally, it i s quite likely that many government offices and agencieshave capacity
     and experience in community mobilization, education and awareness building, and should therefore



                                                       91

be informed about and possibly involved inthe DCDP. Furthermore, public and private organizers of
communication campaigns related to programs such as the HIV/AIDS, should be consulted for
possible synergies and collaboration opportunities. It is also proposed that a DCDP newsletter,
oriented toward all stakeholders at the Provincial, District, Secteur and Cellule levels should be
published periodically by the central Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit (With information
provided by all other stakeholders), in order to facilitate information sharing and dissemination
regarding project planning, progress, needs, training activities, and potential synergies. The first issue
o f the newsletter should be available with project effectiveness;

At the Central Government level: The central DCDP Coordination Unit must include a member who
specializes in communication and can assume the responsibilities for any required broad-based
campaign as well as facilitate communication requirements related to various line ministries, and
between Districts, community development specialists, and other key stakeholders. Such
responsibilities may include the facilitation of sensitization and training workshops, the production o f
leaming and training material, the identification o f synergies and leaming opportunities among
stakeholders, and consolidationof knowledgetoward scaling up efforts;

At the District level: Each CDC should obtain the capacity to manage information, education, and
communication related responsibilities with other CDCs and primarily with members o f the Cellules
and Secteurs. Suchresponsibilities couldbe assignedto an existingmember o f the CDC or potentially
could be consolidated under a new permanent position. Such capacity could ensure project
effectiveness and continuity and may facilitate ongoing relationship building between District
governments and the Cellules,Secteurs. Each CDC, incollaboration with the PCMU communication
specialist should be able to participate inthe production o f leaming and training material suitable for
their communities, andits dissemination to participatingCellules,Secteurs;

At the Community level: The specialists who are recruited for the Provincial Project Offices to assist
development planning and community mobilization, should participate in communication related
training and assume key responsibilitiesfor the facilitation of communication activities at the Cellule,
Secteur levels; among Cellules and among Secteurs; and between Cellules, Secteurs and Districts.
Additionally, it i s important for the community development/communicationspecialist to recognize
existing communication and information channels already existing within the Cellules, Secteurs and
capitalize on their knowledge of these and their status o f those channels inthe community. It is very
likely that the communication capacity o f communities is predominately interpersonal and highly
concentrated in the hands of traditional opinion leaders. Therefore, the design o f a communication
strategy for community awarenessand mobilization requires the buy-infrom and participationof such
individuals and institutions. Their capacity, when utilized strategically, can result in broad
dissemination o f information and mobilization o fthe communities for action.




                                                  92

                          Additional Annex 13: MajorRelatedProjects Donor/DevelopmentPartners
                                                                                     -
                       REPUBLICOFRWANDA:DecentralizationandCommunityDevelopmentProject

                            PROJECTS SUPPORTINGMINALOC INCOMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT

'roject Name             Objectives                           Starting losing 'otal Cost    lonor       mplementation    ,ctivities scheduled for
                                                              )ate     )ate                             vlethod          004
 . Decentralizationand   .Makethepopulationawareofits         2004     2008   20.000.000$  WB IDA       By the GOR       Formulate the 5-Year
:ommunity Development    responsibilities and encourage                                                 through the      levelopment Plans and
'roject (DCDP) in the 39 participationin the initiation,                                                Districts, with  m u a l Action Plans of
)istricts/ towns of      preparation,execution and                                                      upport from the  articipatingDistricts, and
;isenyi, Gikongoro,      monitoring of decisions and                                                    qational         rovincial Development
Ware, Byumbaand          levelopment plans                                                              Coordination&    lans,
JmutaraProvinces.        .Reinforce the responsibility and                                              donitoring       Purchaseequipment
                         transparency o flocal leaders vis-a-                                           Unit             eeded for project
                         vis their communities,                                                                          oordination,
                         -Reinforce efficiency and                                                                       Conduct a rangeof
                         effectivenessof serviceprovision                                                                iorkshops for national,
                         bymoving theresponsibility for                                                                  'rovincial, District and
                         planningand management from the                                                                 nore local stakeholders tc
                         central governmentto the point                                                                  nformaboutthe national
                         where the needs are felt and the                                                                trategy for poverty
                         services rendered                                                                               eduction, Vision 2020,
                         - Developa sustainableeconomic                                                                  lecentralization and
                         planning and managementcapacity                                                                 ommunity development
                         at the local level.                                                                             iolicies; and to train in
                                                                                                                         iarticipatorydevelopmen
                                                                                                                         )lanning, financial,
                                                                                                                         lrocurement and
                                                                                                                         :nvironmental
                                                                                                                         nanagement, etc.-
                                                                                                                          Finance sub-projectsin
                                                                                                                         listrict development
                                                                                                                         jlans.
2.Local Development      -Createjobs (322 000 direct and      2004     lo08   3udget        :IDA for the Bythe GOR
md Labour                564 000 indirectjobs)                                equired:      preparation  through the
IntensivePublic Works    -Increase productivityof cultivable                  !05 512 425 $ phase(CAD    National
Programme                land (terracing 12 600                               lonor         (500000$)    Coordination
(PMI-HIMO), national      ha, forestation of3 360 ha,                         nobilization               Unit under the
:overage.                marshlanddevelopment 3 360 ;                         mgoing                     CDF
                         -Develop roads (full rehabilitation
                         of 1260 km, partialrehabilitation
                         of 2520 kmand pavingof 580 000
                         kmofroads inurbanareas)
                          -Train 5 726 people, equip 30 SME
                         and 30 productionunits




3. Micro Achievement     Promoteeconomic and social group 1995         2003   It 100000      European    By the GOR      .Provideeconomic,
Program, national        initiatives, andreinforce local                      3 x 0 s       Union        through the     :ommunal and social
:overage                 control of own development.                                        (7th FED)     National       infrastructure
                                                                                                         Coordination    .Supportto IMF



                                                                          93

.InstitutionalSupport     Organizationalcapacitybuilding,   998    003      47 170000    G E - tUnit Z F
                                                                                                       G
'roject for Rwandan     md facilitating integrationof                      ;nv                        through
Ievelopment             )rganizationaldevelopment                                        letherlands  intemational
Irganizations,national  ipproach(DO) into Rwandan                                                     NGOs. SNV.
overage                 Ievelopmentorganizations
                          Stimulatean influentialrole for
                        twandan development                                                          I

                        rganizations
                          Ensurethe sustainability of
                        nstitutionalsupportfrom DODI

, Decentralizationand     Capacitybuilding of               6102   6/05     2 209 700     Netherlands By the GdR      -Capacitybuildingof the
konomic Development     Ieconcentrated(Provinces)and                       luros                      through          deconcentratedand
lupportthrough          Iecentralizedstructure(Cellules)                                              Ruhengeri       decentralized
'articipatory Approach    Capacitybuilding of civil society                                           Province,with   structures
PADDEP) inRuhengeri                                                                                   NGO Care         - Capacitybuilding for
'rovince                                                                                              Intemational and civil society
                                                                                                      HelpageRwanda    - Study  on fiscal
                                                                                                      as executing    decentralizationand
                                                                                                      agency          budgeting

1.Promotionof            ,Improvementof vulnerable          512103 5/2/05    540 295$    UNFPA        162564 $        - Product    1 :Knowledge
leproductive Healthin    iopulations' reproductivehealth,in                                                           and awareness of
he Imidugudu,Provinces )articular youth and women living                                                              reproductivehealth
If Cyangugu,Kibuyeand    nshelters                                                                                    services, gender issues
Jmutara.                . Integratedeconomicdevelopment                                                               andhousehold
                                                                                                                      resourcemanagement
                                                                                                                      - Product    2 :Increased
                                                                                                                       utilizationof
                                                                                                                      reproductivehealth
                                                                                                                      servicesthrough
                                                                                                                      communityinterventions
                                                                                                                      - Product    3 :Planningfo
                                                                                                                      actionand community
                                                                                                                      development.
                                                                                                                      - Managementand
                                                                                                                      monitoring

7 ((Peaceand             Zontributeto democratization,      2/1/03 12121/04 t 399 630     Switzerland  ly the Donor    - Installation of program
)ecentralization"        ioverty povertyreduction and                       JHF                        hroughthe Swiss operationsincluding
jrogram, Kibuye Provincf iromotionofpeaceby supporting                                                 'ULUM           M&E
                         iecentralizationinKibuye                                                                      - Capacitybuilding of
                                                                                                                       personnel inthe 6
                                                                                                                       Districtsparticipating
                                                                                                                       - Support  for executionof
                                                                                                                       developmentplansand
                                                                                                                       micro achievementsof the
                                                                                                                       6 Districts.
                                                                                                                       - Roundtables   with
                                                                                                                       NGOs andother
                                                                                                                       committees of regarding
                                                                                                                       Provincialdevelopment
$.Community              .Assistthereintegrationof          3/99   6/30/03  3.700.000 DT! wJ3          3y GORthrough
teintegrationand         'etumees and other vulnerable                                                  National
levelopmentProjectin 1   ~oupsthrough the processof                                                    :oordination




                                                                      94

strictsltowns of Butare,  community development                                                         nit
isenyi, Gokongoro,        - Reinforcethe capacityof local
yumba and Umutara         populationsand local
.evinces                  administrations to execute
                          development projects.
ROJECTCLOSED



 Programmeof rural and    - Recapitalize  beneficiairies of the 7/1/01 5/30/04  5 000000    hropean     y GOR through    Consolidatemodules:
-banDevelopment:          HIM0works                                                         Jnion (FED) le National     (fruitD, (( oil nand   ((

lodules in 9 Districts anc- Generatepermanentjobs      related                                          'oordination    anitation ))

le town of Kigali, the    to the environment                                                            lnit             Implement modules:
eovinces ofButare,                                                                                                     ( wood   )>,((pili-pili N,
ibungo, Kigali Ngali,                                                                                                  ( milk nand
ibuye and Gikongoro                                                                                                   (infrastructures)) in
                                                                                                                        Cabuga town


3. Support Project for    -Enlighten citizens to the decision   2001   2003     I461248 $   JSAID       1yDonor
ommunity Development      makingprocess in decentralized                                                irough the
i dGood Govemance,        political institutions                                                        imerican NGO,
ibungo Province           - Strengthenaccountability    for                                             RC
                          socio-economic development
                          among individuals, households, and
                          associations
~

1.National Program of     Contribute to building capacity for   7/1/03  6130104 1.090.610   Vetherlands lythe GOR       .Preparationof aNationa
upport to                 management,planning, follow-up                                                irough the      Programof Supportfor
becentralization          and evaluation of decentralization                                            UNALOC          Decentralization
                          by MMALOC andpartner                                                          ervices         .Nationaldissemination
                          stakeholders.                                                                                 Jf the laws on
                                                                                                                        iecentralizationand goo(
                                                                                                                        Bovemance
                                                                                                                        .Finalization and
                                                                                                                        disseminationof the CDI
                                                                                                                        Procedures Manual
                                                                                                                        - Set up a computerized
                                                                                                                        system for M&Eand
                                                                                                                        experimentationwithin
                                                                                                                        the CDF
                                                                                                                        - Improve   the
                                                                                                                        computerizedinfomatio
                                                                                                                        systemof local
                                                                                                                        administration.
                                                                                                                        - Producestudy of budge
                                                                                                                        and fiscal potential of thc
                                                                                                                        decentralizedentities in
                                                                                                                        Cyangugu, Gitarama and
                                                                                                                        Kigali Ngali Provinces
                                                                                                                        - Technical  assistanceto
                                                                                                                        MINALOC services in
                                                                                                                        charge of local financing
 2. Social Micro          - Supportfor socio-economic            1999   2004    )92.050.000 European    3y the GOR      - Support   to the
 chievementin 8 Districts developmentof vulnerable groups. .                    ZRW         Union       hrough the      vulnerable
 NfRuhengeri, Byumba,     Training of elected community-                                                iational        - Economic    Recovery




                                                                          95

iitaramaProvinces         basedgroups                                                            :oordination    Micro-projects
                                                                                                Jnit             Pilot Project for Batwa

                                                                                                                 IRuhengeri
3.Program of Social       - Revolvingfund for technical               708 440       iermany     lythe Donor      licro-finance
'echnical, and Economic   capacity                                                               Trough the
nitiatives (PISTE) in7    - Micro   projects elaboratedand                                       ierman NGO,
Iistricts of Butare,      managedby the clients                                                 igro Action
Jmutara, Kibungo          - Partnership  betweenthe various
'rovinces                 actors in micro management.
4.Reinforcement Program - Support poverty reduction and                1 505 000 S  :IDA        !y the Donor
or Rwandan Grassroots     peacebuilding through the local                                        hrough the NGO
Irganizations, Gitarama   organizations                                                         or International
nd Butare Provinces                                                                             Ievelopmentand
                                                                                                'eace
5.Fiscal Decentralization - Improve   FinancialManagement            !470163$       JSAID       !y the Donor
'roject                   Systems                                                               hrough a US.
                                                                                                 gency, ARD


6.Resource Protection     --- Capacity
                              Increaselocalrevenues
                              Improve district service delivery
                                      buildingfor use and                000000     jermany     3y the Donor
'rogram in 9 Districts of safeguardingo fnaturalresources             ]EM                       hrough a German
:yangugu, Butare,         (soil and vegetation) inrural areas.                                  igency of
iitarama, Kigali Ngali    - Increaseremuneratedjob                                              :ooperation, DEE
'rovinces                 opportunities through program
                          development.
 7. Management and        -Develop institutional capacity for         !992510$      UNDP,       Bythe GOR
)ecentralization Unit     coordination ofactivities and                             Netherlands, through a
DMU)atMINALOC             implementationofdecentralization                          Switzerland  National
                          -Review administrative                                                 Coordination
                          organizational structures,design                                      Unit
'ROJECT CLOSED            and train local govemments
                          personnel to operate
                          decentralization, administrative and
                          financial management systems that
                          will maximize local government
                          efficiency and accountability
                          -Ensure an open andenabling
                          environment for the development
                          and continual review of legal texts
                          concerning decentralization and
                          democratization
                          - Ensure   operational andfunctional
                          programrelated to information,
                          communication andcivic education
                          inorder to circulate informationand
                          promote responsiveleadership
                          - Establisheffective  and
                          coordinatedcommunity
                          developmentinitiatives countywde,
                          according to the principles and
                          spirit ofdecentralization,
                          participatoryplanning and
                          implementation.
 8. MINALOC/ SALA-        - Supportfor  coordinationand                3376000$     Sweden      3ytheDonor      I


                                                                   96

I A Project: Support to   implementation of decentralization                                         rough the
lecentralizationin Butare -Buildcapacity building of                                                 wedish NGO,
nd Gikongoro Provinces    RwandeseAssociation of Local                                               ALA-IDA
                          Zovemment Authorities (RALGA)
                          -Buildcapacity of decentralized
                          mtities through thematic groups of
                          techniciansin the concemed
                           Provinces.
9. Institutional Support  .Buildcapacityforoperatingthe        2004    2006    4000000 DM iTZ        ly the Donor
roject and Capacity       Common Development Fund (CDF                                                hrough the
iuildingfor                                                                                          2erman
)ecentralizationin                                                                                   Sooperation
3bungo Province                                                                                      4gency GTZ
0. Institutional Supporttc - BuildMINALOC capacity in          2002    2005    231loo$    Lfrican    3y the GOR        - Installcomputerized
IINALOC Planning           planningand participatory                                      kvelopment  hrough a         network linking CEPEX,
)epartmentand              3evelopment.                                                   lank        :oordination unit MMALOC Planning
rovinces                   - Create a computerizednetwork                                             lasedin           Department, the 12
                           linking MINECOFIN, CEPEX,                                                  dINECOFIN         Provinces, and town of
                           MINALOC, the 12 Provincesand                                                                 Kigali
                           the town of Kigali.                                                                          - Provide computer
                                                                                                                        equipment for MINALOC
                                                                                                                        Planning Departmentand
                                                                                                                        the Provinces
                                                                                                                        - Train 2 professionalsat
                                                                                                                        MINALOC in ICT
                                                                                                                        - Train 660 professionals
                                                                                                                        inMINALOC Planning
                                                                                                                        Departmentand
                                                                                                                        decentralizedagents.

!I. Evaluation of the 1st  - Evaluate progress and lessons     5/15/03 9/15/03  165.369   Netherlands Bythe GOR
Ihaseofthe National        leamed from Phase 1                                            Cooperation through the
Iecentralization Program                                                                              services ofthe
                           -  Propose elements for Phase I                                            MINALOC
                           Program       of     Support     ti
                           Decentralization.
!2. IntegratedSystem of    - Provide remuneratedwork to        5/03    5/06    i.459.552  Netherlands Bythe Donor       - Organize   HIMO
iatural Resource           combatpoverty in the region                         Zuros                  through a         activities for soil and
vlanagement by HIMO        through HIMO                                                               RwandanNGO        water conservation on
Labor Intensiveactivities  - Promotelong-term   conservation                                          HelpageRwandi hillsides and at lakeside
 SIG-HIMO): aroundlake of humid and fragile ecosystemsof                                                                - Rehabilitate the lakes
)fBurera andRuhondo,       the 2 lakes includingprotection anc                                                          through fishbreeding, to
mdinthe Districtsof        rational usage of water                                                                      boost fishingeconomy
3ukamba, Butaro, Cyeru     - ExperimentbyintegratingHIMO                                                                and food security
md Bugarurain Ruhenger     into decentralizedadministrative                                                             - Build  capacity of
'rovince                   systems to monetize local                                                                    decentralizedstructures
                           economies and promote the                                                                    and local technical
                           recovery of rural areas, combat                                                              training for actionsin
                           exodus to towns and cities                                                                    favor of localpopulation
                                                                                                                        particularly the




                                                                         97

             AdditionalAnnex 14: MonitoringandEvaluationFrameworkfor the DCDP
         REPUBLIC OF RWANDA: Decentralizationand CommunityDevelopmentProject

I.RationaleandObjectives

The importance of strengthening information management, and monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
systems in decentralization programs i s well established. The systematic collection, analysis, and
utilization o f information are critical becausethat information can be usedto verify achievement o fpolicy
goals, to analyze alternative outcomes, and to guide future decisions. In developing a results-oriented
M&E system for the DCDP, it was agreed that an approach that tried to cover all information needs-
both operational and strategic -would become overly complex. The preferred option was therefore to
select the indicators to track progress on strategic objectives -not individual activities. This core set of
indicators attempts to balance the need for comprehensiveness with the capacity at the District and
Provincial levels to deliver timely and robust data. Consultations at the District level informed the design
o f the overall M&Eframework.

The framework captures data on: (1) project and sub project operations; (2) project finance, procurement
and cost accounting; (3) the consultation and communication strategy; (4) the identification and
mitigation of social and environmental impacts; and (5) the impact of the DCDP on poverty reduction and
community development (see Diagram below).

                                                              ---


                                  .arm+
                                      I
                                      II




11. M&EElements

The first element o f the framework i s based on a series of key activities, milestones and achievements at
the project and sub-project level. At the project level, performance indicators address key steps in the
articulation o f development plans and sub-project implementation, emphasizing community consultation
and the identification of sub-projects that address community and poverty reduction objectives. Drawing
onreports from the District level, a sub-projects databasewill be maintained at the Provinciallevelby the
four Province Project Officers. An MIS officer inthe Project Coordination and MonitoringUnit (PCMU)
will coordinate the preparation o f quarterly reports on sub-project implementation. The MIS officer will
also coordinate analytical and informationdissemination activities.

The second element focuses on project finance, procurement and cost accounting. It includes a range of
performance indicators relating to compliance with the DCDP Procedures Manual. Two additional
elements focus on the consultation and communications strategy, and safeguards-related activities. The
final element of the M&Eframework includes a range o f performanceindicators dealing with the poverty
reductionand community development impact of the project (see below).




                                                      98

111.     Linkswith PRS,MTEF,CDFandDIP

Performance indicator selection, and training and capacity building activities, have been designed to
ensure that the DCDP complements and reinforces broader institutional strengthening activities at the
Provincial, District, Secteur and Cellule levels, particularly the Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS) and
Public Expenditure Management Strategy linked via the MediumTerm Expenditure Framework (MTEF).
This enhances the potential to harmonize DCDP activities with the evolution of the Common
Development Fund (CDF). The Ministry o f Finance is piloting the collection and collation of poverty
indicators at the District level, which presents opportunities to examine the impact o f the DCDP with
reference to the national PRS benchmarks.

Opportunities also exist for the DCDP M&E activities to inform the broader M&E agenda articulated in

particular interest i s the -- pending-- formation o f a monitoring, evaluation and policy development office
the Government o f Rwanda's Decentralization Implementation Program (DIP) for 2004-2008. O f

within the National Decentralization Implementation Support Unit at the Ministry of Local
Administration, Community Development and Social Affairs (MINALOC). It i s envisaged that this unit
and office will undertake a range o f M&E training and capacity buildingactivities inDistricts throughout
Rwanda.

Inadditionto linkingtheDCDPwithimplementationoftheDIPandtheMinistryofFinance-coordinated
District-level roll-out o f PRS indicators, key MINALOC staff articulated a core set of results-oriented
performance indicators for common sub-project types in the DCDP (see below). These performance
indicators will be incorporated into contracts between the PCMU and the Community Development
Committees (CDCs), and have been designed with a view to ensuring that they can be readily reported at
the sub-project level while maintaining a results orientation. Beneficiary assessments and biennial
external assessments will also focus on project and sub project achievement v i s - h i s poverty reduction
and community participation.

The M&E has also been designed to enable the comparison of project achievements with the cost
accounting framework detailed inAnnex 4 of this PAD. Inthe early stages o f the project, officers within
the PCMU will coordinate studies o f sub-project cost effectiveness. Inthe later stages o f the DCDP it is
anticipated that this analytical work will form the basis of further capacity building at the District and
CDC level. This will enable a number of advanced CDC to include an intervention matrix (i.e. summary
o f resources available from all donors and other sources) in their development plans, contrasting
anticipatedexpenditure with keypoverty indicators.

IV. BuildingCapacity andUtilizingM&EData

There are short- and medium-term challenges associatedwith strengthening data collection, analysis, and
utilization at various levels. The proposed M&E framework implies a range o f capacity building
imperatives at different levels. Various training activities have been incorporated into the project work-
plan.

Improvingthe utilization of M&Edata - and data from other information systems - is priority. There is a
need to stimulate demand for information (at the local level, and within key coordinating institutions),
reinforcing M&E capacity buildingactivities.




                                                       99

                                                I
                                                I  Stimulate i
                                                  Demand for
                                                  InformationI


This is an ongoing challenge, to be addressedthroughtwo interrelated actions: (i) it clear to users,
                                                                                  making
especially policymakers and politicians, what they can expect interms of flow of monitoring output inthe
coming years, how best to access it and what will be the most useful and effective way to handle data; and
(ii) tolinkpovertyinformationtopolicyformulationandimplementation. Intheshortrunthis
    action
means buildinglinks between the piloting of the PRS poverty monitoring system and the development of
District's 5-Year Strategic DevelopmentPlans.




                                                   100

                             Table A - roposel M&E Bamewc k for DCDPODerations
                                       Baseline                                    Indicator Rei
                                                                          (Responsibilities, Activi
                                                                 Responsibility    Timing


No. Districts/CDCsparticipating inthe   11 of 106   39      39   Coordinateur      Biannually
DCDP.                                    (10%)    (100%)  (100%)
%Populationcoveredbythe DCDP.          TBA (%) TBA (%) B A (%)   Coordinateur    I Biannually
%ParticipatingDistricts/CDCscompleted      11       39      39   Biannually                        4 variety of capacity
training inpriority setting, project     (28%)    (100%)  (100%)                                   >uildingandtraining
planning, financial management,                                                                    ictivities are planned
monitoring andevaluation, problem
resolutionandthe participatory
development planningprocess.
%District/CDC usingbroad-based             11       35      39   Biannually                        Linkswith communication
communityparticipation to formulate      (28%)    (90%)  (100%)                                    strategy.
developmentplans.
% ParticipatingDistrictsiCDCs with         11       39      39   Biannually                        DistrictslCDCswill need
developmentplan andbudget.               (28%)    (100%)  (100%)                                   Support to incorporatePRS
                                                                                                   baselinesandresults-
                                                                                                   orientedperformance
                                                                                                   indicatorsinto
                                                                                                   developmentplans.
%ParticipatingDistricts have               0        16      29   Biannually                        Districts/CDCswill need
implementedor are implementingsub-                 (40%)   (75%)                                   support to incorporatePRS
projects inaccordancewith proposals                                                                baselinesandresults-
made intheir developmentplans                                                                      orientedperformance
                                                                                                   indicatorsinto sub-project
                                                                                                   proposals.
%Districts updatingtheir rolling           0        20      30   The PCMUMIS Biannually            Districts/CDCswill need
development plans through aconsultative            (50%)   (75%) officer will                      support to incorporate
process.                                                         compilereports                    (re)examine PRSbaselines
                                                                 drawingon                         andperformance
                                                                 quarterlyreports                  indicators.
                                                                 from PPOs
Beneficiaryassessments % of Districts
                          -                0         13     25   PCMUMIS           Annual          PCMUwill require
and local stakeholderssuch as CDCs and   (0%)      (30%)   (60%) officer to                        additionalexpertise(TA)
civil societyorganizationsexpressing                             coordinatewith                    to developandexecutethe
satisfactionwith their District                                  assistance from                   beneficiaryassessment
participatorydevelopmentplanning                                 extemal
process.                                                         consultant




                                                          101

          TableB-ProposedM&Eframeworkfor DCDP(Sub-project) Operations

             Sub-projectDatabase(CollectionbyPPOs,Collatedby M I S database)
For each sub-project:
Description:
            o     Name o f sub-project
            o     Name o f implementer (group)
            o     Project Location District, Cellule,and address
                                    -
            o     Contact Person'sName (and contact details)
            o     Type o f Sub-project
            o     Duration ofproject
            o     Project budget:
            o     Estimatednumber o f sub-project beneficiaries with detail on social characteristics
                  (income, gender, vulnerability (e.g. child-headed households, widow-headed
                  households), education level, age, basic necessities, e.t.c.)
            o     Performance indictors (and baselines):
            o     What social and environmental impacts applicable to the proposal?
            o     Describe stakeholder & beneficiary consultation:

Sub-project implementation:
            o     PCMUApproves priorities inactionplan (date):
            o     PPO approval of project design document (date):
            o     Environmentaland Social ScreeningCompleted
            o     Project start-up / commencement Date:
            o     Financial Report Date:
            o     Technical Report Date:
            o     Sub-project closing Date:
Proiect Evaluation(on completion):
            o     Describeprogress onkey performance indictors:
            o     Actual number o f sub-project beneficiaries, with detail on social characteristics
                  (income, gender, vulnerability (e.g. child-headed households, widow-headed
                  households), education level, age, basic necessities, e.t.c.)
            o     Implementationo f environmental mitigation plans (ifrelevant):
            o     Other comments / lessonslearned:




                                              102

                             Table C -Proposed framework for M&Eof DCDPPovertyImpact

                                                                                 IndicatorReporting
                                                                        (Responsibilities, Activitiesand Training)
                                                                  Responsibility       Timing       M&E Capacity Building
                                                                                                          Implications
'/o ParticipatingDistrictsKDCswith      4 0      20      39    )istricts/CDCs need support andtraining to collate
demographic (census) baselineand      ( 4 5yo)  (50%)  (100%)  lemographicdata and incorporate indevelopmentplans.
projectionsincorporatedinto
developmentplan.
3/0 ParticipatingDistricts/CDCs with      0       5       15   >istricts/CDCsneedsupport andtraining to collectPRS data.
PRS indicatorbaseline and database              (12%)   (40%)
3/0 ParticipatingDistrictsKDCswith        0       5       15   )istricts/CDCs needsupport andtraining to incorporatePRS
developmentplansincluding PRS                   (12%)  (40%)   latainto developmentplans.
indicatorchapter
% ParticipatingDistrictdCDCs with         0       5       15   IistrictsiCDCs needsupportto develop andutilize
development plans including                     (12%)  (40%)   nterventionmatrix.
interventionmatrix
% ParticipatingDistricts/CDCs            <5       20     30    IistrictsiCDCs need supportto conduct ex-postpoverty
conductingex-post assessmentsof sut   ( 4 0 % ) (50%)   (75%)  mpact andcost effectivenessassessments.
projectpovertyimpact and cost
effectiveness
% Sub projectwith ex-post                        15%     30%   'POs to monitorprogressand           DistrictdCDCs need
assessmentsof poverty impactand                                eport to PCMU(MIS/M&E                support to conduct ex-
cost effectiveness                                             Ifficer) on aquarterlybasis.         post povertyimpactand
                                                               iummaryreportscompliedon a           cost effectiveness
                                                               iiannualbasis.                       assessments.
Ex post evaluationof arepresentative    N/A       S      HS    External               After 2       There are opportunitiestc
sampleof sub-projectverifies:                                  Assessment             years and4 use the extemal
                              I

(a) Appropriate emphasison broad-                                                     years         assessmentto enhance
basedcommunityconsultation                                                                          M&E capacity at the
(b) Strongcommunitysupport for                                                                      District andPCMUlevel
sub-projects                                                                                        by combiningexternal
(c) Sub project achievingpoverty                                                                    assessmentswith peer
reductionimpact inaccordancewith                                                                    review andparticipative
developmentplans                                                                                    appraisal.
(d) Sub projectcost effectiveness




                                                         103

                    Table D-Proposed framework for M&E ofDCDPFinance& Cost Accounting                   I




Cost accountingsystem.                                                Administrateur    Quarterly
                                                                      Financier
Numberfinancedsub-projects                  NIA          Monitor      Quarterly
(a) Total
(b) Byprojecttype
                                                 I
(c) By District
Value of financedsub-projects                            Monitor      Quarterly
(a) Total
(b) Byproject type                          NIA
(c) By District
% sub-projects approved intimely                    50%          90%  Bi-annually
fashion (inaccordancewith Project
ProceduresManual)
Average time lagbetweenCDC contract                 Monitor           Bi-annually                  I
and disbursementof funds.
% service provider contracts satisfactorily NIA     75%          90%  Bi-annually
completedwithin the given time and
budget frame
% sub-projects with satisfactorytechnical                        90%  Bi-annually
audits                                           I  75%    I                                       I
% Districts with annual audits submitted                              Administrateur    Bi-annually
as requiredby law.                                                    Financier(in
                                                                      consultationwith
                                                                      PPOs& experts




                                                        104

                                  Table E-Proposedframework for M&Eof DCDP Safeguards




% ParticipatingDistricts/CDCs                                    PPOsvia sub-project Bi-annual        This i s `strategic
conductingenvironmentassessments                                 database                             environmentalassessment'
during formulation ofdevelopment                                                                      -andmainstreamingthis
plans                                                                                                 activity mayrequire
                                                                                                      additionaltechnical
                                                                                                      assistance.
% sub-projects applying social and      Monitor via sub-project  PPOsvia sub-project Bi-annual
environmentalscreen                           database           database
% sub-projectstriggering socialand      Monitor via sub-project  PPOsvia sub-project Bi-annual
environmental safeguardspolicies              database           database
% sub-projectspreparingmitigation       Monitor via sub-project  PPOsvia sub-project Bi-annual        EA capacitybuilding at
plans                                         database           database                             PCMU, PPO, andDistrict
                                                                                                      level. Opportunitiesto
                                                                                                      collaborate with Rwanda
                                                                                                      Environmental
                                                                                                      ManagementAgency are
                                                                                                      beingexplored.
Externalassessmentverifiesthat:         N/A         S       HS   ExternalAssessment After 2 years and4 There are opportunitiesto
(a) Training and capacitybuilding                                                    years             use the externalassessment
activitiesare strengthening                                                                            to enhanceM&E capacity   2
awarenessat the District level of the                                                                  the District andPCMU
needto managesocialand                                                                                 levelby combiningexterna
environmentalimpacts.                                                                                  assessmentswith peer
(b) The environmentalandsocial                                                                         reviewandparticipative
screen is beingappliedas outlinedin                                                                    appraisal.
the proceduresmanualandwhen
required, mitigation plansare being
implemented.
(c) Vulnerablegroupsandwomen
are benefitingfrom sub-projects'
activities




                                                                105

                                     d framc



                                             ;"
~
(as above) % Participating               11    39       39    Biannually                            A variety ofcapacity
DistrictsKDCs completedtraining in    (28%)  (100%) (100%)                                          building andtraining
priority setting, project planning,                                                                 activitiesare planned
financial management, monitoring
and evaluation,problemresolution
 and understandingthe CDD process.
(as above) % DistricdCDC using          11                   Biannually                             Linkswith communication
broad-basedcommunityparticipation     (28%)         (1:                                             strategy.
to formulatedevelopmentplans.
(as above) % Districts updatingtheir     0                   Biannually                             DistrictsKDCs will need
rolling development plansthrougha      (0%)  (50%)     (75%)                                        support to incorporate
 consultativeprocess.                                                                               (re)examine PRSbaselines
                                                                                                    andperformance
                                                                                                    indicators.
 (as above) Beneficiary assessments-     0                    Coordinateur drawing
                                                                           -          Annual        PCMUmayrequire
 % ofcommunitiesand local              (0%)  (30%)
                                               l3 (60%)
                                                   I    25    on quarterlyreports from              additionalexpertise (TA)
 stakeholdersare satisfiedwith their                          PPOs, collatedby                      to developandexecutethe
 District CDD (participatory                                  CommunicationsOfficer                 beneficiaryassessment
 developmentplanning) processand
 wish it to continueinthat manner.
 (as above) Ex post evaluationof a             S        HS    ExternalAssessment      After 2 years There are opportunitiesto
 representativesample of sub-project                                                  and4 years    use the external
 verifies:                                                                                          assessmentto enhance
 (a) Appropriate emphasison broad-                                                                  M&E capacityat the
 basedcommunityconsultation                                                                         District andPCMUlevel
 (b) Strongcommunity support for                                                                    by combiningexternal
 sub-projects                                                                                       assessmentswith peer
                                                                                                    review andparticipative
                                            -7-I                                                    appraisal.
 % Participatingdistricts/ CDCs          0                    Biannually
 receivingsupport from                 (0%)  (75%)  (100%)
 communicationunit                             30       39
 %Participatingdistricts/ CDCs           0
 exposedto development planand         (0%)   50%      (90%)  inPCMU(Verify via
 sub-project bestpractice(via peer                            PPOS)
 review, exchange, site visits and
 informationmaterials)




                                                            106

                          Table G-Example"result-oriented" performanceindicatorsfor sub-projects

Roadwork:
               0                Kms o f roads built / rehabilitated
               0                Estimate: users o f road / per day (baseline & at project completion)
               0                Time saved perjourney
               0                Accident rate per month (baseline & at project completion)
Bridgework:
               0                Number bridges built / rehabilitated
               0                Estimate baseline: users of bridge / per day
               0                Estimate performance: users o f bridge / per day after project completion
Housing:
               0                Number o f persons accommodated innew / rehabilitated housing
               0                Homelessness (baseline & at project completion)
Education:
               0                Number of school buildingsbuilt / rehabilitated
               0                Number o f student beneficiaries (baseline & at project completion)
               0                Enrolment baseline and outcome
Health Facilities:
               0                Facility / population ratio (baseline & at project completion). E.g., nurse per person, hospitalbedper person.
               0                Utilization rate (baseline & at project completion)
Agriculture:
               0                Area o f land covered in sub-project
               0                Number o f participants receiving training
               0                Impact o f project on yield / and natural resource management
Water and sanitation:
               0                Number of beneficiaries (baseline & at project completion) insub-project area
               0                Incidence of diarrhea (re to waterbome disease)
Small entemrise development:
               0                Number of businesses established and operating profitably
               0                Number o f full-time employees.
Other:
               0                Number o f beneficiaries by social characteristics (income, gender, vulnerability (e.g. child-headed households,
                                widow-headed households), education level, age, basic necessities, e.t.c.)

            111TheCostaccountingsystemsasdescribedintheProceduresManuali inplaceatthePCMU,andcapacitybuildingandtraining
                                                                                  s
            activitiesat the District levelare proceedingas envisaged.
            aCost    accountingsystemis beingusedto calculate projectcosteffectiveness, e.g., averagecost / unitservice, enablingcomparisonwith
            andacross Districts, and comparisonwith intemationalbenchmarks.




                                                                          107

     AdditionalAnnex 15: EnvironmentalMitigationPlanand SocialConsultationFramework
         REPUBLIC OF RWANDA:DecentralizationandCommunity Development Project


I.Introduction

This Annex summarizes the guidelines and decision-making processes that will be used to avoid or
minimize adverse environmental and social impacts o f DCDP sub-projects, ensuringthat they meet with
the requirements of the Intemational Development Agency of the World Bank as described in its
safeguards policies on Environmental Assessment (OP 4.0 l), Habitats (OP 4.04), Forestry (OP
                                                                 Natural
4.36), Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12) and OP 4.20 on Indigenous Peoples.

The DCDP sub-projects are small-scale activities and developments, selected and executed through a
bottom-up, participatory process open to all community members. Decisions on the allocation o f funds
are made by the District Community Development Committees (CDCs), through a negotiation process,
and with information provided by Cellules and Secteurs.The project will screen sub-project proposals for
the above mentioned safeguards policies and apply appropriate mitigation measures to reduce or avoid
negative impacts on people or the environment.

No major environmental or adverse social impacts are expected. However, small-scale civil works may
have minor adverse environmental and social impacts. This annex summarizes a range of mechanisms to
address these challenges: a screening and review process for potential environmental and social impacts
associated with the sub-projects; procedures to avoid or mitigate prospective adverse impacts on the
environment; a complaint mechanism; and procedures for monitoring and evaluation.

The DCDP provides for capacity building and training in environmental and social impact assessment
within the Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit(PCMU) and at the District level. The promotion of
sound management o f environmental and social impacts at the District level i s incorporatedinthe DCDP
monitoring and evaluation framework.

11. ProhibitedActivities

Screening and review will take place prior to the District CDCs' submission of sub-project proposals to
the PCMU for funding. To avoid certain adverse impacts on the environment and people, the DCDP
ProceduresManual specifies a range o f activities that are eligible / not eligible for DCDPproject support.

For example, the DCDP will not support new land acquisitions or the expansion o f existing settlements in
protected areas or areas proposed for protection. Where settlements already exist, proposals for funding
must be in compliance with national land management regulations, and provisions in protected area
management plans. No track upgrading or road rehabilitation of any kindwill be allowed inside natural
habitats and existing or proposed protected areas. N o project support will be provided in areas with
activities involving involuntary resettlement. Activities that will have adverse impacts on social groups
withinthe community and/or inneighboringcommunities cannot be funded.

Resettlement

No person will be involuntarily displaced under the project. Sub-project proposals must be carefully
reviewedby the infrastructurespecialist at the Provincial Project Office to ensure that the project does not
fund any sub-project leading to involuntary displacement, loss of income, source of income or restriction
to commonly heldresources.



                                                    108

EthnicMinorities

The project will follow the key principles of the World Bank's policy concerning ethnic minorities
(Operational Directive 4.20 on Indigenous Peoples), which are to "ensure that indigenous peoples do not
suffer adverse impacts during the development process ..., and that they receive culturally compatible
social and economic benefits.'' These concems are met through the design o f the project itself, the
screening form and the monitoring and evaluation framework, including the external assessments. Project
facilitators at District and Provincial level are tasked to review projects to ensure that all groups in the
populationhave been consulted and will benefit from project activities inthe project areas.

111. Analysis ofAlternative Designs

All activities supported by the Decentralizationand Community Development Project funds must avoid
or minimize negative environmental impacts by exploring viable alternative designs and by following the
Project Procedures Manual and Technical Guidelines. It i s anticipated that most adverse impacts will be
highly localized, temporary in nature, and easily mitigated through the application of sensible site
selection criteria, good construction practices and diligent management practices inthe operational phase
with specific guidance on how to manage environmental aspects of the particular activities. Standard
operating procedures for various types of sub-projects will be incorporated into the Technical Guidelines
providing standard technical designs and costs.

As part of the selection requirements, all District annual action plans and sub-project proposals are
required to include a brief description of the existing environment at the project area, any known
environmental sensitivities, and any sites affected with known archeological, paleontological, historical,
cultural, religious or unique natural values. District technicians will expand on the environmental
information collected through reference to existing reports and studies (if available), through discussions
among community members or through new data collection ifnecessary. Project applications that do not
provide adequate environmental data cannot be considered for financing until they meet these
requirements. &&:      where opportunities exist, the PCMU will explore opportunities to pilot strategic
environmental assessments (SEA) using simple analytical techniques (e.g., SWOT analysis) at the
planning level. This promotion o f SEA i s a highly significant step within the context of nascent
environment management capacity inRwanda.

IV. Roles andResponsibilities

Overall responsibility for the implementation of these guidelines lies with the National PCMU. The office
will ensure that the guidelines are appropriately disseminated and that project staff have the required
skills and receive appropriate training to ensure that the safeguardsprocedures and screening process will
be followed as prescribed, and that no sub-projects restricted under these guidelines are funded. The
office i s responsible for proper monitoring o f social and environment issues and will incorporate
necessarychanges to the guidelines and procedures basedon recommendations from monitoring exercises
and inagreement with the World Bank.

District technicians will be trained in environmental assessment and mitigation, and will assist in
incorporating environmental measures into sub-project design before submission to the District CDC for
final decision on the sub-projects to recommend for financing. District technicians will also be
responsible for monitoring implementation o f sub-projects for environmental impacts. Standard
environmental and social screening forms have been prepared, and hrther support for District technicians
will be providedvia Provincial Project Officers andthe PCMU.

The screening checklist will be used to classify sub-projects into three categories:


                                                     109

    Projects with low or no environmental impacts The sub-project will follow the standard operating
                                                       -
    procedures, and may be submittedfor consideration without any environmentalevaluation;
    Projects expected to generate moderate impacts        - require preparation o f a simple environmental
    evaluation and incorporation of recommended mitigation measures in the project design prior to
    submission. Sub-projects inthis category are eligible for support, but only ifappropriate measures are
    taken to reduce and avoid negative impacts. The involvement of the Provincial Engineer is required
    to ensure that appropriate design and mitigation measures are taken. Projects that require an
    environmental evaluation include sub-project proposals that involve large-scale or sensitive land and
    water use changes, extensive construction or rehabilitation activities;
    Projects with signijicant and/or excessive environmental risks (highly unlikely)       - should not be
    submittedfor consideration, andwill notbe supported

Where sub-projects trigger environmental evaluation and the need for an impact mitigation plan, the
District technician will work with local stakeholders to explore alternative sub-project designs, and
impact mitigation actions. Provincial Engineerswill overseethe preparation o f the evaluation, drawing on
expertise from the PCMU and Ministry of Environment as required. The evaluation will include a
description of the environmental impacts and mitigation measuresto be incorporatedinto the design.

Based on the evahation, the Provincial Engineer determines, inconsultation with the CDCs, whether the
project should be approved for further preparation and submission. The technicians and engineers will
monitor the implementation o f sub-projects on an ongoing basis and at least at mid-point and completion
following the information provided in standard sheets in the Procedures Manual and Technical
Guidelines.

In the next phase of the DCDP preparationbefore project effectiveness, standard operating procedures
and environmentalevaluation requirements will be specified for a range of common sub-project types.

Capacity BuildingandTraining

Training programs will be developed to strengthen environmental awareness and the DistrictTechnicians
will introduce environmental management themes into the District, Secteur and Cellule planning
processes, following the guidelines provided inthe Project Procedures Manual. Discussion with the newly
formed (2004) environment agency, Rwanda Environmental Management Agency, are ongoing - with a
view to harmonizing environmentalassessment capacity buildinginterventionsat the District, Secteur and
Cellule level, and for making Environment ministry staff available to support sub-project technical
evaluations.

Monitoring

Approved projects with environmental andor social impacts will be supervised and monitored by the
District CDCs and District technicians with assistance and oversight by the Provincial Project Officers,
and other officers in the PCMU. The findings and any recommendations will be recorded in quarterly
reports to be furnished to the National PCMU, through the Provincial Project Offices and shared with
World Bank implementation support missions.

General monitoring and evaluation of the project, including monitoring and evaluation by independent
entities or consultants, will pay particular attention to issues concerning the environment, social impacts
and ethnic minorities and resettlemenuand acquisition. The DCDP proposed monitoring and evaluation
framework includes a safeguards component,               explicitly designed to strengthen sub-project



                                                     110

implementation and incorporate lessons learned and environmental assessment best practice into future
iterations of the development plans.

Complaint Mechanism

Complaints relatedto environmental, ethnic minority or resettlement issues will be handled as follows:

        a) As a first stage, affected or concerned persons will present, verbally or in writing, their
        complaints to the District CDC, who will have to provide a documentedresponseto the claimants
        within 14 days. Claimants will be exempted &om any administrative or legal charges associated
        with pursuingcomplaints. The CDC will forward reports on eachdisputeto the Provincial Project
        Officer, with routine summaries sent to the national level PCMU as an attachment to regular
        reporting;
        b) Where complaints are not resolved at the District or provincial level to the satisfaction to the
        affected or concerned parties, cases are to be submitted to the PCMU, as well as to local
        authorities (e.g. the Provincial Assembly);
        c) The PCMU i s ultimately responsible for sub-project approval and implementation, and i s
        empowered to work with Provincial and District authorities and other stakeholders to resolve
        complaints and conflict duringsub-project design, implementation and follow-up.




                                                   111


