                                           Document of
                                        The World Bank

                                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                               Report No: ICR00001889




                IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                 (IDA-H0940)

                                             ON A

                                            GRANT

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR13.7 MILLION
                               (US$ 20 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                            TO THE

                                     REPUBLIC OF RWANDA

                                             FOR A

          DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                          June 30, 2011




Social Protection Unit
Human Development Department
Eastern Africa Country Cluster II
Africa Region
                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                    (Exchange Rate Effective January 31, 2011)

                  Currency Unit = Special Drawing Rights (SDR)

                               SDR 1 = US$ 0.64
                              US$ 1.00 = SDR 1.55
                                FISCAL YEAR
                                July 1 – June 30

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB      African Development Bank
BA        Beneficiary Assessment
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CDC       Community Development Committee
CLSG      Community Living Standards Grant
CLSC      Community Living Standards Credit
CNLS      National AIDS Control Commission
CPAF      Common Performance Assessment Framework
CRDP      Community Reintegration and Development Project
CSO       Civil Society Organization
DCDP      Decentralization and Community Development Project
DDP       District Development Plans
DGA       Development Grant Agreement
DPAF      Donor Performance Assessment Framework
EDPRS     Economic Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy
FHI       Family Health International
FM        Financial Management
GoR       Government of Rwanda
GtZ       Gesellschaft Technische Zusammenardbeit
ICB       Institutional Capacity Building
IEC       Information, Education, and Communication
ISR       Implementation Status Report
JADF      Joint Action Development Forum
MINALOC   Ministry of Local Government
NDIS      National Decentralization Implementation Secretariat
NGO       Non Governmental Organization
MTR       Mid-Term Review
OAG       Office of the Auditor General
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PCO       Provincial Coordination Officer
PDO       Project Development Objectives
PCMU      Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit
PNLT      National Program for Fighting Malaria
PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
TTL    Task Team Leader
UNDP   United Nations Development Program
VUP    Vision 2020 Umurenge Program

 

                      Vice President: Obiageli Ezekwesili
                    Country Director: Johannes C.M. Zutt
                     Sector Manager: Lynne Sherburne-Benz
                   Country Manager: Omowunmi Ladipo
                Project Team Leader: Alex Kamurase
                    ICR Team Leader Alex Kamurase
                 ICR Primary Author: Alex Kamurase/Randa El-Rashidi
                                          Republic of Rwanda
                         Decentralization and Community Development Project



                                                      Table of Content
Datasheet ....................................................................................................................i-viii 
A. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design ............................................. 1 
B. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5 
C. Assessment of Outcomes ........................................................................................... 9 
D. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ........................................................ 17 
E. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 18 
F. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 20 
G. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners.......... 21 
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing ......................................................................... 22 
Annex 2. Outputs by Component................................................................................... 23 
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 25 
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............. 28 
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results............................................................................. 30 
Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ...................... 37 
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents........................................................................ 41 
Annex 8. Map ................................................................................................................ 42 
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Decentralization and
Country:                Rwanda                  Project Name:             Community
                                                                          Development Project
Project ID:             P074102                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-H0940
ICR Date:               06/30/2011              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          GOVERMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          RWANDA
Original Total
                        XDR 13.7M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 13.3M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 13.3M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Local Government
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                               Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                   Date(s)
Concept Review:       01/23/2003     Effectiveness:             12/23/2004        12/23/2004
Appraisal:            02/13/2004     Restructuring(s):                            06/24/2009
Approval:             06/15/2004     Mid-term Review:           12/23/2007        11/01/2007
                                     Closing:                   09/30/2009        12/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:




                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                           Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
 Potential Problem Project                         Quality at Entry
                           No                                              None
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
 Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                     Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                     20                  20
Other social services                                                 30                  30
Sub-national government administration                                50                  50


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Decentralization                                                      33                  33
Other public sector governance                                        17                  17
Other social protection and risk management                           17                  17
Participation and civic engagement                                    33                  33

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili           Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          Johannes C.M. Zutt                   Emmanuel Mbi
Sector Manager:            Setareh Razmara                      Laura Frigenti
Project Team Leader:       Alex Kamurase                        Susan Opper
ICR Team Leader:           Alex Kamurase
ICR Primary Author:        Randa G. El-Rashidi
                           Alex Kamurase


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Decentralization and Community Development Project (DCDP) will boost the
emergence of a dynamic local economy through communities that are empowered to lead
their own development process under an effective local government. The specific


                                                 ii
development objectives are to: (i) strengthen district capacity to lead a process of
planning and consultation with local communities, translating their development
priorities into subprojects to be incorporated into the districts# strategic development
plans; (ii) develop a matching grants system to finance the subprojects; (iii) validate
procedures for decentralized project cycle management and financial management,
through subproject implementation, to be replicated as the basic operating procedure in
Rwanda#s overall decentralization program; and (iv) introduce and promote public
awareness programs.

  While there was a restructuring to reallocate original project financing, tweak some of
the indicators to strengthen the results framework and extend the closing date to enable
completion and functionality of community assets crated [including regaining time lost
during a whole year of project disruption when government introduced rapid territorial
reforms], there was no change to the Project Development Objectives (as approved by
original approving authority).

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
There was no change to the Project Development Objectives (as approved by original
approving authority)

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally         Actual Value
                                             Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
   Indicator       Baseline Value
                                               approval          Target          Completion or
                                              documents)         Values          Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Number of districts with at least 75% of budget execution rate
Value
quantitative or 0                          17/30 (57%)        Not revised    30 (100%)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/23/2004                   12/23/2004         06/24/2009     12/31/2010
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                Number of participating districts implementing annual action plans [A] on time
Indicator 2 :
                and [B] according to their development plans.
Value                                      Indicator was
quantitative or A: 0; B: 0                 tweaked to make it A: 17; B: 17 A: 17; B: 15
Qualitative)                               more relevant.
Date achieved 12/23/2004                   12/23/2004         06/24/2009     12/31/2010
Comments
                The 17 districts are those where DCDP supported community development
(incl. %
                initiatives under component 3.
achievement)
                % of subprojects that have been implemented in a satisfactory way according to
Indicator 3 :
                their outputs, outcome and presence of sustainability arrangements
Value
quantitative or 0                          90%                Not revised    83%
Qualitative)


                                               iii
Date achieved   12/23/2004                 12/23/2004         06/24/2009     02/28/2010
Comments        The last recorded progress was in February 2010. The team is confident that
(incl. %        results from an impact evaluation that government will do this year will reveal
achievement)    full achievement of the target.
                Number of districts with annual audit reports submitted [A] on time which are
Indicator 4 :
                assessed as [B] unqualified by Auditor General.
                Not determined. Could
                not be determined
Value
                retroactively because
quantitative or                            A: 17; B:17        Not revised    A: 14; B: 17
                districts demarcations and
Qualitative)
                constituent sectors had
                changed by MTR.
Date achieved 12/23/2004                   12/23/2004         06/24/2009     06/30/2010
Comments        The outcome of districts submitting unqualified reports was fully achieved.
(incl. %        Achievement on timeliness was at 82% by June 2010. Reports for FY2009/10
achievement) have not yet been completed for review.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                              Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator          Baseline Value                                Revised
                                                approval                          Completion or
                                                                Target Values
                                               documents)                          Target Years
Indicator 1 : Number of Local Government Staff trained disaggregated by area of training
Value                                                           All local
(quantitative   0                          New indicator        government 10,771
or Qualitative)                                                 staff
Date achieved 12/23/2004                   06/24/2009           06/24/2009      12/31/2010
                The 10,771 represents all staff disaggregated as: FM(1035); Leadership (3359);
Comments
                Planning (4605); Procurement (571); Conflict management (387); M$E (210);
(incl. %
                Project management (128); Cooperatives (249); Environmental protection (7)
achievement)
                and study tours (220).
                % of districts CDCs trained in priority setting, project planning, financial
Indicator 2 : management, monitoring and evaluation, problem resolution and participatory
                development planning process (by year 2)
Value
(quantitative   33%                        100%                 Not revised     100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/23/2004                   12/23/2004           06/24/2009      03/31/2007
                CDCs are community development committees. The target was to achieve the
Comments
                indicator by end of year 2 in 2007. The base line value largely draws from the
(incl. %
                start-up training provided by the CRDP, a predecessor IDA operation and other
achievement)
                small donor projects.
                75% of districts/CDCs which have formulated their development plan and budget
Indicator 3 :
                (by year 2)
Value
(quantitative   0%                         75%                  Not revised     100%
or Qualitative)



                                               iv
Date achieved 12/23/2004                    12/23/2004           06/24/2009     12/31/2007
                Achievement was a little delayed because the rapid introduction of the territorial
Comments
                reforms caused a delay of one year to the project implementation. Yet
(incl. %
                development of the DDPs had to be aligned with that of the EDPRS since the
achievement)
                former were inputs into the
Indicator 4 : 75% of all districts that are implementing their development plans (by year 4)
Value
(quantitative   0%                          75%                  Not revised    100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/23/2004                    12/23/2004           06/24/2009     12/30/2008
Comments        Launching of District Development Plans came with the introduction of
(incl. %        IMIHIGO (performance management contracts). This accelerated both the
achievement) formulation of plans implementation and budget execution rates.
                75% of all districts are current in updating their rolling development plans
Indicator 5 :
                through consultative processes.
Value
(quantitative   0%                          75%                  Not revised    100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/23/2004                    12/23/2004           06/24/2009     12/31/2010
Comments
                All districts regularly update their rolling development plans as part of the
(incl. %
                IMIHIGO performance management contracts.
achievement)
                At least 40% of all districts selected for capacity building have implemented or
Indicator 6 : are implementing subprojects in accordance with proposals made in their
                development plans (by year 2).
Value
(quantitative   0%                          40%                  Not revised    100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/23/2004                    12/23/2004           06/24/2009     12/31/2010
Comments        This indicator had a timeline of December 31, 2007 as was achieved by then.
(incl. %        Achievement of the same indicator 3 years after has been recorded by the team
achievement) to since this was a good indicator of sustainability.
                Project inter ministerial working group established at national and provincial
Indicator 7 :
                levels.
                                                                                Project
Value           No project                  Operational                         interministerial
(quantitative   interministerial working working group           Not revised    working group in
or Qualitative) group existed.                                                  place and
                                                                                operational
Date achieved 12/23/2004                    12/23/2004           06/24/2009     12/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                % of sub projects who have a maintenance/financial mechanism plan for the
Indicator 8 : rehabilitated/constructed infrastructure in place and budgeted one year after
                completion of infrastructure.
Value
                N/A                         75%                  Not revised    100%
(quantitative



                                                v
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/23/2004                  12/23/2004           06/24/2009     12/31/2010
                DCDP supported infrastructure sub projects in 17 out of 30 districts. All sub
Comments
                projects were completed by December 31, 2010 and officially handed over to the
(incl. %
                districts. The community assets created were since mainstreamed into the local
achievement)
                government budgets.
                Beneficiary Assessments indicate that at least 60% of districts and local stake
Indicator 9 : holders such as CDCs and CSOs express satisfaction with their district
                participatory development planning process
Value
(quantitative   Not determined            60%                  Not revised    91%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/23/2004                  12/23/2004           06/24/2009     01/31/2011
Comments        While no beneficiary assessment was conducted to provide baseline, one was
(incl. %        done in 2008 for the MTR and a follow-up was conduced in 2010 to provide end
achievement) of project evaluation on this indicator. Satisfaction increased from 51% to 91%.
Indicator 10 : Number of implemented sub projects by type
                                                                              14 health centers;
                                                                              420 classrooms; 5
                                                                              bridges; 19 Secteurs
Value                                                                         offices; 20 houses
                                                               Demand
(quantitative   0                         Demand driven                       for vulnerable
                                                               driven
or Qualitative)                                                               groups; 5 Solar
                                                                              energy facilities;
                                                                              2,980 cows; 1
                                                                              modern market.
Date achieved 12/23/2004                  12/23/2004           06/24/2009     12/31/2010
                All the above community assets have reached a completion rate of 100%, are
Comments
                functional and communities expressed high levels of satisfaction with them. All
(incl. %
                subprojects were both built and equipped where applicable e.g. health centers
achievement)
                and class rooms.
Indicator 11 : Number of implemented sub projects by type
                                                                              14 health centers;
                                                                              420 classrooms; 5
                                                                              bridges; 19 Secteurs
Value                                                                         offices; 20 houses
                                                               Demand
(quantitative   0                         Demand driven                       for vulnerable
                                                               driven
or Qualitative)                                                               groups; 5 Solar
                                                                              energy facilities;
                                                                              2,980 cows; 1
                                                                              modern market.
Date achieved 12/23/2004                  12/23/2004           06/24/2009     12/31/2010
                All the above community assets have reached a completion rate of 100%, are
Comments
                functional and communities expressed high levels of satisfaction with them. All
(incl. %
                subprojects were both built and equipped where applicable e.g. health centers
achievement)
                and class rooms.




                                               vi
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                         Actual
       Date ISR
No.                          DO                       IP             Disbursements
       Archived
                                                                     (USD millions)
  1    11/29/2004        Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  0.00
  2    06/01/2005        Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  1.63
  3    01/06/2006        Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  2.13
  4    05/08/2007        Satisfactory             Satisfactory                  8.09
  5    12/27/2007        Satisfactory             Satisfactory                11.44
  6    06/30/2008     Highly Satisfactory         Satisfactory                14.70
  7    08/31/2008     Highly Satisfactory         Satisfactory                14.70
  8    02/20/2009        Satisfactory             Satisfactory                16.69
  9    06/15/2009        Satisfactory             Satisfactory                16.87
 10    12/27/2009        Satisfactory             Satisfactory                19.90
 11    05/25/2010        Satisfactory             Satisfactory                20.20


H. Restructuring (if any)

                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     A Level II restructuring was
                                                     done and approved by the
                                                     Country Director on
                                                     06/24/2009. The main purpose
                                                     of the restructuring was to (i)
                                                     extend the closing date to cover
                                                     up for time lost during the
                                                     reform period when starting of
                                                     implementation stalled in
                                                     2005/6, (ii) review indicators to
                                                     enhance the project results
 06/24/2009       N       S       S          16.87   agenda and potential for
                                                     assessing impact and (iii)
                                                     reallocate grant proceeds from
                                                     other components and the
                                                     unallocated funds to the
                                                     Community Development
                                                     Initiatives (component 3) to
                                                     allow provision of basic
                                                     equipments so that projects
                                                     could be in a functional state at
                                                     hand over. The reallocation
                                                     resulted into enormous benefits



                                            vii
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                 Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     and positively impacted on
                                                     completion, functionality and
                                                     sustainability arrangements




I. Disbursement Profile




                                       viii
A. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design

1. Context at Appraisal

1.      Country and Project Context. Rwanda’s efforts at policy reforms resulted in
remarkable progress in social and economic development following the war and genocide of
1994. Real GDP growth averaged over 7 percent annually between 1998 and 2002 then slowed
to 3 percent in 2003. Progress was seen as broadly stabilizing the country, spanning human
development, the resettlement of refugees and returnees, and a re-launching of economic
activity. The Government of Rwanda (GoR) also redirected its attention to the National Program
for Strengthening Good Governance for Poverty Reduction—introducing public sector and
administrative reforms, strengthening Parliament, rehabilitating the justice sector, demobilizing
the army, promoting greater awareness of National Unity and Reconciliation, and improving
economic and financial management from a very low base.
2.      The nationwide consultations on governance held in the late 1990s1 recommended a re-
set towards more citizen participation, community driven development, and democratic
governance, including decentralized governance and management system. This orientation
reflected a seismic shift from the decades long highly centralized governance system, and
provided the platform from which the GoR could accelerate.
3.      In May 2000, the GoR adopted a strong decentralization policy partitioned in three five–
year phases. The objectives were to: (i) unleash the full potential of local populations to initiate
and monitor development actions; (ii) mainstream participatory accountability and transparency
mechanisms; (iii) increase the responsiveness of the public administration to the local
governments; (iv) improve the predictability of funding and strengthen economic and financial
planning and management at local levels as driving forces for social, political, and economic
development; and (v) scale up decentralization and democratization. Within the next nine
months, a Community Development Policy solidified; its overarching goal was to ensure
effective and sustainable participation of the communities in the development process to achieve
poverty reduction and self-reliance and to facilitate the implementation of the decentralization
reform.2
4.       An evaluation of the first phase of decentralization (2000–2005) revealed that
administrative decentralization had progressed well and that the policy and legal environments
had been instituted. The secteurs (subnational government below the districts) were in place and
operational staff had assumed their tasks, especially related to administrative services. The 116
districts, on the other hand, were fiscally unsustainable and faced a number of capacity
constraints. Service delivery, per the evaluation, needed to be closer to the populations, devolved
from the districts to the secteurs.
5.      The second phase (2006–2010) introduced a territorial re-alignment and an enhanced
focus on service delivery. The number of districts was reduced from 116 to 30; the secteurs were
consolidated from over 1,000 to 416 and given an enhanced service delivery mandate. This
triggered enormous needs for orientation and capacity building at both the district and secteur


1
    Government of Rwanda: National Decentralization Policy, May 2000.
2
    Government of Rwanda: Community Development Policy, March 2001.

                                                      1
level. The Decentralization and Community Development Project (DCDP) was aligned to this
phase; DCDP aimed at championing institutional capacity building (ICB) and orientation
programs as well as supporting information, education, and communication (IEC) on the
decentralization reforms and the project itself in the 30 new districts. Furthermore, DCDP
developed and supported capacity building for a community driven development (CDD) project
cycle and financed priority subprojects initiated by communities through a learning by doing
approach in more than 50 percent of the districts.
6.      Rationale for Bank Assistance. The Decentralization and Community Development
Project built upon the World Bank supported Community Reconstruction and Development
Program (CRDP).3 The CRDP had successfully linked emergency and development efforts after
the crisis by supporting community reintegration and had piloted development activities while
also supporting capacity building for local governments. Following the closure of CRDP, the
needs for institutional capacity building and community development and empowerment became
even more urgent given the introduction of the decentralization policy reforms and
implementation of the Community Development Policy. The implementation of the new policies
were complicated and constrained by the significantly low capacity environment both in terms of
human resources and institutions.
7.      The DCDP project objectives were consistent with the World Bank Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS 2002) and the country’s priorities outlined in its first Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper (PRSPI 2002–2005) of empowering communities and local governments to manage their
development and improve access to social services and basic infrastructure within the framework
of Rwanda’s decentralization and CDD strategy. The project was designed to adapt to a rapid
reform environment and support the deepening of capacity building to the sectuers (subnational
government levels below the district) and to help lay the groundwork for implementation of new
local economic development programs like the Vision 2020 Umurenge Program (VUP),4 which
targets the extremely poor among poor Rwandans.

2. Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

8.      The DCDP was to work in four entire provinces and two districts in a fifth province5 to
boost the emergence of a dynamic local economy through communities empowered to lead their
own development process under an effective local government. The specific development
objectives were to: (i) strengthen district capacity to lead a process of planning and consultation
with local communities, translating their development priorities into subprojects to be
incorporated into the districts’ Strategic Development Plans; (ii) develop a matching grants
system to finance the subprojects; (iii) validate procedures for decentralized project cycle
management and financial management, through subproject implementation, to be replicated as


3
  The CRDP financed community resettlement and reconstruction initiatives from 1998 to 2003. Its objective was to
assist returnees and other vulnerable groups through a process of community-based reintegration and development,
and strengthen the capacity of local communities and administrations at the communal and national level for the
implementation of a development project.
4
  The VUP objective was intended to raise sustainable living standards, encourage savings, and promote movement
from dependency to self-sufficiency.
5
  In an effort to align to the changed territorial set-up, ICB and IEC components covered all the 30 districts. The
community development initiatives component covered 17 out of the 30 new districts.

                                                        2
basic operating procedures in Rwanda’s overall decentralization program; and (iv) introduce and
promote public awareness programs.
9.     The wording of the broad PDO slightly differed in the Project Appraisal Document
(PAD) and Development Grant Agreement (DGA). The ICR team consulted with the country
lawyer at effectiveness on this issue; the country lawyer advised that the slight difference was
not substantive. In addition, the lawyer also advised that the short term objectives outlined in the
PAD were focused on activities that had to be implemented to attain the broader PDO and thus
would better facilitate evaluation of progress toward achievement of the PDO.
Key Performance Indicators
Outcome/Impact Indicators
10.      By Year 2: (i) percentage of districts and Community Development Committees (CDCs)
trained in priority setting, project planning, financial management, monitoring and evaluation,
problem resolution, and the participatory development planning process; (ii) 75 percent of
districts and CDCs formulated Development Plans and Annual Action Plans with budgets; (iii) at
least 40 percent of the districts selected for training had implemented implementing subprojects
in accordance with proposals made in their Development Plans; and, (iv) a project Inter-
ministerial Working Group established at the national and provincial levels.
11.     By Year 4: (i) participatory assessments indicate that at least 60 percent of districts and
local stakeholders such as CDCs and civil society organizations expressed satisfaction with their
district participatory development planning process; (ii) 75 percent of districts implementing
their Development Plans; (iii) number of districts with annual audit reports submitted on time
assessed as unqualified by Auditor General; and, (iv) 75 percent of all districts current in
updating their rolling development plans through a consultative process.

3. Revised PDO

12.    The PDO was not revised.

4. Main Beneficiaries

13.      DCDP beneficiaries included participating community groups, local decentralized
institutions (district administrators, secteur staff), and provincial staff.

5. Original Components (as approved)

14.    Component 1: Institutional Capacity Building (US$7.0 million). This component
supported the GoR’s decentralization policy by strengthening institutions’ and communities’
capacity to plan, implement, manage, finance, and maintain development activities. The
component also contributed to the establishment and improved management of control
mechanisms to strengthen accountability and transparency of the local administrations vis-à-vis
the communities they serve through strengthening participatory planning systems to allow
communities to participate in development planning and provide mechanisms for targeting the
most vulnerable groups. Activities financed by the project included a broad spectrum of training
workshops and on-the-job training at all levels of implementation, national and subnational on a
needs basis.

                                                 3
15.     Component 2: Information, Education, and Communication (US$2.3 million). This
component supported development and implementation of an IEC strategy. The IEC supported
the process of decentralization and informed and mobilized the population regarding the DCDP.
It was implemented in a two-way process: from the top–down to provinces, districts, secteurs
(Umurenge), cellules, and communities; and from the communities to the districts to the
provinces. Both directions in the information flow have been of equal importance to facilitate
participation at all levels. The component informed and educated different players at all levels
regarding the objectives, activities, and modalities of decentralization and the relevant laws and
regulations. The communications strategy also supported the project's participatory monitoring
and evaluation.
16.      Component 3: Community Development Initiatives (US$8.5 million). This component
financed grants to participating communities. The earlier envisaged participation of 39 out of 120
districts was exceeded with 17 out of 30 new districts participating. The subprojects to be
financed were identified in a participatory planning process, resulting in an agreement by the
communities on the Five–Year Strategic Development Plans and Annual Action Plans for the
districts. Subprojects menu included: education, health, nutrition, social protection, income
generating activities, youth skills training, HIV/AIDS, community roads, and water supply. The
component complemented the training activities financed under Component 1, by providing
decentralized entities and communities the opportunity to learn by doing during the planning,
preparation, and implementation of the subprojects. In addition, the component financed the
design and piloting of microfinance activities.6
17.    Component 4: Project Coordination and Monitoring (US$1.6 million). The project
adopted a decentralized approach to coordination and management. It supported a small Project
Coordination and Monitoring Unit (PCMU) at the national level within the Ministry of Local
Government (MINALOC), and four project Provincial Coordination Offices (PCO) to assist
provinces and districts. The PCMU, in collaboration with the provincial offices and other
partners, were responsible for the overall monitoring and evaluation of the project's progress and
outreach and technical assistance to the districts in their respective provinces.

6. Revised Components

18.     The components were not revised.

7. Other significant changes

19.   Following a request from the GoR in 2009 and based on recommendations from the 2008
Mid-Term Review, a memo from the Acting Country Director 7 precipitated an adaptive




6
  DCDP adopted the Ubudehe process, which is a community-based system that assesses the living standards of
citizens living in villages throughout Rwanda. The community evaluates each household’s or citizen’s
financial/asset situation and places it in one of six categories: Umutindi nyakujya, Umitindi, Umekene, Umukene
wifashije, Umukungu, and Umukire.
7
  Memo signed on June 24, 2009 by the Acting Country Director, Michael Mills.

                                                      4
restructuring. 8 Grant proceeds were reallocated among various expenditure categories, the
project closing date was extended, and minor changes were made to the performance indicators.
20.    The recipient requested a reallocation of SDR 967,484 from Category 2–Goods and
Equipment; Category 3–Consultant and Audit Services; Category 4–Training; and, Category 5–
Operating Costs; as well as SDR 986,490 from the unallocated proceeds to allow for the
implementation of a revised action plan under Category 1–Subgrants. The reallocation was
designed to ensure supply of equipment to health facilities, complete unfinished community
development initiatives, and ensure created assets were to standards for mainstreaming into the
Ministries of Health and Local Government budgetary plans. The allocations did not result in
changes to the project description or objectives of the outcome targets and were therefore
considered under OP/BP 13.05 (project supervision).
Original and Revised Allocation of Grant Proceeds
    Category                                             Expenditures Financed
                                                        (SDR Million Equivalent)
                                             Original Allocation     Revised Allocation
    Subgrants                                             5,810,000               7,763,974
    Goods                                                    620,000                214,458
    Consultant Audits                                      1,050,000                820,753
    Training                                               3,820,000              3,615,844
    Incremental Operating Costs                            1,360,000              1,231,461
    Refunding of the PPF Advance                             350,000                 53,510
    Unallocated                                              690,000                      0
    TOTAL                                                13,700,000              13,700,000


B. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

1. Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

21.     Quality at Entry. No Quality at Entry review was conducted by the Quality Assurance
Group. The project design at entry was cognizant of the country’s ongoing development
objectives and challenges as outlined by the GoR and the project objective was fully consistent
with the CAS. Lessons learned from CRDP and international CDD programs were reflected in
project design. The project was a high priority for the GoR, and commitment at entry was
demonstrated by its sustained support of the CRDP project, which engaged local populations in a
participatory process. And finally, the project preparation team thoroughly assessed operational
risks and developed adequate mitigation measures.
22.     Preparation activities were carried out in a timely manner due to the availability of a
project preparation facility (PPF), which funded assessments necessary to inform project design.
PPF funds were used to finance services, assess the capacity, challenges, and capacity building
needs, and make recommendations for capacity building activities. This allowed early



8
 Adaptive restructuring, as defined by the Implementation Results and Completion Report (ICR), to retain or
improve the relevance of the operation as external circumstances changed, p. 17 of the ICR guidelines.

                                                    5
preparedness for implementable subprojects, which resulted in faster readiness for disbursement
and implementation on ground.
23.     Flexibility in design allowed adaptation to a rapid reform environment and enabled
relevant support to evolving government institutional strengthening needs. The demand driven
aspects and anticipation of a rapid reform environment, as well as close monitoring of needs for
restructuring upfront, allowed the project to align with a changing reform environment and adapt
to evolving needs. This enabled two important achievements. First, the project was able to
provide institutional capacity building for the secteurs as envisaged, filling a key area for which
the GoR had little support yet was critical to enable implementation of the decentralization
reforms. Second, the project was able to support the evolution of the social protection sector in
Rwanda and in particular, the first integrated social safety net program,—Vision 2020 Umurenge
Program (VUP), which was launched in 2007 and went into implementation in 2008.

2. Implementation

24.     Weak local government capacity and the rapid territorial reform under the second phase
of decentralization in 2005–2006 delayed the immediate take-off of implementation: Following
effectiveness and prior to the start of implementation of DCDP, rapid territorial reforms were
introduced as part of the second phase of decentralization reform. This presented enormous
capacity constraints for a project that was implemented through the district systems. The added
responsibilities given to districts had not been anticipated at effectiveness, and the requisite staff
skills and capacity were not in place. This led to delays in the start of implementation.
25.     Early engagement with sector ministries and implementation through districts fostered
close collaboration and facilitated functionality and the envisaged long term sustainability of
community assets. Sector ministries were proactively approached early in project implementation
to start a dialogue on functionality and sustainability of community assets. The secteurs
responded by including the community assets in their budgetary plans for the provision of critical
consumables. In line with their mandates, districts absorbed key maintenance and operational
budget aspects into their budgets.
26.     Completion, functionality and sustainability of community assets. These issues were
critically assessed at the Mid-Term Review (MTR). This helped to ensure related risks were
mitigated following the MTR. As a result, the project was able to adequately respond to (i) risks
that community assets would have been completed but not become functional, (ii) strengthening
evidence for end of project evaluation, and (iii) revising certain indicators in the results
framework to sharpen intermediate results and outcomes to measure project performance.This
was done as part of the restructuring that was approved in June 2009
27.     Weak fiduciary capacity at the district level at start of implementation. Fiduciary
weaknesses at the district level were one key area of capacity constraint given their importance
for project management. This posed significant challenges in implementing subprojects that were
sizeable in terms of scale of construction and additional efforts were required to monitor and
supervise such contractors. The DCDP staff were highly proactive in resolving these cases using
contract guarantees and re-launching contracts to ensure community assets were completed in the
few cases where abandonment of subprojects occurred.



                                                  6
3. Monitoring and Evaluation Design, Implementation, and Utilization
28.      The objectives of the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) activities were to: (i) ensure
procedures to implement subprojects, execute contracts, and manage project accounts complied
with the Procedures Manual; (ii) provide information regularly on project objectives and
facilitate reporting to the MINALOC and GoR; (iii) provide information on project performance
in terms of development outputs; (iv) alert managers to actual or potential implementation
problems in order to undertake timely corrective actions; (v) determine how the project was
affecting the intended beneficiaries; (vi) provide a vehicle whereby beneficiaries could reflect on
and improve their performance; and (vii) ensure the sustainability of subprojects through regular
reporting.
29.     During project implementation, the performance indicators monitored and tracked
information for the DCDP progress reports, Bank mission reports, and Implementation Status
Reports (ISRs). The following information was provided: (i) outputs related to DCDP training
like local government training and the formulation of community development plans; (ii) number
of subprojects completed by typology; (iii) outputs related to information, education, and
communication (IEC); and (iv) community level results from qualitative assessments. Based on
lessons learned and support under the DCDP: (i) the CDD approach has been adopted country-
wide; (ii) recommendations from an M&E assessment for districts has been mainstreamed into
district M&E; and (iii) the District Development Plan model was adopted in all districts in
addition to the 18 supported by the project.
30.   Implementation of the M&E function was rather challenging at the start of
implementation due to turn over of the relevant staff. The MTR encouraged specific focus on
M&E to ensure availability of data for project evaluation, a recommendation which was
implemented and generated useful results.

4. Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
31.     No major environmental issues were incurred during the implementation, given the
relatively small size of most community infrastructure subprojects. The environmental
assessment was done jointly with the district environmental specialists and communities during
appraisal and monitoring of the infrastructure subprojects. Each subproject was individually
screened and reviewed by the DCDP staff and the local government representatives for any
negative impacts; mitigation measures were proposed and applied where necessary. The
November 2010 technical audit noted that environmental screening and compliance for
community subprojects was assessed as Highly Satisfactory with 92.3 percent compliance. The
environmental safeguard was rated Satisfactory throughout implementation.
Financial Management
32.     Fiduciary Compliance. Technical assistance from the Bank’s financial management (FM)
team, training of accountants in the districts, and upgrading software to support decentralization
led to quality and delivery improvements in preparing the FM Interim Financial Reports (IFR),
and related reports and outputs. These were harmonized with GoR formats. Two delays in 2008
were remedied through intensified capacity building and monitoring. Project funds flow
remained satisfactory and Withdrawal Applications (WAs) were submitted on a regular and
timely basis to the Bank. By the closing date, the grant was fully disbursed. The entire
counterpart funds committed were received and amounted to US$4,070,826. External audits

                                                7
were conducted by independent external auditors and submitted to the World Bank in a timely
manner as required in the Grant Agreement. FM performance gradually improved from
Moderately Satisfactory to Satisfactory during implementation with improved accountability at
decentralized levels. However, towards closure, staff departures led to slow implementation of
FM recommendations especially at the district levels. The FM ISR was rated as Moderately
Satisfactory in March 2010, and this being the last, the final FM rating is MS.
Procurement
33.      DCDP provided tailored and flexible capacity building and training programs that
contributed to significant improvements in the procurement performance at both the district and
provincial level. Enhanced procurement capacity was demonstrated on several occasions,
especially during the re-launching of contracts, which were abandoned by contractors due to: (i)
weak technical and managerial skills from contractors, and (ii) limited supervising capacity from
district staff. These shortcomings were reviewed by DCDP in consultation with community
leaders and local governments, and changes were introduced into the training programs to
address these risks, coupled with stronger coordination and the provision of adequate transport
facilities. The revised training programs and complementary steps noted above led to: (a)
stronger collaboration between DCDP, districts, communities, and contractors; (b) re-launching
of subprojects; and (c) completion of good quality subprojects. The Procurement rating was
Satisfactory at the last ISR.

5. Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

34.      There is no planned post completion operation at this time. The project has supported
initiatives most of which have been mainstreamed into the government programs as further
elaborated in paragraphs which follow.
35.     Sustainability of the decentralization program. A number of processes, procedures, and
service delivery assessment tools initiated by DCDP have been adopted in the decentralization
framework. These include but are not limited to the citizen report cards, community score cards,
community development subproject preparation and implementation, and monitoring and
evaluation manuals. The decentralization policy reform has permeated governance9 in Rwanda
and a culture of citizen participation has grown over the last 10 years. The decentralized service
delivery that was initiated and deepened under the first and second phases of the reform seems to
have taken root. As of 2009, citizen approval of timely service delivery and participatory
decision making was 87 and 92 percent, respectively.10 The very high approval rating of the
reform outcomes by citizens attests to a high citizen ownership and thus likeliness for
sustainability. However, this will require continued orientation and central–local government
relationships that empower and enable both levels of government to perform their respective
functions within their existing capacities.
36.    Sustainability can also be assessed from the point of view of GoR commitment to the
reform. The Government of Rwanda (GoR) has shown commitment by sustaining a long term
phased approach to the reform since 2000, one characterized by consistent evaluations that feed


9
    Independent Consultant Report: Evaluation of the Second Phase of Decentralization in Rwanda, December 2010.
10
     Government of Rwanda: Citizens Report Card and Community Score Card, September 2009.

                                                         8
into the design and refinement. The GoR has also been pragmatic in approaching the reform in a
multi-faceted fashion, deepening both the administrative and fiscal facets equally. The most
recent of this commitment is a policy decision to consolidate the reform focusing on enabling
districts to lead the development agenda in the third phase; this will be done by enhancing
specific capacity needs of the districts while increasing central government transfers in block
grants to better align budget flexibility with specific needs.
37.    Last but not least, some fora that promote active engagement at the local government
levels like the Joint Action Development Forum (JADF), 11 National Decentralization
Implementation Secretariat (NDIS), and Community Development Committees (CDC) have
been strengthened so they can play a significant role in local government development. DCDP
has been well positioned to support the GoR to move this agenda forward.
38.     Sustainability of subprojects. The long term sustainability of community assets can be
seen through, and for which the team expressed similar optimism, the commitment of the GoR
and the communities vis-à-vis: (i) all of the social community assets built (predominantly
schools, health centers, local administration offices, and homes for the vulnerable) were
completed by the project closing date owing to the close supervision of both the district and
community committees during implementation; (ii) most of the assets that are community public
assets were equipped with the basics: the GoR responded quickly to staff the institutions and
supply consumables to allow functionality after completion of infrastructure; and (iii) as the
project closed, districts provided evidence that their regular operational and maintenance budgets
would cover both existing and DCDP supported assets to assure their regular maintenance. This
said, the level of effective sustainability to be achieved in the long run will also depend on the
continued commitment to meet budgetary needs as backed by the availability of resources.

C. Assessment of Outcomes

1. Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation
Rating: Satisfactory
39.    The project objectives, design, and implementation were intrinsically linked with the
country context, building upon gains accomplished under its predecessor project (Community
Reintegration and Development Project) and supporting the second phase of the GoR
decentralization policy (2006–2010).
40.    Relevance of Objectives. The project objectives remained relevant in light of the focus on
local governance and decentralization, under the country’s Economic Development and Poverty
Reduction Strategy (EDPRSP 2008–2012). The revised Community Development Policy (2008)
also affirmed the importance of community driven development (CDD) as developed and
promoted under the DCDP. The CDD approach continues to be the main vehicle for
implementing this policy as well as many other emerging local development programs, including
Vision 2020 Umurenge Program. On this basis, the relevance of the objectives is rated
Substantial.


11
  The JADF is a mechanism designed to achieve improved service delivery and economic development at the local
level by improving accountability and coordination relations between the demand side (consumers, citizens,
farmers) and the supply side (local governments and service providers).

                                                     9
41.     Relevance of Design. The design of the project was appropriate, and the components and
project organization matched the aims of the project. The project design was cognizant of the
country’s ongoing development objectives and challenges as outlined by the GoR; the objectives
remain consistent with the second strategic theme of the CAS (reduce social vulnerability) and
supports the GoR agenda on decentralization, 12 provision of basic infrastructure, capacity
building, income generating activities, governance, and community participation through a
bottom–up process. Lessons learned from CRDP and international CDD programs were reflected
in project design. While the project has contributed to the desired objectives by government, the
latter remain a high priority for the GoR as demonstrated through sustained support during
design and implementation. Its flexible design in a fragile post-conflict country setting is well
suited to responding quickly and appropriately to the operational risks and to adopting adequate
mitigation measures. As the GoR ushered in new initiatives like VUP and Imihigo (performance
management contract model), the support provided by the DCDP through provision of urgent
technical assistance—to both kick-start implementation and support IEC activities among the
subnational governments and beneficiaries—confirmed the relevance of the DCDP design and
implementation in the further development of Rwanda socio-economic standings. The relevance
of design is rated Substantial.

2. Effectiveness/Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Satisfactory
Specific Objective I: Strengthening district capacity to lead a process of planning and
consultation with local government communities, translating their development priorities
into subprojects to be incorporated into district strategic development plans.
42.     The objectives were achieved through the implementation of Components 1, 2, and 4. The
project started by providing orientation and training programs in identified priority technical
areas, mainly leadership, planning, financial management, procurement, project cycle, and
monitoring and evaluation. All local government staff received orientation and training in 2006
and 2007. These efforts were scaled up and maintained over the life of the project. In total,
10,771 local government staff received training to build their capacity in priority technical areas.
A total of 107,38613 people including Community Development Committees (CDCs) and other
community members also benefitted from intensive capacity building and training programs
focusing on financial management, gender, environment, and participatory planning. The target
to achieve a 75 percent budget execution rate in participating districts was attained (increased
from 33 percent in 2005 to 100 percent in 2007 against an end of project target of 57 percent).
Achievement of this specific objective is rated Highly Satisfactory.
43.    Medium term development planning in districts was initiated and promoted by the
DCDP. Demand driven technical assistance was provided to support the development of Five–
Year District Development Plans in 18 districts in 2007–2008. These efforts were tailored to
support the EDPRS consultation in 2007–2008 and strengthen district capacity to lead a process


12
  Implementation of DCDP accompanied the implementation of the second phase of decentralization reforms.
13
  The breakdown was: participatory planning and M&E (43 percent), leadership training (31 percent), financial
management (10 percent), procurement (5 percent), conflict management (7 percent), study tours to other
subprojects to distill lessons learned and potential replication (2 percent), and (1 percent) in project management.

                                                        10
of planning and consultation with local communities. The outcome has been that this culture has
become an annual practice where districts update their rolling development plans annually. By
2007, all 17 districts participating in CDD initiatives (subprojects) were implementing annual
action plans on time (compared to 10 districts in 2005 and an end of project target of 17 districts)
even though 15 districts were implementing annual action plans according to their Five–Year
District Development Plans (compared to 1 district in 2005 and an end of project target of 17
districts).
44.    The project has played a key role in strengthening the collaboration and partnership
between local governments and community institutions in development planning and
implementation. To this end, the CDD subproject cycle procedures have been incorporated as the
basic operating procedures in Rwanda’s overall decentralization and community development
programs.
45.     By project close, all 30 districts (100 percent compared to the 75 percent target) had
formulated and implemented their rolling District Development Plans, reflecting community
priorities and aligning them with the EDPRS. The 30 districts also updated their rolling plans
throughout the annual performance contracts and plans.
46.     DCDP exceeded the established 40 percent target of providing training to a total of
91,164 community leaders. Approximately, 100 percent of the CDCs received training in:
leadership (93 percent), planning (5 percent), environmental protection (2 percent), M&E (1
percent), and conflict management (1 percent). These capacity building efforts catalyzed the
participation of 375,000 villagers in 12,500 communities over a five-year period; 18,000
community members served on 30 CDCs. Aligned with the broader project objective, these
activities supported the emergence of a dynamic local economy through communities
empowered to lead the development process under effective local governments.
47.     By the end of 2010, the GoR had completed the implementation of the second phase of
decentralization and in 2009, the government conducted an assessment of citizens’ perceptions
on the decentralized service delivery. As of 2009, citizen approval of timely service delivery and
participatory decision making was 87 and 92 percent, respectively.14 The very high approval
rating of the reform outcomes by citizens attests to a high citizen ownership and thus likeliness
for sustainability.
Specific Objective II: Develop a matching grants system to finance subprojects.
48.    The objectives were achieved through implementation of activities under Components 1
and 4. The matching grants system is an approach where communities were provided with
mentoring and training required to identify priority subprojects, agree on options for their own
contribution and request both district and project contributions to finance the subprojects. The
approach would be similar in all districts and was developed in a participatory manner.
Capacity building and training programs emphasized use of the above system among
communities for subproject cycle planning and implementation monitoring by both the local
governments and communities. Local governments and communities were aware of these
requirements. Matching grants were provided in the form of land or labour contributions (in-kind
by communities) for the construction of schools and health centers and 5 percent in-cash as


14
     Government of Rwanda: Citizens Report Card and Community Score Card, September 2009.

                                                      11
district contributions toward total subproject costs. By February 2010, the percentage of
subprojects implemented in a satisfactory manner according to their outputs, outcomes, and
sustainability arrangements was 83 percent (compared to 75 percent in 2006 and an end of
project target of 90 percent). All community subprojects were completed and had become
functional by December 31, 2010. This is indicative of the highly participatory nature and
commitment on the part of local governments and communities in providing matching grants to
finance subprojects in their respective communities. Achievement of this specific objective is
rated as Satisfactory.
Specific Objective III: Validate procedures of decentralized project cycle management
through subproject implementation, to be replicated as basic operating procedure in
Rwanda’s overall decentralization program.
49.      The objectives were achieved through implementation of activities under Components 3
and 4. The CDD subproject cycle procedures that were developed, piloted, and scaled up under
DCDP have been incorporated as basic operating procedures in Rwanda’s overall
decentralization program. The project laid the foundation for supporting prioritized community
subprojects within the context of Rwanda’s overall decentralization program through a strong
process of community participatory planning. According to the findings in the beneficiary
assessment, 85 percent cited schools as being a top priority; over one third15 identified health
facilities as a priority; and about 75 percent noted a boost in business and entrepreneurial skills
with market construction. Proximity to functional facilities impacted positively on beneficiary
access. The subprojects were predominantly social infrastructures particularly schools and
health centers. Achievement of this specific objective is rated Satisfactory.
50.     In partnership with the local governments and communities, DCDP supported the
construction and equipping of 420 schools (exceeded the target of 394) that benefited 31,500
people 16 and 14 health facilities (11 health centers and 3 health posts), benefitting 197,682
community members.The beneficiary assessment confirmed that the construction of the
classrooms responded directly to community concerns which included: overcrowding in
classrooms (42 percent), long distances to schools (36 percent), and poor quality of education (14
percent). The number of students per classroom decreased from 46 to 27 and by 2008, the
number of teachers increased by 72 percent. Completion rates increased from (pre-project) 43 to
71 percent.17 The beneficiary assessment further indicates that investments in education led to
positive outcomes: improved quality of education in the targeted communities (61 percent);
improved classroom conditions (32 percent); reduced distance to get to school for both teachers
and students (36 percent of respondents); a reduction in classroom crowding (42 percent), and
increased enrollment rates (70 percent).18
51.     Similar to the outcomes in education, the uptake of new and modern health care and
hygiene practices directly benefited communities. About 31 percent of the beneficiaries cited
improved quality of services and facilities, and 16 percent confirmed improved equipment
quality and a reduced crowding leading to more timely responses. While one quarter found being


15
   Source: Data provided by DCDP, March 2011.
16
   IBID.
17
   IBID.
18
   Beneficiary Assessment, November, 2010.

                                                12
in walking distance of the health centers a positive outcome (from 4 hours to 20 minutes in
Nyamagabe District), 69 percent believed health services had improved.
52.    DCDP supported the construction of five solar energy facilities and  four electric
connections in Imidugudu. In the Gicumbi District, the solar energy project spurred a 90 percent
approval for its benefits to medical facilities and commercial activities. In sum, a culture of
preventative medicine gradually permeated the society and created multiplier effects—a
reduction in the time and income spent on transportation and increased opportunities to utilize
income on other productive activities.
53.     In terms of business offices at the local level, a paucity of office space, lack of equipment
needed to process legal documents and national identity cards, and comfortable settings to
transact business were cited by surveyed community members (60, 30, and 30 percent
respectively). The project responded by constructing and equipping 19 secteur and district
administration offices, serving over 494,000 individuals, and triggering the spillover effects of
improved administrative performance. 19 Again, the 14 percent target was exceeded by 8
percentage points.
54.     Furthermore, the Community Development Initiative assisted the GoR in strengthening
mechanisms to manage decentralized capital development and finance microfinance activities. In
the first year, one-time seed capital was provided for revolving livestock or similar activities in
two windows: one for vulnerable groups and another for the less vulnerable.20 Income generating
projects supporting agro-livestock led to improved living conditions—especially through
improved nutrition and the ability to spend more on basic household needs—and agricultural
production. 62 percent of beneficiaries benefited through access to cheap organic (natural)
manure collected from animal waste and increased farm output; the remaining 38 percent
reported an increase in farm output. The March 2011 desk review indicated that 90 percent of the
respondents noted an increase in income from the sale of manioc. Microprojects in the Huye
District supported disbursed a total amount of Frw 45,900,000 to support small projects,
benefitting 1,793 individuals of whom 82 percent were organized in associations and 18 percent
in cooperatives. The subprojects ranged in number: 7 in agriculture—distributing 2,980 cows to
different households,21 10 in farming, 29 in commercial activities, and 17 in crafts; 20 homes for
vulnerable groups were constructed.




19
   Other stakeholders (CDF and Ubudehe) built and rehabilitated an additional 50 administrative offices in different
districts.
20
   Using criteria under the Ubudehe to determine vulnerable and less vulnerable beneficiaries.
21
   Other Stakeholders including SEND A COW programs distributed 57,154 cows in 17 districts.

                                                         13
Specific Objective IV: Introduce and promote public awareness programs.
55.     The objective was achieved through implementation under Components 2 and 4. The
public Information, Education, and Communication (IEC) program was developed and
implemented to strengthen awareness on the objectives of decentralization and the respective
roles of community and local government in this context. DCDP sensitized and trained
community leaders in 30 districts on laws, rules, and regulations under the decentralization
program following the second phase of reforms in 2006 and 2007. Promotional activities and
materials were distributed to citizens and subnational government authorities mainly in the form
of handbooks on salient features of the reform particularly the laws, revised policy elements and
central and local government relationships and co-responsibilities. Radio and television
emissions were supported and were largely implemented prior to and following the MTR. To
promote learning by doing and knowledge sharing between subnational governments, a number
of select magazines were published: such as the Imihigo magazine launched following the
introduction on the Performance Management Contracts (known as Imihigo) to enhance district
efficiency in delivering on their local development programs. This process was replicated in
most other institutions at the central and local levels. Of community members, CSOs, NGOs, and
private sector actors, 60 percent were knowledgeable about each other’s roles and
responsibilities regarding the decentralization process.22 The same finding was affirmed at 60
percent by the Beneficiary Assessment conducted in 2010–2011. Achievement of this specific
objective is rated Satisfactory.

3. Efficiency
Rating: Satisfactory
56.     DCDPs efficiency in delivering the subprojects can be assessed by an analysis of cost
effectiveness. Conventional measures of economic viability or efficiency such as net present
value and internal rate of return were not computed at appraisal due to the challenges associated
with the identification and valuation of project activities ex-ante.
57.    The key measure of cost effectiveness is the cost per beneficiary or unit of each
subproject constructed, as compared to similar government projects. The analysis, given the
application of sector norms and field visits (Miyove Health Center and Rumuli Primary School),
confirmed largely uniform quality and durability of constructed assets. It included benchmarking
the unit costs of infrastructure subprojects using standard unit costs to assess whether DCDP
subprojects were cost effective when compared to sector norms and standards. Projects with
lower costs per beneficiary or unit area are thus considered to be more cost effective.
Infrastructure Comparative Unit Costs DCDP versus Government Agencies in Rwanda
Francs
          Project Type             DCDP              Ministry of     Ministry of   Ministry of   Cost for DCDP
                                                     Education      Environment     Health         (Percent)
 Classrooms (6-room)                36,000,000         51,000,000                                           70%
 Teacher housing                           NA                  NA                                             %
 Bore holes                                NA                                 NA                              %
 Health clinics                    125,000,000                                       250,000,000            50%


22
     Joint Action Development Forum Reports, 2009.

                                                         14
Source: Provincial Coordination Office reports.

58.     On average, DCDP subprojects were cost effective. Community infrastructure
subprojects for schools averaged US$138 per beneficiary per year for DCDP versus over
US$370 for the GoR. With regard to health centers, DCDP cost averaged US$12 per beneficiary
compared to US$15 for the GoR. Efficient and agile in responding to community needs, DCDP
designed and implemented schools in four months and health centers in eight months: one half
and one third the time required by the GoR, respectively. Supervision missions and the technical
audit confirmed that high standards and sectoral norms were maintained in over 97 percent of
DCDP subprojects. Overall, DCDP was a highly efficient project that appropriately selected cost
effective interventions—accelerating implementation, ensuring timely expenditures, and
providing value for money by minimizing price revisions and related additional costs.
59.    Efficiency of project execution. The efficiency of project execution, as measured by the
speed of disbursement, was good. Given the slow start, actual disbursement closely tracked
planned disbursements for most of the project. At MTR, US$14.66 million or about 68 percent of
the IDA grant had been dispersed, and at project closing on December 31, 2010 total project
disbursement was 99.9 percent of the grant (US$20 million), with the remainder committed.
Counterpart funds were made available in a timely fashion.
60.     The technical audit sampled 26 subprojects across the country and corroborated cost
efficient execution of subproject execution, as reflected in the 96 percent rating provided in the
study. At 12 percent, DCDP’s operating costs are comparable to those of other CDD/social fund
operations and reflect cost effectiveness compared to higher prevailing operating costs in the
public sectors. In sum, DCDP is a cost effective instrument that matches targeted infrastructure
needs to the poor and vulnerable communities in a manner consistent with the country’s
development strategy.

4. Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory
61.     All four elements of the PDO have been achieved and the project has demonstrated a
strong impact on improving quality and access to critical infrastructure services, supporting
decentralization and building capacity of local institutions, and promoting participatory
processes for local development. The project was and continues to be highly relevant in the
context of Rwanda’s development process. It helped address the country’s poverty reduction
objectives under the VUP (third flagship in EDPRS) and the second strategic theme of the CAS,
which aims to reduce social vulnerability and support the GoR agenda on decentralization,23
national reconciliation, provision of basic infrastructure, capacity building, income generating
activities, governance, and community participation through a bottom–up process. Finally, the
cost effectiveness analysis points to the substantial efficiency of the project. On the basis of the
substantial relevance, substantial efficacy, and substantial efficiency, the overall project
outcome rating is Satisfactory.




23
     Implementation of DCDP accompanied the implementation of the second phase of decentralization reforms.

                                                        15
5. Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes, and Impacts
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
62.      Poverty Impacts. DCDP has been a champion for supporting deepening of
decentralization reforms, which are the main vehicle for implementation of pro-poor programs.
Among others, the project supported the implementation of the Vision 2020 Umurenge Program
(VUP), the main social safety net for Rwanda that targets extremely poor households through its
institutional capacity building component. The Ubudehe form of community driven development
supported education, health, income generating activities, and microfinance across the country.
And although modest at US$20 million, DCDP interventions became synonymous with
improved human development indicators.
63.     Social Development. The main social development achievements included community
empowerment through participation, training, and capacity building in the design and
implementation of subprojects, and the creation of social capital through partnerships and
cooperation with the local government. A total of approximately 375,000 people participated in
village (Umudugudu) meetings and 12,500 24 communities participated in general community
meetings over the life of the project. Over 18,000 community members served on a total of 30
Community Development Committees (CDCs). The beneficiary assessment indicated that
communities attested to the positive changes in the self-organization of the community reflected
in stronger integration and cohesion as well as enhanced trust and communication with the local
government.
64.     Gender Aspects. The DCDP emphasized the inclusion of women across the project; the
beneficiary assessment found the project to be gender responsive. Women were allocated 30
percent membership on the CDCs, yet they had 40 percent representation in many provinces and
an average 50 percent participation rate in capacity building programs. Women constituted 48
percent of the target group receiving training in the Western Province as compared to 34 percent
for males. Female participation was also higher in the Northern Province (27 percent) versus (20
percent) for males. This was found to have enhanced women’s participation in subproject
identification and management and led to a strong sense of ownership.
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
65.    The project played a key role in building up capacity at the provincial, district, and
secteur levels and was also a catalyst for local and regional development due to its support and
experience in empowering local governments and communities in Rwanda. The project also
played a key role in strengthening the capacity of local governments and community institutions
in development planning and implementation, which are cornerstones in the GoR
decentralization policy and VUP.
66.    Local Government Capacity. The project was instrumental in building institutional
capacity in areas such as local finance administration (financial management, budgeting,
accounting); asset management (inventory monitoring, operation and maintenance of assets); and
information dissemination (community meetings, public hearings and referendums, surveys,
informatics).



24
     Source: DCDP/MINALOC reports as confirmed by DCDP coordinator.

                                                    16
67.     Delivery of Social Infrastructure Subprojects. DCDP worked closely with the Ministry of
Local Government (MINALOC) and with the provinces, districts, and secteurs to develop a
training program tailored to the decentralization and CDD programs. The project strengthened
the capacity at the local level in prioritization of social infrastructure subprojects and in the
coverage, scope, and content of the services provided.
68.     Establishment of Community Development Committees at the local level has enhanced
community empowerment by creating meaningful opportunities for citizens to participate. As a
result, communities are given an opportunity to express their priority project proposals through
representatives. This establishes a relationship between the local government and the community
to which the district is accountable. The DCDP helped establish and strengthened the two-way
communication process. The value added of this activity, apart from the infrastructure
improvement, was the simulation and learning process included under Component 1 (study
tours) related to: (i) participatory capital budgeting; (ii) citizens involvement in local policy
development; and (iii) involvement of the beneficiaries in the implementation of works.
(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

6. Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
69.     A beneficiary assessment was carried out in 2010 to assess beneficiary perceptions
relating to different aspects of DCDP. The main findings presented in Annex 5 demonstrate a
high level of satisfaction with the project.

D. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Negligible to Low
70.    The risk to the sustainability of the development outcomes is assessed as negligible to
low. This is demonstrated by the GoR commitment to sustain the outcomes achieved with project
support and the adoption of initiatives championed by the project country wide where this was
deemed as appropriate. For example, Government has ensured maintaining the proper
functioning of subprojects and ensuring risk mitigation beyond the life of the project as
demonstrated by budget allocations to local government for recurrent costs, ongoing capacity
building programs to ensure good governance, sustainability, and integration into future
decentralization plans.
71.    In addition, the decentralization reform is being deepened under the third phase whose
implementation started with 2011. The 2008 Community Development Policy remains a strong
foundation for implementation of the decentralization policy and the systems and procedures
introduced under the project are being mainstreamed.
72.    Community ownership and appreciation is also seen as adequate and a strong foundation
for sustainability of the development outcomes. For example, 91 percent of the beneficiaries
thought subprojects were implemented in a satisfactory manner, according to the outputs,
outcomes, and presence of sustainability arrangements.
73.     In terms of subprojects, all have sustainability arrangements in place and completion
rates have been high. Collaboration between Ministry of Local Government (MINALOC) and
the Ministries of Education (schools) and Health (health centers) was effective while schemes
incorporated future maintenance costs into district budgets and supplemented arrangements with

                                               17
user fees revenues set by community/parent committees. In furtherance, the PCMU mitigated
non completion of works through guarantees related to contractual arrangements and variances in
payments used to recover losses.25 In addressing the risk to institutional sustainability, DCDP
cultivated expertise in assisting local governments in planning and executing small infrastructure
investments and strengthened its capacity in community mobilization and participatory local
development planning.

E. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

1. Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory
74.     The project was designed in response to a GoR request, in line with the CAS (November,
2002), GoR’s decentralization policy (May, 2000 as revised in 2005/6) and the government
priorities outlined in the poverty reduction strategy Paper (2002).
75.     Initial activities supporting quality at entry were financed from a PPF that provided GoR
resources for project design. The Bank staff had diverse technical skills, including sector and
technical expertise, which assisted the GoR with major design issues and ensured consistency
with Bank policies. The team studied the operating environment and articulated the possible risks
and proposed remedial actions in a timely manner. The key attributes of successful design at
entry included timeliness, quality, and alignment with government programs. These were largely
made possible by the advice provided by the Bank and the availability and support provided by
local task team in the field.
(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
76.     From 2004–2008, the Bank fielded 11 supervision missions. From 2008 onward, the TTL
was based in the field and provided ongoing supervision and proactive actions in addressing
implementation challenges. In parallel, the TTL ensured that the bi-annual two-week missions
included foreign and local consultants who investigated a range of technical and operational
issues. The Bank technical component included skills in procurement and financial management,
safeguard specialists, and sector staff who provided regular on the ground support and
supervision. The team’s presence in the country office was pivotal in turning the project around
and facilitating implementation following the recommendations emerging from the MTR
(section 2.2). The Country Management Unit and the Sector Management Unit worked together
and supported the team appropriately. The project development outcome and implementation
were rated Satisfactory at all times during implementation.
77.     In supervising the project, the task team worked closely with DCDP to innovate and
improve attention to technical quality and maintenance of works, ensure greater transparency in
subproject selection, strengthen participatory processes, and develop a strategy for ensuring its
longer term sustainability after project close. The team also maintained a consistent focus on the


25
     Guarantees also covered negligent contractors to recover variances in payments versus actual works completed.

                                                          18
borrower’s compliance with fiduciary and safeguard policies. Despite the fact that task team
leaders changed twice over the course of the project, the team developed and maintained a strong
and constructive relationship with the DCDP and GoR teams.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
78.    The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the project
was very satisfactory. The identification process focused on addressing critical gaps and
opportunities for interventions in supporting the country’s broader poverty reduction strategy
outlined in the PRSP (2002) and decentralization strategy as well as ensuring consistency with
the World Bank Country Assistance Strategy.
79.     During preparation and appraisal, the Bank took into account the adequacy of project
design and all major relevant aspects, such as technical, financial, economic, and institutional,
including procurement and financial management. The team studied the operating environment,
articulated the possible risks, and proposed remedial actions and lessons learned from other
earlier projects such as the CRDP. The organizational structure of the project was designed to
ensure efficient and effective institutional arrangements for the administration of project
activities, as well as to ensure effective coordination with government, community institutions,
and partners in a participatory manner.
80.     Successful implementation was anchored on timeliness, quality, and proactivity. These
were largely made possible by the advice provided by the Bank team which was largely based in
the field including the TTL from the MTR and the task team’s active intermediary role between
GoR development policies and community-based change. This was achieved under the project
through the design and implementation of mechanisms designed to carry out effective
community outreach, information dissemination, and impact monitoring. The Bank had a
consistently good working relationship with the Borrower during preparation, appraisal, and
implementation. The overall rating for Bank performance is rated Satisfactory for Quality of
Supervision.

2. Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
81.     The Government of Rwanda (GoR) supported project objectives from design through
implementation, maintaining a dynamic and supportive relationship with the Bank and providing
counterpart financing on schedule and requisite staffing needs required to ensure proper
functioning of the project. Recurrent costs for DCDP supported operations were provided
through its fiscal decentralization program. The GoR ensured adequate equipment and staff were
provided at health facilities; teachers were assigned to schools; and relevant support from the
provinces, districts, and secteurs was made available during project implementation. The GoR
ensured close coordination with ongoing programs, fostered close beneficiary consultation under
the citizen score card survey and through various foras, addressed implementation issues during
the territorial reform in a timely and proactive manner. Adequate transitional arrangements for
the sustainability of the implemented subprojects are in place as noted above and under the post-
completion section of the ICR.

                                               19
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
82.      DCDP management and staff displayed a high level of competence and the appropriate
skills mix in implementing project activities, addressing emerging bottlenecks— including the
resolution of FM and procurement challenges, and developing a strategic vision for the
institution. The agency trained local government staff and communities in project processes,
spearheaded information dissemination, and championed the implementation of robust M&E
system which allowed for proper coordination and fed into the GoR overall decentralization
planning process. An extensive outreach program using print and electronic media was employed
to send messages to leaders and the local population about DCDP opportunities for stakeholder
participation. The dedication and commitment of the staff during implementation and following
project closing has been highly professional with prompt follow up on all steps required during
and following project closing. DCDP management, based on its success and strong collaboration
with local governments and communities, established a solid and positive reputation with the
GoR and throughout the country.
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
83.     The Government of Rwanda (GoR) demonstrated its commitment to the broad objectives
of the project and its approach from identification to completion, and met its counterpart funding
obligations. Suitable sustainability arrangements have been fully implemented. It adapted well to
the change in approach to greater participation at the local government and community levels,
and handled procurement, financial management, and safeguard issues in accordance with Bank
guidelines while flexibly adapting to recommendations from the fiduciary reviews during
implementation.

F. Lessons Learned
84.    Capacity building through learning by doing process was effective both to the CDCs,
communities and local government staff. The fact that recipients of capacity building also had an
opportunity to experiment most of the training aspects like planning and monitoring, fiduciary
management to mention only a few was a strong tool for validation of the capacity building
provided. This was challenged by the fact that there was staff turnover for local government staff
which called for continuous capacity building. In summary, capacity building through a learning
by doing process was considered very practicable by local governments and communities.
85.    Participatory Processes promote demand side governance. DCDP introduced a
comprehensive participatory process through community planning and prioritization informed by
national level orientation. This promoted both citizens participation but also the ability by
communities to feed into the demand side governance aspects tools like the citizens report cards
which were also introduced by the DCDP are currently being institutionalized.
86.      Flexibility in Project Design. In a post-conflict and rapidly transforming environment
such as Rwanda, it is important to design flexible projects that can respond rapidly to changing
circumstances. The project ability to adapt to the decentralization reform and provide flexible
institutional development support provided evidence that flexible design should be highly
encouraged in projects where governments are relatively responsive and are reforming rapidly.

                                               20
87.    Completion of community assets in CDD projects is not a sufficient measure to success.
The case of DCDP shows that proactivity in ensuring that all stakeholders are on board to
ensure that community assets are not only completed but are also functional and sustainability
arrangements have been put in place is equally essential. This was tried and seems workable for
the case of DCDP and local governments and sector ministries expressed satisfaction at the
Bank teams efforts to broker discussions on these issues.
88.    Monitoring and Evaluation. A strong monitoring and evaluation system (M&E) to track
key project performance indicators and allow for adaptive change should be implemented from
the beginning of project cycle. In the case of DCDP, the M&E was strengthened and
implemented following the Mid-Term Review.

G. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing Agencies
(b) Cofinanciers – N.A.
(c) Other partners and stakeholders – N.A.




                                              21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ Million equivalent)

                                                        Appraisal       Actual/Latest    Percentage
                    Components                          Estimate          Estimate       Disbursed
                                                      (US$ million)     (US$ million)       (%)
Component 1: Institutional Capacity Building        7,200,000          5,556,178        77
Component 2: Information, Education, and
                                                    2,300,000          1,261,185        54
Communication
Component 3: Community Development
                                                                       11,930,278       134
Initiatives                                         8,900,000
Component 4: Program Management, M&E                1,900,000          2,221,827        139
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies
Price Contingencies
Total Project Costs
Front-end Fee PPF                                    500,000           82,224           16
Front-end Fee IBRD
Total Financing Required                            20,800,000         21,051,692       101
Source: Finance Department, MINALOC.

(b) Financing
 
                                                         Appraisal      Actual/Latest
                                         Type of                                      Percentage of
           Source of Funds                               Estimate         Estimate
                                       Cofinancing                                     Appraisal
                                                       (US$ million)    (US$ million)
Borrower                                                   0.70
International Development              Grant Ho94
                                                        20,800,000        21,052,000          101
Association (IDA)                         RW
Source: Finance Department.




                                                22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Institutional Capacity Building

Area                 Achievements
Administrative        19 secteur offices constructed and equipped
infrastructures       1 secteur office rehabilitated
                      5 secteur offices equipped with solar energy
                      4 district offices rehabilitated

Training and            10,771 total number of local government staff trained in leadership,
workshops                financial management, procurement, good governance, study tours,
                         conflict resolution management, etc…

Source: DCDP PCOs.

Component 2: Information, Education and Communication

Interventions/Outputs                  Intermediate Outcomes
10,000 legislation books                Local administrators are well equipped with decentralization
                                           laws and regulations
                                        Social economic conflicts are well settled in villages
1 flat screen and accessories to        Information, education, and communication made it easier for
Eastern province                           local administrators to convey messages related to community
                                           development, leadership, hygiene, transmission of diseases.
Radio TV emissions                      The activities financed by and best practice resulting from
                                           DCDP are disseminated.
DCDP magazines                          The beneficiaries express their ideas and views on how the
                                           decentralization system can be improved.
MINALOC Magazine                        To publish the principles of the decentralization in order to
                                           inform the general public.
District Magazines (4 districts)        The activities achieved by the district are published, and
                                           enriching suggestions are gathered from local population
Documentary films                       The activities financed by DCDP in all districts are published;
                                           people are interviewed; and beneficiaries are reminded how
                                           they should take ownership of those activities achieved by
                                           DCDP.
Source: DCDP Capacity Building Unit.




                                                     23
Component 3: Community Development Initiatives

              Sector                No. of Subprojects         No. Subprojects      Percent of
                                   Completed and in Use        Not Completed       Subprojects
                                                                                  Completed and
                                                                                     in Use
Education                                      68                     0                    100%
Health                                         14                     0                    100%
Administrative Infrastructures                 19                     0                    100%
Housing                                        20                     0                    100%
Electrification                                 9                     0                    100%
Capacity Building                    378 sessions                     0                    100%
IGA                                            20                     0                    100%
Social Economic Infrastructure                  3                     0                    100%
(Market and Telecenter)
Total                                          530                    0                    100%
Source: DCDP MIS

Component 4: Project Coordination and Monitoring

Interventions/Outputs                                          Intermediate Outcomes

Regular site visits                                  100% of all sites have been visited by PMU
                                                      staff
Provision of Technical Support and Advice on         100% of district procurement officers
contract management to districts financed by          received TA and advice from the project’s
DCDP                                                  procurement specialists
Source: Supervision Report.




                                                 24
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.     As in other social fund operations, the demand driven character of the subproject
precludes the use of traditional methods of cost benefit analysis ex-ante for DCDP. During
implementation, community projects were subject to a simple cost effectiveness analysis based
on project size, financing mechanism, cost per beneficiary, local capacity, and physical output of
subprojects.
2.      In implementing the DCDP project, community investment projects were selected
according to criteria described in the Operational Manual, which integrated simple quantitative
economic analysis that was consistent with the size of the subproject, cost per beneficiary, and
local capacity service delivery levels among beneficiary communities and thus level of need and
local capacity. The project helped communities to use least-cost analysis in comparing various
technical solutions, including the expected cost of operations and maintenance.
3.      The key measure of cost effectiveness is the cost per beneficiary or unit of each
subproject constructed, as compared to similar government projects. The analysis assumes, given
the application of sector norms, and field visits (Miyove Health Center and Rumuli Primary
School) confirmed largely uniform quality and durability of constructed assets. It included
benchmarking the unit costs of infrastructure subprojects using standard unit costs to assess
whether DCDP subprojects were cost effective when compared to sector norms and standards.
Projects with lower costs per beneficiary or unit area are thus considered to be more cost
effective.
Infrastructure Comparative Unit Costs DCDP versus Government Agencies (Frw)
Project Type                     DCDP             Ministry of Ministry of Ministry of    Cost for
                                                  Education Environment Health           DCDP
                                                                                         (%)
Classrooms (6 room)              36,000,000       51,000,000                             70%
Teacher housing                  NA               NA                                     %
Bore holes                       NA                            NA                        %
Health clinics                   125,000,000                               250,000,000   50%
Source: Provincial Coordination Office reports.

4.      On average, DCDP subprojects were cost effective. Community infrastructure
subprojects for schools averaged US$138 per beneficiary per year for DCDP versus over
US$370 for the GoR. With regard to health centers, DCDP cost averages US$12 per beneficiary
compared to US$15 for the GoR. Efficient and agile in responding to community needs, DCDP
designed and implemented schools in four months and health centers in eight months: one half
and one third the time required by the GoR, respectively. Supervision missions and the technical
audit confirmed that high standards and sectoral norms were maintained in over 97 percent of
DCDP subprojects. Overall, DCDP was a highly efficient project that appropriately selected cost
effective interventions—accelerating implementation, ensuring timely expenditures, and
providing value for money by minimizing price revisions and related additional costs.
5.      In qualitative terms, the cost effectiveness analysis was used to demonstrate larger far-
reaching benefits since DCDP is a scale-up of a previous community development project that
IDA financed at the level of US$5 million. The CRDP project demonstrated improvements in the
living conditions of many low-income communities by supporting basic small-scale social and

                                                     25
economic infrastructure rehabilitation (schools, water supply and sewerage, health clinics). With
an investment of about US$20 million, DCDP responded to community demands for priority
social needs and produced tangible benefits to thousands of community members as noted in the
following paragraphs.
6.      Education Facilities. In partnership with the local governments and communities, DCDP
supported the construction and equipping of 420 schools (exceeded the target of 394) that
benefited 31,500 people at 70 percent lower costs for classrooms compared to those provided by
the MOE. 26 The construction and rehabilitation of schools responded directly to community
concerns: overcrowding in classrooms (42 percent), long distances to schools (36 percent), and
poor quality of education (14 percent). 27 In Gatsibo, DCDP contributed 53 percent of the
subproject construction costs of 10 additional classrooms in the Gasange Integrated School,
constructed by UN High Commission for Refugees in 2000: The number of students per
classroom decreased from 46 to 27 and by 2008, the number of teachers had increased by 72
percent. In two short years (2008–2010), and as compared to the 2009–2010 national average of
59 percent,28 completion rates increased from (pre-project) 43 to 71 percent. The investments in
education led to positive outcomes: improved quality of education in the targeted communities
(61 percent); improved classroom conditions (32 percent); reduced distance to get to school for
both teachers and students (36 percent of respondents); a reduction in class room crowding (42
percent) and increased enrollment rates (70 percent). 29 Other auxiliary benefits included a
decrease in diseases linked to poor hygiene, the availability of clean water harvested by the
tanks, and employment creation for the local population during the construction of the school
and accommodations for the teachers.
7.      Health Facilities. Costs for constructing DCDP health supported facilities was 50
percent lower than those provided by MOH. About 31 percent of the beneficiaries interviewed as
part of the BA cited improved quality of services and facilities, 16 percent confirmed improved
equipment quality and a reduced crowding leading to more timely responses. While one quarter
found being in walking distance of the health centers a positive outcome (from four hours to 20
minutes in Nyamagabe District), 69 percent believed health services had improved.
8.      DCDP achieved its target of building 14 health centers (11 health centers and 3 health
posts), benefitting 197,682 community members at half the costs of those undertaken by MOH.
Pre- and post-project administrative data on the replacement of a 40 year old health center in
Gicumbi District indicates: 63 percent increase in number of medical personnel employed at the
center, 28 percent improvement in prenatal consultations, 68 percent increase in number of
women delivering at the center, and 83 percent rise in the number of children vaccinated per
month. The number of patients volunteering for HIV/AIDs testing rose by 39 percent. All figures
cited from data provided by DCDP following a subproject review and evaluation study prepared
in January 2011. Infant and maternal deaths were reduced as a result of available preventive and
medical treatments combined with the introduction of Mutelle de Sante (mutual health insurance


26
   Data provided by DCDP, March 2011.
27
   Beneficiary Assessment Report, 2010
28
   Rwanda Common Performance Assessment Framework prepared by the Sector Working Group and distributed on
April 27-28, 2011.
29
   Beneficiary Assessment Report, 2010.

                                                   26
schemes) is a government initiated community health insurance scheme implemented in 2006 to
facilitate Rwandans’ access to health services at affordable cost. In addition, diseases linked to
malnutrition and hygiene (diarrhea) decreased. While beneficiaries cited, in some cases, absence
of electricity connection or diesel generators, provision of piped or rain harvested water, and
insufficient numbers of nurses as shortcomings, the beneficiary assessment confirmed that plans
are underway to address them as indicated by the current fairly good levels of staffing in DCDP
supported health centers which are all now functional.
9.      In Gicumbi District, a solar energy project spurred a 90 percent approval for its benefits
to medical facilities and commercial activities. In sum, a culture of preventative medicine
gradually permeated the society and created multiplier effects—a reduction in the time and
income spent on transportation and increased opportunities to utilize income on other productive
activities.
10.     Efficiency of project execution: The efficiency of project execution, as measured by the
speed of disbursement, was good. Given the slow start, actual disbursement closely tracked
planned disbursements for most of the project. At MTR, US$14.66 million or about 68 percent of
the IDA grant had been dispersed, and at project closing on December 31, 2010 total project
disbursement was 99.9 percent of the grant (US$20 million), with the remainder committed.
Counterpart funds were made available in a timely fashion. The technical audit sampled 26
subprojects across the country and corroborated cost-efficient execution of subproject execution,
as reflected in the 96 percent rating provided in the study. At 12 percent, DCDP’s operating costs
are comparable to those of other CDD/social fund operations and reflect cost effectiveness
compared to higher prevailing operating costs in the public sectors. In sum, DCDP is a cost
effective instrument that matches targeted infrastructure needs to the poor and vulnerable
communities in a manner consistent with the country’s development strategy.
11.    Based on findings from the BA, 70 percent of the communities noted that DCDP
generated short-term employment through the construction of schools. The project stimulated the
development of the local construction industry through introducing competitive procurement and
encouraging small-scale contracting. Through the use of participatory mechanisms and its
demand driven approach, significant qualitative benefits from the proposed Project increased the
sense of ownership, trust, social cohesion, and empowerment in many communities as noted in
the BA.




                                               27
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
                                                                         Responsibility/
          Names                             Title               Unit
                                                                           Specialty
Lending


Supervision/ICR
Anne Anglio                 Senior Program Assistant          ECSHD
Otieno Ayany                Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM
Yasser Aabdel-Aleem Awny
                            Lead Social Protection Special    AFTSP
El-Gammal
Diego Garrido Martin        ET Consultant                     AFTDE
Sylvie Ingabire             Team Assistant                    AFMRW
Chantal Kajangwe            Procurement Specialist            AFTPC
Antoinette Kamanzi          Procurement Assistant             AFMRW
Alex Kamurase               Social Protection Specialist      AFTSP
Norbert O. Mugwagwa         Operations Adviser                HDNED
Josiane Niyonkuru           Receptionist                      AFMRW
Nadège K. Nouviale          Program Assistant                 AFTSP
Moustapha Ould El Bechir    Senior Procurement Specialist     AFTPC
Gabrielle M. Rooz           Consultant                        AFTEG
Emmanuel Tchoukou           Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM
Mohamed Alhousseyni Toure   Consultant                        AFCW3
Jacomina P. de Regt         Consultant                        QLP




                                              28
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (Including
                                   No. of Staff Weeks
                                                            Travel and Consultant Costs)
Lending
  FY03                                   21                           114.80
  FY04                                   50                           170.32
  FY05                                                                  0.00
  FY06                                                                  0.00
  FY07                                                                  0.00
  FY08                                                                  0.00
                          Total:         71                           285.12
Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                                                  0.00
  FY04                                                                  0.00
  FY05                                    8                            48.00
  FY06                                   18                            48.36
  FY07                                   16                            33.54
  FY08                                   21                            75.19
  FY09                                   20                             0.00
                          Total:         83                           205.09




                                       29
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

1.     The Beneficiary Assessment conducted in November 2010 examined a sample of DCDP
subprojects implemented in 17 districts across the western, eastern, northern and southern
provinces. The objective was to gauge beneficiary views on DCDP intervention and perception.
Both the direct beneficiaries of each project as well as stakeholders participating in project
implementation were interviewed. The beneficiaries were interviewed on an individual basis and
through focus groups to gain community insights on project performance and impact on the
communities.

2.     The following are combined responses obtained from beneficiary’s communities on their
perception on the performance and impact of the DCDP support to various subproject
interventions.

Schools




(Left) A School constructed by DCDP in Nyanza District and (Right) Pupils in Classroom.




                                                      30
           Centre scolaire de Rwesero (Gicumbi)

     Groupe scolaire Rambura Garcons (Nyabihu)

           Groupe scolaire kibihekane (Nyabihu)

        Groupe scolaire de Tabagwe (Nyagatare)
                                                                                          After
         Groupe scolaire de Nyagasozi (Gatsibo)                                           Before

           Groupe scolaire de Gasange (Gatsibo)

                         ESI Kitabi (Nyamagabe)

       Centre scolaire de Mushirarungu (Nyanza)

                                                  0   200   400   600   800   1000 1200



3.     Findings from the Beneficiary Assessment indicate that enrollment in Gicumbi,
Nyagatare, Gatsibo, Nyamagabe, and Nyanza showed an increase in enrollment following DCDP
support to the construction of schools and classrooms.
4.     Construction of Schools was a community priority. Based on interviews with
communities, 42 percent of respondents indicated that classroom congestion was a serious
problem.
5.      The second biggest community concern represented by 36 percent was the long distance
and time it took to get to schools. Responses from the beneficiaries indicate that school
construction in their neighborhoods had reduced the distance and time required to get to the
school.
6.       Fourteen percent of respondents noted low quality education as the third concern.
7.       Community perception on the impact of schools supported under DCDP.
8.      Thirty six percent cited improved quality of education as the biggest benefit from the
project. Beneficiaries expressed satisfaction with DCDP intervention and indicated that students
were performing better. This was attributed to the increased number of classrooms constructed
by DCDP.
9.     Respondents cited comfort as the second biggest benefit from the project (32 percent).
The provision of desks, books, chalk, blackboards, etc., coupled with reduced distance was
another positive output expressed by approximately 15 percent of the respondents.




                                                      31
                               Not Urgent at 
                                      Not Urgent
                                    All
                                         7.89%
                                  7.89%
                                 Urgent to a 
                                certain extent                       Very Urgent
                                   23.68%                              55.26%




                                      Urgent
                                      5.26%




10.     More than 85 percent pointed out that the problem was urgent with 55 percent indicating
that the project was very urgent. Only about 8 percent indicated that the school subproject was
not urgent.
11.    Participants were asked about the benefits accrued through the school subprojects to the
wider community. About 70 percent of respondents cited employment as construction workers in
schools and reduced illiteracy in the community as the major benefits.
Perceptions about the Benefits of the School Project to the Community




          Reduced Illeteracy Levels                             11



             Parents no longer Fear                4



      Increase in School Enrolement            3



         Employement as Teachers                   4



         Jobs in Construction Work                                    13



                                      0        2       4        6          8       10   12   14




                                                           32
Health



      100%
       90%
       80%
       70%
       60%
       50%                                                                                    Female
       40%
                                                                                              Male
       30%
       20%
       10%
        0%
              Centre de santé de  Centre de santé de  Centre de santé de 
                 Nyarusange          Kibumbwe          Gitoke (Gatsibo)
                  (Nyanza)          (Nyamagabe)



12.    The above figures indicate that health facilities resulted in increased, easier, and closer
access for women who were able to benefit from improved maternity, ante-natal, and post-natal
services (vaccination).

Trend of Most Common Diseases Treated at Gitoke Health Center (January to September 2010)30
Month                Malaria      Worms         Respiratory        Prenatal          Childbirth        Infant &
                      Cases                      Infections       Consultation                         Maternal
                                                                                                       Mortality
January 2010            302          300            642                 43               25                0
February 2010           290          130            438                 47               19                0
March 2010              284          207            912                 51               23                0
April 2010              217          164            617                 37               21                0
May 2010                168          147            620                 31               19                0
June 2010               180          131            388                 25               15                0
July 2010               104          148            414                 20               15                0
August 2010              32          115            346                 16               12                0
September 2010           20           89            309                 13               11                0

13.    In January 2010, the Gitoke Center (funded by DCDP) admitted 302 patients with
malaria; this number decreased to 20 patients at the time of the study, representing a 93 percent
decrease. The use of mosquito nets, counseling, and availability of medications in the center’s
pharmacy are factors that could have also contributed to the decline in cases of Malaria. The
same applies to worms and respiratory infections, where the initial frequency in early January


30
  The Health Center Project started in July 2009 in Gitoke District. However data from July to December 2009 were
incomplete. This is why only 2010 data were considered.

                                                       33
2010 indicates a number of 300 and 642 patients respectively. As of September 2010, these
numbers dropped to 89 patients (70 percent) and 309 patients (52 percent) respectively. Prenatal
consultations increased for the first three months. The center has not registered significant cases
of childbirths due to the absence of ARV treatment; several pregnant women were transferred to
zonal hospitals or bigger health centers which provided additional services.
Beneficiaries were asked to give their views about the benefits of the DCDP health sector
subprojects on their respective communities. Sixty nine percent indicated improvement in the
quality of health care. The other 26 percent cited the distance to the health centers had been
substantially reduced since services were within a walking distance for most of the beneficiaries
interviewed. The remaining 5 percent expressed gratitude that congestion at health center had
been reduced. All these put together point to the positive impact that DCDP health center
projects have had on community health conditions.
Market Subproject

14.     Prior to DCDP intervention, 40 percent of the respondents indicated that market
conditions were poor, lacking hygiene, and 20 percent indicated lack of shade or shelter from
rain or heat diminished sales. Another 20 percent cited the problem of widespread poverty due to
lack of structured markets to sell their produce.
15.     Following DCDP support, 45 percent of the market vendors indicated they were able to
sell their products with more ease, while 44 percent noted an increase in the number of buyers.
Most of the beneficiaries (75 percent) acknowledged that entrepreneurship skills had increased
since the modern market was constructed with evidence of more people starting business
activities like cafeterias. It was also observed by 25 percent of the respondents that cooperation
had improved as the market provided a platform for socializing while engaging in business.
Solar Energy

16.     Nyamiyaga Secteur in Gicumbi District was sampled to seek beneficiary perceptions
about the solar energy project. Ninety percent of the beneficiaries from the solar energy project
indicated this led to improved services to medical facilities and commercial activities.
Secteur Offices Construction Project

17.     The DCDP project also supported the construction of offices for local governments in an
effort to improve conditions. Of the beneficiaries interviewed, 60 percent indicated DCDP
support addressed lack of office space, 30 percent cited the lack of equipment as a major
constraint, and 15 percent noted discomfort (15 percent) as major challenges prior to DCDP
intervention. DCDP’s support was viewed as important and supportive in creating an
environment that allowed for faster resolution of community conflicts, processing of
administrative paper work, and handling personal issues (such as illegal marriages).




                                                34
School Science Laboratories

18.    DCDP supported the construction of science laboratories in the secondary schools. The
Nyamagabe Secondary School was sampled and beneficiaries confirmed that class performance
in science related subjects had improved since DCDP intervention. The school science
laboratories facilitated the learning process and encouraged teachers to foster enhanced teaching
underpinned with practical hands on application. This in turn encouraged students to explore
pursuing careers in nursing and other science related careers.
Livestock

19.     Sixty two percent of the households interviewed noted benefits from the provision of
livestock as a result of access to cheap organic (natural) manure. The remaining 38 percent
reported an increase in farm output, which they attributed to the use of natural manure from the
animals.
Microfinance Projects

20.    DCDP also supported microfinance pilot subprojects in the Huye District. A total amount
of Frw. 45,900,000 was disbursed in two phases to support small subprojects. The fund benefited
1,793 people of whom 82 percent were organized in associations and the remaining 18 percent
were in cooperatives.
21.     In terms of subprojects supported, 7 were in agriculture, 10 in farming, 29 in commercial
activities, and 17 in crafts. Benefits from the microfinance subprojects as noted by beneficiaries
were:
         Culture of saving and using small loans has increased
         Financial capacity of families has increased
         Culture of working in associations was institutionalized
         Interaction between members of associations increased.

                                                  35
Capacity Building

22.     DCDP provided training and capacity building as part of fostering community
participation, empowerment, and overall capacity building.
23.       Benefits as cited by communities included:
         New skills gained from and an better understanding of the Country Vision, National
          Decentralization Framework, and other Development Frameworks at national and local
          levels
         Increased capacity and skills related to the preparation of District Development Plans
         Improvement in financial management at the district level, more transparency and
          accountability
         A database of all taxpayers at the district level was made available in all the districts
          under DCDP support
         Improved livelihood conditions of the disabled through the provision of knitting
          activities;
         Modernization of apiculture through the provision of modern equipment
         Promotion of revenue generating activities through basket weaving (Agaseke).




                                                 36
Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                    MINISTRY OF LOCAL ADMINISTRATION
                            PO.BOX. 3445 KIGALI




      DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

        SUMMARY GOVERNMENT REPORT ON PROJECT COMPLETION
                        (Borrower’s ICR)



                                    MAY 2011




                                        37
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

After the genocide perpetrated against the Tutsi in 1994, the Government of the Republic of Rwanda
has initiated various strategies and socio-economic policies (the national strategy against poverty,
decentralization, democratization and community development) in order to promote peace, national
reconciliation and poverty reduction.

The National Decentralization Policy initiated in 2000 has highlighted the need to allow local people
to participate fully in the decision-making process (initiation, implementation and monitoring of
decisions affecting them).

Through this participation, the decentralization process aimed mainly at promoting good governance,
stability, peace, national reconciliation and ensures the rights of communities. To support the
implementation of the policy of decentralization and community development institutions and
projects have been implemented. It is within this context that the Decentralization and Community
Development Project "DCDP" in short began its initial phase of operations in 2004.

The overall objective of DCDP project, with funding from the World Bank is to contribute to the
consolidation of a framework for the emergence of a vibrant local economy built by the communities
empowered to steer the process of their own development as effective local government.

It is within this framework that the project identified the following components:
 Strengthening institutional capacity;
 Information, education and communication;
 Community Development Initiatives;
 Project coordination and monitoring.

The "DCPD" project intervened in the fields of capacity building, health, education, agro-livestock,
administrative and community infrastructure, energy and water, that have allowed more effective
communication and sustainable development of decentralized entities.

The approach of local support adopted by the DCDP project was very significant in that it has
articulated its objectives according to the strategic orientations outlined in the policy documents and
strategies that govern the country over the long term Vision 2020, the Millennium Development
Goals (MDGs), the National Decentralization Policy and the Community Development Policy, the
reinforcement of good governance etc.

The DCDP project has achieved very positive results:

 In the area of capacity building and IEC, the project has provided training to the administrative
staff of the project and those of the decentralized entities, community leaders, private sector and civil
society in various fields. The beneficiaries of all these courses were 107,836 of which 81.4% are
community leaders and 9.96% are staff of local Governments. The project also provided support
structures for community development, information, education and communication tools such as
computers (207), collections of legal texts on decentralization and good governance.


                                                 39
 In terms of infrastructure, the DCDP project has provided participating districts school
infrastructures (420 classrooms) equipped with desks (18,891), health infrastructures (14 health
centers and health posts) and their equipment, bridges (3 bridges), water tanks (132), latrines (685),
administrative offices (22 offices built or rehabilitated) and a modern market. These facilities have
enabled the population to have access to quality services.
 On social protection, the project has built twenty houses (20) for vulnerable groups, funded
knitting center that has trained forty nine (49) disabled or vulnerable people.
 In the area of income generating activities, the project distributed three thousand (3,000) cows
five thousand two hundred (5,200) rabbits and eight million three hundred thirty three and six
hundred (8,333,600) cassava cuttings to selected populations at the community level by considering
their poverty level and it financed three microfinance institutions and IGMA.

With the above project outputs in mind, the project has achieved its outcomes as assessed in the
World Bank ICR to which government concurs with and believes that these will become
increasingly visible as utilization of the project investments increases. Capacity for local government
staff was enhanced and this impacted on local governments’ performance on planning,
implementation and budget execution. The culture of participatory planning has been increasingly
embraced with many advantages to citizens participation, accountability and empowerment. Yet,
community assets created have contributed to service delivery in areas where there were enormous
capacity gaps. The DCDP investments have also enabled some local governments to have a
conducive environment for providing services to the citizens.

The DCDP project has strong points that can serve as lessons to other projects, including the
community development approach establishing participatory and inclusive planning at all levels, the
association of the implementation of development subprojects under the capacity building of various
implementing partners, funding for infrastructure sub-projects with the total package necessary for
their immediate implementation, the combination of planning budgets, implementation and
monitoring and evaluation, to mention only a few.

However, it has had challenges such as decentralized entities with weak technical capacities of
technicians in charge of infrastructures at the level of local Governments, that made it difficult for
them to manage contracts and make a regular and effective monitoring of community infrastructure;
weak control by the community and direct beneficiaries of the implementation of community
infrastructures.

Given the enormous achievements of the DCDP project, it would be appropriated to consider its
second phase, which would put an emphasis on production and welfare. In this second phase, there
should be a maintenance plan and a budget to sustain the achievements of the project. The proper
organization of the documentation of the project achievements and its availability also prove crucial
to provide lessons for other projects and institutions.

James MUSONI
Minister of Local Administration




                                                40
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Aide-Memoires, 2005-2011. Washington DC: World Bank, Mimeo.
Agreed Minutes of Negotiations. Dated May 10, 2004. Washington DC: World Bank, Mimeo.
Amendment to Development Grant Agreement. Dated June 24, 2009.
Development Grant Agreement (Decentralization and Community Development Project) between
Republic of Rwanda and International Development Association, Dated June 30, 2004. Washington
DC: World Bank.
Implementation Status and Results Reports. 2005-2010. Washington DC: World Bank, Mimeo.
International Development Association, International Finance Corporation, and Multilateral
Investment Guarantee Agency. Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Rwanda. Report No.
58075-RW. Dated January 20, 2010. Washington DC: World Bank.
Ministry of Local Government and Decentralization and Community Development Project. DCDP
Beneficiary Assessment Final Draft Report. Dated November 2010. Kigali, Rwanda.
Project Appraisal Document on a Proposed Grant in the Amount of SDR13.7 Million (US$20
Million Equivalent) to the Republic of Rwanda for a Community Decentralization and Community
Development Project, Dated May 12, 2004. Washington DC: World Bank.
Report on DCDP Desk Review of Existing Documentation. Dated March 2011.
Report on DCDP Technical Audit. Dated November 2010. Kigali, Rwanda.
Rwanda Citizen Report and Community Score Cards, December 2009. MINALOC, Kigali, Rwanda.




                                            41
                                                                                                                      29°30'E                                                       30°00'E                                                    30°30'E                                                    31°00'E
                                                       RWA NDA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1°00'S
                                                                                                  1°00'S
           DECE NT RA L I Z AT I O N C O M M UN I TY                                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Kafunzo     Kagitumba

           PART I CI PAT I O N P R O J E C T ( D C D P )                                                                                                                    UGANDA                                                                To
                                                WETLANDS                                                                                                                                                                                        Kikagati

                                                MAIN CITIES AND TOWNS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Kag
                                                AKARERE (DISTRICT) CAPITALS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     era
                                                                                                                                             To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0          10        20     30      40 Kilometers
                                                INTARA (PROVINCE) CAPITALS                                                                  Kisoro                                                                                Nyagatare
                                                NATIONAL CAPITAL




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       gitumba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0               10            20           30 Miles
                                                                                                                                                                                    To                  Muvumba
                                                MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                              Kidaho             Butaro            Kabale                                        N YA G A T A R E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Ka
                                                AKARERE (DISTRICT) BOUNDARIES                                                               Burera               Lac                                                                                           Lac
                                                                                                                                                                 Burera                                                                              Rwanyakizinga
                                                INTARA (PROVINCE) BOUNDARIES                                             MUSANZA                      BURERA                                Mulindi Gatunda
                                                                                                   1°30'S                      Muhoza        Lac                    Kirambo                                                                                                                                                         1°30'S
                                                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                 Ruhondo                 Cyeru                                                                                                 Lac
                                                                                                                       Busogo                                                              ICUM BI
                                                                                                                                                                                         G ICUMBI                                          Gabiro                     Mikindi
                                                                                                                                                                 Kinihira
                                                                29°00'E                                                                                                                            Byumba                                    G AT S I B O
                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                          Mukamira
                                                                                                                                                                   NORTH                                             Gatsibo
                                                                                      Rutshuru      RUBAVU                                                  Gakenke                                                                            EAST                     Lac
                                                                                                                      N YA B I H U           Nemba                                                                                                                     Hago
                                                                                    To           Rubavu      Kagali
                                                                                   Sake                                    Karago                             PROVINCE                                 Kinyami              Kabarore
                                                                                      Gisenyi Nyondo                                                                             Tare                                        Kiziguru
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PROVINCE                        Lac
                                                                                                                           Muramba                GAKENKE
                                                                                                                                                                                RULINDO
                 D E M . R E P.                                                                                                 Kabaya      Ngaru
                                                                                                                                                                                 Mbogo
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Muhura
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Lac              Rukara
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Kivumba
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Lac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Bugene

                       OF                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ihema




                                                                                                                                                   Ny
                                                                                                                         Ngororero                                                                                                Muhazi




                                                                                                                                                     ab
                                                                                            RUTSIRO                                                                Shyorongi




                                                                                                                                                        a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                K AY O N Z A
                    CONGO                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TANZANIA



                                                                                                                                                       ro
                                                                                                                      NGORORERO                                                                      GASABO
                                                                          L ac Ki vu                                                                        go




                                                                                                                                                          n
                                                                                                    Murunda
                                                                                                              WEST                                                                       KIGALI CITY                                            Mukarange
                                                                                                            Gihingo                                                                                Ndera
                                                                                                                                                                                 Rugenge                                         Gikoro    Rwamagana
                                                                                                              OV
                                                                                                          P RRutsiro I N C E                     Bulinga                                           KIGALI
                                                                                                                                                                  Rukoma                              Kicuro                      Bicumbi Kigabiro                             Lac
           2°00'S                                                                                                                         MUHANGA                                                                                                                             Nasho                                                 2°00'S
                                                                                                                Mabanza                                                     NYARUGENGE               KICUKIRO           RWAMAGANA
                                                                                           Kibuye                                         Nyamabuye
                                                                                                                  Rubengera                                        KAMONYI                                                                                                                 Lac
                                                                                                                                                       Gitarama                                                                      Lac    Kigarama                        Lac            Mpanga
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Mugesera
                                                                                                          KARONGI                                                                                    Nyamata
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Cywambwe
                                                                                                    Gishyita                                                                            Bugesera                                              Kibungo
                                                                                                                      Bwakira                 RUHANGO                                                         Rilima
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        NGOMA                            KIREHE
                                                                                                          Ngoma                                                                                         Gashora                   Sake
                                                                                                                                             Masango
                                                                                                                                                                 Ruhango                                                                                             Kirehe
                                                                                                                                                                                                   BUGESERA
                                                                                                                                        Gatagara
                                                                                                                                                     N YA N Z A
                                                                                                                                                       Busasamana
                                                                                 Kagano                         SOUTH                     Nyanza                                                      Lac
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Cyohoha                                         Ka
                                                                            Rwesero                         N YA M A G A B E                                                                          Sud                  Lac                        ge
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ra
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Rweru
                                                                       YA
                                                             Kamembe N Y A M A S H E K E                    PROVINCE                                 Rusatira                                                                                                                    To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Lusahanga
                                                                                                                       Gasaka            Karaba
                                                           Cyangugu
                                                                                                                                           HUYE                                                              To
           2°30'S                       To                                                            Kitabi          Gikongoro         Karama                                                                                                                                                                                      2°30'S
                                      Walangu                                     Rwumba                                                                                                                   Kirundo
                                                                                                                                                            GISAGARA
                                                                           RUSIZI
                                             To                                                                                           Ngoma
                                          Nyya-Ghezi                                                         Ruramba                                 Butare         Ndora
                                                                                                                               Kibeho
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RWANDA
                                                                                                                                                                            ru




                                                                                                                 N YA R U G U R U                           Kanzi
                                                                                                                                                                           ya




                                                                                                                                                                                            BURUNDI
                                                                                                                                                                        an




            This map was produced by the                              Bugarama                                        Munini       Kigembe
                                                                                        To
                                                                                                                                                                      Ak




            Map Design Unit of The World
            Bank. The boundaries, colors,                                             Cibitoke
            denominations and any other                                 To
            information shown on this map do                          Cibitoke




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD 32875R
            n o t i m p l y, o n t h e p a r t o f T h e
            World Bank Group, any judgment                                                                                          To               To
MAY 2011




            on the legal status of any                                                                                            Kayanza           Ngozi
            territory, or any endorsement or
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               30°30'E
            acceptance of such boundaries.                      29°00'E                                               29°30'E                                                       30°00'E                                                                                                               31°00'E
The original had problem with text extraction. pdftotext Unable to extract text.
