                                 Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                 Report No.: 97163-RW




            PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                         REPUBLIC OF RWANDA

  DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                       (IDA-H09040)


                                 June 22, 2015




IEG Public Sector Evaluation
Independent Evaluation Group
                                                ii


Currency Equivalents (annual averages)

Currency Unit = Rwandan Franc (RWF)
2005                     US$1.00                 RWF 556.00
2006                     US$1.00                 RWF 553.00
2007                     US$1.00                 RWF 547.00
2008                     US$1.00                 RWF 543.00
2009                     US$1.00                 RWF 568.00
2010                     US$1.00                 RWF 588.00
2011                     US$1.00                 RWF 602.00

Abbreviations and Acronyms
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy              MINALOC         Ministry of Local Government
CDC         Community                                MINECOFIN       Ministry of Finance and
            Development Committees                                   Economic Planning
CDD         Community Driven Development             NDIS            National Decentralization
CDF         Common Development Fund                                  Implementation Secretariat
CRDP        Community Reintegration and              PAD             Project Appraisal Document
            Development Project                      PCC             Provincial Coordinating
DCDP        Decentralization and Community                           Committee
            Development Project                      PCO             Provincial Coordination Office
DDP         District Development Plan                PCMU            Project Coordination and
DGA         Development Grant Agreement                              Monitoring unit
DPO         Development Policy Operation             PDO             Project Development
EDPRS       Economic Development and                                 Objective
            Poverty Reduction Strategy               PDP             Provincial Development Plan
GoR         Government of Rwanda                     PPAR            Project Performance
ICR         Implementation Completion and                            Assessment Report
            Results Report                           RDIP            Rwanda Demobilization and
IDA         International Development                                Integration Program
            Association                              RLDSF           Rwanda Local Development
IEC         Information, Education, and                              Support Fund
            Communication                            RPF             Rwanda Patriotic Front
IEG         Independent Evaluation Group             UNDP            United Nations Development
IEGPS       IEG Public Sector Evaluation                             Program
ILI         Learning and Innovation                  USAID           United States Agency for
ISR         Implementation Status and Results                        International Development
            Report                                   VUP             Vision 2020 Umurenge
JADF        Joint Action Development Forum                           Program
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation



Fiscal Year

Government:              July 1 – June 30


Director-General, Independent Evaluation                :    Ms. Caroline Heider
Director, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                  :    Mr. Nicholas David York (Acting)
Manager, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                   :    Mr. Mark Sundberg
Task Manager                                            :    Ms. Lourdes N. Pagaran
                                                                   iii



Contents
Principal Ratings ................................................................................................................. v
Key Staff Responsible......................................................................................................... v
Preface............................................................................................................................... vii
Summary ............................................................................................................................ ix
1. Background and Context................................................................................................. 1
2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance ........................................................................ 6
   Objectives ....................................................................................................................... 6
   Relevance of Objectives ................................................................................................. 7
   Design ............................................................................................................................. 8
   Relevance of Design ....................................................................................................... 9
   Implementation Arrangements...................................................................................... 10
3. Implementation ............................................................................................................. 11
   Design and Implementation of Monitoring and Evaluation ......................................... 12
4. Achievement of the Objectives ..................................................................................... 13
   Outputs: ......................................................................................................................... 14
   Outcomes ...................................................................................................................... 16
   Efficiency ...................................................................................................................... 18
5. Ratings .......................................................................................................................... 20
   Outcome ........................................................................................................................ 20
   Risk to Development Outcome ..................................................................................... 20
   Bank Performance ......................................................................................................... 21
       Quality at Entry ......................................................................................................... 21
       Quality of Supervision .............................................................................................. 22
   Borrower Performance .................................................................................................. 23
       Government Performance ......................................................................................... 23
       Implementing Agency............................................................................................... 23
   Monitoring and Evaluation ........................................................................................... 23
6. Lessons .......................................................................................................................... 24
References ......................................................................................................................... 26
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet ............................................................................................... 27
Annex B. Additional Tables ............................................................................................. 29

This report was prepared by Lourdes N. Pagaran. The report was peer reviewed by Paul Smoke and panel
reviewed by Clay Wescott. Yezena Zemene Yimer provided administrative support.
                                                            iv


Annex C. List of Persons Met ........................................................................................... 38



Boxes
Box 1.1. Performance Contracts: The Rwanda Imihigo System and District ................... 3


Tables
Table 3.1. Total Project by Component, Original Estimates and Actual .......................... 11


Figures
Figure 1.1. Share of Transfers to Total Domestic Resources (RWF in millions) ............... 6
                                                               v


Principal Ratings
                                       ICR*                          ICR Review*                      PPAR
 Outcome                            Satisfactory                      Satisfactory             Moderately Satisfactory
 Risk to
 Development                   Negligible to Low                   Negligible to Low                    Moderate
 Outcome
 Bank Performance                   Satisfactory                     Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory
 Borrower
                                    Satisfactory                     Satisfactory                      Satisfactory
 Performance
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The ICR Review is an
intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.



Key Staff Responsible
                                                                Division Chief/
 Project                Task Manager/Leader                     Sector Director                   Country Director
 Appraisal                  Susan Opper                         Laura Frigenti                    Emmanuel Mbi
 Completion                  Alex Kamurase                 Lynne Sherburne-Benz                 Johannes C. M. Zutt
                                                           vi


      IEG Mission: Improving World Bank Group development results through excellence in evaluation.


About this Report
       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank’s self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank’s work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEG annually assesses 20-25 percent of the
Bank’s lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that
are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
      To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEG staff examine project files and other
documents, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government, and other in-country
stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices as
appropriate.
      Each PPAR is subject to internal IEG peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. The PPAR is also sent to the borrower
for review. IEG incorporates both Bank and borrower comments as appropriate, and the borrowers' comments are
attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has
been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the IEG Rating System for Public Sector Evaluations
     IEG’s use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to ad apt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive
at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (additional
information is available on the IEG website: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
     Outcome: The extent to which the operation’s major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project’s
objectives are consistent with the country’s current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project’s design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project’s objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High,
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
                                            vii


Preface
This Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) covers the Decentralization and
Community Development Project (DCDP). The objective of the project was to boost the
emergence of a dynamic local economy through empowerment of communities to lead
their own development process under effective local government.

The report presents findings based on review of the Project Appraisal Document (PAD),
the Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR), Development Grant
Agreements, Aide-Memoires, Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs) and
other relevant materials. In addition to project documents, information for this assessment
was obtained from interviews conducted during an IEG mission in Rwanda in June and
July, 2012 with government officials, project supervisors, district level government
officers, members of the donor community, Bank staff, as well as scholars and
decentralization-policy specialists. Data for this assessment were provided by the
Ministry of Local Government (MINALOC), the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning (MINECOFIN), the Rwanda Revenue Authority, and the Rwanda Statistical
Office. The first mission was conducted by Raj M. Desai, IEG Consultant. A follow-on
field mission was conducted in November 2014.

This assessment will constitute part of a clustered PPAR on local governance. The
clustered PPAR evaluates three local governance projects in addition to the Rwanda
DCDP—one each in Mozambique, Tanzania and Uganda—in order to identify critical
lessons in the design and implementation of local governance reforms and capacity-
building efforts. These lessons are intended to contribute to ongoing Bank efforts to
innovate approaches to state-building, social accountability, and good governance.

Following standard IEG procedures, a copy of the draft PPAR was sent to the relevant
government officials and agencies for their review and feedback. No comments were
received.
                                               ix


Summary
Following the Rwandan genocide of 1994, the Government of National Unity, acting within
the framework of the Arusha accords, resolved that decentralization and democratization
were necessary to reconcile the Rwandan people. Decentralization is one of the core elements
of the good governance agenda of the government under its first Poverty Reduction Strategy
(PRS, 2002-2005) and enshrined in the country’s Constitution of 2003 as a means to
strengthen national unity and reconciliation and to bring national government closer to the
people.

Three policy reforms—the Decentralization Policy (May 2000), the Community
Development Policy and Strategy (May 2001), and the Fiscal Decentralization Policy (May
2001)—aimed to establish and empower district-level governments that would play a vital
role in Rwanda’s economic development. These laws provided the legal basis for local
governance, and placed a premium on social inclusion and consensus building in the design
and implementation of development programs and projects. According to the government
Decentralization Policy of 2000 (page 6) decentralization was “to provide a structural
arrangement for government and the people of Rwanda to fight poverty at close range and to
enhance their reconciliation via the empowerment of local populations”.

The post-conflict Government of Rwanda embarked on an ambitious decentralization in three
phases. The first phase (2001-2005) provided the basic policy and legal framework. During
this period, the first local elections in 2001 were held and subsequently all local leaders have
been elected under the 2003 Constitution. The second phase (2006-2010) was characterized
by major territorial reforms including the consolidation of districts and the establishment of
district governments as key units for service delivery and the greater role assigned to sectors
(or secteurs) in service delivery. The third phase of decentralization (2011-2015) envisaged
further deepening of the decentralization process by extending the range of decentralized
services to local government and addressing outstanding issues in capacity building, fiscal
and financial autonomy of local levels.

The Rwanda Decentralization and Community Development Project (DCDP) was envisaged
to contribute to Rwanda’s long term goal for decentralization through the empowerment of
communities and improved accountability of local governments (PAD, page 2). The
project’s development objective (PDO) was “to boost the emergence of a dynamic local
economy through empowerment of communities to lead their own development process
under effective local government.” DCDP has four components: (1) Institutional Capacity
Building, (2) Information, Education and Communications, (3) Community Development
Initiatives, and (4) Program Coordination and Monitoring.

The total project cost at appraisal was US$20.0 million financed through a grant from the
International Development Association (IDA) and a contribution of US$0.7 million from the
borrower. The project was approved by the Board on June 15, 2004, and declared effective
on December 23, 2004. The project’s closing date was extended from September 30, 2009 to
December 31, 2010.
                                                             x


The DCDP builds on the Bank-financed Community Reintegration and Development Project
(CRDP). The CRDP was a $5 million Learning and Innovation (LIL) project, which
operated in 11 districts and “laid the foundation for the government’s approach to
decentralization and the subsequent legislation”1 DCDP was to scale out the community
development to 39 districts (of the original 106 districts) to further reinforce gains on the
decentralization process by empowering communities to take charge of their development in
the context of decentralization.

DCDP straddled between the two phases of decentralization. At the time of the project’s
preparation, the first phase of decentralization was winding down; and by project’s
effectiveness, the second phase was launched involving major territorial re-alignment and
consolidation of districts to 30 (from 106). The project’s initial implementation was put on
hold until the reconfigured districts were in place and the original project design, based on
the old configuration, was aligned with the new. Over the course of the project’s
implementation, the Bank had to adjust proactively and quickly in response to the rapidly
changing decentralization landscape.

This review finds that the project development objective was highly relevant to the three
policy reforms that were aimed at empowering district level governments, inter alia: the
Decentralization Policy, the Community Development Policy and Strategy and the Fiscal
Decentralization Policy. At appraisal, DCDP objective was highly relevant given the
government’s focus on local governance and decentralization articulated under the country’s
PRS for 2002-2005 and the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS 2002-2005). At
closing, the project’s development objective remains relevant to the government’s Economic
Development and Poverty Reduction Strategy (EDPRS 2008–2012) and to the Bank’s
Country Assistance Strategy (FY 2009-2012).

The project’s design was also substantially relevant. The development objective was
plausibly linked to outcomes, outputs, activities and inputs. Its design was appropriate in a
fragile post conflict environment. The demand-driven aspects enabled the project to be
responsive to the needs of the local communities and adaptable to evolving capacity needs
and priorities of the country’s nascent decentralization process. However, the project
interventions link to the overarching objective of “boosting the emergence of a dynamic local
economy” is not well articulated and measured.

The project’s development objective was achieved substantially. The project had empowered
local communities and had a positive impact on improving quality and access to
infrastructure services while supporting broader decentralization, local capacity building, and
participatory goals for local development. It is less clear whether and to what extent the
project contributed to the local “dynamism” beyond the information provided by the
beneficiary assessment which has limited coverage and issues of attribution.

The cost effectiveness analysis suggests that sub-project costs were lower compared to
government costs. However, it is not clear if proper comparisons are being made, since costs
could be influenced by other factors that are not controlled for including location, availability

1   IEG. 2008 Decentralization in Client Countries: An Evaluation of World Bank Support, 1990-2007: 77.
                                               xi


of construction materials, design and standards. The comparison was also limited to
government financed projects although the original cost effectiveness design at appraisal was
envisaged to include comparison with projects from non-governmental organizations and
other donor financed operations. The Bank team later clarified that no comparison was made
with other donor and NGO donor operations because they were few and fragmented at that
time to make a significant difference on the results. On balance, efficiency is rated Modest.
Overall, outcome is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

The quality of the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) is rated Modest. Data were tracked
using a comprehensive M&E system to measure performance of subproject operations.
However, the absence of comparator benchmarks for core institutional performance and
changes in service delivery does not allow an analysis of the achievement of this objective
outside of a set of outputs and process indicators. A central weakness in the M&E
framework was the lack of any effective design for credible impact assessment. Although an
impact evaluation was envisaged at the time of ICR preparation, further follow up at the
PPAR stage suggests that the planned evaluation did not materialize.

The risk to development outcome is rated Moderate. Processes and procedures supported
under the project have been adopted and mainstreamed. Sustainability of sub-projects were
assured with the preparation of operational and maintenance budgets and supplemental
revenue arrangements put in place at the time of closing. However, there remains a risk of
sustainability at the project and institutional level. Field interviews suggest that revenue
arrangements are inadequate to meet the operations and maintenance of sub-projects financed
by the project.

Rwanda’s decentralization has been remarkable in many respects: profound and rapid
institutional changes have taken place in the last decade with the consolidation of districts,
making them financially and legally independent and responsible for coordinating service
delivery. However, there are still some outstanding issues. Although transfers to districts
increased dramatically from 1.4% in 2002 to 33% of domestic revenues in 2011/12, the share
of block grants as a proportion of total transfers to districts has not kept pace with the speed
of decentralization and responsibilities assigned to districts. Rwanda also fared low with
respect to voice and accountability index in comparison to other countries in Sub-Saharan
Africa. Finally, a survey done by the Rwanda Governance Board in 2012 showed that the
quality of service delivery of local governments is at 70%, below the government’s target of
80%.

The Bank's performance at entry is rated Moderately Satisfactory. The project builds on
lessons learned from the precursor CRDP and identified key risks with mitigating measures.
The frameworks for economic analysis and M&E were comprehensive and detailed.
However, there were shortcomings. Given the lessons from CRDP that monitoring of micro
finance interventions did not work well, no mechanism was put in place to track, monitor and
capture lessons. The major territorial reforms in 2006 did not seem to have been anticipated
during preparation which led to implementation delays. Finally, the Bank did not align with
the Common Development Fund (CDF), renamed Rwanda Local Development Support Fund
(RLDSF), which was created in 2002 as a mechanism to pool resources for local capital
grants consistent with the government’s preference.
                                              xii


Bank performance at supervision is also rated Moderately Satisfactory. The Bank’s
leadership was stable with two team leaders (TLs) during the life of the project. The TL’s
presence in the field beginning in 2008 enabled regular interaction with government and to
respond quickly to fast changing and evolving decentralization landscape. The Bank adapted
quickly and adjusted the project’s coverage and scope to align with the territorial reforms and
with government’s priorities. However, there were shortcomings: the M&E retrofitting took
place a year before closing and while the retrofitting improved the project’s measurement,
the indicators were mostly process oriented. The Beneficiary Assessment provided insights
on the project’s outcome and impact but the scope and methodology raised issues of its
validity and attribution to the project.

Despite numerous changes in project elements, the project documentation has been limited to
one project restructuring in 2009 to reallocate project funds and refine the project’s results
framework. The limited documentation of project changes through a project restructuring
paper and/or grant amendments makes it difficult to establish what changed during
implementation and what has actually been achieved that are attributable to the project,
compared to the original project design.

Government performance is rated Satisfactory. The government demonstrated strong
ownership of the project and maintained effective working relationship with the Bank. It
provided counterpart financing on time and requisite staffing for the project’s oversight. It
also ensured that recurrent costs are provided to DCDP funded sub-projects and staffing and
equipment were provided.

The Implementing Agency performance is also rated Satisfactory. The Project Coordination
and Monitoring Unit located in MINALOC performed well, providing oversight and at the
same time trained local government staff and project processes, led dissemination efforts and
implemented the M&E system. However, there were some implementation delays and staff
turnover including the Project Coordinator’s position which was left vacant for 14 months.

The lessons from this operation are as follows:

      First, in a post-conflict environment with a history of highly centralized structures
       and dominant central government, decentralization can be fostered by well-designed
       participatory processes to promote demand-side governance and empower
       communities, along with intensive institutional and capacity building at central and
       local levels. In the case of Rwanda, the project provided the building blocks for
       fostering community participation and local accountability and enhanced social
       cohesion through financing of sub-projects identified by communities through a
       participatory planning process that feed into the Annual Action Plans for the districts.
      Second, decentralization and capacity building is a long term process and needs
       sustained government and Bank engagement. Sustained government commitment to
       build local capacity and institutions for planning, financing and revenue generation to
       improve local service delivery is fundamental to advancing decentralization. The
       project facilitated institutional capacity building for central and local government
       structures including providing training and technical assistance for priority setting,
       project planning, financial management, M&E and local development planning and
                                          xiii


    budgeting. The Bank continued its support to the government’s priority areas in
    decentralization through a Development Policy Operation on Quality of
    Decentralized Delivery Support, followed by a Public Sector Governance Program
    for Results Operation.
   Third, in a rapidly evolving environment, flexibility to adapt to changing
    circumstances is critical to the continued relevance and success of the operation. This
    project’s ability to respond quickly after a major territorial reform and rapidly
    evolving decentralization priorities was central to its success in achieving
    development objectives. The project adjusted its scope and coverage to align with the
    new territorial configuration, aligned its project cycle with the Performance
    Management Contracts (“imihigo”) and provided technical assistance to help kick-
    start its implementation in the district.




                                                          Caroline Heider
                                                          Director-General
                                                             Evaluation
                                                            1


1. Background and Context
1.1     Rwanda's approach to decentralization is motivated by its desire to break away
from the past of a highly centralized structure and to address issues of poor governance
which was one of the major causes of disunity in the country. Placing local empowerment at
the center stage is one of the key foundations of its decentralization policy and poverty
reduction strategy. Seeking to make a sharp break with the past, among several other
reforms, the Government of Rwanda in 2000 adopted an ambitious decentralization policy to
be undertaken in three five-year phases.

1.2     This decentralization framework is best understood as a government response to the
problems of social integration given the post-genocide environment, and the strong
centralized state structures inherited by the Government of National Unity which governed
following the military victory of the Rwanda Patriotic Front (RPF) and until the first post-
war presidential and legislative elections were held in August and September 2003,
respectively. As such, decentralization represented, almost entirely, a supply-driven
governmental reform. It was not conceived to solve potential disputes between factions over
the distribution of political power. As others have noted, the Rwanda Decentralization
Strategic Framework/Rwanda Decentralization Implementation Plan scrupulously avoided
any mention of "power sharing," and instead relied on the language of citizen empowerment,
community development, participation, accountability, capacity building, etc. (Kauzya 2003).
However, Rwanda-historically governed by highly centralized systems and in the aftermath
of genocide-immediately faced numerous capacity shortages that posed obstacles to
decentralized, localized governance.

1.3    The first phase of decentralization (2000-2005) provided the basic policy and legal
framework (see Annex B for a timeline of political events, relevant institutional reforms, and
the evolution of the Bank' portfolio). Subnational governments had begun to assume more
responsibility for administrative services. Rwanda was previously divided into districts
"prefectures," which were divided into "communes." At the same time, in 2002, a process of
administrative consolidation began, with prefectures being replaced with provinces, and
prefectures being replaced with districts. An interim arrangement included: (i) 12 provinces,
and 106 districts; (ii) an additional administrative level of municipality (umujyi) inserted
between district and lower (sector and cell) levels; and (iii) the lowest administrative level
was that of the nyumba kumi, non-salaried representatives responsible for ten households,
including their own. During this phase, preparations were also made to devolve service
delivery from the districts to the sectors. The 106 districts, on the other hand, were
considered fiscally unsustainable and faced a number of capacity constraints.

1.4     The main engagement by the Bank with the government in the area of
decentralization during this period was through the CRDP, a $5 million LIL Credit.2 The
project was approved on October 15, 1998, became effective March 31, 1999, and closed on
June 30, 2003). The project was a community-driven development operation that provided
resources, decision making, and responsibility for implementation and monitoring directly to
2A Bank-financed Food Security (P002261) Phase 3 project served as a pilot to test new processes for participation and
decentralization in an urban setting.
                                                           2


community groups. The project's development objectives as stated in the Development Credit
Agreement were to (i) assist returnees and other vulnerable groups through a process of
community-based reintegration and development; and (ii) strengthen the capacity of local
communities and the administration at the communal and national levels for the
implementation of development projects. The project was implemented through the
commune level with the new Community Development Committees (CDCs) which were
appointed by the elected commune councils with administrative and financial autonomy.3
Established under the Community Development Policy in 2001, CDCs performed several
functions including taking a central role in sub-project elaboration and execution,
procurement for goods and works and coordination with local partners. CDCs are established
at each level of the local government structure (at district, sector and cell levels).

1.5     The project faced major political resistance and hurdles which led to a substantial
delay between negotiations and effectiveness. There was also limited capacity at local levels
which was expected following the genocide which led to delays in disbursements. The
project achieved its objectives (with moderate shortcomings and rated Moderately
Satisfactory by IEG) and demonstrated that community-driven development can work (but
lacked evidence that this was achieved through re-integration of returnees and other
vulnerable groups), and strengthened capacity of local communities and the administration at
the communal and national levels for the implementation of development projects .Other
donors were active in this area beginning in the late 1990s in supporting decentralization
including the African Development Bank, the European Union, USAID and UNDP as well as
bilateral donors including the Netherlands and Germany.

1.6     The Decentralization and Community Development Project (DCDP) approved in
2004, straddled between the first and second phases of decentralization, was envisaged to
scale up the community development initiatives under the CRDP and to reinforce the
decentralization process. DCDP was to build needed institutional capacity for local
governments in districts and promote information-awareness campaigns to build public
support for both the DCDP and wider decentralization reforms. The DCDP also supported
the mainstreaming of decentralized project management cycle and financial management
through district-level development plans, and by financing several sub-projects initiated by
communities in districts. In parallel with DCDP, the Bank also supported a series of
Development Policy Operations Poverty Reduction Strategy 1-3 (approved in 2006) and
Public Sector Capacity Building Project in support of the government's decentralization.

1.7      The second phase (2006-2010) continued territorial re-alignment and focused on
establishing district governments as key units for service delivery. In 2006, Rwanda
completed its administrative reform, reducing the number of provinces from twelve to five,
abolishing the umujyi and, officially, the nyumba kumi. The second phase also established
clear hierarchies and an intricate organization leading from gihugu (country) to umudugudu
(village) and, informally, even lower. The official structure was given the following five
levels: 5 intara (provinces), 30 uturere (districts), 416 imirenge (sectors), 2,146 utugari
(cells) and 14,876 imidugudu (villages). The number of districts was thus reduced from 106

3Communes were subsequently abolished in favor of districts. However, the CDCs were retained and are established at
different levels of the local government structure (district, sector and cell).
                                                  3


to 30; the sectors were consolidated from over a thousand to 416 and given an enhanced
service delivery mandate. This triggered enormous need for reorientation and capacity
building at both the district and sector level (see Annex B Table B.2 for a summary of
territorial reforms).

1.8     The 2006 territorial reform defined the roles of the different tiers. The provinces are
deconcentrated bodies of the central government and perform coordinating functions on
behalf of the national government. Kigali City Council which is considered a separate entity
is in charge of strategic planning and M&E for urban development. The local government
structures refer to the districts and within districts are sectors and cells. The 2006 Law
Determining the Organization and Functioning of the District states that the District is an
"autonomous administrative entity with a legal status with administrative and financial
autonomy". The district is in charge of economic development including agriculture,
tourism and small medium sized enterprise and coordinate planning, financing and service
delivery. The district consists of an elected council and administration headed by an
executive committee composed of the district mayor and two vice-mayors. The executive
committee is elected by the council from among its members. The sectors and cells are
administrative entities of the district. The sector is responsible for the administration of basic
services, and data collection and reporting while the cell is responsible for community
mobilization (needs assessment and prioritization). Both sectors and cells each have
executive committees which are responsible for day to day administration and supported by
technical staff that include CDCs. The village is not an administrative unit but functions as
center for grassroots mobilization and information dissemination. The sector ministries
interact with the districts to implement their sector activities at the local level.

1.9     The use of performance contracts or "imihigo" was introduced in 2006 to enhance
service delivery and to boost local development. The 'imihigo" constitutes the focus of the
planning process between the center and the districts. The performance contract is signed
between the President of the Republic and the district mayor (see Box 1.1). "Imihigo" is
based on a traditional practice where individuals publicly commit to certain acts or deeds.
The process which continues to this day is known to have enhanced upward accountability
but there is greater scope for improving downward accountability between local government
and the local communities.

 Box 1.1. Performance Contracts: The Rwanda Imihigo System and District
 Performance contracts (Imihigo) are contracts between the President of Rwanda and various
 government agencies detailing what the respective agency or institution sets itself as targets along
 several of indicators. The stated objective of the Imihigo system is to improve the speed and quality
 of execution of government programs, thus making public agencies more effective. Since 2006 this
 approach has been used by local government authorities for setting local priorities in district
 development plans (DDPs), setting annual targets and defining activities to achieve them. When
 preparing the performance contracts each local government administrative unit determines its own
 objectives (with measurable indicators), taking into account national priorities, as highlighted in
 the International and National strategic documents, such as the Millennium Development Goals
 (MDGs), the Vision 2020 Umurenge (social protection) Program, and the Economic Development
 and Poverty Reduction Strategy (EDPRS). Once DDPs are drawn up, Annual Action Plans
 (AAPs) are prepared annually by all budget agencies, including district authorities, specifying
                                                     4


 activities meant to be completed within a year. The performance contract is inserted as a sub-
 component of the AAP, highlighting priority activities and associated indicators that are to be used
 to measure the performance of the local authority. The Imihigo are set yearly but evaluated every
 six months.
 Imihigo activities are to be selected on the basis of criteria such as:
    Impact on the welfare of the local population
    Local job creation
    Local “ownership”
    Connection to targets described in national priorities (Vision 2020, EDPRS, MDGs, etc.)
    Cost effectiveness
    Effect on local social cohesion/conflict mitigation
 The consolidation and reconciliation of national and local priorities at the district level and
 discussion of draft Imihigo with central government authorities is undertaken, after which the
 Imihigo is presented to stakeholders and approved.

1.10 The third decentralization phase (2010-2015) envisaged to extend the range of
decentralized services to local governments and to further deepen the advances made on
capacity and organization reforms. It also sought to put in place and build capacity on
financial management and social accountability and provide greater fiscal autonomy of local
governments. The third phase would address issues that have emerged in the implementation
of the second phase. These include: ensuring full participation of communities in decision
making, clarifying what services are decentralized to local governments and retained by
sectoral ministries, strengthening service delivery at local levels by putting in place service
charters and service standards, consolidating local economic development initiatives and
clarifying the role of local government in creating a favorable environment. During this
period, the Bank has provided support through a Quality of Decentralized Service Delivery
Support Development Operation ($50 million, approved on 2013 and closed on 2014), and
followed by a Public Sector Governance Program for Results Operation ($100 million) which
was approved by the Board in October 2014.

1.11 Some commentators have argued that “decentralization” may be a misnomer for the
particular governmental reform implemented in Rwanda in 2006. While the restructuring of
administrative units combined with the responsibilities given to local units did suggest formal
devolution, decentralization also involved the central government enhancing (informally and
formally) its own ability to assure compliance from local governments. First, the
administrative reform maintained jurisdictional layers fully controlled by the national
government (i.e., the provinces) while, in effect, increasing its ability to gather information
from a newly consolidated district-government structure. Second, alongside the restructured,
multiple levels of administrative units, the RPF also maintained parallel branches at each
level, and indeed, was the only political party able to do so, thus potentially expanding the
scope of single-party rule (Purdeková 2011).

1.12 Others have argued that while Rwanda’s decentralization is characterized by tight
control from the center, this is not uncommon in other decentralizing countries in Africa and
elsewhere. However, Rwanda’s decision to consolidate districts is unlike other countries that
embarked on decentralization and proceeded to expand districts to gain political patronage
                                                5


(Uganda and Tanzania for example). The argument proceeds that the Rwandan case of
decentralization is a response by the political elite’s perceived vulnerability to external and
internal threats. The collective experience of genocide, its search for legitimacy, the
volatility of international environment and its dependence on external assistance prompted
the political elites to design local institutions that allow for swift implementation of its
development agenda and limit elite capture and political competition (Chemouni, 2014).

1.13 The goal of the government’s Fiscal and Financial Decentralization Policy (2006)
was not only to pursue efficiency in the provision of services at the local level, but also local
economic development alongside the alleviation of poverty. Meanwhile the Law on the
Organization and Functioning of the District (2006) assigned local governments in Rwanda a
series of tax and non-tax revenue sources. The main local tax sources included the property
tax, the trading license tax, and rental income tax, which were formerly collected by the
central government and were devolved to the local level. While local governments had a
degree of discretion in determining tax rates, they were not be permitted to create new taxes
or define the tax base for local revenue sources.

1.14 Thus local governments in Rwanda were to be funded by a combination of
conditional and unconditional grants, as well as by an assortment of local revenue sources.
According to the African Development Bank, between 20% to 25% of public expenditures
took place at the subnational level (African Development Bank, 2010). The percentage of
expenditure financed by own-source revenue (12%) is higher than Uganda (5%) and
Tanzania (7%), but lower than Kenya (57%). Thus, some have raised, concern about the
capacity of local governments to engage in sufficient revenue mobilization (Tumukunde,
Kiessel, and Khawar, 2008).

1.15 Transfers to the districts have been increased significantly since the second phase of
decentralization. However, the block grants which permit greater autonomy have not kept
with pace with the expanding range of services including facilitating local economic
development initiatives assigned to local governments.
                                                          6


Figure 1.1. Share of Transfers to Total Domestic Resources (RWF in millions)




Source: Ministry of Local Government. Governance and Decentralization Sector Strategic Plan, 2013/14-2017-2018.

1.16 Voice and accountability. From 1996 to 2012, Rwanda’s performance showed
significant improvements in five of the six dimensions of the World Governance Indicators
(WGI) - government effectiveness, political stability, control of corruption, regulatory quality
and rule of law. Ratings are comparable or better rated than middle income countries.
However, Rwanda’s ranking on voice and accountability has not significantly improved, and
is lower than other country groups including Sub-Saharan Africa.

1.17 The Rwanda Governance Scorecard published in 2012 by the Rwanda Governance
Board using eight indicators show that service delivery in local governments is at 70%, up
from 2010, but still falling short of the top rated category of 75% and above.

2. Objectives, Design, and their Relevance
Objectives
2.1     According to the Development Grant Agreement (DGA, p.20), the project’s
development objective (PDO) was “to boost the emergence of a dynamic local economy
through empowerment of communities to lead their own development process under
effective local government.” The PDO in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) was
similarly stated as in the DGA. In addition, the PAD articulated four specific development
objectives (PAD, p. 2): (i) strengthen district capacity to lead a process of planning and
consultation with local communities, translating their development priorities into sub-
                                                7


projects which are incorporated into Districts’ strategic development plans; (ii) develop a
matching-grants system to finance the sub-projects; (iii) validate procedures for decentralized
project-cycle management and financial management, through implementing the sub-
projects, to replicate as basic operating procedures in Rwanda’s overall decentralization
program; and (iv) introduce and promote public awareness programs.

2.2     The project was designed to build on and scale up the CRDP and reinforce the gains
made on empowering communities in the context of decentralization. DCDP was envisaged
to scale up CRDP’s coverage of 11 to 39 districts (of the original total of 106 districts), while
making improvements to address the shortcomings of that operation. With the territorial
reform in 2005-2006, the number of districts was consolidated to 30 and the project covered
17 of the 30 districts for community development subproject financing, and all 30 districts
for capacity building, information, education and communication support.

2.3    The assessment will use the PDO in the Development Grant Agreement.

Relevance of Objectives
2.4     At appraisal, the project’s development objective was highly relevant to the
government’s Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP, 2002-2005) which placed good
governance as one of its key priority areas for poverty reduction and economic growth, with
decentralization as one of its cornerstone. Given the country’s history of conflict, good
governance is considered a prerequisite for poverty reduction involving increased
participation by local communities. In its 2002 PRSP, the government noted that
“Decentralization is central to the creation of democratic structures of governance in
Rwanda. Encouraging people to work together at a local level is central to overcoming the
divisions that have been so destructive in the past. Decentralization also allows local
Governments to respond to local needs and can increase the accountability of Government to
the people” (para 217, page 62).

2.5     The project’s development objective was also consistent with the Bank’s Country
Assistance Strategy (2002-2005) which supported the government’s PRSP under three broad
themes that include revitalization of the rural economy, private sector development and
employment creation and human and social development. DCDP was envisaged to support
the rural communities in social and economic development through its sub-project financing
at the district level.

2.6     At closing, the DCDP objective remained relevant given the government’s continued
focus on good governance as articulated in its Economic Development and Poverty
Reduction Strategy (EDPRSP 2008–2012). It is also consistent government’s Governance
flagship program which placed emphasis on empowering citizens in social, political and
economic development and further decentralization to enhance accountability at all levels of
government.

2.7    The project’s objective was relevant to the Bank’s CAS for 2009-2012. The two
CAS pillars are promoting economic transformation and growth and reducing social
vulnerability. They encompass provisions for improving access to and quality of key
                                                  8


economic infrastructure services, strengthening management of public resources at central
and local levels, and supporting village initiatives that reform and develop delivery of basic
services. The CAS emphasized the importance of capacity building at central and
decentralized levels, which DCDP was envisaged to support (CAS, para 84, page 21).

Design
2.8       The project consisted of four components:

         Component 1: Institutional Capacity Building (appraisal cost: US$7.0 million;
          actual: US$ 5.6 million). This component supported the government’s
          decentralization policy by strengthening the institutions’ and communities’ to plan,
          implement, manage, finance and maintain development activities. The component
          also financed building technical, financial management, organizational and
          operational capacities of the provincial, district, town and commune development
          committees and community based groups in the participating districts and towns. In
          addition, it contributed to the establishment and improved management of control
          mechanisms to strengthen accountability and transparency of local administrations
          vis-à-vis the communities they serve. This component also supported the
          strengthening of participatory planning systems to allow communities to participate in
          development planning and provide mechanisms for targeting the most vulnerable
          groups. Activities financed by the project included a broad spectrum workshops and
          job training at all levels of implementation: national, provincial, district, secteur and
          cellulele level- based on identified needs. During the territorial reform in 2006,
          adjustments were made on the coverage and type of support provided to the different
          levels of government.
         Component 2: Information, Education, and Communication (appraisal cost:
          US$2.3 million; actual cost: US$1.3 million). This component provided financial and
          technical support for the development and implementation of information, education,
          and communication (IEC) strategy to support decentralization process informed and
          mobilized the population regarding the DCDP. It was implemented in a two-way
          process: from the top–down to provinces, districts, sectors, cells, and communities;
          and from the communities to the districts to the provinces. The component was
          intended to help inform and educate key stakeholders at all levels on the objectives,
          activities and modalities of decentralization and the relevant laws and regulations.
          Activities supported include the project’s monitoring and evaluation.
         Component 3: Community Development Initiatives (appraisal cost: US$8.5
          million; actual cost: US$11.9 million). This component provided sub-grants to
          participating communities in 39 of the 106 districts under the original district
          configuration. Under the old administrative boundaries, it was hoped that a third of
          the old communes would receive such grants; by project closure, 17 out of 30 of the
          newly-drawn districts participated in the grants program. Sub-projects to be financed
          were to be identified in a participatory planning process, resulting in an agreement by
          the communities on Five-Year Strategic Development Plans and on Annual Action
          Plans for the districts. Sub-projects related to social and economic infrastructure
          include: education, health, social protection, transport and water supply infrastructure.
                                               9


       The component was to complement training activities of Component 1, by providing
       decentralized entities and communities the opportunity to learn by doing during the
       planning, preparation, and implementation of the sub-projects. In addition, the
       component financed the design and piloting of microfinance activities.
      Component 4: Project Coordination and Monitoring (appraisal cost: US$1.6
       million; actual cost: US$ 2.2 million). The project supported the coordination and
       management at central and decentralized levels. This included provision of materials
       and equipment for the Project Coordination and Monitoring Unit (PCMU) at the
       national level within the Ministry of Local Government (MINALOC) alongside four
       Provincial Coordination Offices (PCOs) to assist provinces and districts. The PCMU
       and PCOs were to be responsible for monitoring and evaluating project progress, and
       to manage technical assistance to the districts in their respective jurisdictions. This
       component also financed the external evaluations of the project including the
       effectiveness of the participatory methods and its administrative arrangements and
       mechanisms and the carrying out of the financial and technical audits of the project.

Relevance of Design
2.9     The project’s components and planned activities were closely linked to the specific
development objectives. The results chain plausibly links the specific development
objectives to intermediate outcomes, outputs, activities and inputs. The planned activities
including capacity building for communities, central and local levels, financing for
subprojects identified through participatory planning process and activities to inform and
educate on the objectives and modalities of decentralization were likely to lead to
empowered communities. The planned activities to integrate planning and budgeting, and
strengthen district capacity to plan, implement, manage, finance and maintain development
are likely to enhance effective government. The demand driven nature of the sub-project
financing identified by communities through a participatory planning process could plausibly
empower communities and enhance effectiveness of district administrations to respond to the
needs identified by communities.

2.10 The DCPD design was appropriate in a fragile post-conflict country setting. The
demand-driven aspects allowed the project to adapt to evolving priorities of the government,
including alignment of the project cycle with the Performance Management Contracts
(imihigo) (see Box 1.1 on Rwanda performance contracting system). This PPAR found that
the DCDP supported the performance contracting system through two principal means, that
is, through provision of technical assistance to help kick-start implementation of district
development plans and, and through support for communication activities among the
subnational governments and citizens that increased awareness of the performance contracts
system. The flexible design also facilitated institutional capacity building support for the
secteurs as envisioned in the 2006 policy change, and allowed the project to support the first
integrated social safety net program launched in 2007.

2.11 However, there were shortcomings: the objective statement of “boost the emergence
of a dynamic local economy” had no direct link to components and activities and no
measurement to indicate that it has been achieved or the project has contributed to it.
Although component 3 supported a pilot microfinance activities, there is no specific output or
                                               10


intermediate outcome in the results chain to link these activities to this dimension of the
project objective. The dimension “effective government” has no direct measurement under
the original results framework. But this has been rectified with the retrofitting of the results
framework at mid-term review. On balance, the relevance of design is rated Substantial.

Implementation Arrangements
2.12 At the national level, MINALOC through its PCMU was responsible for the overall
direction and implementation of decentralization and community development policies.
MINALOC also enforced standards and guidelines for matters such as local financial
management. MINALOC maintained a coordinating committee for overall project oversight,
to disburse IDA funds to the districts, and to finance district-level capacity building
activities.

2.13 Four Project Provincial Coordination Offices (PCOs) were responsible for outreach
and technical assistance to the Districts in their respective provinces throughout the sub-
projects implementation cycle. Since the provinces oversee activities of districts, Provincial
Coordinating Committees (PCCs) ensured that district plans followed national sector
policies. Provinces also ensured that financial procedures were being followed by districts.

2.14 The District Community Development Committees (CDCs) were the “executing
agents” of Community Development Initiatives. The CDCs identified the sub-projects to be
co-financed by IDA and conducted environmental and social screening to conform with IDA
requirements. CDCs also supervised sub-contracted firms that implemented sub-projects.

2.15 All DCDP sub-projects were selected from the Annual Action Plans in the districts'
Five-Year Plans. By legal mandate (Laws no. 04/2001 and 05/2001 regarding function of
districts and urban centers) the CDCs formulate the Five-Year District Development Plans
(DDPs) and the Annual Plans and budget. Within the DCDP, the CDCs were responsible for:
(i) ensuring the relevance, technical and financial soundness of all activities contained in the
development plan; (ii) identifying sub-projects for IDA co-financing; (iii) preparing detailed
estimated budgets and procurement plans, and conducting environmental and social
screening to conform with IDA requirements; (iv) supervising implementation of the sub-
projects, most of which will be contracted to local firms e.g. for infrastructure construction;
(v) managing the flow of funds for sub-projects; and (vi) organizing capacity building
activities at all levels of the district.

2.16 The PAD describes the participatory approach as follows (para 6.2, page 32). “The
decentralization process in Rwanda has created an enabling environment for civil society at
all levels to participate in the development discourse. This leads the way for the project to
seek the involvement of the primary stakeholders in the earliest stages so they are ready to
execute the project. There are two foci: (i) the iterative process that produces the District
development plans, and (ii) implementation of Community Initiative sub-projects.

2.17 In the iterative planning process, the Cellules, Secteurs and Districts are assisted by
the project to use participatory, rapid rural appraisal techniques as well as other participatory
techniques for local community consultations on their assets and needs. The project
                                               11


interventions (e.g. training, advisors) facilitate communities to identify their own problems
and solutions, prioritize those solutions and then develop plans, setting indicators of success.
Decisions on priorities are taken in the CDCs with approval of the communities. The CRDP
has had good success from encouraging communities also to assess whether the very
marginal and vulnerable groups have been addressed, and if not, which measures could be
taken. Communities also participate in the implementation of sub-projects through in-kind
contributions (local materials, labor, land, time) and monitoring. Feedback mechanisms
allow regular discussions between local government agents implementing the project and
stakeholder communities.

3. Implementation
3.1     The project was, approved by the Board on June 15, 2004, and declared effective on
December 23, 2004. The Mid-Term Review was completed on November 1, 2007. The
project’s closing date was extended once, on June 24, 2009, from September 30, 2009 to
December 31, 2010, to make up for time lost due to early implementation delays. Planned
and actual disbursements by component financed are given below:

Table 3.1. Total Project by Component, Original Estimates and Actual
 Component                                          Original allocation    Actual disbursement
                                                    (in US$ million)       (in US$ million)
 Institutional capacity building                              7.0                   5.6
 Information, Education, and communication                    2.3                   1.3
 Community development initiative                             8.5                  11.9
 Project coordination and management                          1.6                   2.2
 Project preparation facility refinancing                     0.5                  0.08
 TOTAL                                                       19.9                  21.0
Source: PAD and ICR.

3.2     Figure B.1 in the Annex B shows the allocation of DCDP project funds by province
and sub-component, classified by MINALOC as projects “for local infrastructure” (chiefly
for the construction of health centers and schools, as well as their supplies), “to support local
revenue generation” (agricultural inputs and livestock), and “for local capacity building.”
The first two categories comprise the Community Development Initiatives. The graph shows
that the bulk of allocations were in the form of infrastructure development, and
approximately two-thirds of all DCDP disbursements were to the poorer southern and
western provinces.

3.3     The DCDP was delayed by over one year due to weaknesses in local government
capacity, as well as the uncertainties that accompanied the territorial reform which took place
in 2006. In particular, territorial-administrative changes and the realignment of subnational
entities created large bottlenecks for a project that was to be implemented mainly through the
new district governments. It is clear that the Bank—given the nature of this decentralization
project—would have benefited from carrying out deeper political economy analysis that
could have anticipated the realignment of responsibilities that territorial reform would
produce, especially since territorial reform was an intended part of the government’s
decentralization strategy adopted in 2000. The Bank team later clarified the given the nature
                                               12


in which reforms were introduced and immediately implemented in Rwanda, the fact that the
project was able to cope with the changing needs and environment is a design strength.

3.4      Consequently requisite staff skills and capacity were limited in the 30 districts that
had been created out of a consolidation of 154 communes to undertake devolved functions of
planning, financing and implementation of sub-projects. Although the project engaged with
sector ministries early in project implementation, the lack of sectoral capacity at the districts
represented an additional constraint. Sectors responded by including the new districts’
incremental capacity needs in budgetary plans, and attempted to absorb various district
budget items into the ministerial budgets. However the lack of preparation for the effects of
territorial reform represents a miscalculation.

3.5      Following mid-term review, the project attempted to address problems of
functionality and sustainability of assets and equipment acquired under community
subprojects. Interviews with MINALOC indicated that there were problems with access and
use of basic equipment in, e.g., health centers as well as concerns of their functionality. The
project assessed these problems on a project-by-project basis and, although there is no
evidence that projects were cancelled as a result of these risks, project officials did
coordinate with sectoral ministries to ensure that adequate training was in place. In addition,
the project responded by revising indicators in order to improve measurability and
reallocating grant proceeds from unallocated funds to the Community Development
Initiatives (component 3) to allow provision of basic equipment.

3.6    Fiduciary weaknesses at the district level were an additional concern, creating major
bottlenecks in implementation. In particular district governments struggled to monitor and
supervise construction of subcontractors, and in some cases, subprojects were abandoned.
DCDP staff responded by requiring additional contractual covenants to prevent
abandonment, and in those cases where abandonment occurred, moved to solicit new bids
quickly.

3.7      During project implementation, various performance indicators monitored and
tracked information for the DCDP progress reports, Bank mission reports, and ISRs. The
following information was provided: (i) outputs related to DCDP training like local
government training and the formulation of community development plans; (ii) number of
subprojects completed by typology; (iii) outputs related to IEC; and (iv) community level
results from qualitative assessments. Based on lessons learned and support under the DCDP:
(i) the community-driven development (CDD) approach has been adopted countrywide; (ii)
recommendations from an M&E assessment for districts has been mainstreamed into district
M&E; and (iii) the District Development Plan model was adopted in all districts in addition
to the 17 supported by the project.

Design and Implementation of Monitoring and Evaluation
3.8     The PAD provided a comprehensive Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) framework
(see p. 3 and Annex 14, pp. 98-107) that was intended to capture data and track project
progress and performance on several aspects including: (i) project and sub-project
operations; (ii) project finance, procurement and cost accounting; (iii) consultation and
                                              13


communication strategy; (iv) identification and mitigation of social and environmental
impacts; and (v) impact of the DCDP on poverty reduction and community development.
Key performance indicators were identified for each of these aspects. However, the key
performance indicators are at the level of outputs and intermediate outcomes associated with
project components. It was envisaged that a sub-projects data base will be maintained at the
provincial level by the four provincial project officers. An MIS officer in the PCMU was
expected to coordinate the preparation of quarterly reports on sub-project implementation
and undertake analytical and information dissemination activities.

3.9    During project implementation, M&E performance indicators were monitored to
provide information for project progress reports, mission reports, and ISRs. After the mid-
term review, some of the performance indicators were revised to make it more outcome
focused. Additionally, a beneficiary assessment was conducted in November 2010 which
examined a sample of subprojects implemented in 17 districts across all part of the country,
and which interviewed both direct beneficiaries as well as community stakeholders and focus
groups regarding project implementation. However, there was no specific tracking
mechanism to track progress and report on the lessons from the pilot micro-finance activities.
An impact evaluation that was envisaged to be conducted at project closure did not
materialize. Additional weaknesses in the M&E framework are discussed elsewhere.

3.10 Interviews confirm that implementation of M&E was delayed due to staff turnover.
The mid-term review therefore encouraged renewed focus on M&E to ensure availability of
data for project evaluation. However, this review finds that much of the M&E emphasized
project outputs and process over achievement of outcomes. Outputs related to training
(namely, number of staff trained), to formulation of community development plans, and to
the promotional/awareness campaign were monitored for DCDP progress reports. Only
community-level results from qualitative assessments were used in monitoring progress in
outcomes. This review finds that progress in local empowerment and district government
autonomy were less adequately monitored. More importantly, there was no component
within the M&E framework to permit comparison of DCDP-funded communities with non-
DCDP communities.

3.11 Safeguards Compliance. The project was Environmental Category B and triggered
an environment assessment. The environmental assessment was conducted jointly with
district-level environmental specialists during appraisal and during oversight and monitoring
of infrastructure sub-projects. Each subproject was reviewed by project staff and local
government representatives for adverse impacts, and mitigation measures were proposed and
applied where necessary.

4. Achievement of the Objectives
4.1    The project’s development objective was “to boost the emergence of a dynamic local
economy through empowerment of communities to lead their own development process
under effective local government.”

4.2    The project logic is that empowerment of communities to lead their own development
process under effective local government was to be achieved through (i) strengthening of
                                             14


district capacity to lead a process of planning and consultation with local communities, (ii)
development of capacity for decentralized project cycle management and financial
management, (iii) a matching grant system to finance sub-projects, and (iv) implementation
of a public awareness program. The “means” to achieve the project’s objective correspond to
the four specific objectives stated in the PAD. The PDO dimension that relates “to boost the
emergence of a dynamic local economy” is treated as an overarching objective and the
project’s contributions will be commented upon but not rated.

Outputs:
4.3     Strengthen district capacity to lead a process of planning and consultation with
local communities (Outputs refer to all 30 districts)

      10,771 local government staff were trained in the areas of financial management,
       leadership, planning, procurement, conflict management, M&E, etc.
      107, 386 CDC and other community members were trained in priority setting, project
       planning, financial management, M&E, participatory development planning
       processes.
      Among the presumed results of the training, all districts/CDCs formulated a
       development plan and budget by the second year of the project exceeding the target of
       75%. Achievement was delayed due to the rapid introduction of the territorial reforms
       that were not integrated in the original project design.
      The introduction of the governments performance based contracts (imihigo)
       coincided with the launching of District Development Plans which accelerated the
       implementation of plans and budget execution rates. In cases where project activities
       were included in the performance based contracts, the results were delivered faster
       than those were not included.
      The project provided technical assistance in the drafting of District Development
       Plans (Annual Plans and Five Year Plan), tailoring this technical support to focus on
       the selection of sector priorities and the preparation of development strategies that
       would form the basis for “district-to-sector” consultations, along with consultations
       with MINECOFIN. The project also provided technical assistance in developing
       “implementation and resource plans,” and in performing financial programming to
       project costs and financing requirements. By 2007, all districts participating in CDD
       initiatives (subprojects) were implementing annual action plans on time.

4.4  Support and Replicate Decentralized Project Cycle Management and Financial
Management

      All 17 districts implemented annual action plans on time (meeting the target); 15 of
       the 17 implemented annual actions according to their development plans (falling short
       of the target).
      All 17 districts submitted annual audit reports that were assessed as unqualified
       (meeting the target) by the Auditor General and 14 districts submitted those reports
       on time (below the target of 17).
                                                 15


         530 subprojects were completed and in use. The operation financed sub-projects, inter
          alia, in education, housing and health, including 378 capacity-building sessions. All
          infrastructure subprojects financed by the project are provided with a maintenance
          budget one year after completion.
         Capital was provided mainly for rotating livestock or similar activities (with the
          exception of micro-projects in Huye District in the Southern Province) in two
          windows: one for vulnerable groups and another for the less vulnerable. The Mid-
          Term Review observed that the DCDP did not have the comparative advantage in
          operating micro-finance activities, which appear to be consistent with the findings
          under the CRDP. According to the BA, most of the respondents reported improved
          living conditions (67%) manifested through improved nutrition and household
          consumption and access to farm inputs and increased farm outputs.
         According to the findings in the BA, projects reflected local priorities, with 85
          percent citing schools as being a top priority, about 75 percent cited the importance of
          “market projects, and over one third identifying health facilities as a priority. The
          market projects in the DCDP covered mainly the construction of market stalls for sale
          of agricultural produce. They did not include business and entrepreneurial skills
          training.
         The project’s subproject cycle procedures have been incorporated as the basic
          operating procedures in Rwanda’s overall decentralization and community
          development programs.

4.5       Develop a Matching Grants System

         DCDP provided districts with training needed to select priority sectors, agree on their
          own contribution, and request both district and DCDP grant contributions for
          financing. This approach was similar across districts and was developed with input
          from local government officials, specialists, and most critically through community
          participation.
         Matching grants were provided in the form of land or labor (in-kind by communities)
          for, e.g., the construction of schools and health centers as well as a 5 percent cash
          contributions toward total subproject costs. A MINALOC review of subprojects
          based on outputs, outcomes, and sustainability arrangements finds that 83 percent of
          subprojects were implemented in a satisfactory manner by early 2010 (compared to
          75 percent in 2006) but that this was below the end-project target of 90 percent).
         Information regarding the number of participants in community consultative meetings
          is not available systematically, and even if such evidence were available, it is not
          independently verifiable. Anecdotal evidence suggests significant variation in levels
          of participation in the planning process.
         Table B.3 lists DCDP allocations on a district per-capita basis and sub-project. The
          table also scales per-resident allocations by average household expenditures. The last
          column shows total DCDP allocations as a percentage of district budgetary
          expenditures. Although the bulk of DCDP resources in absolute terms were
          channeled to poorer provinces, there is considerable variation in the size of
          allocations relative to household wealth and district budgets (both of which
          themselves are closely correlated). This variation is expected because of the demand-
                                                 16


          driven nature of the allocations. In some cases, the provincial capitals—Gicumbi
          (which received over 58 percent of all DCDP funds allocated to the Northern
          Province) and Nyanza—received large amounts of project funds. In the East it is the
          district of Gatsibo that has received nearly half (46 percent) of provincial funds;
          Rubavu in the West, where the main border crossing with the DR Congo is located,
          has received about 30 percent of provincial funds.
         Figure B.2 examines relationships between per-resident DCDP disbursements and
          two measures of district need: average per-capita income, and poverty incidence.
          Both graphs show clustering among districts that received more DCDP funds and
          those that received less, but no clear relation to district need. For comparison, similar
          disbursements by the Rwanda Local Development Support Fund (RLDSF) for the
          budget year 2010 are also shown. The RLDSF was formed from the merger of the
          CDF and the VUP (only non-VUP fund allocations are show in the figures). From
          this limited district-level data, it is difficult to discern any clear pattern: project
          resources were not allocated based on need, nor on the basis of a budgetary envelope.
          Despite these uncertainties, the matching grants system did establish incentives for
          participatory allocation of resources to sub-projects.

4.6       Introduce and Promote Public Awareness Programs

         DCDP organized radio and television broadcasts on the decentralization effort to raise
          awareness. To promote learning by doing and knowledge sharing between
          subnational governments Imihigo Magazine was launched following the introduction
          of performance contracts to enhance district efficiency in fulfilling the objectives of
          the District Development Plans.
         A series of pamphlets on salient features of the reform (laws, revised policy elements,
          and information regarding central and local government relationships and co-
          responsibilities) were also distributed.
         At closing, 60% of community members, civil society organizations, non-
          governmental organizations and private sector actors were knowledgeable about each
          other’s roles and responsibilities regarding the decentralization process.
         In interviews, district-level officials also noted that the public awareness effort has
          opened space for district governments to deviate from national priorities, but that the
          performance contracting system is still managed through a strong top-down process,
          with central authorities responsible for sanctions and, in some cases, pushing for the
          firing of officials in district governments in under-performing districts. In addition,
          most of the promotional campaigns activities were managed, however, by central
          authorities—including media efforts and pamphlet distribution.

Outcomes
4.7     All 30 districts achieved at least 75% of budget execution by project closing,
exceeding the target of 17. All districts are current in updating their rolling development
plans through consultative processes, exceeding the target of 75%. The project’s capacity
building efforts catalyzed the participation of 375,000 villagers in 12,500 communities
during the life of the project.
                                              17


4.8    The project created community assets including 14 health centers, 420 classrooms, 5
bridges, 19 secteurs offices, 20 houses for vulnerable groups, 5 solar facilities and one
modern market. All of these assets reached 100% completion and are functional.

4.9    Project impacts were captured in the Beneficiary Assessment (BA) conducted in
2014. According to the 2010 BA, the construction of the classrooms responded directly to
community concerns which included: overcrowding in classrooms (42 percent), long
distances to schools (36 percent), and poor quality of education (14 percent). The number of
students per classroom decreased from 46 to 27 and by 2008, the number of teachers
increased by 72 percent. Completion rates increased from (pre-project) 43 to 71 percent.

4.10 The BA further indicates that investments in education led to positive outcomes:
improved quality of education in the targeted communities (61 percent); improved classroom
conditions (32 percent); reduced distance to get to school for both teachers and students (36
percent of respondents); a reduction in classroom crowding (42 percent), and increased
enrollment rates (70 percent). Similar to the outcomes in education, the uptake of new and
modern health care and hygiene practices directly benefited communities.

4.11 About 31 percent of the beneficiaries cited improved quality of services and facilities,
and 16 percent confirmed improved equipment quality and a reduced crowding leading to
more timely responses. While one quarter found being in walking distance of the health
centers a positive outcome (from 4 hours to 20 minutes in Nyamagabe District), 69 percent
believed health services had improved. 62 percent of beneficiaries benefited through access
to cheap organic (natural) manure collected from animal waste and increased farm output;
the remaining 38 percent reported an increase in farm output the assessment indicated that 90
percent of the respondents noted an increase in income from the sale of manioc. Without a
credible counterfactual, it is impossible to attribute these outcomes to the DCDP.

4.12 The BA, however, sampled respondents only in a subject of 6 districts (out of the 17)
in which DCDP projects were carried out. These 6 districts were chosen to represent both
richer and poorer districts, but ultimately these districts were also those with the largest
number of DCDP projects “to ensure that the sampled districts provided a single stop for an
exhaustive survey.” The beneficiary assessment, however, did not sample any respondents in
districts were there were no DCDP projects, nor in any locales in DCDP districts were no
projects were implemented. This lack of a defined “control” group raises doubts on a number
of subsequent beneficiary findings.

4.13 In summary, the project supported the technocratic structure of the central state and
its local structures and processes, reaching out where possible to encourage community
participation. Decentralization in Rwanda combines some devolution to local authorities
with a provincial layer fully controlled by the national government, and parallel branches at
each level run by the single, ruling party. The Government believes that this constrained
form of decentralization Rwanda has adopted is appropriate for the country context. The
technical/institutional structure is the foundation of an effective government and technical
reforms are a comparative advantage of the Bank, which must in any case work within the
boundaries of national government priorities.
                                              18


Efficiency
4.14 Several strands of theory on fiscal federalism and liberal democracy provide
normative arguments that local governments are the best form of organizing efficient
delivery of services. The theory of fiscal federalism states that welfare gains can be achieved
when distribution and stabilization functions are performed by central government while
allocative functions are assigned to local governments (Oates, 1972). Under the liberal
democracy theory which provides the basis for democratic decentralization, local
governments are assumed to be better able to respond to their constituencies because of their
intimate knowledge of their localities (Smith, 1985). However, the comparative advantage of
local governments have been questioned particularly on the assumption of allocative
efficiency. It is argued that in many developing countries, the issue is not matching supply
with demand, but in providing basic services which is already known; and jurisdictional
differences are not about preferences but on income (Smoke, 1989). It is argued that
decentralization could in fact lead to loss in productive efficiency due to incompetence of
local bureaucrats and higher overhead costs (Prud’homme, 1995).

4.15 Crook and Manor (1994) argued that decentralization is likely to involve higher
startup costs but shows enough promise on its own merits that justify continued central
government support. Empowering communities and local government can better provide
public goods than central authorities in some functional areas (Wescott, 2005; Myerson,
2006). IEG’s 2008 evaluation on decentralization noted that better results from Bank
operations are realized when there was greater clarity on the type of fiscal and administrative
decentralization pursue and support the client’s decentralization strategy. DCDP’s support to
Rwanda’s decentralization provides some evidence of quality and access to infrastructure
services and improved level of community participation. The overall picture emerging from
the decentralization process in Rwanda is mixed and suggests that there is improved upward
accountability, particularly through the “imihigo” process but there are still areas for
improvement in downward accountability and service delivery.

4.16 Conventional measures of economic efficiency such as net present value and internal
rate of return were not computed at appraisal due to the challenges associated with the
identification and valuation of project activities ex-ante for demand driven type of
operations. However, the PAD provided a detailed framework for assessing the cost-
effectiveness of sub-projects at completion. It envisaged to compare the project’s sub-
projects cost effectiveness against a selected number of comparator NGOs and other donor
assisted projects (PAD, page 49-50). It was also expected that cost effectiveness indicators
will be used for project monitoring including average cost per each type of sub-project and
impact and efficiency of indicators for each type of subproject by sector category.

4.17 At closing, the key measure of cost effectiveness is the cost per beneficiary or unit of
each subproject constructed, compared to similar government projects. On average, DCDP
subprojects appear to be cost effective, based on the information provided in the ICR and
confirmed with interviews of principals. For example:

      Community infrastructure subprojects for schools averaged US$138 in capital cost
       per beneficiary per year for DCDP versus over US$370 for the government;
                                              19


      For health centers, DCDP cost averaged US$12 per beneficiary compared to US$15
       for the government;
      Schools were set up and running in four months (one-half the time required by the
       government);
      Health centers were set up and running in eight months (one third the time required
       by the government;
      Supervision missions and the technical audits generally confirmed that high standards
       and sectoral norms were maintained in over 97 percent of DCDP subprojects.

4.18 Despite these savings, there was no comparison performed with respect to non-
governmental cost benchmarks or other similar donor assisted projects. The Bank team later
confirmed that this was not undertaken because there were few and fragmented donor and
NGO operations. Although there is evidence that the DCDP did economize on costs relative
to the public-sector standard in Rwanda, it is not clear whether community and GoR capital
costs, in these comparisons, funded comparable projects. Interviewees also noted that the
DCDP minimized the number of price revisions and related additional costs. However, there
were fiduciary weaknesses at the district level that sometimes led to abandonment of sub-
projects (see para 3.5)

4.19 The technical audit sampled 26 of the subprojects across the country and corroborated
cost efficient execution of subproject execution, as reflected in the 96 percent rating provided
in the study. DCDP appears to have functioned as a relatively cost-effective instrument
matching infrastructure needs in communities in a manner consistent with the country’s
overall development strategy. Additionally, interviews with MINALOC and district officials
did indicate that DCDP funds were disbursed effectively and in a timely manner from district
current accounts. However, there was some inefficiencies: the project took longer by a year
longer to implement from its original closing date and project management was higher
compared to appraisal cost. The latter was explained by the increased geographic coverage
in response to territorial reforms and the project’s extension by one year.

4.20 With respect to efficiency of the matching grants program, it is useful to explore
whether the DCDP component helped fulfill district demand that the CDF/RLDSF did not.
The two graphs in figure B.2 compare allocations of both programs (cumulative allocations
for the DCDP, allocations only in 2010 for the RLDSF) by district resident, and as a
percentage of district budgetary expenditures. The graphs show that DCDP allocations—as
seen above—are split between 12 districts receiving the largest portions of DCDP funding
(above 7.5% of district budgets, and more than RWF 1,750 per resident) and those receiving
smaller amounts (less than 4% of the budget and less than RWF 900 per resident). Under
these conditions, DCDP funds might have worked in a complementary manner to the RLDSF
if it had directed funds into districts that were not well funded by the RSDLF. However,
figure B.2 shows no such complementarity: all districts receive similar amounts of RLDSF
money, whether measured on a per-resident basis or as a fraction of district budgets.

4.21   On balance, efficiency is rated Modest.
                                              20


5. Ratings
Outcome
5.1     The project’s objective was highly relevant to the government’s policy on
decentralization in the context of Rwanda’s poverty reduction objectives under the PRSP
(2002-2005) and EDPRS (2006-2012) and its flagship Governance program. It is also highly
relevant to the Bank’s CAS at appraisal and closing. While the project’s design logic- the
link between project interventions and associated outputs and outcomes- is aligned with the
empowerment of local communities and effective local government dimension of the
objective, it has tenuous links to the overarching objective of “boosting the emergence of a
dynamic local economy”.

5.2     The project’s objective was substantially achieved in terms of empowering local
communities under an effective government. The project did have a positive impact on
improving quality and access to infrastructure services while supporting broader
decentralization, local capacity building, and participatory goals for local development. It is
less clear whether and to what extent the project contributed to any local “dynamism” beyond
information from a beneficiary assessment based on respondent’s recall that lacked credible
counterfactual information, or beyond the expectation that investment grants should improve
local economic conditions, particularly the micro-finance activities supported by the project
which was limited.

5.3     The sub-projects supported by the project is cost-effective to government projects.
However, there is no information whether the GoR capital costs funded comparable projects.
There was also no comparison with similar projects funded by non-governmental
organization and other donor funded operations. The Bank team clarified later that other
comparable operations from NGOs and other donors were few and fragmented. On balance,
efficiency of the project is Modest. Overall outcome rating is therefore Moderately
Satisfactory.

Risk to Development Outcome
5.4     Processes, procedures, and service delivery assessment tools supported by the project
(community development subproject preparation and implementation, M&E manuals) have
been adopted and mainstreamed in government. Sustainability of subprojects financed under
the project is supported by government action on staffing and provision of consumables. As
the project closed, districts provided evidence that their regular operational and maintenance
budgets will cover these assets to ensure their regular maintenance. Supplementary revenue
arrangements have also been put in place, including user fees set by community/parent
committees.

5.5     Interviews with MINALOC and district officials suggested, however, that these
revenue arrangements will be inadequate to meet the needs of operations and maintenance
for the infrastructure put in place by the DCDP. Field visits to two sub-projects (Mimuri
Health Center and Tagagwe Secondary School) in Nyagatare District confirmed that
operations and maintenance costs present an issue for a smooth functioning of the facilities.
                                             21


5.6     The decentralization reform is being deepened under the third phase whose
implementation started in 2011, with increasing responsibility on decentralized services
assigned to districts and sectors. However, there remains some risks to sustainability. First,
fiscal arrangements for ensuring greater autonomy of district governments have been put in
place since 2006 under the Fiscal and Financial Decentralization Policy; but more needs to be
done to ensure greater autonomy of districts to mobilize own resource revenues. Second,
although the various institutions that promote active engagement at the local government
level, such as the National Decentralization Implementation Secretariat (NDIS) and
Community Development Committees (CDCs) are now playing a greater role in local
government development, many of these remain weak.

5.7     At the local level, the Joint Action Development Forum (JADF) acts as a mechanism
designed to achieve improved service delivery and economic development at the local level
by improving accountability and coordination of relations between the demand side
(consumers, citizens, farmers) and the supply side (local governments and service providers).
To date, civil society organizations and private-sector participants have minimal involvement
in the JADF, with extremely limited input into District Development Plans.

5.8    For these reasons, the overall risk to development outcomes is rated as moderate.

Bank Performance
QUALITY AT ENTRY

5.9     The project builds on the Community Reintegration and Development Project
(CRDP) which was the Bank’s first operation in support of the government’s decentralization
policy. Lessons learned from CRDP’s implementation and from other operations in the
country and elsewhere on decentralization and community driven development were taken
into account in the design of the operation. The Project Preparation Fund (PPF) and Policy
and Human Resources Development Fund (PHRD) supported the project preparation to
ensure the project’s readiness for implementation. The project’s focus on institutional and
capacity building was responsive to the government’s request and was appropriate in the
context of enormous capacity gaps in the country that was in the process of rebuilding and
transitioning from post- conflict.

5.10 The Bank identified key risks associated with institutional and capacity gaps, political
security and fiduciary issues and provided appropriate mitigating measures. The economic
effective analysis provided in the PAD (Annex 4) was quite extensive and the M&E
framework was comprehensive given the post-conflict context of the operation. The decision
to work directly with local governments with decentralized project coordination units was a
risk given enormous institutional and capacity weaknesses, but well considered and informed
by the experience of CRDP and consistent with the government’s preference with risk
mitigation measures built into the design of the project.

5.11 However, the Bank did not seem to have anticipated the major territorial reforms
launched in 2005-2006 which contributed to delays in project effectiveness and
implementation. While advance preparatory work was undertaken prior to the Board, the
                                              22


project’s staff was not in place and the FM system was not established at the time of Board
approval. Despite lessons from CRDP, the pilot micro finance activities supported here did
not provide for a mechanism to monitor and report on the performance and lessons learned.

5.12 In considering project-design alternatives, the Bank initially chose not to fund DCDP
activities through the Commune Development Fund (later the RLDSF), opting to observe
how effective the CDF was before contributing funds directly. However, at mid-term, the
Borrower noted that the CDF was working well albeit with some shortcomings and that most
other donors supporting decentralization had begun operating through the more harmonized
system allowed by the CDF, in accordance with the Paris Declaration principles. MINALOC
at the time indicated a preference towards channeling project funding through the CDF.
However, while the project was restructured in 2009, the Bank chose not to include as part of
the restructuring provisions to permit this more harmonized system. Interviews with
MINALOC and Bank principals indicate that there was a mutual reluctance to return to the
Board of Executive Directors for the higher level restructuring that would have been
necessary.

5.15 An alternative explanation provided by the task team suggests that “the CDF
absorption levels were not impressive at the time of the Mid-Term Review, completion levels
for the CDF supported sub projects were also low and the agency was generally struggling
with regard to implementation capacity. While this did not imply that CDF was not doing
well, it meant that relative to a Bank funded project with a specific timeline to implement,
joining the CDF was not considered feasible not desirable at that stage.”

5.13   On balance, the Bank’s performance at entry is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

QUALITY OF SUPERVISION

5.14 The Bank fielded 11 supervision missions during the life of the project. The
supervision team was stable: the same TL was involved from preparation until 2008 when the
project team leadership changed over to the TL based in the field who was also part of the
team during preparation. The team’s presence in the field enabled regular interaction with
government counterparts and allowed the Bank to respond quickly to a fast changing and
evolving decentralization landscape.

5.15 The rapid territorial reform under the second phase of decentralization in 2005-2006,
delayed the project’s effectiveness and implementation start. The Bank managed to adapt
quickly to the changing environment by adjusting the scope of the project from 39 of the
original 106 districts to 17 of the 30 newly reconstituted districts. It also adjusted the scope
and coverage of the project’s institutional capacity building to take into account the expanded
roles assigned to districts and sectors on service delivery. Shortcomings—including weak
technical and managerial skills from contractors, and limited supervision by district staff—
were addressed in consultation with community leaders and local governments with the result
being that changes were introduced into training programs and contracts re-launched.

5.16 Despite changes in scope and coverage, only one restructuring of record was
approved in June 2009 to reallocate funds and refine the project’s results framework. The
                                              23


refinements in the results framework took place a year prior to project closing. However, the
indicators were more process oriented versus outcome oriented. The project’s outcome and
impact was provided in the Beneficiary Assessment but the methodology is flawed while the
planned impact evaluation did not materialize.

5.17   On balance, Bank performance at supervision is rated Moderately Satisfactory.

Borrower Performance
GOVERNMENT PERFORMANCE

5.18 The Government of Rwanda demonstrated strong commitment to the project by
providing counterpart financing on time and requisite staffing needed for proper functioning
of the project. Recurrent costs for DCDP-supported operations were provided through block
grants by central authorities to district governments. The government also ensured adequate
equipment and staff for sub-projects financed under the project by providing equipment for
health facilities and ensuring that teachers are assigned to schools. However, during
implementation, there were some government policies that affected project implementation
(transport and freeze in salaries and staff turn-over).

IMPLEMENTING AGENCY

5.19 The project implementation unit within MINALOC performed well while managing
project activities and in addressing bottlenecks. MINALOC trained local government staff
and communities in project processes, led dissemination efforts, and implemented the M&E
system. Finally, an extensive outreach program using print and electronic media was
employed to send messages to leaders and the local population about DCDP opportunities for
stakeholder participation. However, there were implementation delays and challenges.
There was staff turnover, including the Project Coordinator’s position which was vacant for
14 months. On balance, the implementing agency performance is rated Satisfactory.

Monitoring and Evaluation
5.20 The quality of M&E is rated as modest. Project performance data were to be tracked
using a comprehensive M&E system that would capture project and subproject operations;
project finance, procurement, and cost accounting; the consultation and communication
strategy; the identification and mitigation of social and environmental impacts; and the
impact of the project on poverty reduction and community development. Indicator selection,
and training and capacity building activities, were designed to ensure that the project would
complement and reinforce broader institutional strengthening activities at the provincial,
district, and sub-district levels.

5.21 Based on lessons derived from project M&E data, the community-driven
development approach has been adopted nationwide, recommendations from an M&E
assessment for districts have been mainstreamed into district M&E, and the project’s district
development plan model has been adopted in all districts (in addition to those supported by
the project).
                                                 24


5.22 However, a weakness in the M&E framework was the lack of any effective design for
credible impact assessment or for attributing intended outcomes to project objective. . All
M&E reporting only offers before-after comparisons in DCDP-communities without
reference to credible counterfactual cases. As such, the M&E framework examines DCDP
outputs but cannot assess impact. A Beneficiary Assessment, e.g., illustrates the limitations
of the M&E framework. A Beneficiary Assessment was conducted in November 2010,
which examined a sample of subprojects implemented in 17 districts across the country.
Both direct beneficiaries as well as stakeholders participating in project implementation were
interviewed on an individual basis and through focus groups. This assessment relied on
respondents' recollection of conditions prior to the project, and it did not establish any
effective control group. Moreover, the beneficiary assessment instrument relied heavily on
subjective, perception-based questions to gauge service quality. On the other hand, the
project lacked an effective district benchmarking system, either for service delivery or for
governmental performance—through an expert assessment of PFM, of human resources
issues, or of other capacities. The absence of this type of baseline measurement can be
considered a flaw in the M&E framework. Finally, PDO indicator 1: Districts with at least
75% budget execution rate, has a baseline of “0” which is clearly incorrect; thus while the
target was achieved, it is not possible to tell how much improvement took place.

6. Lessons
6.1       There are three lessons from this operation:

         First, in a post-conflict environment with a history of highly centralized structures
          and dominant central government, decentralization can be fostered by well-designed
          participatory processes to promote demand-side governance and empower
          communities, along with intensive institutional and capacity building at central and
          local levels. In the case of Rwanda, the project provided the building blocks for
          fostering community participation and local accountability and enhanced social
          cohesion through financing of sub-projects identified by communities through a
          participatory planning process that feed into the Annual Action Plans for the districts.
         Second, decentralization and capacity building is a long term process and needs
          sustained government and Bank engagement. Sustained government commitment to
          build local capacity and institutions for planning, financing and revenue generation to
          improve local service delivery is fundamental to advancing decentralization. The
          project facilitated institutional capacity building for central and local government
          structures including providing training and technical assistance for priority setting,
          project planning, financial management, M&E and local development planning and
          budgeting. The Bank continued its support to the government’s priority areas in
          decentralization through a Development Policy Operation on Quality of
          Decentralized Delivery Support, followed by a Public Sector Governance Program
          for Results Operation.
         Third, in a rapidly evolving environment, flexibility to adapt to changing
          circumstances is critical to the continued relevance and success of the operation. This
          project’s ability to respond quickly after a major territorial reform and rapidly
          evolving decentralization priorities was central to its success in achieving
                                      25


development objectives. The project adjusted its scope and coverage to align with the
new territorial configuration, aligned its project cycle with the Performance
Management Contracts (“imihigo”) and provided technical assistance to help kick-
start its implementation in the district.
                                                    26


References
African Development Bank. 2010. Domestic Resource Mobilization for Poverty Reduction in East Africa:
        Rwanda Case Study.
Chemouni, Benjamin. 2014. “Explaining the Design of the Rwandan decentralization: elite vulnerability
      and the territorial repartition of power”. Journal of Eastern African Studies, 8:2, 246-262. DOI:
      1080/17531055.2014.891800.
Kauzya, J. M. 2003. Local Governance Capacity-Building for Full-Range Participation: Concepts,
        Frameworks and Experiences in African Countries. United Nations.
Ministry for Local Government (MINALOC) of Rwanda. 2006. Fiscal and Financial Decentralization
         Policy.
_____. 2007. Rwanda Decentralization Strategic Framework. Kigali, Ministry of Local Government,
        Republic of Rwanda.
_____. 2008. Rwanda Decentralization Implementation Program.
_____. 2011. Decentralization and Implementation Plan (DIP) 2011-2015.
_____. 2012. DCDP Beneficiaries Assessment Final Report, submitted by Worldwide Professionals Ltd.
Independent Evaluation Group (IEG). 2008. Decentralization in Client Countries. An Evaluation of World
        Bank Support, 1990–2007. Washington, DC: World Bank.
_____. 2012. Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review. Decentralization and Community
        Development. Washington DC: World Bank.
Purdeková, Andrea. 2011. “Even if I am not here, there are so many eyes: surveillance and state reach in
        Rwanda,” Journal of Modern African Studies 49 (3): 475-497.
Tumukunde, H., Kiessel, J., Khawar, A. 2008. Promoting Citizens Engagement in Public Revenue
      Generation: Rwanda. United Nations Department of Social and Economic Affairs (UNDESA).
World Bank. 2002. Republic of Rwanda Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper and Joint IDA-IMF Staff
       Assessment. Washington, DC: World Bank.
_____. 2003. Decentralization and Community Development Project. Project Appraisal Document .
        Washington, DC: World Bank
_____. 2004. Development Grant Agreement. Decentralization and Community Development Project.
        Washington DC: World Bank.
_____. 2008. Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Rwanda for the Period FY09-FY12.
        Washington, DC: World Bank.
_____.2009. Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement. Decentralization and Community
        Development Project. Washington DC: World Bank.
_____ 2010. Decentralization and Community Development Project. Implementation Completion and
        Results Report. Washington, DC: World Bank.
                                            27                                          ANNEX A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
DECENTRALIZATION AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT (GRANT H094-RW)
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                          Appraisal        Actual or          Actual as % of
                                          estimate      current estimate     appraisal estimate
Total project costs                         20.7              21.0                 101.0
Loan amount                                 20.0             21.0                  105.0
Cancellation                                 0.0              0.6                   0.0


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                                   FY05    FY06       FY07   FY08     FY09      FY10       FY11
Appraisal estimate (US$M)           3.4     7.2       11.2   15.0     18.7       20.0      20.0
Actual (US$M)                       1.6     2.6       9.5    14.7     16.8       20.1      21.0
Actual as % of appraisal           47.0     36.1      84.8   98.0     89.8      105.0      105.0
Date of final disbursement: 08/03/2010


Project Dates
                                               Original                        Actual
Initiating memorandum                         01/23/2003                     01/23/2003
Negotiations                                  03/03/2004                     05/05/2004
Board approval                                06/15/2004                     06/15/2004
Signing                                       06/30/2004                     06/30/2004
Effectiveness                                 12/23/2004                     12/23/2004
Closing date                                  09/30/2009                     12/31/2010
ANNEX A                               28


Staff Inputs (staff weeks)

    Stage of Project Cycle         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

                                No. of staff weeks        US$ thousands (including
                                                         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
            FY03                       21                          114.80
            FY04                       50                          170.32
            FY05                                                    0.00
            FY06                                                    0.00
            FY07                                                    0.00
            FY08                                                    0.00
                        Total          71                          285.12
Supervision/ICR
            FY03                                                    0.00
            FY04                                                    0.00
            FY05                        8                           48.00
            FY06                       18                           48.36
            FY07                       16                           33.54
            FY08                       21                           75.19
            FY09                       20                           0.00
                       Total:          83                          205.09
                                                                         29                                                 ANNEX B



Annex B. Additional Tables
Table B.1. Decentralization Timeline and Evolution of Bank Portfolio
 Year   Major events                             Institutional reforms                           Evolution of the Bank’s portfolio for
                                                                                                 decentralization
 1998   Post-genocide government of              National Program for “strengthening good        April 1998: First post-genocide Country
 –      national unity under President Pasteur   governance for poverty reduction” launched      Assistance Strategy discussed by the Executive
 1999   Bizimungu and Vice President Paul                                                        Directors
        Kagame                                   Ministry of Local Government created
                                                                                                 March 1999: Community Reintegration and
                                                                                                 Development Project (CRDP) becomes
                                                                                                 effective

 2000   March – April 2000: Bizimungu            First phase of Decentralization Strategic       March 2001: Mid-term review of CRDP
 –      resigns amid constitutional crisis,      Framework
 2001   replaced by Kagame
                                                 Community Development Policy
        October 2001: traditional gacaca         incorporates legal framework for
        courts begin to adjudicate genocide      decentralization
        cases
                                                 National Decentralization Policy devolves
                                                 some authority to levy taxes to local level
                                                 and re-directs revenues from central to local
                                                 governments

 2002   October 2002: Rwandan troops             Common Development Fund established as          June 2003: CRDP closed
 –      withdrawn from DRC                       mechanism through which all donors are
 2003                                            encouraged to administer funding for
        May 2003: new constitution adopted       community based development

        August 2003: Kagame wins the first       Initial efforts at administrative
        post-genocide presidential elections     consolidation of sub-national governments
ANNEX B                                                              30



       October 2003: Rwandan Patriotic
       Front wins absolute majority in
       parliamentary elections

2004   2004: 10th anniversary of the        Ministry of Local Government restructured      February - June 2004: Decentralization and
–      Rwandan genocide                                                                    Community Development Project (DCDP)
2005                                                                                       appraised and approved by Board
       March 2005: Main Hutu rebel group,
       FDLR, ends armed struggle                                                           December 2004: DCDP becomes effective

                                                                                           May 2005: Public Sector Capacity Building
                                                                                           Project becomes effective

                                                                                           December 2005: Second Poverty Reduction
                                                                                           Support Grant (PRSG), which includes support
                                                                                           for empowering local communities, becomes
                                                                                           effective

2006                                        Second phase of Decentralization Strategic     December: 2nd PRSG closed
                                            Framework begins

                                            Fiscal and Financial Decentralization Policy
                                            revised

                                            Law on the Organization and Functioning
                                            of the District adopted

                                            Territorial reform consolidates various
                                            subnational divisions, replaced by smaller
                                            numbers of ethnically-diverse
                                            administrative areas

                                            Performance-based (imihigo) contracting
                                            system introduced
                                                                    31                                                        ANNEX B



 2007    November: peace agreement signed         Vision 2020 Umurenge Program (VUP)           November: Mid-term review of DCDP
         with DRC to hand over genocide           adopted encompassing several “pillars” for
         suspects to International Criminal       development, including “good governance
         Tribunal for Rwanda                      and a capable state”

 2008    September: Rwanda Patriotic Front        VUP implementation begins in pilot sectors
         (RPF) wins large majority in
         parliamentary elections                  Community Development Policy revised

         October: Rwanda joins East African       Rwanda Public Procurement Authority
         Community; decides all education         established
         will be in English instead of French

 2009    November: Rwanda admitted to the                                                      March: 5th Poverty Reduction Support Grant
         Commonwealth                                                                          (PRSG), which is intended “to foster broad
                                                                                               based growth in the context of enhanced
                                                                                               decentralization reforms” becomes effective

 2010    August: Kagame wins new term in          Third phase of the Decentralization          December: DCDP closed
         presidential elections                   Strategic Framework begins


Table B.2. Territorial Reform
 Administrative Level       Pre-2006                          Post-2006

 National Government
 A                          Prefecture (12)                   Province (5)
 B                          Sub-prefecture (22)
 C                          Commune (154)                     District (30)
 D                          Sector (1,544)                    Sector (416)
 E                          Cell (9,104)                      Cell (2,146)
 Village
ANNEX B                              32


Figure B.1. DCDP Disbursements by Province
                                                         33                                               ANNEX B


Table B.3. DCDP Disbursements by District and Category

                                                                                             Total DCDP           Total
                                          DCDP spending per district resident                spending per        DCDP
                                                by sub-component                             person (% of       spending
                                                                                               average            (% of
                                                     Revenue       Capacity                   household          budget)
 Province     District           Infrastructure     generation     building       Total      expenditures)
              Bugesera                                               463          463            1.02             1.80
              Gatsibo                 1,825             272           334         2,431           5.92            9.82
              Kayonza                                                 186          186            0.43            0.70
 East         Kirehe                                                  93            93            0.25            0.43
              Ngoma                                                   146          146            0.32            0.58
              Nyagatare               1,610             248           287         2,145           2.73            7.66
              Rwamagana                233                            264          497            0.82            2.06
              *
              Burera                   246                            315          561            2.17            2.98
              Gakenke                                                 92            92            0.22            0.46
 North        Gicumbi*                1,386             183           370         1,938           5.27            10.06
              Musanze                                                 330          330            0.70            1.55
              Rulindo                  467                            298          766            2.04            3.25
              Gisagara                1,319             189           493         2,001           5.84            9.27
              Huye                    1,883             209           425         2,517           5.17            10.34
              Kamonyi                                                 111          111            0.33            0.49
 South        Muhanga                                                 137          137            0.29            0.61
              Nyamagabe               1,460             207           362         2,029           6.17            8.60
              Nyanza*                 2,341             263           341         2,945           6.14            10.87
              Nyaruguru               1,803             240           335         2,378           8.40            7.44
              Ruhango                                                 192          192            0.53            0.73
              Karongi*                                                112          112            0.19            0.41
              Ngororero               1,616             204           456         2,276           5.39            8.76
              Nyabihu                 1,183             221           427         1,831           4.89            8.50
 West         Nyamasheke                                              165          165            0.44            0.72
              Rubavu                  1,715             229           400         2,343           5.02            10.01
              Rusizi                                                  225          225            0.44            1.00
              Rutsiro                 1,350             207           206         1,764           4.75            8.41
Source: MINALOC (2012), Réalisations du DCDP dans les Districts et Provinces du Rwanda.
Notes: Author’s calculations. Population figures for districts are from the 2002 census. Average household expenditures are
deflated by regional price deflators, based on the 2005 Household Living Conditions Survey. District budgets are for the
2011 budget. Provincial capitals are marked with a *, the 17 pilot districts are in bold.
ANNEX B                               34


Figure B.2. District-level per-capita Disbursement’s, DCDP and RLDSF
                                      35                              ANNEX B


Figure B.3. Comparison of DCDP and RLDSF Allocations by district Population and
Budget
ANNEX B                                               36


Figure B.4. Changes in District Tax Revenue by DCDP Participation




Source: MINALOC 2012.
Note: Graphs show plus and minus one standard deviation, along with minima and maxima of changes in tax revenues
generated by districts. 2014 budgets are projected.
                                                           37                                                ANNEX B


Table B.4 Changes in Tax Revenues by District Type

 Budget Year                                                  DCDP districts                     Non-DCDP districs
 2012 to 2013                                                    0.080                                0.062
                                                                   (0.047)                               (0.193)
 2013 to 2014                                                       0.063                                 0.076
                                                                   (0.050)                               (0.089)
 Average                                                            0.071                                 0.069
                                                                   (0.046)                               (0.116)
Source: MINECOFIN, 2014.
Notes: Figures are changes in district-generated tax revenue as a fraction of total district budget since 2012 budget year.
DCDP districts are those districts receiving DCDP revenue-generating grants only.
ANNEX C                                    38


Annex C. List of Persons Met
Mr. James Musoni, Minister, MINALOC

Mr. Cyrille Turatsinze, Permanent Secretary, MINALOC

Mr. Logan Ndahiro, National Coordinator DCDP, MINALOC

Mr. Sylvere Bisamanza, DCDP Single Agency Coordination Unit, MINALOC

Ms. Pitchette Kampeta, Permanent Secretary, MINECOFIN

Mr. Christophe Nzegiyaremye, Fiscal Decentralization Coordinator, MINECOFIN

Mr. Patrick Marara, Accountant General, MINECOFIN

Mr. Pierre Habiyaremye, Budget Administration, MINECOFIN

Mr. Bright Ntare, Coordinator for External Affairs, MINECOFIN

Ms. Alice Mutoro, Institute for Policy Analysis of Rwanda

Ms. Pamela Abbot, Institute for Policy Analysis of Rwanda

Mr. Adolphe Bazatoha, Member of Parliament (former DCDP Coordinator)

Mr. Jean Sayinzoga, Chairman, Rwanda Decentralization and Demobilization Commission,
and Council Member, Rutsiro District

Ms. Laetitia Nkunda, Director, Rwanda Local Development Support Fund

Ms. Console Murekatete, Rwanda Local Development Support Fund

Mr. Raphael Rurangwa, Director for Planning, Ministry for Agriculture

Mr. Ezra Mutwara, Director of Finance and Administration, Fund for Genocide Survivors

Mr. Dominic Habimana, Director for Statistical Methods, National Institute for Statistics

Mr. Richard Dada, Deputy Commissioner, Rwanda Revenue Authority

Mr. Charles Munyaneza, Chairman, National Electoral Commission

Mr. Protais Musoni, Minister for Cabinet Affairs, former Minister, MINALOC

Mr. Anastase Shyaka, Director, Rwanda Governance Board

Ms. Domitilla Mukantaganzwa, former Executive Commissioner, Gacaca Courts System
                                            39                            ANNEX C


Jonathan Nzayikorera, Director of Fiscal Decentralization

John Bideri, Executive Director, Rwanda Rural Rehabilitation Initiative

Donors

Mr. John Rurangwa, USAID

Ms. Leah Kaplan, USAID

Ms. Michele Virgin, USAID

Ms. Samantha Yates, Social Development Advisor, DFID

Ms. Doreen Muzirankoni, Governance Advisor, DFID

Mr. David Lahl, GIZ

Ms. Marion Fischer, GIZ

Mr. Wenceslas Niyibizi, GIZ

Laurent Messiaen, GIZ

Isabelle Wittoek, Head of Cooperation, Belgium

Bank Staff

Omowunmi Ladipo

Susan Opper

Alex Kamurase

Brigit Hansl

Paul Welton

Yoichiro Ishihara
