RESTRICTED
FILE     COPY                       Report No. P-795
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF CHILE
FOR THE
SECOND HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT
April 9, 1970



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECO1MENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO TIE REPUBLIC OF CHILE
FOR A SECOND HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTIOI PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $10.8 million to the
Republic of Chile, to assist in the financing of a Second Highway Con-
struction Project.
PART I. - HISTORICAL
2.        The proposed loan will be the fifth operation by the Bank and
IDA in the highway sector in Chile and the second for highway construction.
The first two were made simultaneously by the Bank and IDA in 1961; they
were a $6 million loan (287-CH) for road maintenance and a $19 million IDA
credit (4-CH) for highway construction and improvement. In 1968 the Bank
extended a further loan (558-CH) of $11.6 million to finance a four-year
highway maintenance program. In addition to the aforementioned loans and
credit, a technical assistance grant of $210,000 was made in 1966 to pro-
vide consulting services for highway planning and feasibility studies,
which served as a basis for the proposed loan.
3.        The first two highway projects financed by the Bank group in
1961 ran into some difficulties largely because of inadequate detailed
engineering, and inadequate organization and management of the Highway
Department (Vialidad). Since then, however, with the continuing assist-
ance of the Bank, Vialidad's operations have improved and this organization
is now capable of taking on more highway construction.
4.        Feasibility studies on the roads included in the proposed loan
were financed under the technical assistance grant of 1966. The final
studies and detailed engineering for the proposed project were carried
out by Xavier Dorsch, a German engineering consulting firm engaged in
1969 by Vialidad and financed under Loan 558-CH. The project was apprais-
ed by a Bank mission in August 1969 and loan negotiations took place
in Washington from lMarch 17 to 23, 1970. The Chilean Government was
represented by Mr. Luis Erazo, Director of Vialidad, Mr. Roberto Alvarez,
an engineer from Vialidad, and Mr. Luis Velasco, (Director, New York
Office) of the Corporaci6n de Fomento de la Producci6n.



- 2 -
5.        The following is a summary of Bank loans and IDA credit to Chile as
of March 31, 1970:
Loan or
Credit                                              Amount (US$ million)
Number Year      Borrower              Purpose     Bank   IDA Undisbursed
Loans and Credit fully disbursed 119.1   19.0
366-CH 1963   CORFO         Livestock              19.0            2.6
367-CH 1963   OORF0         Meat and Milk Plants    3.7            o.5
479-CH  1966  ENDESA/CDRFO  Power                  60.0           41.5
558-CH  1968  Chile         Highway Maintenance    11.6           10.6
Total (less can-
cellations) 213.4
of which has been
repaid to Bank     60.2
Total now
outstanding   153.2
Amount Sold      7.2
of which has
been repaid  5.8    1.4
Total now held by
Bank and IDA      151.8  19.0
Total undisbursed   _g.2      -     55.2
Two Education loans were approved by the Executive Directors on March 19, 1970
but have not yet been signed.
a. Second Vocational Trainiing Project - $1.5 million.
b.  Third Education Project            - $7.0 million.
6.        Disbursements on the whole are now proceeding on schedule.  However,
difficulties were encountered in the execution of the loans made to ODRFO
in 1963 for livestock development (Loan 366-CH) and for the construction of
meat and milk plants in Southern Chile (Loan 367-CH). Initially, dis-
bursement of the livestock loan fell behind schedule because of organization
bottlenecks, lack of proper credit policies and disbursement procedures.
In 1966, after a reappraisal, a Project Director was appointed, credit
operations were improved by the greater use of technical personnel in the
preparation of individual farm development plans, the disbursement procedure
was changed and a livestock fund created for making loans to farmers. With
the implementation of these measures the disbursement rate improved and a



supervision mission which inspected the project in December 1969 found it
to be progressing. The problems encountered in the implementation of the
meat and milk plants project, which led to cancellation of $1.3 million
of the original amount in 1967, have also been overcome. Construction
has now been substantially completed and the undisbursed balance reflects
the fact that final payment for equipment is not to be made under existing
contracts until the suppliers have placed it in fully satisfactory operation.
A supervision mission inspected the ENDESA Power Project (479-CH) in
December 1969 and found the major civil works and the placement of orders
to be on schedule, as projected at the time the loan was made. Disburse-
ments are expected to increase substantially after 1971 when civil works
are completed and the generators and other equipment are installed. As
regards the 1968 Highway Maintenance Loan (558-CH), there was delay in
bidding for the equipment and in reaching agreement subsequently on some
of the awards. While purchases totalling nearly $7 million have now been
approved and orders placed, the project is about one year behind schedule.
7.        IFC has made nine investments in five enterprises in Chile
totalling $21.2 million.
PART II. - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROJECT
8.        Borrower:                 The Republic of Chile.
Amount:                   In various currencies equivalent to
$10.8 million.
Purpose:                  To assist in financing a project for
the construction and improvement of
several sections of the Borrower's
national highway system, together
with consulting services for super-
vision of construction and for
studies of future highway projects.
Amortization:             In 25 years, including a 4-year period
of grace, through semi-annual
installments beginning October 1, 1974
and ending October 1, 1995.
Interest:                 7% per annum.
Commitment Charge:        3/4 of 1% per annum.



- 4 -
PART III. - THE PRDJECT
9.        A detailed description of the project is given in the attached
Appraisal Report entitled "Appraisal of a Second Highway Construction Pro-
ject in Chile" (PTR-38a).
10.       A comprehensive road and rail system spans some 1,600 miles from
Chilets border with Peru in the north to Puerto Montt at the southern end
of the central valley.  The northern portion is mostly desert with copper
mines and scattered patches of irrigated agriculture. Economic activity
and population are concentrated in central and central-southern Chile.
Because of the large distances involved and the lack of sufficient over-
all economic activity, a part of the transportation system operates on
low traffic density. Even in moving freight between Santiago and the
major ports of San Antonio and Valparaiso, which serve the capital, and
between Santiago and the important industrial area of Concepcion, the
railroads do not perform their proper role. In the last two decades rail-
ways and shipping have failed to provide prompt and efficient service
with the result that carriage of even many heavy bulk commodities has been
increasingly diverted to the highway system. The consequent increase in
heavy truck traffic on the roads in central Chile has meant rising costs
of road maintenance.
11.       The urgent need for better transport coordination and investment
planning has been recognized by the Government which, in December 1967,
centralized responsibility for all forms of transport in a separate M4inistry
of Public Works and Transport (1MDPT) with a Transport Planning Division.
Under Loan 558-CH the Bank has provided funds for the employment of experts
who will help the Ministry to strengthen the national machinery for plaLnning
transport investments and lay the basis for a Transport Development Program.
SOFRERAIL, a firm of French consultants, has during the last two years
carried out a series of studies on ways to improve the efficiency of the
Chilean State Railways (CSR). The Bank has acted as the executing agency
for this UNDP financed technical assistance which has already significantly
improved some aspects of railroad operations such as tariff policy, pro-
curement procedures and track maintenance.
12.       Prior to negotiation of the proposed highway loan, the Bank sought
and obtained assurances from the Government that it intended to carry out
a time-phased program of action to improve the operations of the State
Railways. The program calls for (i) a series of organization and opera-
tional improvements recommended by the consultants; (ii) a study of 23
low traffic lines and the closure or discontinuation of service according
to the conclusions in each case; (iii) a manpower plan with the aim of
reducing redundant staff; (iv) a more flexible and cost-based tariff
policy, and an increase in 1970 of passenger fares by 3.8 percent and
freight rates by 3.5 percent in real terms; and (v) the postponement of
further investment in locomotives and rolling stock until the completion
of a revised five-year railways investment program which will give first



priority to track rehabilitation and modernization of workshops by mid-
1970. The railroads aim to cover their working costs no later than in
1975 and achieve full financial viability within the three years there-
after. Action along these lines should lead, inter alia, to more effective
coordination in the transport sector.
13.       The proposed project consists of the construction of 165.5 km of
the following four national highways (including a 13.2 km long section of
(a) which is already under construction and is being financed entirely by
the Government):
(a) Padre Hurtado - Puangue (about 58.5 km);
(b) San Antonio-Algarrobo (about 25.5 km);
(c) Punchuncavi - La Laguna (about 14.5 km);
(d) Loncomilla - Constituci6n (about 67 km);
and includes construction-supervision for these roads and pre-investment
studies for about 500 km for a future highway construction program. Out
of the four roads proposed in this project, three are located in the
densely populated central zone between Santiago and the coast. The fourth
road, connecting Loncomilla with the port of Constitucion further south,
will serve a new cellulose plant, under construction near Constituci6n and
may facilitate the closure of a branch railway line which is likely to
prove uneconomic. On the basis of estimated savings in vehicle operating
costs, the rate of return on the project roads over a 20 year economic
life will vary from a minimum of 14 to a maximum of 27 percent.
14.       The project will be carried out by Vialidad, the Highway
Department of the Idiinistry of Public Works and Transport, and construction
will be supervised by consultants acceptable to Chile and the Bank.
During negotiations the procedure for identifying roads to be included
in the pre-investment studies for future highway construction were
agreed upon.
15.       The total estimated cost of the project is $23.8 million (in-
cluding contingencies), of which 88.3 percent will be for construction
and 11.7 percent for consulting services. The cost estimates have been
prepared on the basis of detailed engineering by Vialidad and its con-
sultants, Dorsch. The proposed $10.8 million loan will cover 45 percent
of the total cost of the project and will finance the estimated foreign
exchange component. The construction contracts will be let on the basis
of unit prices, after international competitive bidding in accordance
with the Bank's normal procedures. Special budgetary procedures have
been agreed upon so as to avoid delays in providing the local funds
required for the project, which have been a problem in earlier road
loans.



PART IV. - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
16.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Chile and the
Bank, the report of the Conmittee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the draft Resolution
approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
17.       The draft Loan Agreement contains provisions generally used
in highway projects.
PART V. - THE ECONOMY
18.       An Economic Memorandum based on the preliminary findings of the
recent economic mission to Chile was distributed to the Executive Directors
on March 2, 1970 with my Report on the "Second Vocational Training Project".
The mission's full report is in preparation.
PART VI. - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMNT
19.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII. - RECOMMqENDATION
20.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
lWashington, D.C.
April 9, 1970



