Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22224-RO
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED ADAPTABLE PROGRAM LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$40 MILLION
TO
ROMANIA
FOR A
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE
US$100 MILLION RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
February 22, 2002
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
South Central Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CU1RRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 1/18/2002)
Currency Unit = Leu
1 Leu = US$0.0000311
US$1 = 32,200 Lei
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL      Adaptable Program Loan                 MDP         Ministry of Development and Prognosis
ASAL     Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan    M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
BOM       Build, Operate and Manage             MOF         Ministry of Finance
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy            MPOW        Ministry of Public Works
CBO      Community Based Organizations          MPA         Ministry of Public Administration
CDD      Community Driven Development           MPF         Ministry of Public Finance
CFAA      Country Financial Accountability      MPWTH       Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Housing
Assessment                             MWEP       Ministry of Waters and Environment Protection
CIAC     Commune Investment Advisory            NAR         National Administration of Roads
Committee                              NARD       National Agency for Regional Development
CIDA     Canadian Aid                           NCB         National Competitive Bidding
COA       Court of Accounts                     NRDA        National Regional Development Agency
DFID     Department for Intemational            NSC        National Steering Committee
Development (British Aid)              O&M        Operation and Maintenance
DGPF     Directorate General of Public Finance and  OED     Operations Evaluation Department
State Financial Control                PAL        Public Administration Loan
DPH      Directorate for Public Health          PDO         Project Development Objective
EA       Environment Assessment                 PEHP        Public Environmental Hygiene Promotion
EIS      Environmental Impact Study             PMU         Project Management Unit
EMP      Environmental Management Plan          PIU        Project Implementation Unit
EPI       Environment Protection Inspectorates  PRA         Private Road Assocation
EU        European Union                        RDA         Regional Development Agencies
FMS       Financial Management System           RDP         Rural Development Project
GOR       Government of Romania                 PMR         Project Management Reports
ICB       International Competitive Bidding     RMMS        Road Maintenance Management System
ICR      Implementation Completion Report       RSDF        Romania Social Development Fund
ISA      International Standards on Auditing    RWS         Rural Water Supply
LACI      Loan Change Administration Change     SAPARD      Special Accession Program for Agriculture and
Initiative                                        Rural Development
LEPA      Local Environment Protection Agreement  SDF       Social Development Fund
LLPF      Law on Local Public Finance           SME         Small and Medium Enterprises
MAFF      Ministry of Agriculture, Food and     TA          Technical Assistance
Forestry                               TAT        Technical Assistance Training Team
Vice President:     Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:      Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Director:     Kevin M. Cleaver
Task Team Leader:        Henry F. Gordon



ROMANIA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                                  Page
1. Program purpose and program phasing                                                3
2. Project development objective                                                       3
3. Key performance indicators                                                          3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 10
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                  15
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 18
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      19
3. Benefits and target population                                                     19
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      21
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          25
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         26
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                27
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   30
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        30
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          31
2. Financial                                                                          32
3. Technical                                                                          33
4. Institutional                                                                      33
5. Environmental                                                                      38
6. Social                                                                             40
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 43



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    44
2. Critical risks                                                                     44
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     46
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            46
2. Other                                                                              47
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          48
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         48
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          49
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    54
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         62
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           63
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    70
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       71
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     90
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   92
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  94
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            96
Annex 11: Letter of Development Policy                                                   98
Annex 12: RDP Area Selection Process                                                    106
MAP(S)
IBRD 31304



ROMANIA
RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSSD
Date: February 22, 2002                           Team Leader: Henry F. Gordon
Country Director: Andrew N. Vorkink               Sector Director: Kevin M. Cleaver
Project ID: P057960                               Sector(s): AY - Other Agriculture
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)  Theme(s): Rural Development
Poverty Targeted Intervention: Y
Program Financing Data
Estimated
APL             Indicative Financing Plan       Implementation Period          Borrower
._______  (Bank FY)
IBRD            Others       Total   Commitment    Closing
US$ m     %      USS m       US$ m        Date       Date
APL 1       40.00    74.9    13.42       53.42    03/19/2002  12/31/2006 Government of Romania
Loan! Loan
C redit   _ _ _ _ _                _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
APL 2       60.00    74.9    20.10       80.10    03/01/2006  12/31/2010 Government of Romania
Loan/ Loan
Cr°edit La
Total       100.00           33 52      133.52,
[XI Loan     [ I Credit   [1 Grant     [ I Guarantee    r Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Loan Currency: United States Dollar
Amount (US$m): 40.00
Borrower Rationale for Choice of Loan Terms Available on File: N Yes
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable-Spread Currency Loan (VSL)
Grace period (years): 4                        Years to maturity: 17
Commitment fee: 0.75%                          Front end fee (FEF) on Bank loan: 1.00%
Payment for FEF: Borrower to Pay from Own Resources
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                            Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                       8.38           0.40          8.78
IBRD                                                          38.98           1.02         40.00
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                              0.05           0.00          0.05
SUB-BORROWER(S)                                                4.59           0.00         4.59
Total:                                                        52.00           1.42         53.42



Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
Address: Address: 1, Piata Victoriei, Sector 1, Bucharest, Romania
Contact Person: Vasile Ciomos, Director
Tel: 40 1 313 98 84         Fax: 40 1 313 98 84          Email: vasile.ciomos(gov.ro
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002      2003       2004      2005      2006
Annual    0.05       13.00     11.00     13.50      2.45
Cumulative    0.05      13.05     24.05      37.55     40.00
Project implementation period: CY2002-2006
Expected effectiveness date: 06/30/2002  Expected closing date:  12/31/2006
-2-



A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
Objective. To strengthen local governance by improving the capacity of local administration and
community/user groups to undertake a range of socially, economically and technically viable public
investments that are responsive to local preferences and needs, and to increase the availability of
sustainable infrastructure and other public/community goods to rural inhabitants in poor areas. This
will be accomplished through a program of training and technical assistance to local governments and
beneficiaries that will be carried out by local consultants and NGOs, and supplemented by investment
grants.
General Description. The Rural Development Project (RDP) is proposed as a two-phase Adaptable
Program Loan (APL) to be implemented over a period of eight years. During the first four years of
implementation, the project will focus on building local capacity for making rural investments in a
limited pilot area, and providing investment grant funding for roads and water/sanitation subprojects in
this area. These grants will, along with associated technical assistance, provide leverage and an entry
point for capacity building within and across local govemment bodies and community/user groups. The
investments will also facilitate a learning-by-doing process in infrastructure planning for the
participating local government and community group bodies, and are important in their own right
through their contribution to improved living standards for poor rural inhabitants. Local govermments
and beneficiaries will establish investment priorities and strategies in an open and participatory manner,
choose from a list of infrastructure types and technologies, and coordinate the implementation, operation
and maintenance of investments in conjunction with private service providers. The responsibilities of
local governments and beneficiaries in this process are expected to increase during Phase 2, and the
participatory investment approach will expand to a greater number of communes, with an broadened
menu of investment items. Any investments in water/sanitation and roads in Phase 2 will follow
national strategies and principles for such investments that are developed and agreed upon in Phase 1.
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project development objective (PDO) is to strengthen the institutional capacity of local
administration, community/user groups and private service providers: a) to plan, implement, operate and
maintain small infrastructure investments in a participatory and accountable manner; and b) to increase
the access of rural inhabitants in pilot areas to markets and social services (through road rehabilitation
investment grants), and improved water and sanitation (through water/sanitation investment grants). The
PDO will be pursued in selected geographical areas, chosen according to eligibility criteria that include
poverty status, with an investment menu limited to water/sanitation and roads (Community Based
Organizations (CBOs) will also be able to invest in other projects permitted by the SDF Operational
Manual, e.g. small income generating projects).
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Project performance will be evaluated against indicators of improved capacity and accountability of local
institutions (government, community and user groups) as well as increased infrastructure access for
beneficiaries. The impact of both capacity building activities and infrastructure investments on the poor
will be evaluated through baseline and follow-up surveys.
The following indicators of project performance are based on the project team's estimate of achievable
results, based on extensive exposure to conditions in pilot areas during project preparation. If the results
of a baseline survey (to be carried out shortly), suggest the need for substantially different quantitative
- 3 -



targets, they will be modified accordingly.
Improved institutional performance of local government and community groups in pilot area investment
activities:
*   improved operation and maintenance of public investments (at least 40% increase in percent of
maintainable local road network or water systems maintained up to standards established in
commune O&M plan);
*   increased competition in contracting infrastructure project design, implementation and O&M
services (at least 50% increase in number of companies competing for contracts, from
baseline);
*   increased local government consultations with general citizenry and with user groups (at least
50% increase in consultations from baseline; also, number of consultations held vs. target as
established in commune participation plan);
*   increased participation of direct project beneficiaries in investment decision making and
implementation (at least 50% increase in number of beneficiaries participating in planning
meetings and implementation activities from baseline);
*   increased government accountability to beneficiaries and citizens for investment decision
making,, commune budgeting, project procurement, and project selection (at least 50%
increase in citizen/beneficiary satisfaction, from baseline, with government transparency
measures, information dissemination, budget and procurement monitoring process);
Access to sustainable infrastructure services by beneficiaries in pilot areas:
*   increased number of households having year round road transport access to market and/or
social facilities (at least 50% increase from baseline, in target locations);
*   reduction in transport costs on rehabilitated roads and/or maintainable commune network (at
least 30% reduction from baseline);
*   increased number of households in subproject areas having reliable access to water and/or
sanitation services that meet quality standards (at least 30% increase from baseline);
*   increased user satisfaction with infrastructure services (at least 30% increase from baseline in
subproject areas).
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 22180-RO Date of latest CAS discussion: 6/19/01
The most recent Romania CAS was discussed in June 2001 (Report No. 22180 RO). The strategy
emphasizes five pillars, including promotion of economic growth; building of institutions to increase
accountability and transparency; greater access to opportunity; strengthening of the safety net; and
environmental protection. The Project will directly support three of these goals by increasing prospects
for rural growth, improving social and economic opportunity through increased access to infrastructure
services; and strengthening local institutions (local government, communities, NGOs, the private sector),
while increasing the openness of local governments in their investment planning and decision making
activities.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Background
-4 -



Rural areas remain extremely important to the Romanian economy. In 1999, 45% of Romania's
population of 22.5 million resided in rural areas, primarily in village settlements clustered
admninistratively into communes, which are the current and traditional seat of local government.
Agriculture dominates the rural economy and employs 74% of working rural residents. Agricultural
income (both in-kind and cash) is the largest household income source, followed by wages (appearing to
derive primarily from urban based jobs) and government transfers (mainly pensions). Too many rural
workers are underemployed and/or engage in semi-subsistence farming aimed primarily at providing the
household with a stable food supply. The macroeconomic statistics present the problem in stark terms.
Although agriculture accounted for 40% of total employment in Romania in 1998, it contributed to less
than 20% of GDP.
Poverty rates in rural regions are high and rising and greatly surpass those in urban environments. In
1999, 22% of rural residents were estimated to be living in poverty compared to 11% in urban
households. The Bank's ECAPOV study (Making Transition Workfor Everybody) indicates that in
1998, two-thirds of the country's total poor population resided in rural areas. Rural poverty has
worsened since 1997. The decline in rural incomes has been due primarily to compression of household
wage income, while agricultural income has remained stable and provided a cushion for rural
households in a declining macroeconomic environment.
The typical poor rural household has a large dependency ratio, high dependence on farming, and a
younger household head. Although poor rural households tend to have less land than others, the
distribution of physical assets and education in the rural population is relatively equal, in part because
of the legacy of relatively egalitarian land and education policies. Land reform was initiated in 1991,
and resulted in distribution of small plots to former landowners or their heirs who had lost their property
in the collectivization campaigns of the late 1 940s and early 1 960s. As a result, the average farm size in
the private sector very small - a little over 2 hectares. Rural landless laborers are uncommon in Romania
and unemployment rates in rural areas remain low (only 5% in 1999).
The problems of poverty and low productivity are not the outcome of a poor resource base. Romania
has good soils and climatic conditions, with potential for production of a wide range of crops. Nor is the
problem one of greatly unequal land ownership. Finally, the problems do not stem, at present, from
grossly distorted agricultural policies. From 1997 to 2000 the Government implemented a
comprehensive program of policy reform under the Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL).
These reforms substantially increased the size of the private sector and improved the incentives regime
for agriculture.
Background analytical work commissioned in the early stages of RDP preparation revealed factors that
continue to impede growth and poverty reduction. Foremost among these is the low productivity of
existing assets, which reduces household incomes. Low asset productivity is due in part to lack of
household integration into markets for agricultural commodities, inputs and land. Strategies to
improved market integration require interventions from several sectors, including agriculture
(improvements in mnarketing systems, support for producer marketing groups, better agricultural
extension), rural infrastructure (investments in transport, telecommunications), and rural finance.
In addition, it was found that lack of access to infrastructure services and housing significantly
constrains growth in household disposable income. Good quality rural utilities and roads reduce the cost
and time associated with accessing rural markets, enhance the investrnent environment, improve the
health of rural population, reduce the costs of health care, and have important consequences for poverty
- 5 -



reduction and growth. Local governments (and in some cases community groups) are responsible for
the provision of these public goods and services in Romania. However, these institutions are currently
weak, despite the existence of a promising legal framework for administrative and fiscal
decentralization, and an encouraging pattem of increased community mobilization started in the last
several years under the Social Development Fund (SDF) Project.
Government strategy and activities of other donors in rural development. With the large majority of
Romania's poor living in rural areas, the Government has put a heavy emphasis on rural development.
In 1998-99, it developed a National Rural Development Program (NRDP) to provide a framework for
the EU's Special Accession Program for Agriculture and Rural Development (SAPARD) facility, which
is expected to provide 150 million Euros per year in grant funds through 2007. While the bulk of
SAPARD grant funds will be used to fund projects in primary agriculture and agro-industry,
approximately 22% of total funds are slated for rural infrastructure, primarily for larger scale commune
roads and water supply. Originally scheduled to begin in 2000, the program's initiation has been
delayed and it is not likely to begin implementation before 2003. To reap the full benefits of SAPARD
requires local institutional capacity to identify and appraise viable investments, which does not exist at
present. Support in applying for private sector rural and agricultural grants will be provided by the
Rural Finance Project, which was approved by the Board in 2001. The Govemment also wants to
quickly upgrade the capacity of local public institutions to enable access to funds for infrastructure
grants. Phase 1 of the RDP will help to fill this gap by strengthening of local administration capacity for
preparation of viable project proposals, thereby facilitating access to SAPARD funds. It will also
complement SAPARD by: (a) supporting smaller scale investments in poorer areas, since SAPARD
does not fund small projects nor emphasize less favored locations. RDP will focus on infrastructure
investment in Phase 1, which complements SAPARD's primary emphasis on grants to private sector
agriculture.
The RDP team was able to provide input to the NRDP early in the preparation process, through studies
that were prepared on poverty, rural development, and local govenmment. RDP is thus rooted in a
government policy framework supporting rural areas. The Project also directly supports implementation
of Romania's decentralization policies, embodied in the Law on Local Public Finance, and the Law on
Public Administration, which gives autonomy to local governments (counties and local councils) and
assigns them general responsibility for local services, (including roads and water).
Main issues concerning capacity in local government and communities
A social and institutional assessment carried out in preparation for this project revealed significant
weaknesses in local govenmment and community investment planning and decision making capacity, but
also great variability between locations, with some local leaders and constituents exhibiting significant
potential for transparent and effective local development action, and others not. The following issues
were identified as relevant for the Project:
i)  Limited involvement of community groups and the poor in local government decisions and the
project cycle, and low government accountability. After three rounds of local elections, the culture of
government consultation and accountability, and citizen participation is weakly rooted in counties and
communes. The experience of the SDF Project, in particular, has demonstrated that there is much to
leam and to gain from an active, systematic process that involves local residents in prioritizing and
developing projects to address community needs, and that targets poor locations for community
mobilization and investment.
-6 -



ii) Inadequate skills for investment planning or project preparation in local government and
communities. County councils have the most experienced staff among local governments, but there is
little, if any, consideration of alternative technical or cost options for investment projects, and little use
of economic analysis (cost-benefit, cost-effectiveness) or assessment of budgetary impact over the
project life-cycle, to inform the choice among options. Communes have even weaker capabilities, and
while Community Based Organizations (CBOs) in some areas have already developed capacity through
the activities of the Social Development Fund (SDF) project, considerable work remains to be done.
iii) The local government budget process as a constraint. Intergovernmental budget transfers, i.e.
revenue transfers from the national to local level, are low and unstable, making local planning for
investment in and maintenance of infrastructure and other services very difficult. This is partly due to
poor implementation of the equalization formula - a rule for distributing funds among local councils in a
predictable and nondiscretionary manner. This reduces the autonomy of local councils in developing
and planning their own budgets.
iv) Dominance of commune councils by county administration. County councils tend to dominate
local councils as a result of their greater resources and traditional hierarchical approaches to public
administration in the country. They are often not prepared to respond in a positive way to initiatives
coming from communes and comnmunity groups and they do not consistently work with local councils to
discuss county-wide priorities. Mechanisms for cooperation among the different levels of local
government are weak or nonexistent.
v)  Small size of comnmunes. Communes as administrative entities are often too small to cope with the
infrastructure assigned to them under the Local Public Administration Law. For some types of
infrastructure, and for smaller commnunities, this lirnits the cost-effectiveness of decision-making and
management.
Local investment needs and priorities
A detailed social and institutional assessment was carried out, and was supplemented by extensive
informal interviews with local governments and rural citizens to determine their investment priorities.
Rural water/sanitation and roads consistently headed the list, although in some locations gas heating was
an important priority, while in others local employment and vocational training competed with
infrastructure for top priority. The priority given to roads and water/sanitation coincides with the
priorities of rural communities participating in the SDF project.
Main issues in the rural water/sanitation (R WS) sector
Declining systems with poor service coverage and management. Water and wastewater service levels in
rural Romania are low by intemational standards. Of around 10 million people living in rural areas,
constituting 45% of the total population, national statistics indicate that about one-third have access to a
piped water supply system maintained by nearby urban centers. This overstates actual access since
many of these systems are not functioning. The majority of rural population is served by either public or
private wells and the rest (about 17%) with small commune piped systems with public stand posts.
Commune systems are usually managed and operated by the commune administration. Such schemes
are seldom metered, and there is no organization that monitors them at the national level. They were
often originally built to serve the needs of large-scale farming enterprises. Water was used for diverse
purposes including livestock watering, irrigation and basic domestic water supplies for staff working for
the farm. In a number of cases the distribution networks of these "state farm schemes" also extended to
- 7-



nearby villages. However, many have become non-functional as the state farms cease operation. In
some cases, they are run under different management arrangements and no longer provide a public water
supply service. Even when still functioning, the reliability and quality of the water provided by these
schemes is declining.
Poor water quality and its causes. Intensive agriculture and livestock management has resulted in
serious pollution of shallow ground water which is the main source of drinking water in rural areas.
Nitrate pollution is an especially serious concem. In some areas almost all shallow wells (15 meters or
less) have nitrate content well above acceptable levels, and available health statistics confirm that nitrate
intoxication is a serious problem in rural areas for babies under I year old (see Annex 4 for a more
detailed discussion). Some rural areas suffer from limited access to water. In such locations, ground
water is found only in medium-deep aquifers (20-30 meters) and the household's own well or the public
well does not meet demand. People have to collect water from nearby valleys at least during the dry
periods of the year. Vulnerable groups (retired and elderly) suffer most from the poor water quality or
access. Lacking funds or means to access an altemative water source, they continue to rely on their own
polluted source.
The following RWS sector issues stand out:
i) Water supply and sanitation awareness. Health conditions in rural areas are poor and declining.
In 2000, infant mortality country-wide for children under the age of five was 21%, one of the highest
levels in Eastem Europe. This is partly due to poor quality of water, together with the general decline in
the level of health care services and housing conditions. The rural population has little understanding of
the impact of poor water quality on human health and child mortality, and although understanding of the
dangers of infant nitrate intoxication (blue baby syndrome) has increased in recent years, Romania lacks
any substantial information and awareness campaigns on environmental health. Resources to implement
such campaigns are scarce, and the organization and skills to carry them out are limited. The
Department of Public Health has established some capacity at the county level, but lacks the resources
to implement major campaigns in water and sanitation awareness, and hence has never gained
substantial experience in this field. Some educational materials have been developed by the Department
of Community Health and Promotion, in collaboration with UNICEF and USAID, but additional work
remains to be done.
ii) Policy, legal and regulatory framework for RWS. The mandate to formulate policies on rural
water supplies in Romania is split over a number of ministries and over different levels of public
administration, including the Ministry of Water and Environmental Protection (MWEP), the Ministry of
Public Works, Transport and Housing (MPWTH), and the Ministry of Health (MOH). So far no
Ministry has been given the task to develop a coordinated Government policy and a strategy for the
development of rural water supply and sanitation services.
iii) Commune level management structures for RWS. Communes have been legally charged with
responsibility for local public services. The commune council sets the tariffs for water. No guidelines
or standards for technical and financial management have been developed and no extemal monitoring
currently takes place. The absence of an institutional structure for rural water supply - and of different
management altematives, including community and/or private sector management - is widely considered
as the biggest constraint on sustainable development of the sector. The recently established Ministry of
Public Administration (MPA) has become the advocate of commune (and county) interests at the
national level. This is seen by local authorities as an opportunity for MPA to promote a rural water
supply and sanitation policy and strategy.
Main issues in the transport sector involving local roads
- 8-



Background on local roads. The terms 'local roads' refers to county, commune, and village roads. On
occasion, these exclude county roads, but this will be clear from the context. The National
Administration of Roads (NAR) is responsible for national roads (approximately 15,000 kIn) which are
owned by the state. For these roads, the NAR is both the Administrator (the roads policy
decision-maker) and the Manager (the body responsible for operationally defining and carrying out work
plans). It contracts out most service delivery functions (construction, rehabilitation and maintenance).
The county roads (approximately 36,000 km), some of which include local rural roads, are administered
and managed by the County Technical Departnent, although the corporatized county construction units,
formerly part of the County Technical Department, often function as defacto managers of county (and
sometimes commune) roads. Conmmune roads (app. 28,000 kmn) are administered by the commune
conncil's technical office. Commune roads have received only sporadic maintenance in the past 10
years, and the Country Technical Department (or the county owned construction unit) performs sporadic
repairs. The commune is also responsible for village roads (app. 30,000 kIn) defined as low volume
roads that serve scattered villages and communities, frequently giving access to agricultural land. In
practice, no one has taken responsibility for village roads. All the above roads are public roads having
the state as the designated owner. However, the ownership issue must be clarified for future
development because with it comes financial responsibility.
The following roads sector issues stand out:
i)  Jurisdictional responsibility. fmancing and administration/management of local roads. First, there
is imprecise functional designation of local roads and for some roads it is unclear which govemment
entity and which specific level of govenmment is responsible. Second, mechanisms to finance local roads
are unclear, and financial resources (off-budget, on-budget or from donors) are unstable. Third, there is
a need for more competent administrators and managers (either govemment bodies, consultant
organizations, or user groups) that can ensure consistency with national policies, provide needed
technical input into road modemization and maintenance, maintain infornnation systems, engage in
public participation and information dissemination, and support co-operative arrangements between
adjacentjurisdictions. This applies to village roads as well as other local roads.
ii)  High cost of local roads. There is evidence that local roads are more expensive to rehabilitate and
maintain than national roads. This phenomenon has multiple causes, including application of
excessively high design standards, as well as lack of open entry in contracting project design and
construction of works. Entry of non-local firms to bid for road works is sometimes prevented by
parochial interests. Where this is the case, privately owned construction firms are noticeably fewer and
less robust. The experience of SDF has shown that projects costs can be reduced through increased
competition for design and construction services, as well as more appropriate local designs .
iii) National local roads strategy. The Govemment lacks a national strategy for rural (local) roads that
ensures consistency between local roads initiatives and national policy and regulatory strategy.
iv) Village roads. There is no legal framework that clearly designates ownership of and responsibility
for village roads. These roads are neglected yet in some cases are quite important for access of farms to
extemal markets.
-9-



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Strategic choices.
Choice 1: focus on supporting implementation of the decentralization framework. while leaving
agriculture sector policies to other operations. The Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan (ASAL)
addressed many of the important policy issues in the agriculture sector. The main agriculture sector
issue not completed with ASAL is state farms privatization. State farms now cover only about 9% of
arable land, down from 17% in 1997. While progress was very slow in 2001, the Government has
recently indicated that it plans to complete the process over the next 2.5 years. Policies related to
irrigation and rural finance are being addressed in separate investment loans.
The RDP will focus on improving implementation of the legal framework established under the Law on
Public Administration and the Law on Local Public Finance. RDP can only do this partially, through
its capacity building activities and its support for improved local budgeting and implementation of the
equalization formula. It is beyond the scope of the project to support all aspects of local budgeting or
fiscal decentralization, which would require more a comprehensive program of support. It is expected
that many of these issues will be addressed in the upcoming Public Administration Loan (PAL),
scheduled for Board in mid-2002. The linkage between these two projects is thus important since the
broader institutional environment for local government in which the RDP operates, which affects the
sustainability of RDP activities, will be influenced by Government commnitments and institution
building activities under the PAL.
Choice 2: focus on infrastructure in Phase 1. with an investment menu limited to the two highest
priority infrastructure subsectors until local capacity is better developed. Rural investment needs
clearly extend beyond infrastructure to agriculture, agro-industry, and rural nonfarm employment
issues. The latter are a major focus of the SAPARD program and therefore will not be given direct
emphasis in Phase I of RDP. In addition, although a needs assessment carried out by the RDP
preparation team indicated that roads and water/sanitation investments are at the top of commune and
village priorities, rural infrastructure sector needs clearly extend beyond these. For example, some
areas also place high priority on improved gas heating, telecommunications, and some
non-infrastructure needs such as vocational training. The RDP will be able to address many of the
latter issues - in addition to some non-farm development issues - in Phase 2, as the local capacity to
handle a broader range of investments, increases. It should be mentioned that in Phase I the project
will be able to indirectly address some of the broader infrastructure needs by providing
water/sanitation facilities, and road access, to local schools and hospitals. This will complement the
activities of the upcoming Rural Education loan and an ongoing Health loan.
Sector issues to be addressed by the project.
Capacity buildine. Specific sector issues to be addressed include:
i) Need for increased citizen and beneficiary participation in decision-making and the project
cycle, and increased govenmment accountability and responsiveness to citizens and community groups,
including the poor. Participatory consultative processes will be established during the training to
ensure that all of the above are involved in priority setting, project preparation, implementation and
monitoring. The commune will be expected to emerge from the training with a set of general
investment priorities, and a proposal or set of project variants for roads or water/sanitation subprojects.
During the training, beneficiary groups (who will be identified early in the training process as commune
- 10-



investment priorities emerge) will develop follow-up action plans that can be monitored by the training
and TA team. These will cover, for example, plans for participation and local consultation;
procurement; operations and maintenance; and participatory monitoring and evaluation. This approach
is intended to create a solid foundation for project design with close involvement of prospective
beneficiaries, but also to ensure that the project selected was decided in a fair and transparent manner,
and enjoys broad acceptance.
It is possible for a democratic decision process that includes the poor in its decision processes to
nonetheless make decisions that do not address the needs or wishes of the minority. This is one reason
why $2.0 million in funds will be set aside under RDP, to be managed by the Romania Social
Development Fund (RSDF), specifically aimed at addressing the problems of poor villages and
marginal groups living within RDP pilot communes. This "CBO Window" is explained in greater
detail in Section C.4. By using already developed capacity of RSDF to facilitate CBOs and coordinate
subprojects among poor communities, the RDP will ensure that a minimum level of coverage for these
groups is achieved. It will also help to expand and community driven development approaches
pioneered by SDF, while mainstreaming these approaches by bringing CBOs and user groups in closer
proximity with local governments in a structured consultation process.
ii) Need for improved local government and community skills in the project cycle (economic
decision making, project preparation, contracting, operation and maintenance, etc.). Training and TA
will be provided for projects initiated and coordinated by communes (Commune Window projects) and
by community based organizations (CBO Window projects.) For the former, training/TA will provide
a local stakeholder committee (the commune investment advisory committee), with the basic skills
needed to make investment decisions, evaluate the budgetary impact of project costs over their
life-cycle, contract consultants, develop projects, and explore alternative funding sources for local
investments. Training and TA for the CBO Window projects, will be undertaken through procedures
and approaches already used under the SDF Project.
The target group for the training in communes will include prospective beneficiaries/user groups,
elected officials, local govemment staff (including the commune secretary), key community members
from each village, including villages not represented on the council, and representatives of CBOs and
NGOs, including representatives of marginal groups and the poor.
iii) Local government budget process as a constraint. As mentioned above, the project will provide
TA/training to pilot communes in budgeting, including development of draft budgets, capital and
recurrent accounts, and infrastructure investment plans covering the life cycle of anticipated projects.
Technical assistance will also be provided to counties, in cooperation with the Ministry of Public
Finance (MOPF), to improve implementation of the equalization formula.
iv) Dominance of commune councils by county councils. The project will support collaboration
between county and commune councils (bodies which are legally independent of one another), by
promoting good partnership and county support for commune and community initiatives, including (a)
reduced processing times for project clearances by county officials; (b) support for least-cost designs
by county council engineers; and (b) technical support for associated communes, e.g. in helping them to
document local watersheds or road networks that cross commune boundaries, providing a basis for
association. The project will also support improved collaboration between communes and community
groups, and an environment in which communes are receptive to and supportive of community
initiatives.



v) SmaUl size of communes. The project will promote voluntary association of conununes with other
local councils (communes, orase) by explicitly supporting investments in communes that are
contiguous to pilot areas and share road networks or could potentially share water sources.
Rural water supply and sanitation. Specific RWS sector issues to be addressed include:
i) Lack of water supply/sanitation awareness. Parallel to the infrastructure investment program, a
Public Environmental Hygiene Promotion Program (PEHIPP) will be implemented. The first objective
of this program is to raise awareness on the interrelated issues of hygiene, water quality, water
quantity, sanitation and health. The second objective is to stimulate private households to improve
their water and sanitation conditions at the household level, through improvements in household wells
and pit-latrines.
ii) Need for a national RWS strategy. Mid-way through Phase 1, technical assistance will be
provided to develop a Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Strategy that draws on the experience of
Phase I and proposes a framework to improve, on a national level, the enabling environment for (a)
increased participation and investments in the sector; (b) development of instruments (technology,
management and institutional cooperation) for implementation of a demand driven strategy to improve
service delivery to the rural population in the field of water and sanitation; and (c) capacity for full cost
recovery. In developing the cost-recovery strategy, the difficulties experienced by the poorest
consumers in paying full cost-recovery tariffs will be considered, and options will be examined for
special payment provisions by poor households, that are fiscally sustainable.
iii) Need for improved local management structures for RWS. Low-cost engineering approaches
must go hand in hand with the adoption of appropriate management solutions. A set of model
management contracts including commune management and community management altematives will
be elaborated for water supply and sanitation. These will form the legal basis for the various
management arrangements, required to operate and maintain the commune water supply systems. Such
regulations will set the "rules of the game" for RWS project at the conmmune and community level and
support improved operation and maintenance.
iv) High cost of RWS projects. Lower cost design and management approaches for water and roads
have been developed and short training will be provided in this topic. The purpose of the training is to
ensure that the engineering firns (and county council technical staff) understand the project approach
and the specific technical and financial principles underlying RDP such as affordability, life cycle
costing, careful assessment of budgetary impact, cost benefit and cost effectiveness analysis, value
engineering, and appropriate design standards. At least one workshop will be organized in each 'of the
five pilot counties on life cycle costing, and cost benefit and cost effectiveness on these topics.
Local roads. The main sector issues are:
i) Need for greater clarity in jurisdictional responsibility for local roads, and improve
arrangements for fnancing, administration and operational management. The project includes a
study of functional classification of the road network - the Study of Jurisdictional Responsibility,
Management and Financing of Local Roads - which will (a) determine the length of the networks in
the (three or more) functional classes that are economical, and within probable sector budgets; (b)
assign jurisdictional responsibility for these functional class networks; and (c) develop a financing
mechanism for local roads that is fair and consistent with the principle that the user pays. The results
- 12-



of this study will be evaluated by a subcommittee of the RDP National Steering Committee that will
include the Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Housing (MPWTH), the Ministry of Public
Finance (MOPF), the Ministry of Public Admninistration (MPA), among other stakeholders. The study
will propose alternatives for managing local roads; it will define the responsibilities of each of the
actors; and it will designate the entities responsible for the administration and management of the road
networks. This will build upon the project's capacity building activities at commune level. RDP will
also support a study on Local Road Maintenance Management System and Database to establish a
more adequate empirical basis for managing county roads that extends beyond road traffic data
(including information on road conditions). The system will be consistent with the national roads
management system and have the flexibility to expand so as to cover commune roads at a later date.
During Phase 1, any uncertainty regarding road classification or management and financing
responsibility will be addressed with case-by-case decisions. The results of the above studies will
provide the basis for a definitive ex ante clarification in Phase 2.
ii) Need for lower cost local roads. As mentioned above in the RWS section, cost-effective design
and management approaches for water and roads will be developed and training materials will be
prepared accordingly. This will be followed by Technical Assistance (TA) to review design standards
for local roads in a Study of Least Cost Design Standards for Roads to minimize costs over the life
cycle. Promising new standards will be evaluated in road test sections constructed in the earliest stages
of RDP in each of the five participating counties. Finally, the team will also identify management
approaches, maintenance procedures and regimes appropriate to different circumstances.
Costs will also be lowered by more competitive service provision and better construction supervision.
Open and competitive procedures will be applied and institutionalized in the project by standardizing
the bidding documents and through national competitive bidding, allowing any qualified firm to
participate, using the well-established processes developed by the World Bank. The project will build
on and refine SDF's successful experience in lowering unit costs though better designs and more
competitive service provision.
iii) Need for a national rural (local) roads strategy. As with RWS, a national rural strategy will be
developed. This will take account of prior recommendations for changes in road classification
("jurisdiction"), management and financing. This will be discussed with the NSC with
recommendations made to the Govemment.
iv) Need to enhance the legal framework for village roads. The village road network is poorly
funded and without technical support. Intemational experience shows that the best way to own,
manage and finance very low volume roads that have identifiable users and beneficiaries, is an
association of beneficiaries, called a Private Road Association (PRA). This institutional framework
must have a legal basis and a financing strategy. The project will define the village road network in the
aforementioned Study of Jurisdictional Responsibility, Management and Financing for Local Roads
and develop a proposal during the Study for the Private Roads to establish PRAs. The projects
financed in RDP through the CBO window will provide an opportunity to test and adapt this concept to
Romanian conditions.
Principles for water/sanitation and roads subprojects
The project will address the above needs while following a number of principles for water/sanitation
and roads projects that are reflected in specific guidelines and selection criteria in the Operational
- 13 -



Manual:
Demand driven approach and local choice from a menu of technical and management options. The
RDP will encourage prospective user groups within communes to make their own investment decisions
among a range of options while offering incentives for more efficient, sustainable choices. In the early
stages of commune facilitation and priority setting, the commune at large will need to make a decision
on the area served. Once this decision is made, however, users within the target area (to be served by
improved water/sanitation or roads) will be at the center of the investment decision making process,
with the commnune providing input and support. A menu of technology options is available under
RDP, stating typical per capita investment costs, options for their management (and in the case of
water, expected tariff levels), and a menu of management options is available from which the users in
the commune can select. This information enables informed decision making at the lowest possible
level. User groups must fully understand the cost implications of alternative technologies (as well as
the benefits associated with different schemes). In the case of water, they must be willing to pay the
tariff associated with the selected option. Where O&M is carried out by the private sector, as is likely
to be the case with both water and roads, consumers will be involved in the selection and monitoring of
service providers.
Local commitment through sharing of capital costs. Local cost sharing is an important demonstration
of commitment to the project, and gives local citizens an incentive to hold locally elected officials and
the users accountable for the use of funds. A minimum of 10% of the initial capital costs of
investment schemes are to be financed by the project commune and/or users, of which at least 7% must
be in cash. The remainder can be contributed through in-kind (vs. cash) contributions. Users are most
likely to be able to give in-kind contributions. Cash contributions will typically be made upfront, and
include payment by the commune or user group for the project feasibility study and design. The latter
payment will occur before submission of the project proposal for screening. Subprojects lacking the
local contribution for capital costs will not be funded. In cases where local funds for the capital
contribution are insufficient, the commune will be supported in developing a less costly project design.
Full recovery of operational and maintenance cost. Each scheme shall present at the time of the
feasibility study, a fully elaborated business plan. This will include a financing plan that fully covers
(operations and) maintenance costs, amortization costs and a reinvestment/expansion program. In the
case of water, evidence that proposed water tariffs/costs do not exceed 7% of total household cash
income in the service area shall be provided (with a possibly lower threshold for the poorest
households). Water users will be required to pay full O&M costs. In the case of roads, O&M costs
will typically be borne by the commune as full recovery by user is in most cases not feasible.
Upfront commitment on operation and maintenance. In the case of roads, commune beneficiaries will
be required to prepare an operation and maintenance plan for their existing network (as well as the
proposed subproject) and where feasible to commit budget resources to operation and maintenance as
part of the sub-project application process. In the case of water/sanitation, where the user will be
required to pay for O&M fully, the minimal requirement is for preparation of an O&M plan for the
proposed subproject.
Maximum per capita investment level. The maximum per capita investment for individual water
subprojects shall not exceed US$120. In cases where due to local circumstances, the cost of the least
cost option is higher, the commune or beneficiaries will have to finance the additional costs. Limited
exceptions will be made for only special cases approved by the NSC. Only in exceptional
circumstances will investments higher than US$150 be eligible for funding under RDP, for overall
- 14 -



equity reasons in the program. For roads subprojects, guidelines for maximum per capita investment
levels will be applied so that if project proposals exceed the threshold, the applicant will be encouraged
to explore lower cost options, covering a larger number of beneficiaries.
In addition, for water subprojects, the following principle will apply:
Service levels for water. Service levels under the project shall not exceed 50 liters/capita/day, which is
the level currently adopted as the basic service level of the public and metered stand-post. Higher
service levels such as the establishment of yard taps and house-connections are encouraged, but house
connections are to be metered and fully financed by the beneficiary. The proposed tariff structure for
the schemes shall take into account the different service levels. In the case of piped schemes, the
technical design shall be based on a maximum of 40% of beneficiaries having household connections.
In cases where the commune wishes to design for a higher percentage of house connections, the
commune or beneficiaries will have to finance the additional costs.
Project risks and opportunities
The list of problems and constraints in Section B.2 above, makes it clear that there are substantial
challenges to be faced in developing capacity at local government and community levels, and in
ensuring the viability of small-scale infrastructure investments. These challenges are made explicit in
the project risks described in Section F. The most significant risks include: (i) the potential for capture
of project decision making by elites; (ii) the difficulty of ensuring beneficiary operation and
maintenance of infrastructure investments; and (iii) the difficulty of sustaining activities after the
project ends. Section F indicates what steps have been taken in project preparation and design to
anticipate and mitigate these risks. These include an area selection process that has identified good
local institutional partners for the project; and a program of training and technical assistance for pilot
areas (which declines over time, allowing progressively larger responsibilities for local institutions) that
provide a structured process for local participation, priority setting, decision making and monitoring of
project activities. These are described in more detail in the sections that follow.
Along with these challenges there are important potential opportunities associated with the Project,
including the possibility of providing a stronger institutional basis for implementation of Romania's
decentralization policy, while building on its commitment to and experience with community driven
development (exemplified in policy statements and its experience with the ongoing Social Development
Fund project). The potential to bring about real change in the way local investment decisions are made
in Romania by having pernanent, local institutions begin to use a participatory, inclusive approach to
identification and implementation of priority investments is considered to'be worth these risks.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
Program phasing. During Phase 1, which covers a period of up to 4 years, the project will focus its
activities on (i) provision of training and TA to pilot communes (with 100 now identified) and local
stakeholders to develop capacity in participatory planning and investment for roads/transport and
water/sanitation, to increase management capacity, and to improve financing mechanisms; and (ii)
provision of investment grants in pilot communes in 5 pilot counties located in 5 of Romania's 7
development regions.
As part of the Phase I mid-term review, RDP will assess the performance of capacity building
- 15 -



activities; water/sanitation strategy; and local road sector strategy issues and options for re-organizing
road ownership, management and financing. At mid-term RDP will evaluate options for refining the
project's capacity building approach and expanding it to non-pilot communes within pilot counties, and
to non-pilot counties. This assessment will provide input to an expansion strategy to be agreed with the
NSC. Such a strategy is necessary because RDP over its life will only be able to cover a portion of the
total number of counties and communes in Romania. The mid-term review study will propose
altemative means of knowledge transfer, to supplement RDP's approach of facilitated
learning-by-doing.
The study will also examine the viability of the project's institutional framework and its financing
mechanisms and management processes, proposing a strategy for their adoption or adaptation in Phase
2 and in the post-project period. The aim is to have sustainable institutions and procedures in place at
the project's closing, and capable local bodies - local govermments, user groups, and CBOs - that can
operate independently, and in effective collaboration.
Scope of activities in Phase 2. In the second phase, refined approaches for knowledge transfer will be
adopted based on an evaluation of Phase 1 implementation experience, and the responsibilities of local
government and community/user groups will be expanded. The geographic scope of the project will
expand, as will the menu of investment options, which may include other types of infrastructure
options, for example gas heating, dikes, telecommunications, waste management, certain types of
community buildings (e.g. marketplace structures), and possibly grants for complementary
non-infrastructure activities (e.g. grants supporting employee vocational training).
Roads and water/sanitation strategy studies will also provide the basis for evaluation of levels of
capital investment subsidy provided under the Project, allowing for possible reduction in subsidy levels
in Phase 2.
Triggers to move to Phase 2. A set of trigger indicators defined in the table below represent the
thresholds of policy and institutional change required to expand activities in Phase 2.
- 16 -



APL Triggers
Component                  Trigger indicators
A. Capacity Building       Improved citizen and comnmunity/user group participation in commune infrastructure
investment, budgeting and project cycle functions, and increased transparency and
accountability of the commune vis a vis citizens and community groups as demonstrated by (i)
development of and satisfactory adherence to participation action plans by CIACs, with
continued use of consultation approaches after initial training and technical support in this
areas has been completed; (ii) satisfaction of beneficiaries, including the poor, with
consultative processes.
Satisfactory budgeting, investment planning and project development by commune and
Commune Investment Advisory Committees (CIACs), and community/user groups, as
demonstrated by their successful acquisition, application and continued use of technical and
economic decision-making skills learned in Phase 1 training, and an ability of take increasing
responsibility for specified functions initially requiring more support from PlUs (e.g.
procurement).
Demonstration by county level bodies (e.g., the advisory board for rural development and
county council and regional training center staff,) of increasing ability to carry out some
functions initially left with PlUs such as training coordination, and monitoring and evaluation;
and demonstrated capacity of county council financial staff to carry out financial management
tasks initially left to the PMU.
Improved implementation in pilot counties of formula for equalization of grants from counties
to local councils, as demonstrated by agreement in pilot counties on an improved
nondiscretionary fonmula, and implementation of that formula in allocation of funds to
communes.
Completion of RDP expansion study and recommendation for Phase 2 strategy based on study
findings and Phase 1 evaluation. Such strategy will include detailed plans for increasing the
Govemment contribution to recurrent costs in Phase 2, along with measures to increase
responsibility for local govemments and stakeholders, to carry out selected project management
functions.
B. Infrastructure          Completion of least cost design principles study for rural water supply/sanitation and roads,
along with evidence of unit cost reductions in implemented projects in the 5 pilot counties
(against county benchmarks for similar projects).
Completion of local roads classification, management and financing study and GOR adoption
of action plan for new local roads arrangements; completion of rural roads strategy and rural
water/sanitation sector study with adoption of respective action plans by GOR. Both water
and roads strategies will consider reduction in project subsidies on capital investments in
Phase 2 of RDP.
Satisfactory achievement of operation and maintenance targets by beneficiaries for at least 25
completed subprojects (at least five in each of the selected counties).
Construction initiated and completed, or moving forward toward completion, on at least 120
subprojects.
C. Project Management      Satisfactory financial system audits.
Disbursement of at least 80% of Phase I funds.
Satisfactory operation of monitoring system that provides meaningful input to management
decisions.
- 17 -



C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component& The program will consist of three components: Component A - Capacity Building;
Component B - Rural Infrastructure; and Component C - Project Management, Public Awareness
Campaign and Expansion Strategy.
Indicative            Bank-   -% of
Component                  Sector        Costs      % of    financing   Bank-
(US$M)    Total     (US$M)    financing
A. Capacity Building             Other Public Sector   1.90       3.6      1.56       3.9
Management
B. Rural Infrastructure          Rural Water Supply  48.17       90.2     36.45      91.1
& Sanitation
C. Project Management, Public   Institutional          2.95       5.5      1.99       5.0
Awareness Campaign and Expansion  Development
Strategy
Total Project Costs                  53.02      99.3     40.00     100.0
Front-end fee                    0.40       0.7      0.00       0.0
Total Financing Required                   53.42     100.0     40.00      100.0
Component A: Capacity Building (US$1.90 million total cost).
The aim of Component A is to strengthen the institutional capacity of local administration, community/user
groups and private service providers to plan, implement, operate and maintain small infrastructure
investments in a participatory and accountable manner. The component will finance TA and training
activities for local stakeholders, primarily communes and their constituents (including likely subproject
beneficiaries), but also private service providers, county council technical staff and other stakeholders.
TORs have been developed for preparation of a commune training curriculum, with teaching modules that
cover the following issues: (1) the project cycle for roads and water/sanitiation projects; and participation
in project decision making; (2) participatory commune infrastructure assessment (local assessment carried
out by TA/training teams (TAT) in collaboration with commune stakeholders); (3) budgeting, bookkeeping
and project financing; (4) participatory project decision-making, (5) procurement rules for contracting, and
(6) participatory monitoring and evaluation. The course areas are interrelated and essential to the
development of technically and financially sound rural infrastructure projects that reflect commune and
beneficiary priorities and are consistent with local budget options. Each short course will be followed by
about a week devoted to application of concepts learned, with support from a TA/training team (TAT).
Each county and commune will have repeated contact with a single training and TA team over the course of
the project (each team will cover 4 communes). This will allow continuity and trust to develop between the
local or county council and the team. A TAT will consist of up to three specialists having skills and
experience in the areas of (1) facilitation of participation; (2) engineering and project management; and (3)
basic budgeting, taxation, and project economics.
Training will begin before most of the engineering related activities occur for sub-projects, in order to allow
time for the local council to engage likely beneficiaries and communities, and make planning and project
- 18-



related decisions. Most communes will experience two project cycles in order to fully learn the process and
be able carry it out in the future without additional TA or training. A reduced level of TA and an increased
responsibility by communes will occur as Phase 1 proceeds.
Component B: Rural Infrastructure (US$48.17 million, total cost).
The aim of the infrastructure component is to increase access of rural inhabitants to transport and
water/sanitation services. This component will provide funding for demand-driven investments prepared by
communes (through the Commune Window) and Community Based Organizations (through the smaller
CBO Window, which will fund water/sanitation and roads, as well as other items on the SDF menu,
primarily income generating projects). In connection with the water/sanitation subcomponent, the
component will also fund a Public Environmental Health Promotion campaign, and a rural water/sanitation
strategy study. In connection with roads, the component it will fund studies aimed at improving the broader
legal, institutional and regulatory framework rural transport and roads.
Component C: Project Management (US$2.95 million, total cost).
The component provides the project management support necessary for project implementation, including
funding for TA, training, staff and equipment costs associated with establishment and operation of the
national Project Management Unit (PMU), and five regional Project Implementation Units (PLUs).
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Proposed reforms in policy, regulations and institutions include:
*   Mainstreaming of community driven development approaches initiated by SDF, giving local
citizens and communities greater participation in and control over investment decisions and
project implementation and monitoring.
*   Reduction in the nurnber of technical clearances required for smnall subprojects at county level
and reduction in total processing time.
*   Adoption of cost-effective design standards and approaches for rural water supplies and road
projects, along with evidence of substantial unit cost reductions in implemented projects.
*   Adoption of new ownership, management, and financing arrangements for rural local roads,
including a new legal framework for village roads.
*   Adoption of comprehensive rural water sector policy and an action plan.
*   Improved implementation of the equalization formula in pilot counties.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits induced by the 5-year program. Project benefits will include increased local participation in and
accountability for investment decisions, improvements in local government investment planning and project
development skills, and an increase in rural inhabitants' access to improved infrastructure services.
*   The benefits of improved govemance including greater beneficiary empowerment and
participation, and greater local control of investment decisions, particularly regarding
infrastructure;
*   Better roads will results in easier and lower cost access to markets and an improved investment
environment, contributing to increased incomes, and will increase access to social facilities
(schools, health clinics, churches), contributing to improved living standards;
*   The benefits of anticipated water and sanitation investments include improved water quality
and health status, and better consumer awareness of the health effects of poor quality water
- 19 -



and sanitation;
*   For both roads and water, the benefits also include the development and strengthening of small
private enterprises, both consultants and contractors, as a result of their involvement in the
execution of the civil works in the project, and provision of other support services (e.g.: design,
O&M).
Target population. The RDP area selection process has been designed to ensure that the project will reach
relatively poor regions, counties, communes and households. Within the 5 pilot counties, 100 pilot
communes were chosen during a competitive area selection process that took place during RDP preparation
(see Annex 12 for a description of the selection criteria, which included, in addition to poverty indicators,
measures of commune administration receptiveness to the project). Over the life of the program, it is
expected that at least 250 of Romania's 2,682 communes and at least 15 of its 41 counties will directly
benefit from training and technical assistance to improve investment decision making and govemance, and
from investment grants for infrastructure.
Based on household survey analysis carried out during project preparation, as well as data collected during
the RDP area selection process, the team has determiined that 94 of the 100 communes selected for
participation in Phase I of the project meet the test of being poor. That is, these communes are identified
as lying in the lower half of the rural income distribution, or they meet at least three qualitative poverty
criteria for which data were collected during area selection, including high infant mortality rate, higher than
average number of residents qualifying for social protection assistance, and an increasing household
dependency ratio in the commune. A very few non-poor communes with good local administrations were
included as a point of comparison for poorer communes, and to allow some cross-commune learning within
the project.
Within pilot communes, poor and remote villages and marginal groups will be identified during the early
stages of implementation through TA/training activities, and their representatives will be included in
commune consultation and decision-making processes also set up through the TA/training. Under the
decision processes, communes will decide if local villages and groups meeting the more stringent RSDF
poverty criteria should be facilitated and funded through the Community Based Organization (CBO)
Window, an activity that will be managed by the Romania Social Development Fund (RSDF). Local
groups in pilot communes meeting RSDF poverty criteria will still be able to submit project proposals to
RSDF without commune approval, in the event that CBO needs are not a commune-wide priority.
Beneficiaries of RDP activity who will receive improved infrastructure services include the citizens of the
communes, and community/user group members in the 100 pilot communes that receive these services. It
also includes all those commune inhabitants that gain a greater voice in local decisions affecting them.
The Commune Investment Advisory Committees (CIACs) are also important stakeholder beneficiaries.
Secondary beneficiaries include private sector service providers (e.g. design firms and civil works
contractors), county council staff, and TATs (TA/training teams) comprised of local consultants that will
train and support communes.
- 20 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Selection of Target Areas. Five of Romania's seven development regions have been selected to
participate in Phase 1 of the APL. The selection was carried out on the basis of six criteria, with primary
emphasis given to those having the lowest GDP per capita (for details, see Annex 12). Based on these
development criteria, the five regions selected were Southwest, South, Southeast, Northeast and Northwest.
In each region, the project will be implemented in one county (out of approximately 6 in each region) and
20 communes (out of about 60 per county).
The five participating counties were selected on a competitive basis. Counties went through an intensive
briefing, questionnaire and interview process intended to reveal candidates that have a clear understanding
of and commitrnent to project aims. On the basis of questionnaire responses, a short list of counties was
developed and these were interviewed by teams of consultants to determine whether criteria for
participation in the project were met. Applicants had to demonstrate the capacity to act as a good
institutional partner willing to adopt transparent, accountable, and participatory decision-making
procedures in local govenmment, least cost engineering design and economic decision criteria, and other
practices relevant to RDP project objectives, including local contribution to the project. This process has
been completed and the National Steering Committee has approved selection of the counties of Dolj,
Calarasi, Tulcea, Botosani and Salaj, as well as 100 communes within these counties.
Implementation Responsibilities. The project has a three-tier implementation approach that will allow
efficient management and monitoring, and maximum possible decentralization of responsibilities and local
participation.
National Level Coordination. The National Steering Committee (NSC) will oversee implementation of the
RDP, provide overall guidance, suggest changes to the design of the project during implementation if
monitoring and evaluation assessments indicate the need for correction, and ensure harmonization of local
and national priorities. The NSC will ratify the proposed changes in the allocation between regions and
windows. It will also make recommendations on issues of national policy, for example recommendations
on roads and water policy emanating from studies carried out during Phase 1.
GOR decree n-amber 336 of March 22, 2001, established the RDP National Steering Committee (NSC).
The Committee consists of representatives of the Ministry of Public Administration (MPA); Ministry of
Public Finance (MOF); Ministry of Agriculture, Food, and Forestry (MAFF); Ministry of Public Works,
Transport, and Housing (MPWTH); Ministry of Development and Prognosis (MDP) which coordinates the
National Agency for Regional Development (NARD); Ministry of Waters and Environment Protection
(MWEP); Ministry of Small and Medium Size Enterprises (MSMSE); a representative of the Romania
Social Development Fund (the chairman of the Board); and representatives of the Association of County
Councils and Associations of the Communes. In its last meeting, the NSC agreed to add the Ministry of
Health.
A Project Management Unit (PMU), a central unit in Bucharest, will act as a secretariat to the National
Steering Committee and be responsible for management and reporting associated with commune level
subprojects. Management and reporting for community based organization (CBO) subprojects will be the
responsibility of the Romania Social Development Fund (the distinction between commune and CBO
projects is explained further below). The RSDF is an organization with administrative and financial
capacity and procedures already established under an ongoing Bank project, the Social Development Fund.
Consequently, the following discussion focuses primarily on the PMU. The PMU's tasks entail, among
others: (i) recommending allocations of grant monies among counties; (ii) coordinating procurement
- 21 -



technical assistance and goods for selected large procurement tasks in the capacity building component; (iii)
issuing implementation guidelines (through the Operational Manual and further refinements of it); (iv)
coordinating the project monitoring system; (v) auditing performance of its deconcentrated units (PIUs);
and (vi) preparing financial reports and processing disbursement requests; and handling project funds (loan
proceeds and Government contributions) according to the financial management arrangements.
Regional Coordination. County-level Project Implementation Units (PIUs) of the PMU have been
established in the capitals of the 5 pilot counties to manage work programs. Since Phase 2 will be a
scaling-up phase, efforts will be made during Phase I to evaluate the future role of these PIUs as regional
coordinators for the project. The core functions of the PIUs will be to: (1) undertake "Bank" oversight
tasks (coordination of local TA/training teams (TATs), project screening, verification of invoices,
verification of construction supervision, etc.); (2) assist in coordination of tasks that the communes because
of their small size are not likely to carry out in the future (e.g. project technical design, complicated
economic analysis, construction, etc.); and (3) to initially carry out some tasks for which communes will
assume progressively more responsibility (e.g. procurement, some M&E), or for which county level
stakeholders will increase their capabilities (e.g. training coordination, county level M&E). Some of these
latter activities will be expected to reduce during Phase 1 as communes demonstrate increase mastery of
participatory investment planning and project management tasks.
Coordination at the level of local beneficiaries (pilot communes, associated communes and community
groups). Project implementation tasks will be carried out by the local beneficiaries along with outside
private service providers, with monitoring by the PIU and beneficiaries. Tasks undertaken by local
beneficiaries (along with the CIAC and the commune at large) in collaboration with TA/training teams
(TATs) include: (i) establishment of overall investment priorities and the relative importance of roads and
water/sanitation; (ii) decision-making on specific roads or water/sanitation investment options, based on an
analysis of the capital and recurrent costs implications of project alternatives (the latter prepared by an
outside consultant) and cost-benefit or cost-effectiveness analysis; (iii) procurement, where the commune
elects to undertake this; (iv) overseeing investment implementation, including approval of maintenance
works and payments, and reporting to the PIU or PMU any implementation difficulties; (v) operation and
maintenance; and (vi) monitoring project progress and impact.
Funding Arrangements. In the pilot counties, grant funds to finance civil works will be made available
for: (i) subprojects financed at commune level (Commune Window: approximately $30 million); and (ii)
subprojects financed at the level of the community based organization (CBO Window: $2 million).
Commune Level Window. The RDP will finance infrastructure projects (water/sanitation, roads) at the
level of an individual commune - or an associated group of communes - with key decisions made by the
commune council on the basis of technical information from the TAT and citizen input (CIAC views,
public consultations), as well technical input from extemal private sector consultants. Each pilot
commune can implement up to two projects during Phase I of RDP. The maximum amount of funds
allowed to a single commune as RDP grants during this period will be determined by the NSC, but is
set prospectively at US $300,000. Disbursement pattems are to be evaluated periodically, with
unspent funds in a given commune or county re-allocated across locations, as appropriate, and subject
to approval of the NSC, based on recommendations from the PMU, and Bank acceptance.
Project Cyclefor Commune Window. Rural investment projects will conform to the following general
project cycle. The Operational Manual gives more detailed, specific guidelines for water/sanitation,
and roads subprojects:
- 22 -



(i) Identification. Training and facilitation of commune stakeholders and project beneficiairies, will
start as soon as possible after project effectiveness. An initial task will be to help the commune
develop a participation action plan, and to monitor and support implementation of that plan through the
project cycle. The commune will identify commune-wide general investment needs as well as
infrastructure needs. The TAT will then, in close collaboration with the commune, complete an
assessment of the configuration and condition of the local infrastructure network (water/sanitation
and/or transport assessment). Specific project options will emerge from this exercise which can then be
costed by a contracted private design firm knowledgeable in cost-effective design approaches. Based
on an evaluation of the budgetary implications of subproject capital and lifecycle costs, and an
economic assessment, the commune council will ratify the project choices that it believes meets local
needs and wishes, and are affordable, economic, and sustainable. The commune and beneficiaries will
be given training and assistance in assessing obligations for payment of at least 10% of capital costs,
and all recurrent costs, over the project life cycle, and in identifying potential revenue sources
(including local taxes). Detailed plans for procurement, and an operation and maintenance plan, will
be required of the commune stakeholders and beneficiaries.
(ii) Feasibility study, engineering design. screening and approval. The commune council will submit
its candidate proposals to the PIU, which will screen them for compliance with RDP eligibility criteria
(technical, social, financial, and cost-sharing). The commune (individually or in association with other
communes,) or the PIU will then tender out the feasibility study to a consultant who will prepare an
evaluation report. All necessary permits will accompany the feasibility studies. Subproject proposals
will be screened at the PIU and those meeting the selection criteria will be considered approved for
funding.
(iii) Implementation. Once a project has been approved for funding, the PIU or commune will tender
out the civil works. Procurement options and procedures are explained in Section E 4.3 in more detail.
Supervision of works will be the responsibility of a certified site supervisor selected by the commune,
or PIU. To increase cost-effectiveness of supervision, the PIU will seek arrangements for sharing the
same site supervisor with more projects. PIU staff will be responsible for oversight of the site
supervisor and oversight of M&E, much of the data collection for which will be carried out by project
stakeholders and beneficiaries.
Community Based Organization (CBO) Window. A smaller portion of infrastructure grants ($2
million in total) will be channeled to very poor communities during Phase 1, to finance individual
projects submitted by community based organizations. Such subprojects projects will focus on
small-scale infrastructure up to a total cost per project of US$75,000.
Early in the commune facilitation process the TATs will, with the commune, identify the
social-geographical structure of all villages to ensure that each village and social group is properly
represented. The participation action plan developed early in the commune facilitation process will
ensure this. To be eligible for CBO projects, communities will have to meet pre-established SDF
criteria (in addition, for roads subprojects, they will need to agree to form a PRA to maintain the road.)
Villagers will prepare and propose candidate projects for the CBO window with the assistance of
consultants and facilitators, hired by the RSDF, and submit them to RSDF for review and ranking
against the eligibility criteria. Implementation of the CBO sub-projects will be done applying SDF
procedures as spelled out in the RSDF Operational Manual. The principles of community participation
and least-cost technical solutions will be consistently applied.
- 23 -



Financial management (see Annex 6b for detailed Review of Financial Management Arrangements).
The Project Management Unit (PMU), established within the Ministry of Public Administration (MPA)
will bear overall responsibility for the financial management aspects of the Project. The Romanian Social
Development Fund (RSDF) will administer only the funds through the CBO window and will report
regularly to the PMU, in a timely manner for consolidation of the entire Project at the PMU level. All
financial management and disbursement procedures will be in accordance with the relevant World Bank
guidelines.
The Romanian Government has established and will maintain a project financial management system
(FMS) in a format acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with OPIBP 10.02 and the WB financial
management requirements.
Before Board presentation a WB accredited Financial Management Specialist performed a detailed
assessment of the system in accordance with the Bank's OP/BP 10.02 and the WB Project Financial
Management requirements, and has certified that the Project meets the minimum World Bank financial
management requirements. Additional steps agreed with the borrower to strengthen the system are included
in the FM Action Plan.
Financial Accounting and Reporting. The PMU will keep separate project accounts, by each financing
source and by each project component and activity. RSDF will maintain its own records and accounts and
provide quarterly reports on its actions and all project related activities to the PMU. The Borrower has
expressed the preference to use Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs). The PMU will prepare quarterly
FMRs for the Project in accordance with formats agreed with the Bank during negotiations. The FMRs
will be submitted to the WB no later than 45 days after each quarter's end. The first quarterly FMIRs will
be submitted after the end of the quarter in which disbursements commence, most likely Q3 of 2002 and
will be due on November 15, 2002.
Audit arrangements. The project annual financial statements will be audited each fiscal year in accordance
with Bank guidelines, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, based on terms of reference agreed
with the Bank. Conclusion of a contract with selected auditors, satisfactory to the Bank, is a dated covenant
in the Loan Agreement (to be fulfilled by 15 September 2002). Copies of the audit reports will be submitted
to the Bank within six months after the close of the fiscal year (calendar year). The audit reports will cover
the Project Financial Statements, Special and Project Accounts' Statements, as well as all the Statement of
Expenses (SOEs).
Disbursements. Disbursements from the Loan be made based on traditional disbursement methods (i.e.,
from the Special Accounts with reimbursements made based on Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) and
full documentation, and direct payments from the Loan Account). There will be two Special Accounts, one
only for the CBO window and one for the rest of the Project. The Government will establish, maintain and
operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, the Special Accounts denominated in the Loan
currency, at a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. The PMU will be responsible for disbursements
from the first Special Account, which will fund all Commune window and non-CBO costs. RSDF will be
responsible for a second. Special Account, which will only fund grants through the CBO window and costs
associated with such grants. The PMU will also use a separate project account for the Government
contributions to the Project.
- 24 -



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Several project design alternatives were considered.
Financial Support to Co-finance SAPARD Projects. The option of co-financing projects with
EU/SAPARD was explored, but because of the difficulties in harmonizing procedures and
requirements set by the two donor institutions, it was decided in discussions with the MOPF and
SAPARD officials in Brussels to have two parallel operations. RDP will facilitate access to
SAPARD funds by building project preparation capacity among potential beneficiaries at commune
level, rather than providing co-financing.
Regional Approach for the Project. The option of a nationwide focus, as followed by SAPARD,
was considered. However, after taking account of local institutional weaknesses and discussing the
realities of project implementation with stakeholders, the team decided on a phased approach that
targets a subset of regions, and counties and communes within them. This allows the project to test
the proposed implementation arrangements rather than wait until there is adequate institutional
capacity across the country. It was therefore decided to start in those counties that could meet
defined criteria for institutional readiness (as well as poverty criteria) and then extend the approach
to a broader geographical area. This will ensure that the technical assistance provided under RDP
can be efficiently targeted and will allow lessons can be drawn before it is scaled up during Phase 2.
Scope for the Project Menu. The team discussed the option of offering a broad menu of investment
activities from which communes and local comrnunities could choose, versus a narrower one.
Clearly a broad menu is consistent with the need to increase local choice. As a practical matter, it
was difficult to include a large number of different investmnent options in Phase 1 because of the
complexity of the preparation process, i.e. ensuring technical rigor and applying best practice
approaches across a large number of sectors, and the limited ability of local institutions in Romania
to handle a large range of investments. The team has chosen to approach expansion of the menu in a
step by step manner. In Phase I, comnune level investments will be limited to roads and
water/sanitation, although within these a broad range of technology choices will be available. Once
the two types of investments are satisfactorily implemented during Phase 1, consideration will be
given to expansion in Phase 2 of the list of commune investments.
Infrastructure Technology Options. Cost-effective technologies will be used, and rehabilitation of
existing infrastructure and upgrades will be emphasized over new construction (no new roads will be
built). Hybrid solutions will be chosen to optimize investments and to tailor interventions to local
needs. In the case of sanitation, sewerage systems as a generalized solution to village sanitation was
rejected, because (i) a sewerage system is the appropriate solution only for densely populated urban
areas where individual water consumption is high; and (ii) it is expensive (investment costs are high,
and O&M cannot be carried out on an individual basis, but by a team of operators with high running
costs).
Target Training Population The team considered focusing the training on community-based
organizations and other elements of civil society rather than elected officials and staff. This was
- 25 -



rejected, however, because for both the commune and county councils, planning is a legitimate
function that elected local govermments exercise using their staff and external consultants. By
focusing the training on the elected officials, their technical staffs, and project beneficiaries,
community groups and local representatives, the RDP will not only strengthen the capacity of local
govemment in investment planning, but also use the project as way to improve their transparency and
accountability in activities related to investment planning, decision-making, and project
implementation.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Agricultural Adjustment           ASAL                             U            S
Rural Development                 Rural Finance                    S            S
Agriculture                       Agricultural Services Support   HS            S
Project
Land Development                  Cadastre and Registration        S            S
Project
Forestry                          Forest Development Program
Social Development                Social Development Fund          S            S
Private Sector Adjustment         PSAL                             S            S
Irrigation                        Irrigation Sector Rehabilitation
and Reform
Rural Transport                   Albania Rural Roads Project
Rural Water and Sanitation        Kyrgyz Rural Water Project
Other development agencies
EU                                SAPARD (Special Accession
Program for Agriculture and
Rural Development.
USAID                             Support to dairy marketing
(completed) and warehouse
receipts (on-going).
Canadian Aid (CIDA)               Input to develop grain grading
system (completed).
UK Aid (DFID)                     Rural development project
co-located with RDP (planned).
Swiss Aid                         Small rural water project
.__________________________________  (com pleted).
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
- 26 -



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Maintain a Conducive Policy Regime for Rural Areas. Bank projects perform better within a
market oriented policy framework. The Romania ASAL has supported creation of such an
environment, with extensive reforms undertaken from 1997 through the present. Although there is
still room for improvement (e.g. in subsidy policies, the rural business environment, contract
enforcement, legal regime, etc.) the recent ASAL ICR confinms that the policy regime has improved
substantially since 1996.
Coordinate with Other Donors within a Conmnon Strategic Framework. The Bank's Vision to
Action observes that the World Bank cannot shoulder all rural development activities. Cooperation
with other donors is required, as well as a shared strategic framework. The Romania RDP is based
on coordination with EU/SAPARD, and on a national rural development strategy to which the Bank
has contributed heavily through its preparatory analytical work. In addition, the project has received
substantial support for project preparation and M&E system development from the British aid
agency, DFID.
Anticipate Inter-ministerial Coordination Problems. An OED evaluation of Bank rural
development projects concluded that integrated rural development projects had serious problems in
implementation. A major problem with such projects is the difficulty in obtaining cooperation from
many line ministries when implementation of a large number of activities occurs and these cut across
ministries. In Romania, the decentralization process has reduced the importance of central
govenmment ministries in implementing local projects, while increasing the role of local govemrnment
bodies that think cross-sectorally. To some extent, this reduces such coordination problems, and
local implementation structures will therefore be heavily emphasized. In addition, an inter-ministerial
National Steering Committee was formed in January, 2001 and this has established the basis for
future inter-ministerial cooperation where this is necessary (e.g. on higher level administrative and
policy issues that cut across ministries).
Beneficiary and Community Involvement is Essential. Past experience has shown that rural
development projects are most effective when they are conceived and implemented with and by the
beneficiaries (individuals, community and user groups, local govemment.) Beneficiaries have to
assume increased responsibility for delivery, maintenance and financing of projects of their own
choosing. The RDP has already involved potential beneficiaries and stakeholders early in the project
design process. This has continued in the pre-Board area selection exercise, and it will continue
during implementation. Project programming, supervision of implementation, O&M, and monitoring
and evaluation, are to occur in close consultation with local affected interests.
Need to Mainstream Social Fund Activities. A recent OED evaluation of social funds found that
they are good at mobilizing communities and delivering some infrastructure services, but that lack of
project sustainability is a problem, with many project implementation, operation, and maintenance
activities ultimately carried out by entities outside the community that depend on continued donor
support to function. The RDP will help to address this problem by taking an important step toward
mainstreaming community driven investment activities into commune-level decision-making and
implementation processes. It will do this by bringing communities into closer proximity with local
govemnment through the activities of the Community Based Organization (CBO) Window. Through
their activities in pilot communes, CBOs will have increased input into local govermment decisions,
while local govemments will take more explicit account of the problems of remote communities and
marginal groups in its planning process. This approach, which will be evaluated at mid-term,
- 27 -



provides an institutional basis for more sustainable community-based infrastructure activities while
increasing the accountability of local governments to communities. The linkage with local
governments should also give communities wider access to outside funding.
Infrastructure Operations and Maintenance. Rural water supply and local roads have typically
been adequately operated and maintained only when they enjoy the support of beneficiary groups,
and when O&M responsibility is willingly assumed by the beneficiary. Many rural water supply
systems that currently exist in other countries have been implemented through Government and
extemal grant funds, and most of these installations have ceased to operate because of inadequate
O&M. Maintenance is also chronic problem in rural road projects. These problems will be
alleviated in the case of water by carrying out the upfront field inquiry and sensitization campaign,
with adequate cost-recovery provisions that beneficiaries agree to before project implementation, and
in the case of roads by highlighting maintenance issues early, establishing an affordable local
maintenance plan covering the life of the investment, and, where possible, having beneficiaries
allocate funds or actually maintain at least a portion of the local road network.
Principles for Subproject EligiLbility. Based on the above lessons and the findings of project
preparation studies, the following principles will guide the public investment program for all
water/sanitation and roads subprojects and are reflected in specific guidelines and selection criteria in
the Operational Manual:
Demand driven approach. The RDP will encourage counties and communes to make their own
investment decisions among a range of options but offering incentives for more efficient, sustainable
choices. A menu of technology options is available under RDP, stating typical per capita investment
costs, options for their management, and in the case of water, expected tariff levels. This information
enables informed decision making at the lowest possible level. Local participation will be ensured
through priority setting and support for decision-making processes. RDP will also support the review
of design standards and technical specifications for local roads to ensure their cost-effective design.
Sharing of capital costs. A minimum of 10% of the initial capital costs of investment schemes are to
be financed by the project commune and/or beneficiaries, of which at least 7% must be in cash. The
remainder can be contributed through in-kind contributions. Existing commune infrastructure shall
not be eligible as part of the cost sharing arrangements. Local cost sharing is an important
demonstration of commitment to the project, and gives local citizens an incentive to hold locally
elected officials and the users accountable for the use of funds.
Full recovery of operational and maintenance cost. Each scheme shall present at the time of the
feasibility study, a fully elaborated business plan. This will include a financing plan that fully covers
(operations and) maintenance costs, amortization costs and a reinvestmentlexpansion program. In
the case of water, evidence that proposed water tariffs/costs do not exceed 7% of total household
cash income in the service area shall be provided.
Range of management options. A menu of management options is available from which the project
commune can select. In the case of water, this menu will consist of models for service contracts and
management contracts with private sector participants, and model management agreements with
communities. Prior to submission for approval, agreements regarding the technical, administrative
and financial management of the schemes shall be concluded and signed between the project holder
and the relevant entity that assumes the management of the scheme. Such entities could also consist
of local private contractors that were involved in the construction of the project through a so-called
- 28 -



BOM contract (Build Operate and Manage), or of a community group through a community
management agreement. In some cases (likely to be rare) the commune administration could decide
to manage such schemes directly.
Capital costs. The cost of individual commune level projects is likely to be between US$35,000 and
US$200,000. In the case of projects with an estimated value of less than US$75,000, the feasibility
study shall already encompass the detailed designs. In the case of water projects, such installations
typically comprise a number of point source improvements with none or only limited reticulation and
treatment requirements. The Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Housing (MPWTH) shall
prepare such standard drawings with their bills of quantity attached. During the training of the
design firms involved in RDP, such design elements shall be elaborated and practiced with.
In addition, for water subprojects, the following principles specific to those projects will also apply:
Service levels (for water). Support in public water supplies shall not exceed the level currently
adopted as the basic service level of the public and metered stand-post and the associated per capita
water consumption of 50 liters/capita/day. Higher service levels such as the establishment of yard
taps and house-connections are encouraged, but house connections are to be metered and fully
financed by the beneficiary. The proposed tariff structure for the schemes shall take into account the
different service levels. In the case of piped schemes, the technical design shall be based on a
maximum of 40% of household connection. In cases where the commune wishes to design for a
higher percentage of house connections, the commune or beneficiaries will have to finance the
additional costs.
Maximum per capita investment level (for water/sanitation). The maximum per capita investment
shall not exceed US$120. In cases where due to local circumstances, the cost of the least cost option
is higher, the commune or beneficiaries will have to finance the additional costs. Limited exceptions
will be made for only special cases approved by the NSC. Only in exceptional circumstances will
investments higher than US$150 be eligible for funding under RDP, for overall equity reasons in the
program.
For commune-run water schemes, the Project would provide training to operators through the
National Water Training Center located in Bucharest and/or the three Regional Water Training
Centers (located in Cluj, Constanza and Iasi), which are currently managed by the Romanian Water
Association. This training is complementary to the training activities recommended in institutional
capacity building and training (Component A). The candidate operators would be selected by the
communes participating in the Project: they could become commune employees or be contracted as
private operators by the communes. The operator team could carry out O&M in more than one
commune, and substantial economies could be achieved, by adopting this solution.
For roads subprojects, the following four principles will apply, to encourage counties and communes
to improve operation and maintenance of rural roads:
Identification of the core maintainable network: counties and communes will identify sustainable
core networks in the road classification study at an early stage of RDP (Jurisdictional
Responsibility, Management and Financing of Local Roads).
Improvement in cost-effective local road management and data systems. RDP will support the
development of Road Maintenance Management System (RMMS) and associated data base to enable
- 29 -



project selection and prioritization based on engineering-economic methods.
Up-front commitnent on O&M: Communes will be required to commit budget resources to
operation and maintenance of their network as part of the sub-project application process.
New approachesfor management of low-volume roads. RDP will help sponsor a legal framework
for managing village roads by beneficiaries (Private Road Associations), a model that has been
successful in a number of Western European countries.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The GOR commitment to the project and policies that support has been demonstrated by the following
actions:
Actions to create legalfoundations
*   the Government's National Rural Development Strategy specifically includes other local
government strengthening and rural infrastructure as priorities;
*   a revised Law on Public Administration has recently been passed that upholds the
essentials of the decentralization framework established in 1991, including the autonomy
of counties and communes;
*   a new Law on Public Services has recently been passed by the Parliament at the initiative
of MPA, that established a supportive legal framework for involvement of private sector in
managing such services.
Actions to create basis for project administration
*   the RDP National Steering Committee has been established by Government Decision and
has ratified the selection of five pilot counties and 100 communes;
*   the MPA has established office facilities for the RDP Project Management Unit and
staffed the PMU and regional PIUs before presentation of the project to the Board of
Directors of the World Bank.
Other proactive measures demonstrating ownership
*   staff of the MPA, MOPF and MPWTH have made themselves an integral part of the RDP
pilot area selection process as official observers;
*   new standards for design of water supply projects in rural areas were enacted in 2000 that
for the first time make the distinction between technical requirements of projects in urban
and rural environments. The reviewed standards establish new design criteria, much more
suitable for rural areas, and allow for simple solutions to be considered, according to local
conditions and needs;
*   the number of clearances required for water and roads projects in pilot counties was
recently reduced, as agreed jointly by MPA and MPWTH.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has built considerable experience in Romania with policy dialogue in the rural sector and
public administration. The community building activities of the SDF project provide an important
foundation of experience on community building and local infiastructure delivery, on which RDP can
- 30 -



build. The Bank also draws on international experience and lessons learned from similar projects
implemented in other countries, including rural development projects, social funds, freestanding rural
roads and water/sanitation projects, local government decentralization efforts, and small rural
infrastructure projects. The Adaptable Program Loan, a relatively new instrument, provides flexibility
in adapting project design during implementation, with an agreed framework of policy and institutional
reform.
Because of its experience in the sector, the Bank has also been able to contribute to development of an
inter-donor framework for collaboration on rural and community driven development development. In
particular, it has collaborated with the EU in Brussels and Bucharest, and SAPARD officials in the
Ministry of Agriculture, to develop the rural development strategy that underpins SAPARD.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit     NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
0 Cost effectiveness
* Other (specify)
This section describes the eligibility criteria and economic analysis approaches suitable for the different
expected project types.
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation: While the number of beneficiaries and cost per beneficiary can
be easily quantified, it is more difficult to value benefits. The benefits range from reduction in
water-related diseases (caused by pollution or bacteriological problems) which reduces health care
costs, to improvement in the rural business and investment environment. In Romania, a particularly
important benefit of water/sanitation investments is improved health. Annex 4 documents the impact of
poor water quality on health in Romania, focusing mainly on the effects of nitrification.
In cases where subprojects have clear benefits in terms of health or time savings, and these can be
feasibly measured, subproject proposals will contain a cost-benefit analysis. Results for this type of
analysis are presented in Annex 4, for representative subprojects. In cases where cost-benefit analysis
is not possible, cost-effectiveness analysis will be required.
Roads: The roads that will be considered for financing under this project are of two kinds: (a) higher
volume roads that connect commune centers to villages, or provide access to rural communes and
activities in those communes: homes, education, health and other services, stores, businesses; and (b)
lower volume roads that provide access to farmland, or serve remote villages requiring access to
outside facilities (e.g. education, health). The former tend to have a countable level of motorized
traffic, say more than 50 vehicles per day, but the beneficiaries and their usage are more difficult to
fully identify. For these roads a simplified benefit-cost analysis using the RED model developed by the
Bank is appropriate (the RED model is described more fully in Annex 4). For the latter roads,
economic benefits, beneficiaries, and the influence area can more easily be identified. For many of
these roads, an economic analysis will be undertaken. For low-volume roads having mainly social
benefits (e.g. access to education or health facilities,) a simpler cost-effectiveness assessment will be
undertaken.
Subprojects with clear economic benefits will be expected to show an ex ante economic rate of return
of at least 10 percent, lower than that required of standard road or highway projects, but acceptable
because of the Project's expected distributive benefits. The application of the benefit cost analysis is
- 31 -



straightforward. Cost-benefit analyses for representative projects are given in Annex 4.
Finally, no new roads will be constructed (all road investments will be for rehabilitation) and no new
land or resettlement of resident or businesses will be required.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Rural Water Supply and Sanitation. The project will aim for maximum feasible cost recovery given
the Government's limited ability to subsidize rural capital investments country-wide. In Phase 1 of the
project, communes and/or direct beneficiaries will contribute at least 10% of capital costs for
subprojects, of which at least 7% will be in cash. This represents a substantial change from the current
situation in which communes and beneficiaries contribute little if anything to capital costs. This level
of contribution will be reviewed in the course of Phase 1, as part of the rural water/sanitation strategy
study funded under the project, allowing an increase in Phase 2 if this is judged necessary and
appropriate.
Operation and maintenance (O&M) expenses are to be fully funded by the beneficiaries. Annual O&M
expenses will include expenses for (i) electricity; (ii) chemicals; (iii) maintenance costs (estimated as
0.4% of the total value of civil works; and 3.5% of electromechanical equipment value,) and (iv)
depreciation. Water tariffs in each commune will be set at a such a level as to guarantee full
self-support for O&M through water sales. The water tariff will also include a provision for the
replacement of electromechanical equipment (e.g. submersible electric borehole pumps, which have a
useful life of about 10 years.) The cost of water (including depreciation) is expected to range from
$.97/month per household to $1.85/month per household, depending on the specific technical option
implemented and the consumption levels that result. Such tariff levels are modest in relation to average
rural household incomes of $75/month (2000 dollars), and range from 1.3% to 2.5% of income. This
is well below the 7% of household income that the team used as an expected upper limit on average
rural households' ability to pay.
Roads. For Commune Window projects, RDP will require communes to contribute at least 10% of
investment costs. As with water/sanitation, this contribution level will be reviewed during Phase 1,
with the possibly for increase in Phase 2. Local cost sharing has the important advantage of giving
local citizens an incentive to hold locally elected officials accountable for the use of funds. Recurrent
costs for maintenance will be fully bome by the commune, which will sign a Participation Agreement
committing to road maintenance, as a condition of receiving RDP grants, by allocating a portion of
budgetary funds for maintenance for the local network that is under its jurisdiction and responsibility
(this assumes that at least a portion of the existing network is physically maintainable).
For the CBO Window, RDP will require that the beneficiaries associate and commit themselves to
maintaining the road. This can be done using a combination of in-kind labor, materials and money
contributed the beneficiaries. This is in line with the requirements of the current Operational Manual
for CBO projects, developed by the Romania Social Development Fund (SDF).
Fiscal Impact:
The Govenmment commnitment totals $8.4 million, which represents approximately 16% of total project
costs. As Phase 1 of RDP will promote two cycles of sub-projects, the demands upon the
Government's fiscal resources will vary across the years of project. The Borrower has commnitted to
contributing approximately 25% of project costs. This percentage is divided between the central
- 32 -



government, which will finance all taxes involved with the Project, and the final beneficiaries
(communes, local communities and user groups), who will contribute at least 10% of sub-project costs.
It is envisioned that the project will require Government funding in each successive project year of
$0.66 million, $3.67 million, $1.52 million, and $2.80 million.
Subprojects have a short-term impact on local budgets and this will be evaluated during initial
TA/training. As mentioned above, local govemments and/or beneficiaries will have to pay for a
portion of sub-project capital costs (10% or more), and all O&M costs. Once local government project
options are costed over their life cycle with the assistance of an outside consultant (typically the design
engineering firm responsible for the pre-feasibility study), the commune and potential beneficiaries will
examine the potential impact on local budgets of different options. Since local budgets are highly
constrained, this process will provide a strong incentive for consideration of least-cost technology
options. It will also provide the opportunity to investigate options to use local taxes to pay for the
infrastructure, which is allowed under the Local Public Finance Law. The TA/training team will
provide support on local budgeting and revenue raising during this process.
In the short term, the project investments will not generate irmmediate revenues, although over the
longer term national and possibly local revenues will increase due to the improved productivity and
health of rural inhabitants. Policy studies commnissioned under the project for both roads and
water/sanitation will examine the long term fiscal implications of RDP expansion beyond the pilot
areas, and will recommend improvements in current roads and water/sanitation financing approaches
and subsidies (e.g. level of subsidy on capital investments) and revenue raising instruments.
3. Technical:
Cost-effective road and water/sanitation technology options have been identified for the first round of
projects by an international consultant. Short workshops are planned for design finns in pilot areas to
acquaint them with these designs and with the design approach that puts affordability (rather than the
perceived "best" technology) at the forefront of the design process. A formal review of the extant
design standards for local roads is proposed as part of the project's technical assistance. The MTPWH
has agreed to the study, and to adopt a range of cost-effective options based on results. Training of
engineering design firms in a menu of lower-cost technologies that are more suitable to the rural
environment and that are more cost-effective and affordable for local inhabitants is also planned.
Groups of communes will have the opportunity to prepare joint proposals and exploit economies of
scale in infrastructure by applying for funds allocated to the Commune Window.
4. Institutional:
An institutional and social assessment conducted during preparation has provided an evaluation of the
strengths and weaknesses of institutions involved in project management and execution, in particular
the Regional Development Agencies, technical units at county level, and commune level bodies.
Institutional capabilities for procurement and financial management have also been assessed. Section
C.4 outlines proposed implementation arrangements and organizations. Ministry counterparts have
emphasized the need to support existing institutions rather than create new ones, and the team has
followed this approach.
- 33 -



4.1 Executing agencies:
Execution ofproject preparation, implementation and O&M. Local public administration units and
stakeholders in the pilot communes will take on the tasks of project identification,
investmentlinfrastructure priority setting, and decision making, and will assume increasing degrees of
responsibility for project contracting and preparation, implementation and O&M, as their improved
capacity allows. An agreed, structured program of participation and local consultation will inform
local decision making. Positive incentives will be given to communes that associate with one another,
and for collaboration between different levels of government.
The execution of a pilot program of investments through a great nurnber of small contracts in rural
areas requires organization and management capacity. RDP and the PIU will work with communes
and communities, developing innovative participatory processes for the sector and establishing
alliances with other actors and adjacent communes. Progress in project capacity building will be
judged in part by the ability of commune level stakeholders to take on increasing responsibility for
project management functions, such as procurement.
4.2 Project management:
Primary decision making and coordination responsibility for the project lies with the NSC, a body that
will work as a liaison with all Ministries involved in the project, and with the Bank. It will be
responsible for, among other tasks: consideration all national policy proposals and issues arising from
the project, periodic re-allocation of investment funds, preparation of the annual work plan and the
related budget proposal for the approval of the National Steering Commnittee, and it will coordinate the
necessary budgetary allocations with Govemment.
The Project Management Unit (PMU) will function as a technical secretariat to the NSC and be located
in the Ministry of Public Admninistration (MPA). The MPA is the main national level liaison with the
territorial units that will benefit from RDP - and it is responsible for supporting the policy of local
government decentralization in Romania, as well as having partial responsibility for local service
delivery. The PMU will be responsible for:
*   proposing indicative budget allocations between regions to the NSC;
*   coordinating the institutional capacity building program;
*   issuing implementation guidelines;
*   paying the contractors and consultants, at least initially (over time these responsibilities
will devolve to the PIUs, as their financial competence improves);
*   preparing progress reports, processing disbursements request and managing the Special
Account;
*   auditing the performance of its local units (PIUs).
In performing its role in project management, the PMU will be assisted by five Project Implementation
Units (PIU) located in the pilot counties. PMU financial management functions will increasing devolve
to PIU and county staff during Phase lof the Project. In the second expansion phase, the PIUs will
serve as regional bodies that coordinate project activities in expansion areas as well as the original pilot
areas.
The capacity building vision is to have PIUs perform only "Bank" functions (e.g. verification that
procurement procedures are followed) and higher level functions that the communes have no long term
-34 -



role in providing (e.g. higher level road network database and decision making). It may temporarily
support communes in some areas in which communes will take on a progressively larger role (e.g.
procurement, local monitoring), and county staff in areas where they are expected to demonstrate
improved capacity (e.g. M&E, training coordination, and project screening). Initially, the PIUs will:
*   coordinate activities of Technical Assistance/Training Teams (TATs, who are responsible
for commune training)
*   enter into project agreements with beneficiaries, while monitoring commune/beneficiary
contributions to verify that they are put to their intended use;
*   screen commune window proposals against eligibility criteria and prepare a list that will be
financed according to the budgetary allocation decided for that county by the NSC;
*   coordinate monitoring and evaluating progress in implementation (i.e. collecting data for
the MIS, preparing project management reports, financial reports);
*   undertake local procurement of consultants and civil works in cases where the commune
has decided it lacks the capability to undertake these tasks on their own. Where the
beneficiary communes opt to carry out procurement, the PIU will check that procurement
has occurred according to established guidelines, and the PIU will initially provide of
procurement support until communes are capable of the task;
*   verify invoices and forward them to the PMU, paying contractors when that responsibility
is transferred to the PIUs from the PMU.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A procurement system will cover all aspects related to procurement of works and selection of
consultants. Given the small scale and large number of subprojects anticipated, the proposed project
will rely on National Competitive Bidding and procedures for Minor Works which are more suitable
for the commune environment. This procurement modality will allow implementation of small works
that have difficulty attracting contractors and enable communes or commnunity associations to become
responsible for maintaining their infrastructure. Procurement procedures and guidelines are described
in detail in the Project Operational Manual.
PMU and the PIUs will both be staffed with a procurement specialist, whose services will be engaged
as consultants, with experience and familiarity with Bank procurement requirements, and other staff
will undertake planning, scheduling and cost estimations. Every six months, independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank will conduct a performance audit of the project, examining, for a sample of
sub-projects under execution, procurement procedures and contract administration practices applied by
the PMU and the PIUJs.
The project has been rated as "high risk" from a procurement point of view and the thresholds for
procurement methods and prior reviews have been established accordingly. The following actions have
been, or will be taken to mitigate the procurement risks to project implementation:
*   the PMU procurement specialist has been selected (before negotiations);
*   after approval of the project by the Board of the Bank, but before loan effectiveness,
procurement workshops will be held as part of the project launch workshops. The
objective of these workshops will be to familiarize the procurement specialists, the
technical and legal staff of the PIUs and local administration units that will be involved in
the project, with the procurement requirements under the project. These workshops will be
repeated at least two times during the first year of implementation;
- 35-



*   a procurement specialist at each PIU will be selected and trained before effectiveness;
*   the PMU and PlUs will set up a computerized procurement monitoring system both for
tracking procurement actions as well as to prepare periodic progress reports within three
months of signing;
* the PMU will prepare a code of ethics for its use and use of the PIUs. This code can be
based on the relevant provisions in the law of public servants.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The first CFAA (Country Financial Accountability Assessment) for Romania is planned to be carried out
in late 2002 - early 2003. When finalized, the document will present in detail the financial management
risks for the country and the implications for the World Bank operations.
From the financial management perspective, the Project is considered a substantial-risk operation and
major risks in the financial management area are presented below:
Country generic risks. A summary of the main country generic risks follows. After several steps in
cleaning the Romanian banking system carried out over the past years, banking systemic risk is still
generally perceived as being significant. The most recent cases announced by the Central bank confirm
this, and some commercial banks are still regarded as unsafe. The main problems reside in asset quality,
bad-loans percentage, liquidity problems, relatively high foreign currency exposure, and sometimes
fraudulent operations. It is perceived that by opening the Special Accounts at the a sound commercial bank,
acceptable to the Bank, the banking risk will be kept at an acceptable level.
Inflation and USD/ROL exchange rate evolution remain a major problem for Romania. Despite a
significant improvement over the past years, inflation for the year 2000 was 40%, while ROL depreciation
was 42%. The Govemment has estimated inflation in 2001 to be 25%. The latest estimate for the year is
30.3%, while the USD/ROL exchange rate has depreciated by 21.9% over the same period. The risk for
this project is that all cost estimations may be affected by inflation. This was tackled by using a stable
currency for estimates (USD) and updating the ROL equivalent amounts using the exchange rate at the
time of payment.
Romania's public sector financial management still needs significant reform. There is a certain lack of
accountability in the Govenmment's overall accounting and reporting functions. The SAI (Court of
Accounts) is playing its role to a limited extent, with long delays between the period covered by its reports
and the date these are finalized, so that they are outdated by the time of issue (e.g., the report for the year
2000 was presented in the beginning of 2002). These factors lead to a significant public sector financial
management risks.
During the recent past some concems have been raised concerning fraud, waste and abuse of donor funds in
the region. Perceived corruption as reported in the press is principally in the area of procurement. To this
end, significant protection measures must be taken to protect the Project's assets against fraud, waste and
abuse. The risk that the Bank's funds will not be used as intended for financing the defined investment
program is judged as acceptable by introducing several measures, in principal the 'ring-fencing' of the
project through the establishment of dedicated entities, the PMU within the MPA, and the PIUs in each of
the 5 selected regions, that will act as the project implementation units at the local level, with a
comprehensive staff structure and segregation of duties within the units, the competitive selection of staff
agreed by the Bank, the creation of specialized teams within the beneficiaries' entities, requiring
beneficiaries' representatives to certify the works done, goods delivered and services rendered before
payments are made to the suppliers, proper supervision from the World Bank's teams and an independent
- 36 -



yearly audit of the project funds by a reputable audit firm, acceptable to the Bank.
The Borrower (Government of Romania) had audit items overdue as of 30 June' 2001 on a small number of
Bank projects, but remedied the situation by the end of 2001.
Project specific risks. One risk is that the PMU and the PlUs assume the authority and responsibility for
every aspect of the project, thereby exposing it to possible risks of collusion and corruption. To address
this risk: (i) all Project payment orders will be signed jointly by the PMU director and financial manager,
and by a high MPA official, such as a state secretary; (ii) the PlUs will collect and check the invoices and
together with the beneficiaries' representatives will certify the works done, goods delivered and services
rendered before the invoices are sent for approval and payment to the PMU.
Moreover, the complete segregation of duties amongst PMU and PlUs staff members will have to be
achieved, i.e. the fimctions of implementing and overseeing will not reside with the same PMU/PIU staff
member. In addition, the project financial statements will be audited by an external auditor, acceptable to
the WB.
The second risk is that the project is exposed to delays in payments to suppliers: (i) due to the signatures
required on Government contributions and (ii) inadequate counterpart funds in the Government project
accounts. The experience on existing projects indicates that this risk to a large extent is contained by
adequate supervision by the Bank and has not been a problem so far. The amounts to be allocated by the
Government for the year 2002 will be included in the budget rectification exercise in the summer-autumn of
2002 and adjusted if needed throughout the second half of 2002. Then, the annual Government
contributions for 2003 and yearly thereafter will be allocated in advance as a separate budgetary line, by
the time the yearly state budget is prepared and drafted.
The signing mechanism proposed for operation of the above accounts is perceived as acceptable, and since
the PMU is located within the MPA, all the signatures required will be obtained in a timely manner.
The amounts to be used as Government contribution to the project for the year 2002 (the first year of the
Project implementation) will be very limited, as the project will most likely become effective close to June
30, 2002. The borrower stated that the amounts for 2002 do not constitute an issue, as sufficient amounts
are already included as own funds available in the 2002 budget of the MPA and also due to the fact that
contributions to the project during 2002 are relatively limited in size. Therefore it is considered that this
risk is kept at a moderate level.
The third risk relates to the fact that the PMU and PIlUs were just recently established and their experience
with the World Bank procedures is limited. By having selected as key PMU and PIUs staff qualified
individuals, with experience in project management and financing, budgetary, trade and commercial
accounting skills, reporting, etc., it is perceived that this risk can be kept at a moderate level. This risk can
be further reduced to a lower level by training the PMU and PIUs staff to become fully familiar with the
Bank's procedures. To this end it is recommended that relevant financial management, procurement and
disbursement training is provided (such as training courses organized periodically by the WB in the region).
The fourth risk concerns beneficiaries' in-kind and cash contributions to the sub-projects. This may lead to
disputes in terns of the equivalent amount (in-kind contribution quantified in monetary terms). There may
also be uncertainty as to whether the in-kind contribution by the beneficiaries will be delivered on time
during implementation, as the agricultural season overlaps with the time of implementation of certain
sub-projects. In addition, there is the problem of late or non-payment of cash contributions. These
- 37 -



problems can be circumvented by establishing written Participation Agreements for each subproject that
include an agreed project schedule, a calendar for provision of counterpart funds, local cost-sharing
arrangements, and provisions and schedules regarding labor or material input. If the any of these is not
complied with, or the subproject is not completed, then the monies would be recovered from the
Government.
Overall, the above mentioned risks are considered as manageable due to the various risk mitigations
measures proposed. Annex 6b presents in detail the full description of the risk mitigation measures.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)'
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for enviromnental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The environmental assessment was prepared as a result of interviews held in a sample of ten Local
Environmental Protection Agencies (LEPA), which operate EPIs (Environmental Protection Inspectorates)
under the authority of the Ministry of Water and Environment Protection. Questionnaires were sent to
EPIs prior to the interview with the aim to collect information on their administrative and technical capacity
in preparing environment reports for rural infrastructure projects, in monitoring and evaluating the
environmental impact of projects, and in relating with NGOs and local communities. It was found that
EPIs have strong relations with local authorities and local communities. In general, the EPIs are
responsible for general monitoring of the environment (soil, water, air) as well as detailed assessment of the
potential impact of investment projects. Preparatory documentation and decisions related to the proposed
project location is done in a participatory way, and meetings are organized periodically to inform local
administrations on the environmental legislation. Public campaigns are also organized to provide
information on the state of the environment and the specific activity of the EPI. Some NGOs have
established partnership relations with EPIs, but not yet in the development of rural infrastructure projects.
Besides the EPIs, the county based Directorates for Public Health (DPH) under the authority of the
Ministry of Public Health have specific responsibilities for monitoring the quality of water sources used for
drinking water supply both in urban and rural areas. The DPH have their own laboratories and perforn
independent water tests based on samples taken by own staff. Plans for regular monitoring are usually
prepared for urban areas. In rural areas, although similar requirements should be applied, difficulties in
securing the required means of transport lead to irregular testing. More attention is given to
communes/villages where central water supply systems are in place, while spot checks are seldom done in
other communes. More often, water samples are taken and tests made only after water-bom diseases are
reported.
The Environmental Assessment (EA) concludes that EPIs have the technical and scientific capacity to
perform the entire process of the environmental evaluation of rural infrastructure projects financed under
RDP. The environmental evaluation will consist of the following steps:
*   the initial analysis of the file;
*   the screening of the local conditions;
*   the identificationof the potential adverse impacts;
*   the decision on the necessity of an Environmental Impact Study (EIS);
*   definition of the main aspects to be addressed in the EIS;
*   review of the EIS;
*   decision whether to prepare an environmental agreement;
- 38 -



*   monitoring of project implementation;
*   monitoring of post-implementation activity.
The environmental impact assessment conducted during preparation pointed out that there is adequate
capacity at the county level in evaluating project proposals and monitoring the environmental effects,
mainly water quality. This will be further strengthened by providing computer equipment and sampling
and monitoring kits to be installed in the offices of the EPIs and DPHs in each of the five selected counties.
Staff of both the EPIs and DPHs (Directorates for Public Health) will also be involved in the national
stakeholders' workshop to be organized at the beginning of project implementation to ensure a common
understanding of RDP requirements, including environmental procedures, and in the training and technical
assistance to be provided to local administration authorities under the capacity building component.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The EMP has been prepared for the rural infrastructure sub-component. The project will fund on a
demand-driven basis small rural road rehabilitation, rural water supply construction and rehabilitation, and
improvement of existing sanitation facilities. Particular attention will be given to protection of new water
supply and sanitation systems through:
(a) construction of sanitary perimeters (through wall protection made with local materials) around
each water point (well, borehole) to protect it from animal contamination;
(b) construction of a small concrete drainage slab around each public standpipe to prevent water
stagnation and mud;
(c) construction of septic tanks for public buildings (e.g., schools).
The additional water made available through the construction of public standpipes will increase the volume
of waste water. However, given the limited water volumes and the characteristics of the rural habitat, the
resulting increased pollution will be marginal.
Environmental effects might occur as a result of (i) the improper location of sub-projects, as in the case of
construction of water supply networks in the vicinity of natural habitats; (ii) the improper design of
sub-projects, as in the case of the use of a contaminated water source, or the improper rehabilitation of
roads that may result in poor drainage; (iii) the improper management of construction works, as in the case
of air pollution caused by the digging process; and (iv) the improper management and operation of the
sub-projects, as in the case of groundwater and soil pollution when septic tanks are not emptied regularly.
Sub-projects will be submitted to the regional PIUs for evaluation and approval after receiving
environmental permits issued by the respective EPI. EPIs will screen sub-project proposals, before they are
submitted to the respective PIU, to check the appropriateness of the project location from the environmental
point of view. The environment permit will be a condition for issuing the necessary building permits by the
county council EPIs will also be involved in inspecting the construction and operation phases.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: 04/17/2001
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
- 39 -



A stakeholders consultation was organized to discuss the draft EA and the Environment Management Plan.
The meeting was attended by a wide range of stakeholders from the central Government and the five
selected counties. Participants included representatives of the following: (i) the Ministries of Water and
Environment Protection (MWEP); Public Administration (MPA); and Public Works, Transport and
Housing (MPWTH); (ii) selected communes from the five counties selected for the first phase of
implementation; (iii) the local inspectorates for environment protection of the selected counties; (iv) county
councils and prefectures; (v) the NGOs involved in environment protection and social development in the
selected counties; (vi) the national institute for research in environmental engineering. The EA and the
EMP were sent in advance to participants to enable them to review the project concept and the environment
issues.
Almost all invited stakeholders managed to participate and their contributions to the discussion were
significant. The participants found the draft documents satisfactory and compliant with the project design
and requirements. The only critical issue brought to the team's attention during the meeting was related to
the recent decision taken by the Ministry of Water and Environment Protection (MWEP) to downsize by
30% the staff of the county-based Inspectorates for Environment Protection (IEPs). This decision may lead
to lower EEP performance (not in quality but in the timing of responses to requests for environment
assessments, issuing clearances and monitoring). Subsequent discussion with a State Secretary in MWEP
indicated that this would not be the case, but this should be monitored and if necessary staffing of the IEPs
should be reconsidered by the ministry.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
In accordance with the provisions of the EMP, environmental screening will occur for each small
infrastructure project, and the local EPI (at-county level) will evaluate the projects and issue the necessary
permits. Project eligibility will be conditional on compliance with both Romanian and EU environmental
standards related to water supply, sanitation and road projects. The project operational manual includes
environmental indicators which will be used to provide yearly monitoring reports on environmental impact
by county environmental specialists.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The social and institutional assessment identified a number of social issues relevant to the project objectives
of citizen and community participation, and government accountability and transparency.
Most importantly, it was found that communes are heterogeneous in the quality of their leaders, who range
from development-oriented and responsive to constituent needs, to corrupt. Formnal or informal leaders are
of vital importance to the local development dynamics. The mayor's house is a key institution highly
conditioned by the quality of mayor, the quality of the local council, the integration between mayor house
and other local institutions, the relationship of the mayor with the county council and the trust of villagers
in their mayor house. Other actors include teachers, doctors, priests, and others with leadership skills.
Communes also vary in their aptitude and willingness of communes and villages to act in their collective
interest.
The project seeks as a social outcome an increase in the participation of poor and marginalized groups in
government decision processes, governments that are more open and responsive to their constituents, and
-40 -



communuity groups that have positive, collaborative relationships with local govemment. To respond to the
pattem of heterogeneity in local leadership, the project has put substantial effort into an area selection
process aimed at identifying counties and communes with leaders that are receptive to the project concept
and can give evidence of a capability for inclusive decision making. This should provide a "demonstration
effect" for nearby locations having poor leadership. In addition, in Phase 2 the project is expected expand
to more difficult areas, building successful experiences in Phase 1.
A second issue is that many villagers are passive, in that the issues such as roads development, waste clean
up, schools, health or jobs, are seen as problems that should be solved by city hall and, implicitly, the
mayor. It was found that local counselors can act to mobilize villagers for community participation and
group resources for local development. The secretary of city hall has a very important role in helping local
people that are not integrated in CBOs. The experience of SDF has also shown that mobilization of local
populations can benefit from facilitation from outside the community. Key leaders in govemment may also
be able to assist this process. RDP will provide opportunities for active leaders to engage local populations
to participate in decisions affecting them. Training modules will provide structured training to improve the
skills of local leaders in engaging the population through open consultations.
Thirdly, a lesson from SDF experience is that the process of money transfer and management should be
highly visible to project beneficiaries. Transparency is a key project outcome, and RDP will take measures
to ensure the transparency of financial transactions, as well as contracting and bidding. It will do this by
ensuring wide dissemination of information about these processes, and by including beneficiaries in the
monitoring process.
Finally, a recent household survey analysis of rural poverty covering the period 1995-1999 showed a
disturbing increase in single female-headed household among the poor. To achieve participation at local
level through the involvement of both women as well as men in sub-project activities (related to priority
setting, project planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation) will require vigorous sensitization of
all stakeholders on gender issues. This will occur during TA/training activities in communes early in
project implementation. In addition, efforts will be made to include representatives of other traditionally
excluded groups, such as the poor, young adults, the elderly and other minority groups in all the
components of the project, but particularly in the decision making process at commune level, and in
monitoring.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Key stakeholders, including small farmers, local commune officials and NGOs, and county officials
participated in the preparation of the project through (i) two workshops held in the first half of 1999 to
discuss the results of preparatory sector analysis; (ii) a set of discussions held by project staff with county
and commune officials and local residents, in Girgiu, Botosani, Teleorman, Vrancea, Vasliu, and other
locations. This process was carried out from December 1999, and continued in the social and institutional
assessment. This process helped identify arrangements for stakeholder participation in the project and
provided important information on local priorities and unmet needs as perceived by local councilors and
villagers in rural areas. The most important of these priorities are roads, water/sanitation, gas heating, and
vocational training for off-farm employment.
The fact that the pilot areas for Phase I of RDP were selected through fair and transparent competition has
offered an additional possibility for county and commune level stakeholders to get involved, and to
understand and contribute to the definition of project objectives. In this way the county and conmmune level
teams were able to contribute proposals regarding the best way to implement RDP in each county, having
-41 -



in view the socioeconomic and environmental specificity of the 5 pilot counties. This has developed a sense
of ownership of the program by local beneficiaries and will support the principle that the funds coming
from RDP are only temporary assistance provided by the World Bank to effect a long-term strengthening of
the decentralization process and empowerment of the local governments and local stakeholders.
In order to make sure the local elites are not going to hinder project implementation they are included in
training, having to learn the principles of participation and citizen involvement, to develop an acceptable
participation plan, and in implementing this to work together with representatives of all stakeholders. At
each level, county or commune, the trainers will make sure that consultations had been held and there are
no excluded groups like minorities, women, young people, poor remote communities etc. Although special
consideration has been given to the poor communities, trying to target them in the most transparent and fair
way, aiming at making sure they will not be left aside, it is quite possible for a democratic commune-wide
decision making process to make decisions at odds with the preferences and needs of minority groups. The
CBO Window will help address the problems of poor communities and villages in cases where the
commune wide decision process does not favor the poorest groups.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The aforementioned workshops and field discussions have generated a number of contacts with NGOs and
other organizations in local development and capacity building. The Romania Social Development Fund
(SDF) was also consulted as was the Center for Rural Assistance in Timis county and a number of other
groups. These groups will be involved in county and regional rural development committees, which will
supervise project evaluation and selection. They will also be involved in the monitoring process, and some
will generate project proposals of their own for funding by SAPARD or RDP. RSDF will in fact manage
RDP's CBO window for projects managed by community based organizations.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The following institutional arrangement are anticipated:
*   an area selection process has been carried out to identify good institutional partners that will
adopt an inclusive, participatory approach toward local decision making;
*   training activities include training in participation skills. This will be directed, in part, at
members of the commune investment advisory committee. This fornally constituted committee
will include representatives of all villages in a commune (at county level, committees will
include commune association and civil society representatives);
*   during the initial training, communes and county advisory committees and other stakeholders
will produce a participation plan, a sequence of activities to ensure participation of
beneficiaries in project decision making. An information dissemination strategy will be part of
this plan, and will include measures such as wide advertisement of public meetings in all
villages on public notice boards set up in each villages, and dissemination of meeting minutes
and agreed follow up actions after the meetings. The notice board may also be used to
promulgate information on financial transactions related to the project, and procurement
actions.
Finally, the CBO funding window will facilitate CBO formation in locations where the commune has
judged CBO management of the subproject to be appropriate, or where community groups have decided on
their own to initiate a project proposal.
-42 -



6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Indicators of participation, accountability and transparency have been developed against which social
objectives can be evaluated. These have been developed in consultation with project stakeholders and
beneficiaries, who will also actively participate in monitoring and use of monitoring data and reports. The
indicators are included in the Operational Manual. In addition, the regional PIUs will, as part of the
screening process, assess the extent to which project preparation has been carried out according to
genuinely participatory processes. They will depend in part for their information on observations of TAT
facilitators who are assisting in project development, in order to make sure that all groups within a
conunune and all potential beneficiaries have an equal chance to participate. Concerning evaluation, the
baseline, mid-term, and the final follow-up study, will include specific social indicators.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  * Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Field visits carried out during project preparation indicate that virtually all of the proposed subprojects
would rely on groundwater sources and use local or national groundwater resources (not transboundary
aquifers). According to current estimates, only three subprojects utilizing surface water are located on
international waterways, and therefore OP 7.50 is applicable. Exception to the external notification
requirements of OP 7.50, set forth in paragraph 7(a) of OP 7.50 is fully applicable. The likely work
for these subprojects involves only rehabilitations and alterations of ongoing schemes that, in the
team's judgment are (i) minor alterations to the ongoing scheme; (ii) will not adversely change the
quality or quantity of water flows to the other riparians; and (iii) will not be adversely affected by the
other riparians' water use.
If during implementation, new schemes on intemational waterways are proposed, they will be excluded
from this Phase (Phase 1 of RDP), and the RDP Operational Manual will contain project screening
conditions to this effect.
-43 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability. The project design promotes the sustainability of training/TA activities and subprojects
through a number of approaches. First, stakeholder advisory groups have been established in each
pilot area (at both county and commune level) to ensure inclusion of beneficiary groups and
stakeholders. Second, given the variability in the quality of local leadership and in receptiveness to the
project concept, the area selection process has been designed to identify pilot areas that are willing and
institutionally ready to participate in the project. Third, the training is designed to be relevant to local
needs, with a balanced emphasis on (i) development of technical skills in project development and
infrastructure; (ii) social skills in participatory planning and decision-making; and (iii)
financial/economnic skills, budgeting, and project financing. Fourth, the project management activities
of PIUs have been designed so as to transfer and test the newly acquired skills of commune and county
councils and stakeholders during Phase 1. These will be monitored during Phase I, and local
administration bodies are expected to take on some increased responsibilities commensurate with these
new skills acquired in Phase 1, and to substantially increase their responsibilities in Phase 2. Fifth,
although some politicians that are trained will leave office after several years, county and commune
government staff and other local stakeholders (including community groups, the private sector and
regional training bodies) will also be trained and can be expected to retain their acquired skills through
continued use. Fifth, skills will only be maintained after the project if funds for local investment exist
over the long term. These may become available after the end of the project due to: (i) improvements in
the equalization formula; (ii) possible increases in local tax revenue that the project will promote; (iii)
improvements in the fiscal decentralization framework that are anticipated under the upcoming Public
Administration Loan; and (iv) continued donor and off budget government support for infrastructure.
Sixth, project training has a strong emphasis on participation, which increases the likelihood of strong
local ownership in subprojects, and increases the incentive to maintain them. Finally, arrangements
will be made at the time of mid-term review for shifting downward those activities of the PIU that the
Review indicates should be taken on by communes as a result of their increased capacity.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating             Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
1. Project decision making is captured by    S         The area selection process, which identifies
local elites.                                          good institutional partners, reduces the
likelihood of elite capture. The project has been
designed for forestall elite capture through (i)
forrnal establishment of Commune Investment
Advisory Committees (CIACs) in pilot areas
that are participatory and inclusive, and will be
initially supported through project technical
assistance; (ii) involvement of beneficiaries in
commune level monitoring of procurement,
construction, and other implementation
activities; (iii) project training and support of
local governments and other stakeholders in
participatory decision making skills; (iv)
elaboration of transparent and objective criteria
for the selection of subprojects; (iv) an effective
-44 -



system of sanctions for projects that do not
follow the prescribed criteria.
2. Corruption occurs in bidding for local  M        The key to avoiding corruption in local
contracts.                                          contracting is to ensure open and competitive
bidding processes that are accessible to bidders
outside the locality. The second requirement for
honest contracting is monitoring. The project
has been designed so that clear bidding rules
obtain, with widespread information about the
process that beneficiary groups can monitor.
Finally, initial placement of the PIU at county
level will facilitate close monitoring of
procurement.
3. Counties continue to dominate          M         The traditional domination of communes by
communes and communities in their                   counties has initially been addressed through an
interactions.                                       area selection process that has identified good
county partners for the project. In addition, the
project introduces (i) measures to reduce the
resource imbalance, e.g. training of commune
staff, and improvement in the distribution of
capital grants through implementation of the
equalization formula; (ii) measures to support
associations of communes, allowing them to
coordinate with counties on a more equal basis
on issues of mutual interest (e.g. on
complementary road network investments).
4. Least cost design standards for roads  M         A commitment to use least cost standards has
and water are not supported by county               been obtained during preparation. A TA study
technical staff, Ministry of Public Works,          will be carried out to refine existing standards
Transport and Housing (MPWTH) or                    and management approaches and to teach
other relevant road/water bodies                   revised approaches to private and public sector
engineers. The MTPWH has pledged to support
such standards for water/sanitation and roads,
and the pilot counties have committed to the
concept during area selection.
5. Communes do not continue to provide     S        Contribution to subproject capital costs is a
O&M                                                 measure of commitment that should translate
into improved O&M. In addition, as a condition
of subproject approval, communes are required
to have an O&M action plan, and to take
credible steps toward implementation of the plan
for existing maintainable facilities.
6. Activities are not sustained after end of  S     See Section F. 1 above on measures to improve
Project                                            the likelihood of sustainability.
From Components to Outputs
-45 -



1. Local capacity for delivering          M         An evaluation of local capacity in September,
training/TA to local governments is                 2000 concluded that adequate local capacity
inadequate.                                         exists to undertake such training (training of
trainers, on the other hand, may require
participation from international finns, although
local companies will be allowed to bid). Local
consulting companies, NGOs, and universities
will be notified of the bidding process.
2. Counterpart budget support is delayed.  S        Discussions are being undertaken with the MOF
to ensure that funds are available. An initial
commitment of funds will be sought.
3. Coordination between ministries        M         The National Steering Committee and County
(especially at county level) is an obstacle         Advisory Boards (stakeholders boards set up
to project implementation                           under the project at county level) will be used to
address potential conflicts between different
ministry activities in the pilot counties.
4. Procurement occurs with long delays.    M        During project preparation, procurement
procedures have been simplified; some
flexibility will be allowed during implementation
to change the Operational Manual, if this is
warranted.
Overall Risk Rating                        s
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
(i)     The staffing of the PMU has been completed with the hiring of the Engineer, Training
Specialist, Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist and Assistant; the staffmg of all PIUs
has been completed with the hiring of the Engineer, Accountant and Assistant.
(ii)   A subsidiary agreement has been concluded between the Ministry of Public Finance,
Ministry of Public Administration and RSDF.
Disbursement Conditions
(i)    A Front End Fee of 1% of the Loan ($400,000) must be paid to the World Bank before
-46 -



any disbursemnents under the Loan can begin.
(ii)   Payments for sub-project expenditures can only be made under those sub-projects that
have been concluded in accordance with procedures, terms, and conditions set forth in the
RDP Project Operational Manual (and the SDF Operational Manual) and concluded under
a grant agreement between Government and the beneficiary.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Project Management
(i)    During project implementation, the Government will maintain a Project Management Unit
at all times, and (at least five) regional Project Implementation Units with functions and
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank and with a Project Director and key staff with
suitable qualifications, experience and terns of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
(ii)   During project implementation, the Government will maintain a National Steering
Committee at all times. This will include, at a minimum, representatives of the Ministry of
Public Administration (MPA), Ministry of Public Finance (MOF), Ministry of Agriculture
and Food, Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Housing (MPWTH), the Ministry of
Development and Planning (MDP), Ministry of Water and Environment, of Small and
Medium Enterprises and Cooperation, Ministry of Health (MOIH), a representative of the
Romania Social Development Fund (a member from its Board) and representatives of
Union of County Councils and Association of Commune Councils.
(iii)  The PMU will have the project accounts audited (including special account and all
statements of expenditures) in accordance with Intemational Standards on Auditing (ISA),
by a firm of independent auditors acceptable to the World Bank. Audit reports would be
submitted to the World Bank within six months after the end of each fiscal year.
(iv)   Auditors will be hired to perform the first annual audit of Special Accounts by September
15, 2002.
(v)    The Borrower will conduct a Mid-Term Review report by July 31, 2004 integrating the
results of monitoring and evaluation activities and setting out measures and
recommendations to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and achievement of the
project objectives. The Borrower will submit this report the Bank for its review and make
itself available to review the report with the Bank.
(vi)   The Government will provide a portion of the loan ($2.0 million) to RSDF on a grant basis
for financing sub-grants channeled to CBOs. The implementation arrangements for
RSDF, including financial management and reporting obligations will be set forth in the
Subsidiary Agreement between the Government and RSDF.
(vii)  The Borrower shall ensure that adequate budgetary allocations shall be made to the Project
Account each calendar quarter during Project implementation for financing Project
expenditures.
(viii)  To be eligible for inclusion in the Project, all sub-projects must be in accordance with
-47 -



provisions of the Operational Manual or RSDF's Operational Manual.
H. Readiness for Implementation
Ol 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
II 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
M 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
DH 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Henry     ov                           M. Cleaver                   Andrew N. Vorkink
Team Leader                  t    Sector Director                   Country Director
-48 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
ROMANIA: RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                     Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:        Sectorl country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Expanded social and       Increased market and local  Commune public investment  Expanded rural opportunities
economic opportunities to  investment activity (both farm data; new LSMS surveys and  contributes to poverty
rural in areas.           and non-farm) with associated poverty assessments; updated  reduction.
income increases for rural  NSC enterprise survey;
households, including the  MOAF data on new SME
poor.                     registrations; MOH health
data; MOE data on rural
Improved rural health status  enrollments and frequency of
(reduced incidence of water  attendance.
bome diseases), increased
educational enrollment and
improved attendance,
including poor and marginal
groups.
Program Purpose:          End-of-Program Indicators: Program reports:         (from Purpose to Goal)
To strengthen local       Increased ability of local  Follow up to baseline survey; Improved govemance and
govemance by improving the  govemments and community  reports of NSC and PIUs;  decision making leads to rural
capacity of local         groups to independently   county/commune plans       investment pattem that
administration and        undertake decision making  (including any new urbanism  improves social and economic
community/user groups to  and investment            plans) and budgets; interviews opportunities.
undertake a range of socially, implementation tasks, for a  with key informants.
economically and technically  range of investments, in an
viable public investments that accountable manner.
are responsive to local
preferences and needs, and to Increased availability of
increase the availability of  infrastructure and other public
sustainable infrastructure and goods for households in target
other public/community goods areas.
to rural inhabitants in poor
areas. This will be       Increased number of public
accomplished through a    investment proposals
program of training and   (commune, CBO) in target
technical assistance to local  areas, from baseline.
govemments and beneficiaries
that will be carried out by  Increased competitive private
local consultants and NGOs,  sector provision of project
and supplemented by       preparation, implementation
investment grants.        and O&M services from
baseline.
-49 -



Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                     Critical Assumptions
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                Indicators:
The project development      * at least 40% increase in PIU reports, annual    Project activities can be
objective (PDO) is to          percent of maintainable  beneficiary assessments;  expanded to include new
strengthen the institutional   local road network or  supervision mission reports  areas (e.g. new counties and
capacity of local              water systems         (mid-term review and ICR);  new communes within phase
administration,                maintained up to      annual beneficiary        I pilot counties).
community/user groups and      standards established in assessments; and M&E study
private service providers: a)  commune O&M plan;     (follow up to baseline);
to plan, implement, operate  * at least 50% increase in documented observations by
and maintain small             number of companies   TA and training team and
infrastructure investments in a  competing for design,  minutes of decision making
participatory and accountable  construction, O&M     meetings, concerning
manner; and b) to increase the  contracts, from baseline; involvement of disadvantaged
access of rural inhabitants, in  * at least 50% increase in groups in planning and
pilot areas to markets and     consultations from    decision making; audit of
social services (through road  baseline;             bidding documents or bidding
rehabilitation investment    * at least 50% increase in reports.
grants), and improved water    number of beneficiaries
and sanitation (through        participating in
water/sanitation investment    planning meetings and
grants).                       implementation
activities from baseline;
* at least 50% increase in
citizen/beneficiary
satisfaction, from
baseline, with
government
transparency measures,
information
dissemination, budget
and procurement
monitoring process;
* at least 50% increase
from baseline in
households with year
round road transport
access to market and/or
social facilities;
* at least 30% reduction
from baseline in
transport costs on
rehabilitated roads
and/or maintainable
commune network;
* at least 30% increase
from baseline in number
of households in
subproject areas having
reliable access to water
and/or sanitation
- 50 -



services that meet
quality;
* at least 30% increase
from baseline in user
satisfaction with
infrastructure services.
[Phase 2 will increase the
scope of local administration
responsibility, and expand the
participatory investment
approach to a greater number
of communes, with an
broadened menu of
investment items, following
principles established in
national strategies for rural
water/sanitation supply and
rural/local roads that are
developed and agreed upon in
Phase 1.
-51 -



*         |    Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                  [  Critical Assumptions
Output from each           Output Indicators:        Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Communes and local      Number of commune          Disbursement reports      Project decision making
investment advisory        infrastructure assessments,  (quarterly);            process is not captured by
committees have been trained  participation action plans,  project supervision reports;  local elites.
and have satisfactorily     and M&E action plans, and  annual beneficiary       Bidding for local contracts is
demonstrated skills in      procurement plans         assessment.               open and transparent.
participatory project       completed and satisfactorily                        Counties and communes (or
identification/development;  initiated vs. target.                              groups of communes) are
participatory planning; local                                                   responsive to and supportive
infrastructure assessment;  Number of commune plans                             of initiatives from lower
decision making and         for O&M completed and                               level bodies.
budgeting; and procurement.  initiated vs. target
Local design engineering
firms and county council
engineers have attended
workshops on low cost project
design under RDP.
2. Rural Infrastructure:    Number of subprojects    Progress reports (quarterly).  Lower cost design standards
water/sanitation and road   submitted, approved,                                for roads and water are
subprojects identified,    tendered, initiated,                                 supported by county
prepared and implemented;   completed, and maintained                           technical staff, MTPWH and
strategies for national    up to project standards;                             other relevant road/water
water/sanitation and roads  percentage of available grant                       bodies.
strategies prepared and    funds disbursed, in total, and
discussed in NSC; satisfactory  for separate (commune,
completion of studies for   CBO) windows.
roads classification/financing,
maintenance management;
study on low cost technical
standards completed, with
training for private sector,
county council engineers, and
other stakeholders.
3. Project Management and  Number of staff trained   Training reports          PIUs work independently of
M&E: PMU/PIU staff hired   in MIS system vs. target  (supervision).            the county councils in pilot
and trained in procurement,  showing satisfactory                              counties during
financial management, and  demonstration of skills;                            implementation.
selection criteria; FMS, MIS  M&E baseline survey
and M&E systems established  established.
and functioning at PMU/PIU
and commune levels.
- 52 -



Key Performance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators        I                             Critical Assumptions
Project Components /       Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                            Outputs)
1. Capacity Building: a)   1. $ 1.90 million           Disbursement reports
training modules for                                   (quarterly).               Area selection process is fair
communes (participatory                                Progress reports (quarterly).  and insulated from undue
investment planning and                                Financial management       political pressures;
project cycle skills; follow up                        system audit reports      local capacity for delivering
technical assistance in                                (annual); midterm and end  training/TA to local
subproject preparation and                             of project surveys to evaluate  governments is adequate.
implementation).                                       sustainability.
2. Rural Infrastructure:   2. $ 48.17 million                                     Counterpart budget support
civil works and goods for                                                         at national and local levels is
water, roads subprojects                                                          available in a timely manner
TA for rural roads and                                                           Interministerial rivalries do
water/sanitation strategies;                                                      not hinder project
local roads classification,                                                       implementation.
management and financing
study; roads maintenance
management system; and
framework for private roads
associations.
3. Project Management and  3. $ 2.95 million                                      MPA advertises widely for
M&E: project management;                                                          qualified consultants
team salaries, TA for M&E                                                         PMU/PIU staff have
systems (including baseline                                                       adequate pay incentives
and follow up surveys); RD                                                        MIS system is designed and
Infocenters equipment, TA,                                                        put in place.
training and information
system study.
- 53 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
ROMANIA: RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
By Component:
Project Component I - US$1.90 million
Component A - Capacity Building
I. Component Activities
The overall objective of the capacity building component is to strengthen the institutional capacity
of local administration, community/user groups and private service providers to plan, implement,
operate and maintain viable small infrastructure investments in a participatory and accountable
manner. In the long run an improved capacity of the communes and county councils will pay
dividends not only in investment projects that reflect local priorities, but also in other aspects of
govemance. Efforts to improve financial flows to communes via implementation of the
equalization formula in pilot counties will support this process.
The activities of this component are closely linked to the rural infrastructure component and
support it through project related training and technical assistance.
Development of training materials and curricula and training TA/training teams (training of
trainers). In the early stages of RDP implementation, two essential preparatory ictivities will take
place. The first is development of training modules for communes. The second activity is the
selection and training of the TA/training teams (TATs) for the five counties and 100 communes.
The TATs, drawn from local NGOs, private consulting groups and universities, will be recruited to
participate in a "training of trainers" (TOT) program to ensure that they have the requisite skills,
and understand RDP and their role in it. Team members will already have a pre-existing
foundation of skills in local govemment facilitation, local infrastructure/engineering, and local
budgeting and project economic analysis. After the TOT, training will then commence by TATs in
the selected counties and communes. General coordination for this activity will come from the PIU
training coordinators. The international company that develops the curriculum is expected to
provide quality control, on a spot check basis.
Training and TA to strengthen local administrations. The first training module will provide an
overview of the project cycle and will establish the relationship between the training and TA team
and the commune. The course will include a submodule on participation skills and methods.
Based on the training, the commune will develop a participation plan, ensuring that representatives
from all villages, including "opinion leaders", existing NGOs, CBOs, and most importantly,
prospective project beneficiaries, are included in the commune's investment planning and project
decision making process. In the pilot communes, special pilot activities to stimulate community
participation and involve citizens in commune planning processes will be undertaken during the
first module of training and in the week of facilitation that will follow.
Although the focus of the first course is on gaining an overview of the project approach, and
introduction of concepts of participation and information dissemination that are likely to be new to
the commune, the practical application of the course concepts to commune operations will be
stressed in course activities. The first course will also have the important function of conveying
the "rules of the game" of the project, as laid out in the Operational Manual. Including RDP
eligibility and selection criteria, RDP application forms and procedures, local contributions to
- 54 -



capital cost, responsibilities for and costs of operation and maintenance, and other rules.
Partipation in subsequent modules is expected to narrow somewhat, as project options are defined
and training and skill transfer activities increasingly focus on project beneficiairies, rather than the
commune-at-large.
The second module will teach skills necessary to prepare an investment strategy and infrastructure
strategy in a participatory manner. A general set of investment priorities will be established first.
If roads or water are not the commune's first priority, the training will provide information on
alternative funding sources and application criteria (e.g. for SAPARD) that will allow the
commune to pursue its first choice. Infrastructure priorities will then be established. An
assessment of water and/or roads infrastructure within the commune will be undertaken by the
TAT, which will provide the basis for project identification. Regarding roads, the TA/training
team will provide a forum and technical support needed to identify the core maintainable road
network in the commune. It will also provide information to the commune on key linkages with
external core networks (the latter having been previously identified at county level) and will
provide information to the commune on possibilities for associating with neighboring communes to
exploit network economies (special incentives will be given for this under the project). A variety of
management approaches for different technology options will be introduced, with explicit attention
devoted to the choice between (i) community (CBO or NGO) management; (ii) management by the
commune itself; and (iii) and management contracted to the private sector. The skills leamed in the
module will be applied in weeks following the course, during which the commune will decide on a
set of project options for water or roads, which will be costed in a prefeasibility study after the end
of the second month of TA/training.
The main output from the training: Trainees trained, a number of developed infrastructure
projects proposals together with necessary pre-feasibility studies completed and agreed at the
commune level.
The third module will develop the skills to (i) evaluate the costs of specific water or road options
over their life-cycle; (ii) determine the potential impact on the local budget (involving an
assessment of overall budget expenditures and potential trade-offs, within a multi-year framework);
(iii) evaluate other sources of financing, including local taxation; (iv) rank the options on economic
and other criteria (cost-effectiveness will be used for most commune subprojects, and in the case of
most counties subprojects, cost-benefit criteria will be applied); and (v) choose specific project
option, which will then be prepared and submitted. Commune citizens will be engaged in and
informed about all stages of the decision-making process, including the final decision.
During the facilitation period the objective will be to develop a comuna strategy for infrastructure
investment, and for operation and maintenance which involves the community.
Commune citizens will be informed about the roles they will have to play in the implementation and
in the O&M activities, the Commune Advisory Committee will allocate to working groups their
responsibilities and they will be accountable to commune citizens for each step in project
preparation and implementation (procurement, book-keeping, monitoring, supervision etc).
The output of this training module: Trainees trained and a commune strategy agreed for
infrastructure investment, operation and maintenance. Core institutional arrangements are made.
The fourth module will develop skills and transparent procedures for contracting of design and
- 55 -



construction companies. The objective of this training is to give to the comuna citizens the
appropriate skills necessary for organizing tenders, preparing tender documents, and making the
process transparent.
In view of this objective the following topics will be taught and discusses with the trainees: (i)
tendering process (how to prepare a tender, the bidding documents, how to organize the selection
commission, etc); (ii) evaluation of tenders (type of criteria to be used, with focus on
infrastructure); (iii) awarding, monitoring and evaluation of contracted companies; (iv)
procurement (basic rules of procurement); (v) community involvement and transparency (which are
the activities to be performed, which are the role/responsibility of the local authorities, how the
community can be involved in an efficient way, how to keep all the contracting processes
transparent e.g. posting the list of applicants, the deadline for the opening of the proposal, minutes
of the opening meeting and the members of the selection commission etc)
During the facilitation period the preparation of tender documents for selected comuna
infi-astructure projects and initiation of tendering procedures will be done. The objective is to
ensure the implementation of transparent competitive tendering for feasibility studies on selected
infrastructure projects. A second part of the facilitation will be represented by assistance during the
opening of the applications.
Main outputfrom the training: trainees trained and infrastructure project feasibility study
contracts awarded.
Training and TA in budgeting and the equalization grant allocation process. Training and
technical support will also be provided to the elected members and staff of the communes and
county councils in budgeting and the equalization grant allocation process. Each county will be
assigned a local consultant specializing in budget matters in each pilot county, who will oversee the
budget aspects of the training and TA support to communes, and work directly with and transfers
skills to county council budget staff. The commune level budget training/TA will be carried out by
TATs as part of their overall training tasks, and covers the following topics:
*   assessment of overall expenditures and revenue sources in the commune;
*   principles and practices of multiannual budgeting (draft vs. actual; capital vs. recurrent);
*   examination of major trade-offs within the overall budget (including trade-offs related to
expected infrastructure commitments);
*   local taxation options and other source of fnance; and county and commune
responsibilities in equalization process.
The learning-by-doing aspect of the training involves having the communes integrate decisions
about RDP subprojects into their budget decision making process.
At county level the budget consultant will provide direct support on limited aspects of general
budget planning, and in addition will work on implementation of the equalization formula.
Conceming budget planning, the person at county council level who would be supported by the
consultant is the county budget coordinator (an employee of the county financial and budget
department). The immediate aim of the budget planning work would be to detemnine what total
resources exist for infrastructure capital grants to local councils (both on and off budget;
govenmment and donor) and in this manner to provide a more complete picture of financing volumes
and sources. Once the county knows total expenditures and financing sources, it would be in a
- 56 -



position to develop a budgeting framework and a new set of skills that allow it to assess trade-offs,
an activity that could be supported by the fiscal decentralization activities of the Public
Administration Loan.
TA to create CBOs. TA to create CBOs will be offered in accordance with RSDF procedures and
with support from the RDP TA/training teams working in the comuna.
Equipment for TA teams and Local Environment Protection Agencies (LEPAs). Computers and
office equipment will be purchased under the project and installed in the county and commune
administrations participating in phase 1 of the project. This equipment will be used by the TA
teams during their follow-up TA work and will become property of the local administrations upon
completion of the project. Computer equipment will also be provided to the Local Environment
Protection Agencies (LEPA) with the aim at strengthening their capacity in undertaking the
environmental impact assessment and providing pennits for the sup-project proposals submitted by
counties and communes.
Project Component 2 - US$48.17 million
Sub-component B1 - Water Supply and Sanitation
I. Sub component Activities
The overall objective of this sub-component is to increase rural inhabitants' access to improved
water and sanitation services, and to achieve effective and sustainable use of these services. This
will be achieved through by providing finance for (i) an infrastructure investment program to
improve the quality of water and sanitation services; (ii) a public environmental hygiene promotion
program (PEHP) to increase awareness and change the behavior of rural households in water and
sanitation issues; and (iii) the development of a policy framework for rural water supply and
sanitation.
Infrastructure Investments
Water supplv and sanitation sub-projects. Typical anticipated investments in public water supply
schemes are:
*   upgrading of existing communal wells to the required water quality level and equipping
them with a hand pump, thus providing the village or part of the village with a reliable and
safe source of drinking water typically serving 100-150 people;
*   building of new deep wells, equipped with a submersible electrical pump, tapping high
quality aquifers, possibly equipped with simple water treatment facilities guaranteeing a
safe and reliable source for drinking water without a distribution system, typically serving
people within a range of 400m;
*   building of small schemes with a small distribution network and some standpipes,
extendable to other parts of the commune;
*   building of small schemes with a fully developed distribution network serving the complete
service area with a network of standpipes;
- 57 -



*   building of small schemes with house connections;
*   upgrading or expanding existing public water supply schemes. These investments will be
subject to the same eligibility criteria as those that apply to new schemes. Sunk costs shall
not be eligible for the calculation of capital cost contribution;
*   building of water supply schemes for public institutions, such as hospitals, health centers,
schools, orphanages, institutions for care of the elderly, etc. These investments should
meet the same set of eligibility criteria as those formulated above. These sub-projects will
be formulated and implemented alongside the PEHP program described below and serve as
pilot projects for the surrounding area.
A sub-project could consist of one larger public water scheme or a number of smaller installations
grouped together. Such a sub-project could thus comprise 2 to 4 communal deep wells, each
properly equipped, grouped with water and/or sanitation investments in public institutions.
Sanitation sub-projects. Subject to the availability of water, the project will finance the upgrade of
the sanitation facilities at schools and hospitals to the level of septic tanks. In primary schools
where water is not available, "pilot" projects will be financed to promote ventilated improved pit
latrines.
Public Environmental Hygiene Promotion (PEHP).
An intensive hygiene promotion campaign at the county level will be implemented parallel with, the
demand driven public infrastructure water and sanitation program. Such campaign would consist
of a combination of the following elements:
*   school curricula development for kindergarten and primary schools;Train primary school
teachers in the use of this material as well as kindergarten and orphanage staff;
*   preparation of extension materials on water and sanitation for various target groups;
*   conducting mass media campaign on the county level media (e.g. radio, TV, newspapers);
*   conduct focus groups discussions with relevant opinion leaders in the communes;
*   organize study tours to "successful" campaigns, e.g. to the Mehedinti County or
(un)successfully managed commune water schemes;
*   train local level craftsmen in the construction of household well improvement technologies
and ventilated improved pit latrines or alternative designs;
*   train commune level hygienists and doctors;
*   convene and conduct regional or county level conferences with opinion leaders;
*   prepare designs for improved pit latrine and household well improvements;
*   implement pilot-projects at school, dispensary and other selected public locations through
the construction of improved latrines and wells;
*   in collaboration with the Department of Public Health carry out surveys on water-quality
in selected areas to be used as baseline for possible health impact studies. Consideration
shall be given to involve in such surveys students from the School of Public Hygiene.
Implementation of the PEHP will be undertaken by NGOs in the whole county. Special coverage
and attention shall be given to communes that opted for water and sanitation sub-projects or are
seriously considering them. An intemational NGO/technical assistance provider with substantial
relevant experience shall provide an orientation and training workshop to the local NGOs. Actual
-58 -



implementation of the campaign follows after the signing of contracts between the county
authorities and the relevant eligible NGO following competitive bidding.
At the county level a Water and Sanitation Comnmittee (WATSAN) shall be constituted. It shall be
composed of representatives from the Department of Public Health, Ministry of Water and
Environmental Protection, and the Ministry of Education. Under the chairmanship of an official
appointed by the county administration, WATSAN shall provide operational guidance as well as
contribute to the content of the PEHP. WATSAN can function as an advisory body to the PIU
when assessing the water and sanitation sub-projects in the infrastructure program.
Rural Water and Sanitation Policy and Strategy.
The policy work will be launched by Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Study. Basic background
data about service levels, service quality, deficiencies and expectations of the rural population will
be collected. At the same time institutional aspects, technical regulations goveming the sector will
be studied. Local consultants assisted by intemational consultants will analyze the data and
prepare a comprehensive proposal for sectoral development. This work will be coordinated by
Intergovernmental Steering Group under the auspices of the Ministry of Public Works.
Sub-component B2: Rural Roads
I. Sub component activities
The rural roads sub-component aims to help rehabilitate and upgrade rural local roads in 20
communes in each of five counties, and in doing so to reduce transport costs, and improve access
to markets and social and public services for a broad base of the rural population. A number of
studies will be commissioned to improve institutional, policy and financing framework for rural
roads, and to support the capacity of local governments and groups to manage their roads in an
accountable manner, and in accordance with the preferences of citizens and local commnunities.
The review of the engineering design standards of rural local roads, the supervision of works, and
the introduction of competitive processes to consulting and construction will improve the efficiency
of road management.
Infrastructure Investments
Roads subprojects. In order to achieve the objectives of the rural road sub-component, it will
finance a program of investment grants for local road rehabilitation (and in some cases, upgrade)
aimed at increasing the quality and sustainability of rural local roads.
Typical anticipated investments include:
*   Earth to gravel upgrade
*   Gravel rehabilitation
*   Earth to macadam upgrade
*   Macadam rehabilitation
*   Earth to stabilized macadam upgrade
*   Bad gravel to stabilized macadam upgrade
Study on Jurisdictional Responsibility (Classification), Management and Financing of Rural
- 59 -



Local Roads. This substantial study is intended to evaluate existing responsibilities for roads
management among different govermments, and to identify strategies for transition to an improved
road classification system, and costs associated with such a transition. The management segment
of the study identifies evaluates altematives institutional arrangements for road management, and
the financing segment proposes altematives for financing the classified public network. The
recommendations of this study can have substantial impact and economic benefits. Because there
is potential for 'turf fights' and disagreements between Ministries and levels of govemment, the
study requires careful management and should be considered by the RDP National Steering
Comnuittee (NSC), an interministerial body.
Development of Local Government Road Maintenance Management System and Database
(RMMS). This work is expected to outline the requirements for a system of road maintenance
management at county level, along with a database for the counties participating in RDP. The
system is readily expandable to other counties once appropriate data are collected. Furthermore,
the system will be designed for expansion to commune level, at a later date. It will be designed so
as to be compatible with higher level systems (e.g. those at national level). The RMMS will be
based on the concept of minimizing total transport system costs - road user costs plus road
administration and management costs. It provides road managers the analytic capability to
evaluate and prioritize road improvement and maintenance plans and strategies over the expected
lifetime of the road network.
Review of the Extant Design Standards for Rural Local Roads. Because there has been no new
construction of rural local roads in the past decade, their design standards appear to be technically
outdated and, quite possibly, too high. The objective of this engineering review is to update the
standards, allow for new materials and techniques and, most importantly, ensure that the standards
are cost-effective and fit for the purpose intended.
Study on the Legal Framework for Private Road Associations. Romania has a large but
neglected village (community) road network. Intemational experience shows that Private Road
Associations (PRA) can manage such low volume roads most cost-effectively. A legal,
institutional framework must be created for them. The project will designate the village road
network, suitable for PRA management and develop a proposal for the Private Road Act to
establish PRAs.
Study and Recommendations on a Rural Roads Policy and Strategy. Romania has a large
rural road network to which both national and local governments now give high priority. Policies
govemning the management, regulation and financing of this network (including any anticipated
subsidies on capital investment) need to be reviewed, with recommendations made for future
policy. Emphasis should be given to drawing on the RDP experience with local govemrnment and
private sector management, and to ensuring consistency with policies goveming the national road
network.
As with all RDP activities, the above studies will be conducted in a participatory, accountable and
transparent manner. Studies will be designed and conducted in consultation with appropriate
Romanian academic and professional experts, and will provide opportunities for public comment,
specifically seeking the comments of rural road stakeholder groups and communicating the results
widely.
Project Component 3 - US$ 2.95 million
- 60 -



Component C - Project Management, Public Awareness Campaign and Expansion Strategy
The component provides the project management support necessary for project implementation, including
funding for TA, training, staff and equipment costs associated with establishment and operation of the
national Project Management Unit (PMU), and five regional Project Implementation Units (PIUs).
- 61 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
ROMANIA: RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                US $million  US $million  US $million
A. Capacity Building                                      1.62         0.22          1.84
B. Rural Infrastructure                                  41.86         0.59         42.45
C. Project Maniagement                                    2.63         0.18          2.81
Total Baseline Cost                                      46.11         0.99         47.10
Physical Contingencies                                   3.09         0.00          3.09
Price Contingencies                                      2.80         0.03          2.83
Total Project Costs'             52.00         1.02        53.02
Front-end fee                    0.40          0.40
Total Financing Required              52.00         1.42        53.42
Local       Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                US $million  US $million  US $million
Goods                                                       0.52          0.00         0.52
Works                                                       0.00          0.00         0.00
Services                                                    6.99          1.02         8.01
Rural Investment                                           43.74          0.00        43.74
Recurring Costs                                             0.75          0.00         0.75
Total Project Costs     52.00           1.02        53.02
Front-end fee                    0.40         0.40
Total Financing Required     52.00           1.42        53.42
Identifiable taxes and duties are 8.87 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 44.56 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 89.78% of
total project cost net of taxes.
- 62 -



Annex 4
ROMANIA: RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF SUBPROJECTS
1. Water/sanitation Subprojects
1. Introduction
Since an important benefit of water/sanitation investments is improved health, the following section
begins with a general description of the impact of poor water quality on health in Romania. The
main focus is on the effects of nitrification, since there is little available evidence on prevalence or
health impact of bacteriological problems.
In cases where subprojects have clear benefits in terms of health or time savings, and these are
measurable, it may be possible for proposals to contain subproject cost-benefit analysis. In almost
all cases this will not be possible, and cost-effectiveness analysis will be required. The project will
support efforts to improve evaluation methodologies. Section presents data that could be used in a
cost-effectiveness analysis.
2. The impact of water/sanitation on health in Romania
Nitrate pollution: scope and health consequences. In Romania is now facing a critical problem of
nitrate pollution of underground water. This is mainly the result of the overuse of fertilizers and
chemicals and also of the inappropriate management of animal and human waste in large farms or
in the small farm households. Despite evidence that data collected at county level do not reflect the
full dimensions of the problem, official statistics identify Romania as one of the most affected
Eastem European countries. Based on official data, a recent govenmment analysis concluded that
nitrates in underground water had "above acceptable levels in 39 of the 41 counties in the country".
The most recent comprehensive analysis (1995-1996) shows that 4 out of the 5 selected pilot
counties have over 60% of wells with unacceptably high levels of nitrate pollution.
- 63 -



Figure 1: Percent of wells with nitrate concentrations higher then 45 m2 N03A
C    i                                        T
h         .-.-       ...-..  -.. \- .    -- -    -             -   -- ->-- 
40-            I      0.t-t                                       -----       ---    -f
*            hsr~~~~~~~~~~~
3AM
A  -~~~~~~~d
Note: the solid line represents counties with large areas of intensive fanning, while the dotted line
represents counties with non-intensive famiing (generally hilly and mountainous counties).
Te most dramatic consequence of the consumption of water polluted with nitrates is occurrence of
acute infantile methaemoglobinaemia, also known as the "blue baby disease". The specific
manifestations of the disease appear in the case of children under one year-old shortly after water
consumption and may lead to death. Unfortunately, in the absence of information and warniing
campaigns, the victims may be numerous and the consumer response (reorientation to other
drinking water sources) very weak.
Infants suffering from methaemoglobinaemia may seem healthy but show intermittent signs of
blueness around the mouth, hands and feet. They may have episodes of breathing trouble, some
diarrhea and vomiting. In some cases, an infant with methaemoglobinaemia has a peculiar
lavender color but shows little distress. Convulsions and death canl occur at extreme
methaemoglobin levels (over 60%). This is the reason why in a large number of cases false
diagnoses are made (the diarrhea, nausea and vomiting are considered the result of a commnon food
poisoning or intolerance to a milk-based product). It is very important to note that many children
suffering from these symptoms in rural areas are not even presented to a doctor, either because
parents use ftrditional home remedies against what they consider to be the cause, or because no
doctor is accessible.
If the condition is identified early and is not life threatening, a change of drinking water is usually
- 64 -



the only needed treatment. This will reduce methaemoglobin to haemoglobin in two to three days.
Severely affected infants may be treated with an intravenously administered solution of methylene
blue, and - most importantly - with pressured oxygen. This treatment is expensive for both
parents and hospitals. Parents need to go to the closest hospital offering such facilities (usually in
the county capital) and the mother or another member of the famnily has to stay with the child there
(usually for 1 week). On another hand oxygen and hospital medical care are expensive.
Due to the fact that the treatment is only in a very small percent a standardized one - the other
impacts on child body being as serious as the main syndrome, is hard to give an accurate figure on
the treatment costs and other related expenditures (food, accommodation, medical services,
nursing).
Long-term solutions. There is no simple way to remove all nitrates from drinking water.
Although it is common to think of boiling, softening or filtration as a means of purifying water,
none of these methods reduce nitrate contamination. Boiling water is in fact the worst thing to do
because it actually concentrates the nitrate. Softening and filtration do nothing to remove nitrates.
This is why the only realistic approach is to use water from an unpolluted well (a deeper one,
reaching the unpolluted layers of underground water) or to buy bottled water (at least for the
children under one year old).
3. Data for cost effectiveness data
Technologies and costs
Table 1 lists the range of technologies anticipated for subprojects, their costs, number of
beneficiaries and cost per beneficiary. It can be seen that the range of cost per beneficiary is quite
large, affording a wide choice.
Table 1. Description of technologies and costs
Option Number                1          2        3       4        5       6       7
Technology description:      Well
rehabilitation
Capital cost (USD)           65       6,350    8,002   69,995  248,924 248,924 264,250
Daily consumption (cu.m)                7       15       46      147     147     147
O&M cost (USD/cu.m)                    0.07     0.08    0.09    0.09     0.1     0.11
Potential beneficiaries      5          100     250     650     2,000    2,000    2,000
Per capita investment (USD)  13         64      35      108      124     124     132
Lifetime (years)             30         30      40       45      45      45       45
- 65 -



II. Roads subprojects
1. Introduction and overview
The roads that will be considered in this project are of two kinds. The first, which will typically be
financed under the Commune Window has an expected level of motorized traffic, of say more than
50 vehicles per day. With these roads it is difficult to identify the beneficiaries, area of influence,
and users. For road improvements financed under the CBO Window - which have a more explicit
poverty reduction focus - the beneficiaries, users, and area of influence can usually be identified.
For these roads the usage is often seasonally variable, but on average low, often only 20 or fewer
motorized vehicles per day. Usage is also dependent on the weather or other unpredictable factors.
The economic objectives of most Commune Window subprojects are to reduce the current and
future costs of goods transport (thereby raising farrn producer prices and reducing input prices,)
and to provide better access to services and extemal markets. The economics of investments for
most of these roads can be evaluated by means of a simplified benefit-cost analysis (the RED
model developed by the Bank) with the understanding that such evaluation is likely to understate
the benefits. The reason is the roads' land access function. This access generates many benefits
that are not observed in the reduced costs of existing and future traffic-as is assumed in the
benefit-cost analysis of arterial roads. The benefits include access for: emergency vehicles, trash
collection, non-motorized travel, and the like. For this reason, in developed countries, local roads
are funded from a combination of road user charges and property (or general) taxes. In addition
sharing of capital costs and a commitment to future maintenance will be required.
The objectives of CBO Window subprojects are both social and economic. The former includes
access to health, education and other social facilities. The latter includes reduced marketing costs
to improve opportunities for more remote villages to market their products, resulting increased
agricultural production and higher farm incomes. The economic benefits of the CBO Window
projects cannot be based on existing traffic estimates (and projections of future traffic levels are
highly uncertain.) Rather, the economic evaluation will be based on: (1) the willingness of the
beneficiaries to organize as a Private Road Association and contribute to the initial civil works and
then to maintain the road, possibly aided by state subsidy; and, for those road investments having
quantifiable economic benefits (2) an analysis focusing on benefits associated with increased farm
or livestock production.
Economic evaluation methodologies for roads
The economic rate of return for RDP roads subprojects that are subject to economic evaluation
must be at least 10 percent. This percentage is lower than that required in standard road or
highway projects. It is, however, acceptable given the Project's development core with a strong
focus on poorer rural communes. The analyses will be performed as follows:
- 66 -



Commune window road subprojects will be evaluated using the simplified benefit-cost analysis
model, RED, developed by the Bank. The method is straightforward and involves minimization of
the following incremental (total) transport costs: (1) rehabilitation and periodic maintenance,
including the costs of environmental mitigation measures; (2) routine maintenance and system
operation costs; and (3) the road user costs (which consist of vehicle operating costs and travel
time costs; costs 1-2 are expenses of the local road administration). The extemal costs and
benefits to society (including pollution, societal costs of accidents, and development and production
benefits) are small and difficult to quantify for low volume roads and are excluded, as are costs
associated with accidents. Note, however, that the costs of environmental mitigation measures
specified in the EA are included in the civil works. The RED Model has been developed to aid in
decision-making regarding the improvement and maintenance of low-volume rural roads. It is
tailored to the needs of low-volume roads, such as the uncertainty of the model inputs, particularly
the traffic and condition of unpaved roads, and the importance of vehicle speeds in model
validation. RED computes the benefits for motorized traffic, it accounts for changes in road
length, condition, geometry, type, and days per year when weather or road condition prevents the
passage of vehicles. The model allows users to add other benefits, such as those that may accrue
to non-motorized traffic, if computed separately. Table 2 below gives results from a simplified
benefit-cost analysis for several road rehabilitation options expected under RDP for a typical
commune road. As it is expected that subprojects will be proposed over the entire course of RDP,
the economic analysis will be done for each at the relevant time. Nonetheless Table 4 shows
retums for the types of subprojects expected.
CBO window roads subprojects with clear economic benefit will be evaluated on the basis of the
beneficiaries' willingness to organize and accept responsibility for future maintenance. A
"producer surplus" analysis for agricultural and livestock production will be estimated using the
following steps: (a) calculation of the hectares of cultivated land along a 3 km swath on either side
of the road, for major agriculture and livestock products; (b) estimation of increase in the
cultivated land due to the improved road; (c) quantification of the production costs of the principal
agriculture and livestock products with and without the project; (d) estimation of the sales prices
for these products and for inputs (with and without the project if the project is likely to affect the
sales price); (e) calculation of the transport costs to and from markets with and without the project
(using the existing tariffs as a guideline); (f) calculation for each year (up to 10 years) a table for
the income and production costs for the principal products and the net value added; (g) subtracting
from the net value added the net economic costs of rehabilitation and maintenance, including the
mitigation costs for environmental harm; and (h) ex post calculation of the net present value and
the economic rate of retum.
The example application in Box 2 on a typical rural local road in Romania shows that benefits
from rehabilitation investment can be substantial. However, experience from other countries
indicates that in some cases it takes time for the benefits from such investments to develop and
translate into tangible rural development and income growth. The project monitoring system and
impact surveys, will improve the measurement of the benefits from sub-projects (this will include a
comparison of those benefits to areas of similar characteristics that have not received Project
grants).
A minimum ERR of 10% is established for the rural local roads in this project. When a subproject
does not meet this criterion, it will be reformulated or abandoned.
- 67 -



Example: Economic Analysisfor Commune Roads
Table 2: Cost assumptions for 6 road rehabilitation opt ons ($,000)  - -
Option                         Initial capital cost  Major repair cost Maintenance
Earth to gravel                       21                15               0.12
Gravel rehabilitation                 20                 15              0.12
Earth to macadam                      35                22.5             0.18
Macadam rehabilitation                 33               22.5             0.18
Earth to stabilized macadam           51                27.5             0.22
Bad gravel to stab. Macadam           48                27.5             0.22
Estimated benefits are composed of reductions in vehicle operating costs (VOC) and value of travel
time savings (VOT). Unit VOC were estimated for categories of vehicles presented in traffic
survey results. They are assumed to vary with the type of pavement and the road roughness
measured by the International Road Roughness Index. The example traffic data comes from a
commune road in Botosani county (traffic survey from 2000). A traffic growth rate of 1% per
annum was used.
The following key assumptions were used in calculating the VOC and VOT:
*   IRI of a bad gravel or macadam road was considered to be the same as for the earth roads.
*   The travel speed on poor roads was considered to be the same as on earth roads.
*   Average vehicle occupancy was estimated to be the same as the average in Romania.
*   Value of travel time was estimated at 0.3 $/hour (unskilled labor rate, close to minimum
wage).
*   Discount rate for NPV was 10%.
*   Lifetime for all roads investment is 20 years. A major repair will be done every 7 years.
Table 3: Results of simplified CBA
Option                                  NPV (rhousand $)             IRR (%)
Earth to gravel                               22.02                     42
Gravel rehabilitation                         10.68                      27
Earth to macadam                              14.22                      23
Macadam rehabilitation                         1.36                      14
Earth to stabilized macadam                   13.66                      19
Bad gravel to stabilized macadam              3.89                       15
-68 -



Table 4: Breakeven analysis (changes in traffic level and in capital cost for which NPV=O)
Option                            Change in traffic (%)  Change in capital cost(%)
Earth to gravel                           44                       +83
Gravel rehabilitation                     -28                      +40
Earth to macadam                          -24                      +32
Macadam rehabilitation                     -3                      +3
Earth to stabilized macadam               -18                      +22
Bad gravel to stabilized macadam          -6                       +6
-69 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
ROMANIA: RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Years Ending
December 31
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
I Year I     Year 2  I Year 3      Year 4    Year 5     Year 6    Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            3.9       23.0       7.7       17.6       0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.1        0.2        0.2       0.2        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs          4.0        23.2       7.9       17.8       0.0        0.0       0.0
Front-end fee     0.4        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing               4.4       23.2       7.9       17.8       0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                   2.1       18.8        5.4       14.1       0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                 0.9        3.6        1.1        2.7       0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                 0.8        3.6        1.1       2.7        0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial              0.1        0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers              0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Local Communes             1.1        1.1        1.5       0.8        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      4.1       23.5       8.0       17.6        0.0       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
Figures are in millions of US dollars. Government contributions are in three parts: central government, local
counties (provincial), and local communes. The PDS has allowed only two categories for government, which
do not automatically sum together. Therefore, the "government" line adds the contribution of the central
government and the counties; the communes' contribution listed further down and not included in the
"government" sum.
- 70 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
ROMANIA: RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procurement
Procurement of goods, technical services and works will be done in accordance with World Bank
Guidelines: Procurement under the IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (issued in January 1995, revised
January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999). Consulting Services, technical
assistance and training will be procured in accordance with the Guidelines - Selection and Employment
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997, revised September 1997 and January 1999.
The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents, Request for Proposals and Forms of Consultants' Contract
will be used. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the Development Business of
the UN in March, 2002.
1. Procurement Responsibilities
1.1 Project Implementation Unit.
A Project Management Unit (PMU) was be established in the Ministry of Public Administration in
September 2001 and will work as a secretariat to the NSC and maintain the necessary communication
with the Bank. The PMU, staffed by consultants, will have overall responsibility for procurement of
goods and consulting services under the project. The Ministry of Public Administration (MPA), where
the PMU will be located, will provide adequate office facilities and support. The PMU will directly
report to the State Secretary responsible for rural development activities in the MPA. It will be funded
out of RDP loan funds, and it will consist of a team of seven staff, i.e. Project Director, an Engineer, a
Training Specialist, a Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist, a Procurement Specialist, a Financial
Management Specialist, and an assistant.
In addition to the PMU, five Project Implementation Units (PIUs) will be established within the pilot
counties to provide technical support to the beneficiary commnune implementing the project. Each PIU
will have a procurement specialist who will be experienced in procurement and familiar with Bank
procurement requirements. A training program will be implemented for ensuring that all those involved
in project implementation both at the national and local levels become familiar with procurement
requirements under Bank-financed projects. The PMU procurement specialist will be responsible for
providing training and support to the procurement specialists of the PlUs.
2. Procurement Methods (Table A)
2.1 Thresholds
The following thresholds are recommended. The aggregate amounts for each procurement method
discussed below are shown in the footnotes to Table A:
(i) Goods and Equipment: Goods and equipment to cost US$100,000 and more will be procured
through ICB. Goods estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 each may be procured through
international shopping, up to an aggregate amount of $121,000, on the basis of three written quotations
obtained from at least two different countries or through IAPSO of the United Nations Development
Program. Small contracts for supplies and minor equipment estimated to cost less than $50,000 each
- 71 -



may be procured under national shopping, up to an aggregate amount of $149,000, on the basis of
three written price quotations obtained from local suppliers.
(ii) Civil Works under the Demand-Driven Component: Civil works below $1.0 million may be
procured on the basis of national competitive bidding (NCB). Minor works estimated to cost less than
$50,000 each may be procured on the basis of three written price quotations and the contract awarded
to the lowest priced bidder who has the necessary experience and financial resources to complete the
works successfully. Bank's standard and sample bidding documents and evaluation reports will be
used.
NCB would be acceptable subject to the conditions that a point system of evaluation will not be used;
domestic preference will not be applied; international bidders will not be excluded from bidding; and
the draft NCB bidding documents will be prepared and submitted to the Bank for review and
no-objection before the first NCB tender is issued. No bids will be rejected at the bid opening. All bids
submitted on or before the deadline for submission of bids will be opened and read out at public bid
opening; local bidders shall demonstrate availability of obtaining securities and reasonable access to
credit; bid evaluation criteria shall be pre-disclosed to bidders; and technical specifications shall be
clearly written. These conditions shall be discussed at the negotiations and made part of the Loan
Agreement.
(iii)     Procurement under Demand-Driven Sub-Projects. Component B, Rural Infrastructure,
includes two subcomponents: rural water supply and sanitation, and rural roads. Subprojects under
these subcomponents will be demand-driven and picked by the community. The comnmune sub-projects
are expected to be between US$35,000 and US$300,000 with a minimum 10% local contribution (of
which a minimum of 7% in cash) by the commune and/or direct beneficiary.
Under the rural water supply and sanitation sub-component, investment options in public water supply
schemes are expected to consist of upgrading existing communal wells and equipping them with a hand
pump; building new deep wells and equipping them with a submersible electrical pump; building small
schemes with a small reticulation network and some standpipes, or upgrading or expanding existing
public water supply schemes; and building water supply schemes for public institutions, such as
hospitals, health centers, schools, orphanages, institutions for care of the elderly. Investments in
sanitation will be financed only for public institutions such as schools, hospitals, orphanages, etc. In
such cases, septic tanks will be built under the project.
The rural roads sub-component will help rehabilitate commune and village roads, and build the
capacities of participating communes and conmmunities to rehabilitate, maintain and manage their
respective road networks.
Sub-projects other than those implemented by the commune govemments will be community based.
The value of such sub-projects is estimated between $35,000 to $75,000, approximately. These
sub-projects, including procurement, will be executed by RSDF in accordance with the procedures in
its current Operations Manual which will be modified as necessary to meet the needs of the RDP.
Procurement under the community implemented projects will be conducted in accordance with para
3.15 of the Guidelines and as per the details in the RSDF Operations Manual. It is expected that
procurement under these sub-projects will be conducted through shopping, i.e., obtaining and
comparing quotations from local suppliers and contractors.
- 72 -



(iv) Consultant Services, TA and Training: Consultant's services will be selected in accordance with
the Bank Guidelines issued in January 1997 and revised in 1997 and 1999, and for this project, will
include Quality and Cost Based Selections (QCBS), Consultant Qualifications (CQ), Least Cost
Selection (LCS), and Individual Consultants (IC). QCBS selection over US$200,000 will be
advertised in Development Business and in a national newspaper for expressions of interest, from
which a short list will be drawn. For contracts estimated to cost less than US$200,000, short lists may
be based solely on national firms. The contracts for preparation of designs and auditing will be
procured following the LCS method. Contracts estimated at less than US$100,000 each for legal
advice, study tours, cadastre management services, quality control, and publicity campaigns will be
procured following the CQ. Individual consultants will be selected in accordance with Part V of the
Consultants Guidelines. All individual contracts will be advertised. Training for the PMU and PIUs
staff will be conducted in accordance with a bi-annual training program that the PMU will submit to
the Bank for its agreement before implementation.
(v) Incremental Operating Costs: The operating costs for PMU covering consultants' fees (excluding
Government employees), supplies, utilities, and equipment maintenance etc. would be disbursed on the
basis of annual budgets to be agreed with the World Bank.
2.2 Prior Review
The following prior review requirements would be applicable:
Goods and Civil Works
(a) All ICB packages.
(b) First IS, NCB and Minor Works package.
Consulting Services
(c) Consulting Firms: All TORs, draft RFPs, short lists, evaluation reports, and draft contracts for
consulting packages above $100,000 each. For each contract estimated to cost $200,000 or more,
after the technical proposal has been evaluated, the technical evaluation report would be submitted to
the World Bank for its review prior to the opening of the priced proposals. For contracts estimated to
cost $100,000 or more, the Bank would be notified of the results of the technical proposals.
(d) For Individual Consultants: All TORs, consultant's qualifications and experience, and draft
contracts, for consulting assignments above US$25,000 each.
Incremental Operating Costs
The Loan will finance the incremental operations costs of the PMU and PIUs to coordinate and
administer the project. These will be incurred in accordance to an annual budget that the PMU will
prepare and submit to the Bank for its approval before any expenditures are incurred.
- 73 -



Post Review
All contracts not subject to the Bank's prior review will be subject to ex-post review, on a selective
basis. One out of five contracts for goods, works, technical services and consulting services will be
subject to ex-post review. Supervision missions will include a procurement specialist especially in the
first year, whose main responsibility will be to conduct ex-post reviews of the procurement process and
documentation, and provide his or her findings.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C): Goods, technical services and consulting services, and PMU
incremental operating costs.
Special Account: To facilitate timely project implementation, both the PMU and RSDF will establish,
maintain, and operate, under conditions acceptable to IBRD, an independent and mutually exclusive
Special Account denominated in US dollars in a bank acceptable to IBRD. The maximum authorized
allocation of the Special Account will be limited to US$3.8 million. Replenishment applications should
be submitted at least every three months and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other
appropriate supporting documents.
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs): Reimbursement of expenditures made from the Special
Account may be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), for the following items:
Goods: contracts amounting to less than US$100,000 per contract.
Consulting services-finns: contracts amounting to less than US$100,000 per contract.
Consulting services-individuals: contracts amounting to less than US$25,000 per contract.
Training and operating costs: all contracts.
3. Financial Management
1. Executive summary and Conclusion
The Project is to be implemented by the newly established PMU within the MPA. The National Steering
Committee (NSC) will oversee implementation of the RDP, provide overall guidance, suggest changes to
the design of the project during implementation if monitoring and evaluation assessments indicate the need
for correction, and ensure harmonization of local and national priorities. The NSC will ratify the proposed
changes in the allocation between regions and windows. There will be five PIUs, with one PIU established
in each of the five selected regions. The PIUs will undertake Bank oversight tasks and provide support to
participating communes. The PIUs will improve their financial management capabilities and gradually
assume payment functions for sub-projects. It is envisaged that payment functions can be delegated to the
PIUs at the end of Phase I of the Project, after the needed capacity has been built.
RSDF will act as its own implementing agency, as it administers grants through the CBO window. RSDF
through its own Special Account will administer funds for these grants and the costs associated with them.
RSDF will provide timely quarterly reports to the PMU on its activities in conjunction with the Project that
will include Financial Monitoring Reports. RSDF is the entity in charge with implementing the second
phase of the SDF Project. RSDF was recently certified by a Bank accredited Financial Management
Specialist.
- 74 -



Prior to Board presentation, a World Bank accredited Financial Management Specialist performed a
detailed assessment of the system in accordance with the Bank's OP/BP 10.02 and the Bank FM
requirements. The result of the assessment is that the Project satisfies the minimum Bank financial
management requirements. A financial management action plan was developed and will be agreed with the
Borrower during negotiations to further strengthen the financial management arrangements of the Project.
A summary of the financial management assessment and conclusions are as follows:
Financial Management             Rating        Comments
Assessment
1. Implementing Entity           Satisfactory  New PMU within MPA, must become
fully familiar with WB rules
2. Funds' Flow                  Satisfactory   Simple funds' flow envisaged
3. Staffing                      Satisfactory  Financial Manager and Accountant
4. Accounting Policies and Procedures Satisfactory  An operational manual was developed to
document intemal control policies
5. Internal Audit                N/A           No reliance placed on internal audit
6. Extemal Audit                 Satisfactory  The project will be audited annually.
Appointment of acceptable auditors will be
an effectiveness condition.
7. Reporting and Monitoring      Satisfactory  Quarterly PMRs are prepared
8. Information Systems           Satisfactory  Customized software system
Overall Financial Management    Satisfactory
Rating
2. Project description summary
The Project would contain three components:
Component A: Capacity Building (US$1.90 million total cost, out of which US$ 1.56 million Bank
financed). The aim of Component A is to strengthen the institutional capacity of local administration,
community/user groups and private service providers to plan, implement, operate and maintain viable small
infrastructure investments in a participatory and accountable manner. The component will finance TA and
training activities for local stakeholders, primarily communes and their constituents, but also private
service providers, judet council technical staff and other local stakeholders. TORs have been developed for
preparation of a commune training curriculum that includes teaching modules on: (1) the project cycle; and
participation in project decision making; (2) commune infrastructure assessment (local assessment carried
out by TA/training teams (TAT) in collaboration with commune stakeholders); (3) budgeting, bookkeeping
and project financing; (4) project decision-making, (5) procurement rules for contracting, and (6)
participatory monitoring and evaluation. The course areas are interrelated and essential to the development
of technically and financially sound rural infrastructure projects that reflect community priorities and are
consistent with local budget options. Each short course will be followed by about a week devoted to
application of concepts leamed, with support from a TA/training team (TAT). Each county and commune
will have repeated contact with a single training and TA team over the course of the project (each team will
cover 4 communes). This will allow continuity and trust to develop between the local or county council
and the team. A TAT will consist of up to three specialists having skills and experience in the areas of (1)
facilitation of participation; (2) engineering and project management; and (3) basic public finance
-75 -



(budgeting and taxation) and project economics.
Component B: Rural Infrastructure (US$48.17 million total cost, out of which US$ 36.45 million Bank
financed). The aim of the infrastructure component is to increase access of rural inhabitants to transport
and water/sanitation services. This component will provide funding for demand-driven investments
prepared by commnunes (through the Commune Window) and Community Based Organizations (through
the much smaller CBO Window, which will fund water/sanitation and roads, as well as other items on the
SDF menu, primarily income generating projects). In connection with the water/sanitation subcomponent,
the component will also fund a Public Environmental Health Promotion campaign, and a rural
water/sanitation strategy study. In connection with roads, the component it will fund five studies aimed at
improving the broader legal, institutional and regulatory framework rural transport and roads.
Component C: Project Management (US$2.95 million total cost, out of which US$ 1.99 million Bank
financed). The component provides the project management support necessary for project implementation,
including funding for TA, training, staff and equipment costs associated with establishment and operation
of the national Project Management Unit (PMU), and five regional Project Implementation Units (PIUs).
3. Country Financial Management Issues
The first Country Financial Accountability Assessment for Romania will be carried out in late 2002 - early
2003.
A summary of key country financial management issues in Romania is given below:
* There have been certain reforms in the public sector financial management, however, overall the
risks relating to this area are still perceived as significant.
* The yearly budgets are not very realistic and not well managed (both in termns of revenue forecasts
and expenditure management), and there would be significant variances between actual and
budgeted revenues and expenditure for the year ending 31 December 2001.
*   There have been several measures to align the Romanian Accounting Standards to International
Accounting Standards (IAS) and the gradual introduction of EU accounting directives has begun,
however, significant differences still exist.
*   In February 2001, the MOPF issued the 'OMF 94' for the approval of the "Accounting regulations
harmonized with the Fourth Directive of the EU and IAS". This ordinance requires application of
IAS or, where exceptions to IAS are permnitted, requires an appropriate qualification in the
auditor's report. OMF 94 will be applied to most companies by 2005. The exact date of
implementation is determined by company reaching thresholds set in two out of three areas -
turnover, asset value and number of employees. In the first year the OMF 94 is applied, companies
have to prepare two sets of financial statements: one in accordance with OMF 94 and one in
accordance with the existing accounting regulations. From the second year of application onwards,
a company should only prepare statements in accordance with OMF 94. Until required to produce
financial statements under OMF 94, companies must adhere to the existing Romanian accounting
regulations.
* Existing Romanian Accounting regulations are geared towards tax compliance, not for provision of
information to interested parties.
* Annual instructions for closing the year's accounts are sometimes issued by the MOPF. These
contain details of additional accounting entries to be recorded, which might significantly affect the
results. Instructions are sometimes issued after the year's end.
- 76 -



*   There is a parliamentary finance committee to provide independent review of the budget proposals
and also budget execution reports.
*   The central control of budget execution is essentially one of control of the cash flows and there is a
lack of commitment control.
*   The ex-ante control functions were recently transferred from the responsibility of the Court of
Accounts to a newly created department within MoF.
*   The Supreme Audit Institution (SAI - Court of Accounts) is playing its role only to a limited
extent, with long delays between the period covered by its reports and the date these are finalized,
thus being outdated by the time of issue (e.g. the report for the year 2000 was presented in the
beginming of 2002). There is, therefore, very limited transparency and financial accountability over
the use of public finances.
4. Financial Management System Assessment
4.1 Project Management and Coordination
The newly established PM' in the MPA includes key staff agreed upon (director, accountant, procurement
specialist). The appointment of the PMU finance manager has also been finalized, as it is a condition for
Board presentation. The PMU will draw upon the experience and expertise of the MPA staff (a number of
technical experts will provide technical assistance in developing the technical specifications for
procurement). The PIUs' key staff (head, procurement officer and training specialist) have been hired, as is
required prior to Board presentation. All other positions within the PIUs will be filled with suitable
candidates by effectiveness.
The Govemment, through the MPA has established and will maintain a project financial management
system (FMS) in a format acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with OP/BP 10.02 and WB Financial
Management requirements.
The PMU will be responsible for the project's overall financial management system. All procurement,
financial management and disbursement procedures for the Project will be centralized at the PMU and be in
accordance with the relevant Bank guidelines. The PIUs will have each a part time accountant. As
additional financial management capacity will be built into the PIUs, it is envisaged that by the second
phase of the APL certain payment responsibilities will be delegated to the PIU level.
4.2 Staffing of the Accounting / Finance Function
The PMU has now completed the nomination process and has a director, an accountant, a procurement
specialist, and a finance manager. The accountant will handle all financial accounting records, ensure that
accounting records are kept up to date within the accounting software and will be in charge of the petty
cash arrangements. The finance manager will supervise the accountant and will be responsible for the
planning, budgeting, auditing and reporting aspects, reporting to the PMU director. The finance manager
will also establish permanent contacts with the NSC, the PlUs, the accounting department of the MPA,
auditors and the MOF.
Training for the finance manager and the accountant will be needed, mainly in the Bank's financial
management and disbursement procedures. The training will be offered in the very early stage of the
project (either before and / or shortly after effectiveness).
Each of the five PIUs will have a part-time accountant, responsible for the initial pre-screening of invoices
- 77 -



and of local contributions by beneficiaries, liaising closely with the PMU accountant. As financial
management capacity is increasingly built into the PIUs, during Phase 2 the accountants will work full time
in view of the payments decentralization to the PlUs envisaged.
4.3 Accounting and Internal Controls
The PMU will maintain the project accounts in accordance with the Romanian statutory accounting
standards (cash basis) and will integrate the project accounts within the MPA accounts, reporting to the
World Bank and to the Government.
The PMU will maintain all documentation related to project expenditures and keep financial records in
accordance with sound accounting practices. The PMU will be responsible for keeping the full accounting
records of the Project, in charge of all payments, operating the accounting software, handling the Special
Account (SA) and the Project Account (PA - Government contributions), prepare all bidding documents,
reporting both to the Bank and the Government, planning, budgeting, disbursement and auditing.
All the original project documents, contracts, payment orders, bank statements and all other relevant
accounting documents will be kept by the PMU, filed on a timely basis and organized in a manner to ensure
the full audit trail with the accounting software records.
The PMU and PIUs procurement staff will be responsible for: preparing the bidding documents; receiving
the offers and evaluating them in accordance with the Bank regulations; submitting the evaluations to the
Bank for no objection; signing contracts in an acceptable format; supervising the works performed by the
contractors; certifying (jointly with the beneficiaries' representatives) the acceptance of the goods, works
and services provided in accordance with the terms of reference, contracts and the relevant technical
specifications. The payment documents will be prepared by the PMU only after the fulfillment of the above
steps. No project funds may be passed over to beneficiaries or any other parties. The PMU is the only
entity authorized to make paymnents to suppliers in the first phase of the APL.
RSDF, through its own Special Account, will administer all funds in association with the grants it makes
through the CBO window. RSDF activities will continue as currently laid out in its operational manual
guidelines.
The PMU's key staff will be responsible for developing detailed financial statements, reporting formats and
methods, internal control procedures, disbursement and flow of funds arrangements, assigned staff
responsibilities in order to ensure a complete segregation of duties. RSDF will provide timely quarterly
reports to the PMU to be incorporated into the consolidated Project financial monitoring reports.
The PMU will be fully in charge of all payments, procurement, contracting, disbursement, reporting,
accounting, planning, budgeting and auditing relating to the Project, with the exception of the funds
associated with grants through the CBO window, administered by RSDF. No Project funds (including
Loan amounts) can be transferred to beneficiaries or any other parties.
4.4 Computerized Accounting System
The project accounting and reporting software system was developed, customized and installed by the
financial management consultant selected, TAMS Ltd, in order to respond to the Terms of Reference
agreed between the Bank and the MPA. The system was designed to fully respond to the specifics of the
Project. The system features a customized chart of accounts, detailed financial statements, reporting
- 78 -



formats and methods, etc. The new system is able to produce all the project management reports as
required by the Bank. The system can produce a trial balance, balance sheet, a statement of sources and
uses of funds, income and expenditure statement, special and project account statements. Usual journals
and ledgers are also produced by the system, such as separate journals for works, goods, consulting and
training, and operating costs. The system also features the bank accounts ledger, the accounts receivable
and accounts payable ledgers, the general ledger and a fixed assets register.
The consultant, together with the PMU's key staff and the Bank's FMS involvement has developed,
customized and installed the draft version of the system. The accountant and the finance manager will be
the primary operators of the software with the PMU director responsible for authorizing all payments. The
procurement specialist will have limited rights to access the software on procurement related aspects. The
initial training in the use of the system was provided to the PMU director and accountant.
The software system is able to produce the quarterly Financial Management Reports as outlined in the
BanWs Financial Management requirements. The format of the FMRs was agreed with the PMU and the
FM consultant, and is included in the Minutes of Negotiations.
4.5 Audit arrangements
The project annual financial statements will be audited each fiscal year in accordance with Bank guidelines,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. Conclusion of a contract with selected auditors,
satisfactory to the Bank, is a dated covenant in the Loan Agreement (to be fulfilled by 15 September 2002).
Copies of the audit reports will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of the fiscal year
(calendar year). The audit report will cover the Project financial Statements, Special and Project Accounts'
Statements, as well as all the Statement of Expenses (SOEs).
4.6 Planning and Budgeting
The PMU will prepare reports showing detailed budgeted and actual expenditures, uses of funds by source,
summary of withdrawals and forecasts, statements of progress achieved and the objectives for the
forthcoming quarter and semester.
Detailed accounts will be kept for each project component and its sub-components. The accounts also
reflect: the status of payment against each contract; utilization of the Special Account (SA) and
replenishments made by the Bank; utilization of the Government contribution and uses of the funds. The
PMU will prepare reports showing detailed budgeted and actual expenditures, uses of funds by source,
sunmmary of withdrawals and forecasts, statements of progress achieved to date and the objectives for the
forthcoming quarter and semester. The PMU will submit the quarterly Financial Management Reports
(FMRs) to the Bank starting with the period ended September 30, 2002 and quarterly thereafter, no later
than 45 days after the relevant quarter's end. RSDF will contribute in a timely manner to these reports with
the activities of grants through the CBO window.
The budgeting and financial forecasting are an integral part in the process of preparing the FMRs. These
activities will involve the PMU director, the finance manager, the accountant and the procurement
specialist.
4.7 Financial and Accounting Procedures Manual
- 79 -



The PMU and the PIUs will adhere to sound intemal control procedures and practices, to ensure that the
Project funds are used with economy and efficiency and only for the purposes intended. The PMU will
report to the NSC and relevant Ministers and will inform in a timely manner about project implementation
and progress.
All PMU and PIUs staff must become familiar with Bank regulations (legal, disbursement, procurement,
financial management, etc) applicable to their relevant area. A draft Financial and Accounting Procedures
Manual was developed by the FM consultant in cooperation with the PMU director and accountant,
documenting all the various types of financial transactions, approval and authorization steps, the flow of
documents within the PMU and PIUs and between the PMU, PIUs and the beneficiaries, the accounting
department of the MPA, to the MOF, PMU's and PlUs staff responsibilities and measures to ensure a
complete segregation of duties, as well as other internal control procedures. The manual also documents
the day-to-day internal procedures for each type of activity (such as correspondence handling, contracting
and payment procedures, operation of all bank accounts, petty cash, authorization mechanism, reporting,
budgeting, planning, filing, etc.).
4.8 Conclusion
In conclusion, the financial management arrangements of the Project satisfy the minimum Bank financial
management requirements because:
*   the PMU has implemented an acceptable computerized accounting system for the Project;
*   the PMU has developed a detailed financial, accounting and intemal control manual describing the
accounting policies and procedures, intemal controls, delegation of responsibilities and authorities,
transaction flows, reporting, planning and budgeting;
* the PMU has an accounting/finance department, consisting of a finance manager and an accountant
acceptable to the Bank;
*   the PMU will contract independent extemal auditors, acceptable to the WB (dated covenant in the
Loan Agreement, by 15 September 2002).
5. Flow of Funds
The Loan Agreement will be signed between the World Bank (IBRD) and the Romanian Govenmment,
through the MOPF. The MOPF will then sign a subsidiary agreement with the MPA and Romanian Social
Development Fund (RSDF) allocating the loan proceeds to MPA and RSDF and giving rights to MPA to
use the loan proceeds and to consolidate the financial statements of the Project. The MOPF will enter into
an agreement with the RSDF to separately administer funds for grants under the CBO Window. Based on
a Ministerial Order to be issued, the MPA will empower the PMU to operate and use the loan proceeds
(other than those going through the CBO Window) as well as the Government contributions to the Project.
The PMU and RSDF will handle the Loan amounts through two independent Special Accounts (SAs).
The RSDF will operate its own SA for the portion of the Loan that will be used for CBO financing. The
SAs will be opened at one or more commercial banks, acceptable to, and in accordance with Bank
requirements. A dated covenant states that the Borrower will open two special accounts and two
corresponding project accounts. One set of accounts will fund commune level projects and associated TA,
to be managed by the PMU; the other set of accounts will fund CBO (community based organization)
projects, to be managed by RSDF. The Borrower will maintain adequate initial funds in the project
- 80 -



accounts and shall maintain adequate ongoing funds in the accounts through regular replenishments.
Payment amounts will be determined by an agreement to be concluded between the Bank and the Borrower
during the review and approval of the annual work program.
Government contributions will be received in two separate project sub-accounts, that will be used
specifically for the Government contribution to the project. Government contributions will be received
monthly, directly from the MOPF through the MPA budget, as part of the annual budgetary process.
These contributions will be reflected as a separate line in the budget of MPA.
The PMU will have full rights to operate its respective special and project accounts. All documentation
pertaining to the project (relating to Loan funds, to the Government contributions, beneficiaries'
contributions and other donors as applicable) will be kept at the PMU. The local councils' contributions to
the project will be allocated monthly/quarterly to a new ROL project account. It was agreed during project
preparation that a protocol will be signed between the PIUs and the local councils to govem this
monthly/quarterly procedure, for each sub-project.
The beneficiaries will contribute to project total cost by financing design work for preparation of feasibility
studies and technical design, as well as for site supervision and construction. The total contribution would
cover no less than 10 percent of total project cost either in cash or partially in kind. As a general rule, cash
contributions to capital cost will be made up-front. Each beneficiary will sign contracts with the suppliers
and the PMU (represented by the respective PIU) where detailed financing responsibilities will be included.
Details of the financial arrangements are given in the Operational Manual. In respect of the in-kind
contribution, the financing agreement will detail the mechanism for quantifying the in-kind contribution in
monetary terms, and will mention the nature of the in kind contribution (land, labor, raw materials,
consumables, transportation, etc).
Once the contract between the beneficiary, the supplier and the PIU is signed and the beneficiary's
contribution agreed, the PMU will start executing payments for the relevant sub-component activities, as
invoices are received from the suppliers. These invoices have to be first jointly certified by the PIU1's
officers and the beneficiary's representatives, in order to ensure that all the relevant goods were delivered,
works done and services rendered, as per technical specifications and TORs. Payments through RSDF will
be made in accordance with the operational guidelines currently in place for RSDF.
The local councils and the beneficiaries will execute the payments from their project accounts opened for
their cash contribution to sub-projects and inform the PMU through the PlUs about the payments made.
Only after the local contribution payments are made, the PMU will make payments from the loan funds and
Government contribution. The local councils and beneficiaries will report to the PMU through the PIUs on
a monthly basis. These reports will detail the payments made, forecasted payments for the next months and
quarter and will include supporting documentation (payment orders, bank statements, invoices, receipts,
in-kind contribution statements, acceptance protocols, etc.)
6. Financial Monitoring Reports
The PMU will maintain accounts of the Project and will ensure appropriate accounting of the project funds.
The Borrower has expressed the preference to use Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs). The format of
appropriate FMRs was finalized and agreed with the Borrower during negotiations. RSDF will contribute
to these reports with updates of its activities associated with the Project and financial infornation on the
Project funds. The PMU will prepare the FMRs on a quarterly basis. The PMRs include:
- 81 -



*   Project Sources and Uses of Funds
*   Uses of Funds by Project Activity
*   Project Cash Forecasts
*   Special Account Statement Plus Local Project Bank Account Statement
*   Physical Progress Reports
*   Procurement Monitoring Reports
*   Contract Monitoring Reports
7. Financial Risk Analysis
From a financial management perspective, the proposed Project is considered a substantial-risk project. A
summary of the consolidated risk assessment for the project is presented below, as follows:
Risk                                 Radng        Comments
Inherent Risk
1. Country Financial Management Risk  Substantial  There is generally limited financial
management capacity and accountability in
ublic sector.
2. Project Financial Management Issues  Moderate  Timely counterpart funding could be an issue.
3. Banking sector                     Substantial  Substantial liquidity & credit risks in the
banking sector
4. Perceived corruption               Substantial  Pervasive corruption at all levels of the
economy.
OVERALL INHERENT RISK                Substantial_
Control Risk
1. Implementing Entity               Substantial  Newly established PMU within MPA
2. Funds Flow                        Moderate     Simple arrangements envisaged
3. Staffing                           Substantial  PMU financial manager pending, training
required
4. Accounting Policies and Procedures  Moderate   The manuals will document policies and
procedures
5. Intemal Audit                      N/A         No reliance placed on intemal audit
6. Extemal Audit                     Moderate     Appointment of auditors will be a dated
covenant
7. Reporting and Monitoring          Moderate     PMR capacity developed for the Project
8. Information Systems               Moderate     New software system put in place for the
______________________________________ Project
Overall Control Risk                 Moderate     Project
8. Costs and Financial Performance
The project's financing plan, which includes the IBRD Loan, and the project's planned expenditures, have
been realistically estimated. In order to facilitate the implementation, the project's cost tables include an
appropriate cost matrix, which adequately shows the relationship between the loan agreement categories
and project components.
9. Auditing Arrangements
- 82 -



For Bank reporting purposes, the annual financial statements of the project will be prepared in accordance
with cash accounting, which is a basis of accounting other than International Accounting Standards (IAS)
and audited by independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with the Intemational
Standards on Auditing (ISA) and the Bank guidelines on auditing and financial reporting such as the World
Bank Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook and the World Bank Project Financial
Management Manual. The cost of the audits are to be financed from the Loan.
The PMU will start shortly the procurement activities related to the selection of independent auditors in
accordance with the World Bank guidelines. A Request for Proposals is currently being prepared by the
PMU and will be sent to the World Bank for no objection in accordance with the Financial management
action plan (attached). All the 'big-five' audit firms present in Romania and are eligible to the auditing
requirements of the WB. The auditors shortlist will be finalized and included in the RFP that will be sent to
the Bank for no objection. Appointment of independent auditors acceptable to the World Bank is a dated
covenant (by 15 September 2002) specified in the Loan Agreement.
10. Disbursements
Disbursements will be made upon receipt by IBRD of fully documented applications, except for contracts
valued at less US$100,000 for consulting firms, US$25,000 for individual consultants, goods under
contracts costing less than US$100,000 each and for all training and operating costs, which will be made
against certified statements of expenditures (SOE). Supporting documentation for SOEs would be retained
by the Borrower and made available to IBRD during supervision.
11. Special Account
To facilitate project implementation, the Borrower will establish two Special Accounts in one or more of
the major commercial banks present in Romania, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IBRD, to cover
the share of expenditures by IBRD. The Authorized Allocation for these SAs will be US$3.6 million for
one account and US$200,000 for the other representing about four months of average expenditures made
through the Special Accounts. During the early stage of the project, the initial allocation to the Special
Accounts will be limited to US$1.8 million and US$100,000, respectively. However, when the
disbursements under the Loan have reached the level of US$12.5 million and US$500,000, respectively, the
initial allocation may be increased up to the Authorized Allocation of US$3.6 million and US$200,000,
respectively, by submitting the relevant Application for withdrawal. Applications for replenishment of the
Special Accounts will be submitted monthly every three months or when one-third of the amount has been
withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Documentation requirements for replenishment would follow standard
Bank procedures as described in Disbursement Handbook, Chapter 6. Monthly bank statements of each
respective Special Account, which have been reconciled by the Borrower, will accompany all replenishment
requests.
12. Financial Management Action Plan
Action                                          Responsibility      Due Date
Establishment of the accounting software system
Initial installation of the customized accounting software  PMU/FM consultant  Completed
system and provision of initial training
Initial draft accounting manual documenting the project's PMU/FM consultant  Completed
- 83 -



accounting and internal controls procedures
Final development of the customized accounting software  FM consultant  2/8/2002
system and full test run performed
Final accounting manual documenting the project's  PMU               2/8/2002
accounting and internal controls procedures
*Completion of training to PMU staff             FM consultant       2/15/2002
Flnancial Manager
*Appointment and actual start of activity        PMU                 2/8/2002
Audit arrangements
*Send audit Request for Proposals (RFP) and shortlist of  PMU        3/1/2002
auditors for no-objection to the Bank
-Confirm no-objection to audit RFP and shortlist  Bank               3/14/2002
Send RFP to shortlisted auditors                 PMU                 3/15/2002
*Submission and opening of the offers            PMU                 4/15/2002
Final evaluation and recomrnendation for selection sent to  PMU      4/25/2002
the Bank for no objection
*Confirm no objection to the evaluation and selection  Bank          5/10/2002
*Final draft contract agreed with the auditors sent to the  PMU      5/20/2002
Bank for no objection                                   _
*Confirm no objection to the contract            Bank                5/25/2002
*Conclude contract with selected auditors         PMU                5/31/2002
13. Impact ofProcurementArrangements
The PMU is staffed with a procurement specialist that will be in charge with all the procurement aspects of
the Project, and will draw upon the existing expertise of MPA specialists in their area of competence. The
PLUs each have a procurement officer that will be involved on all procurement aspects at the regional and
local levels. The intemal control manual will detail the procurement procedures in a separate section of the
manual and will establish the links between procurement and financial management / disbursements
procedures.
14. Loan Agreement Covenants
The following are the covenants relating to financial management matters:
* The Government will complete the agreed financial action plan for strengthening the project
financial management systems by May 31, 2002.
* Not later than September 30 of each year, the Government will furnish IBRD the annual project
implementation work programs for the next year, including procurement and financing plans, and
will review these plans with IBRD before implementing them.
* The Govenmment will submit to IBRD, commencing upon Loan effectiveness, quarterly Financial
Management Reports, not later that 45 days after the end of each quarter outlining progress made
in the implementation of each project component, as well as the problems encountered and how
they are being addressed.
* The Government will cause the MPA to have the Project financial statements audited each year, by
independent auditors acceptable to the WB, commencing with the accounts for the year ending
December 31, 2002.
-84 -



15. Supervision Plan
The development for furiter strengthening the financial management system will be monitored before
effectiveness, during the first supervision missions and throughout the project imnplementation.
The reports of the progress of the project implementation will be monitored in detail during supervision
missions. The FMRs will be reviewed on a regular basis by the field-based FMS and the results or issues
followed up during the supervision missions. Financial audit reports and management letters of the project
will be reviewed and issues identified and followed up. The field based FMS will monitor the agreed action
plan to ensure appropriate actions have been implemented by the MPA through the PMU.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB          Other        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                           0.00            0.00         43.73         0.00       43.73
(0.00)          (0.00)       (35.18)      (0.00)      (35.18)
2. Goods                           0.25            0.00          0.16         0.11        0.52
(0.21)          (0.00)       (0.14)       (0.00)      (0.35)
3. Services                        0.00            0.00          7.77         0.18        7.95
Consultants Services and           (0.00)         (0.00)        (3.90)       (0.00)      (3.90)
Training
4. Operating Costs                 0.00            0.00          0.73         0.09        0.82
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.57)       (0.00)      (0.57)
5. Front-end fee                   0.00            0.00          0.40         0.00        0.40
(0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                            0.25           0.00          52.79        0.38       53.42
(0.21)         (0.00)        (39.79)       (0.00)     (40.00)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2A break-down of "other" is as follows:
A/ Demand-driven infrastructure component: Minor Works will apply for civil works contracts estimated
less than US $50,000; and NCB, less than US $1million each.
B/ Includes: IS (US$0.121 million); NS contracts (US$0.149 million)
C/ QCBS: (US$3.19 million); LCS: (US$2.85 million); and CQ (US$0.6 million)
D/ Individual Consultants: (US$ 1.135 million)
E/ Training of PMU and PIUs: (US$0.296 million)
Figures may not total exactly due to rounding.
* Note: "Works" refer to works under sub-projects
- 85 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category  QCBS   QBS     SFB     LCS      CQ     Other   N.B.F. Total Cost
A. Firms              3.19    0.00    0.00    2.85    0.60     0.00   0.14     6.78
(2.47)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.09)  (0.53)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (3.09)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     1.14   0.03      1.17
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.81)  (0.00)   (0.81)
Total  3.19    0.00    0.00    2.85     0.60    1.14    0.17    7.95
_  (2.47)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.09)  (0.53)  (0.81)  (0.00)  (3.90)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 86 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                              Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement            Prior Revlew
Expenditure Category     (US$ thousands)            Method               (US$ millions)
1. Works                     >or= 100                  ICB                    0.000
under sub-projects             <100                    NCB                    1.000
<50                    MW                     0.050
2. Goods                     > or= 100                 ICB                    0.253
<100                     IS                    0.100
<50                     NS                    0.050
3. ServicesConsultants       > or= 200                QCBS                     3.19
Services and Training          >100                    LCS                     2.85
>25                    Ind                     1.16
<100                    CQ
<70                     FB
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  8.603
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Procurement Supervision Plan. A Bank procurement specialist should continue to be a member of the
project team throughout the project cycle. In addition, the organization for this project being high risk, one
in five contracts will be subject to ex-post review. In the early phase of the project implementation, the
Bank procurement specialist should be frequently involved in the supervision missions.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-87 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category       Amount In US$mililon        Financing Percentage
Goods                                    0.34             100% foreign; 100% ex-factory;
80% local
Consultant Services                      3.98             100% of foreign expenditure and
80% of local expenditure
Rural Investment Sub-grants              32.09                      100%
Operating Costs                          0.50                        75%
Unallocated                              3.09
Total Project Costs                      40.00
Front-end fee        0.00            paid by borrower (not capitalized)
Total                                    40.00
- 88 -



Section 1: Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance
Requirements                                                              _   _       -
The following actions are proposed to mitigate the procurement risks to project implementation:
* the PMU procurement specialist is selected before negotiations;
* a procurement specialist at each PITJ will be selected and trained before effectiveness;
* after approval of the project by the Board of the Bank, but before loan effectiveness,
procurement workshops will be held as part of the project launch workshops. The objective of
these workshops will be to familiarize the procurement specialists, the technical and legal staff
of the PLUs and local administration units that will be involved in the project, with the
procurement requirements under the project. These workshops will be repeated at least two times
during the first year of implementation;
* the PMU and PIUs will up a computerized procurement monitoring system both for tracking
procurement actions as well as to prepare periodic progress reports within three months of
signing;
* the PMU should prepare a code of ethics for its use and use of the PIUs. This code can be based
on the relevant provisions in the law of public servants.
2.     Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) or Country Procurement Strategy Paper
Status: CPAR dated August 19993. Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions of the first year
ready by negotiations? Yes
Section 2: Training Informatlon and Development on Procurement
4. Estimated date of Project Launch workshop: April 15, 2002
5. Estimated date of General Procurement Notice publication: March 2002
6. Indicate if contracts are subject to mandatory SPN in Development Business: No
7. Domestic Preference for Goods: Yes
8. Domestic preference for Works: No
9. Retroactive Financing: No
10. Advanced procurement: No
11. Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System: Procurement implementation progress will be monitored
through progress reports and supervision missions. At least one supervision mission every six months during
the first year of the implementation and then on an annual basis will include a procurement specialist. She/he
will be responsible for updating the procurement plan, and conducting ex-post reviews. His/her findings will be
included in the supervision reports for monitoring their implementation.
Section 3: Procurement Staffing
12. Indicate the name of Procurement Staff as part of the Project Team:
Naushad A. Khan, Senior Procurement Specialist  Division: ECSSD      Ext: 32699
13. Explain briefly the expected role of the field office in Procurement:
The project officer assigned to this project would play an important role of monitoring the procurement
process, and also, serve as an intermediary between the headquarters and the PMU.
- 89 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
ROMANIA: RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Schedule                                  Planned                     Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      20                           27
First Bank mission (identification)             11/01/1999                   11/01/1999
Appraisal mission departure                     12/17/2001                   01/14/2002
Negotiations                                    01/07/2001                   02/11/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   06/30/2002
Prepared by:
1. RDP National Steering Committee
2. Ministiy of Public Administration, Departmnent of Local Community Services
3. Ministry of Finance, Department of International Relations
4. County staff and decision makers in pilot counties of Dolj, Botosani, Salaj, Tulcea, and Calarasi.
5. Commune staff and beneficiaries in 100 pilot communes located in pilot counties.
Preparation assistance:
A Japan PHRD grantfor US$526,997 (TF025592) was received and used for project preparation by
the Bank to contract consulting services to assist in the preparation of the Rural Development Project
The activities for which the grant was given as follows: (a) a study of the functions and capacity of
local administration entities; (b) a study of rural poverty with a view to determining priority areas for
intervention under the project; (c) design of certain types of intervention for social and/or physical
infrastructure development in rural areas; (d) social assessment including consideration of gender
aspects of rural poverty; and (e) a rural development workshop to study proposals for intervention and
to engage stakeholders in the selection of types of intervention.
Grant Implementation and Results. The grant was successfully executed by the Bank. All planned
outputs were completed and consultant performance was satisfactory, with significant transfer of
technical knowledge to the client. Both the client and stakeholders benefited from training programs
and consultative workshops carried out by consultants and the establishment of separate project
financial management systems.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Henry Gordon                      Task Team Leader
Milena Messori                    PAD Coordinator
Piotr Wilcynzski                  Flow of Funds, Project Management Specialist
Christoph Pusch                   Rural Infrastructure
Antti Talvitie                    Roads/transport Specialist
Rita Klees                        Environmental Specialist
Jennie Litvack                    Local Government and Social Funds Specialist
Gabriel lonita                    Infrastructure Specialist
Jennifer Sara                     Rural Water/Sanitation Specialist
-90 -



Christina Malmberg Calvo            Rural Roads-Peer Reviewer
Bogdan Constantinescu               Financial Management Specialist
Ranjan Ganguli                      Financial Management Specialist
Naushad Khan                        Procurement Specialist
Michael Nelson                      Operations Analyst
Sohaila Wali                       Program Assistant
Kari Homanen                        Rural Water/Sanitation Specialist
Dana Dobrescu                       Capacity Building, Area Selection, MIS Specialist
Lucian Luca                         Cost/Benefit Analysis Specialist
Laura Tuck                         Quality Assurance
Vincente Ferrer-Andreu              Rural Development & Capacity Building-Peer Reviewer
Deborah Wetzel                     Decentralization & local institutions-Peer Reviewer
Kavita Sethi                       Rural Water/Sanitation Specialist
Jennifer Ngaine                    Team Assistant
91 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
ROMANIA: RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Rural Development Project Operational Manual
B. Bank Staff Assessments
"RDP Social and Institutional Assessment: Part I: Social Assessment: Needs and Actions in Romanian
Villages; Part H1: Institutional Assessment" Dumitru Sandu, Gabriela Matei et al. (2000)
"RDP Environmental Assessment" Mrs. Violeta Visan (2000)
"The Retirement Decision in Romanian Farm Households" Henry Gordon, Cesar Revoredo, Alberto
Valdes, RDP background paper (1999)
"From Rural Poverty to Rural Development" Emil D. Tesliuc, Constantin Chirca, et al., RDP background
paper (1999)"RDP Social and Institutional Assessment: Part I: Social Assessment: Needs and Actions in
Romanian Villages; Part II: Institutional Assessment" Dumitru Sandu, Gabriela Matei et al. (2000)
C. Other
Consultant papers commissioned under RDP:
"The Factors Underlying Poverty in Rural Romania: Market Failure, Asset Productivity, and
Demographics" Roman Lopez and Timothy S. Thomas, RDP background paper (1999)
"Basic Data to Collect in the Commune as a Proxy for Income/Wealth" Sharon Holt, RDP background
note (2001)
"Rural Development and the Role of Land Markets in Romania" Roy Prosterman and Jennifer Duncan,
RDP background paper (1999)
"World Bank Rural Development Projects in Central and Eastem Europe" Cristina Esanu, RDP
background note (2000)
"Background on Rural Development in Romania and Justification for RDP Approach" Sharon Holt, RDP
background note (2001)
"Rural Development: Local Govemment Survey" Laurentiu Tachiciu RDP background paper (1999)
"Equalization Grants in Romania: Recent Developments" Francis Conway, RDP background note (2001)
"Funding Windows, and Prefmancing vs. Competitive Selection of Subprojects" Jennie Litvack, RDP
background note (2000)
"RDP Background Notes on Local Govemance and Participation: i) Transparency and Participation
-92 -



Criteria as Presented in Application Form for Subproject Desk Review; ii) Note on How to Stimulate the
'Demand Side' of Govemance in the RDP Project; iii) RDP Proposal for CBO Window Activities" Sharon
Holt, RDP background note (2001)
"Capacity Building Component: Final Report" Francis Conway and Fred Rosensweig (October, 2000)
"RDP Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Subcomponent" Sergio Calegari, RDP background paper (2000)
"Contribution to RDP PAD on Water and Sanitation Subcomponent" Wouter van den Wallbake, RDP
background note (2001)
"RDP Rural Roads Subomponent" Anders Bonde, RDP background paper (2000)
"RDP Rural Roads Background Notes: i) Assumptions for Roads Subprojects; ii) Participatory
Determination of Commune-Judet Roads Strategy; iii)
Improved Site Supervision by Client's Representatives; Commune Traffic Surveys" Edwin Connerly, RDP
background notes (2001)
*Including electronic files
- 93 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
ROMANIA: RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                           disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                      IBRD        IDA        SF      GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.      Orig   Frm Revd
P008776       1995 (ESPP) EMPLOY. & SOr. PROTECTION                55.40      0.00                           0.00     38.49     36.55      0.00
P043882       2000 AGR SUPPORT SERVICES                            11.00      0.00                           0.00     11.00      0.07       0.00
P008795       1997 ASAL                                           350.00      0.00                           0.00     35.76     50.00     -33.33
P008778       1997 BUCHAREST WATER SUPP                            25.00      0.00                           0.00     10.94      10.28      0.00
P05'495       1998 CHILD WELFARE REFORM                             5.00      0.00                           0.00      4.80      3.30       0.00
P058284       1999 CULTURAL HERTAGE                                 5.00      0.00                           0.00      4.93      3.30       0.00
P008784       1994 EDULATION REFORM                                50.00      0.00                           0.00     21.66     21.86     -23.11
P008797       2000 HEALTH SECTOR REFORM                            40.00      0.00                           0.00     40.00      0.00       0.00
P008793       1997 HIGHER EDUCATION                                50.00      0.00                           0.00     34.22     34.22       7.89
P008774       1994 INDUSTDEV                                      175.00      0.00                          55.00     39.79     94.79      94.79
P056337       2000 MINE CLOSURE                                    44.50      0.00                           0.00     43.94      5.47       0.00
P008777       1994 PETROL SECT REH                                 175.60     0.00                           0.00     86.11     86.11       0.00
P039251       1999 PIBL                                            25.00      0.00                           0.00     21.32      0.66       0.00
P008794       1996 POWER SECTOR REHAB.                             110.00     0.00                           0.00     95.05      95.05      0.00
P038013       1996 RAILWAY                                        120.00      0.00                           0.00     53.29      47.29      0.00
P034213       1998 RO GENERAL CADASTRE                             25.50      0.00                           0.00     24.21      3.88       0.00
P044614       1998 SCHOOLS REHABILITATION                          70.00      0.00                           0.00     67.27     30.97      .0.50
P039250       1997 SECOND ROADS                                   150.00      0.00                           0.00     51.80     -25.70      0.00
P049200       1999 SOC DEV FUND                                     10.00     0.00                           0.00      7.78       5.25      0.00
P008788       1998 TELECOMMUNICATION                               30.00      0.00                           7.00     17.83      18.93      0.58
P065041       2000 TRADE&TRANSFACLINSEEUR                          17.10      0.00                           0.00     17.10      0.00       0.00
Total:    1544.10       0.00                         62.00     727.49     522.28     46.32
- 94 -



ROMANIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan   Equity  Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1999               Ambro                         8.47    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.65    0.00     0.00    0.00
1998               Banc Post                     0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    10.00    0.00
1998               Bilstein Compa                2.17    0.00    0.00    2.17    2.17    0.00     0.00    2.17
1996               Danube Fund                   0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00     0.00    0.00
1998               Demir Romania                 5.00    3.20    0.00    0.00    3.00    2.55     0.00    0.00
1997               Efes Brewery                  9.49    0.00    1.24    7.00    9.49    0.00     0.00    7.00
1998               FCR Fund                      0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00     0.00    0.00
1998               Garanta                       0.00    0.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.20     0.00    0.00
1998               Krupp Compa                   6.74    0.00    0.00    2.89    5.56    0.00     0.00    2.38
1997               Mobil Rom                    40.00    0.00   10.00  160.00   40.00    0.00    10.00  160.00
1997               Rambox                        1.66    2.00    0.00    0.00     1.66   2.00     0.00    0.00
1994/98            Romlease                      0.00    0.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.30     0.00    0.00
1998               Small Bus. Loan               5.00    0.02    0.00    0.00    3.00    0.02     0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:        78.53   17.72   21.24   172.06   70.53   17.07   20.00  171.55
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                         Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2000               Mobil Rom II                 15000.00     0.00      0.00  20000.00
2001               Romlease Restr.               4000.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:    19000.00      0.00     0.00  20000.00
-95-



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
ROMANIA: RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Central  middle-
Romanla       Asia   Income       Development diamond*
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                       22.5       475     2.094                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   1,520     2.150      1,200
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                      34.1      1.022    2.513
Average annual growth. 1993-99
PoDulation (%J                                         -0.2       0.1       1.1
Labor force (XJ                                        0.5        0.6       1.2     GNP                             Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                               per                            primary
capita             -'        enrollment
Povertv (% of population below national povertv line)   22
Urban Population (% of total population)                56        67        43
Life expectancy at birth (vears)                        69        69        69
Infant mortalitv (per 1,000 live births)                21        22        33
Child matnutrition (% of children under 5)                         8        15                Access to sa1e water
Access to improved water source (% of poDulation)       62                  86
Illiteracy I% of population age 15+)                     2         3        16
Gross Primary enrollment (%of school-age population)   104       100       114              Romania
Male                                                 104       101       114              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               103        99       116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998      1999
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                                    41.5       41.5      34.0
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                 39.6     26.8       21.4      19.9                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                     20.9      23.7       30.1
Gross domestic savings/GDP                            29.5       13.3      15.7
Gross national savings/GDP                            29.7       14.0      16.3
Current account balancelGDP                            6.1       -7.2      -3.8     Domestic 
Interest Pavments/GDP                                  0.2        1.1       1.4                   N.            Investment
Total debtlGDP                                         2.6       24.3      27.1      avings        N  07
Total debt service/exports                    1.4     16.9       23.6      28.7
Present value of debt/GDP                                       23.2       27.1
Present value of debtexports                                    98.5       92.0
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998      1999    1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  1.6     -1.5     -4.9      -3.2                      -  Romania
GNP per capita                       1.2     -1.4     -5.1       -2.8                        Lower-middle-income group
EXDOrtS of goods and services                 4.6      5.8        8.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998       1999     Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
I% of GDP)
Agriculture                                           15.7       15.0      15.5
Industry                                              56.4      36.6      31.0
Manufacturing                                                  27.3      22.2 o
Services                                              27.9      48.3       53.5     --
Private consumption                                   58.9      72.2      69.6     -10
General government consumption                        11.6       14.5      14.7             -   GDI          t-GDP
Imports of goods and services                         18.2      31.8      34.3
1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Aariculture                                            0.6       -8.8       4.7    20
Industrv                                              -1.9      -5.6      -4.0
Manufacturing                                                  -6.4      -3.1    '_
Services                                              -2.4      -0.1       -8.4               7       v     ,
Private consumption                                   -0.1      -6.5      -6.8      o      94   9     96   97    9s
General government consumption                         2.3      12.0       0.4
Gross domestic investment                             -5.7      -8.6      -3.7     -o
Imports of goods and services                          4.4      14.1      -4.8                  Exports     .   Imports
Gross national product                        1.7     -1.7      -5.3       -3.0
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
- The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-arouv average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomolete.
- 96 -



Romania
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989       1998     1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic Prices                                                                      300
(% chanae)                                                                           30.
Consumer prices                                  ..      1.1      59.1      45.8     200
Implicit GDP deflator                           3.2     -0.9      55.0      46.4
150
Government finance
/% of GDP. includes current grants)                                                    0
Current revenue                                         51.0      30.1      33.3             94     95    96    97    96    9
Current budaet balance                                  31.1       -5.0     -3.5             -     GDP deflator  -1CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                 13.5       -5.0     -3.4
TRADE
1979    1989       1998      1999      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
T   lUS o m sllions)
Total exPorts (fob)                                   10 487     8,302    81505      12.000
Textiles                                                        1583     18310      9.00
Metals                                                           508       502      9.00
Manufactures                                         7.056    51238      5.654                       _    _0_           i
Totao                                            ..   28437     11838     40 392       000
Food                                                   124       523       417      3.000,251
Fuel and energy                                      4 728      13687    1251._8
Capital aoods                                        2,148     3.206     2,689         o   _    _    _         _    _    _
93   94   9o   96   97   99   99
Export price index (1995=100)                            93         95        97
imoon price Index (1995=100)                             99         98       101                 ECExports     *Imports
Terms of trade (19953100)                        ..      93         97        95
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                1979     1989       1998     1999       Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services               10,133   11,321      9.519     9,862     0
Imports of goods and services               11.428    8.887     12.798    11.358
Resource balance                             -1,295   2.434     -3.279    -1.496  -  2
Net Income                                    -358       80       -442      -375
Net current transfers                                     0        753      568      -4
Current account balance                     -1.653    2.514     -2.968    -1.303     6
Financing items (net)                        1,791    -1,160     2,125     1,471
Changes in net reserves                       -138   -1,354        843      -188     -8
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)          ..        ..     3,789     3.657
Conversion rate (DEC. /ocaUIUS$)                        19.3    8,875.8  15,332.8
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989       1998      1999
(USS millions)                                                                       Composition of 1999 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandinq and disbursed         3.583     1.087    10,074     9.213
IBRD                                         590        0      1.469     1.703                   G: 683
IDA                                            0        0          0        0                                 A: 1,703
Total debt service                             142     1.941     2,310     2,876
IBRD                                          54      756        152      171
IDA                                            0        0          0        0                                      C 459
Comoosition of net resource flows                                                                               . ' I
Official grants                                0        0        131        0                                     /D: 1,021
Offical creditors                            151    -1,188      -123       -65
Private creditors                          1.680     -432       344       -351         F 495                       379
Foreian direct investment                      0        0      2.040      949
Portfolio eoultv                               0        0        130      -706
World Bank program
Commitments                                  340        0        130      340      A -IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                142        0        122      323      B - IDA   D - Other mullilaterel  F - Private
Principal repavments                           7      727        70        85      C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                    135     -727         51      238
Interest pavments                             47       29        82        87
Net transfers                                 88     -756        -30      152
Development Economics                                                                                                 9/5/2000
- 97 -



Additional
Annex 11
Letter of Development Policy
Goverauat of Roma
Jan=y 30f2002
Johames Li
V~ioe President
Eurpe and Central Asia Region
The World Bank
Washingtnn, DC
Re: Proposed )6rd Development Project
Levter of Delopment Program
Doa Mr. Lon,
This Lete of Develp    Ptogm sets out objectives for a Rwal D clpme
Pgam    baeeafier, the Program) mad provides a srategic liawew   for achieving ts
obtjecdves, wbile dscfbing fthe oonriution to tis Proam of the proposed Rural
Dcwbpment Prject (RDP), a toph       Adaptable Progm Lan (APL).
Objeaives Of te Proam
Ecoomc opportwit    are limted m rwal ares of Romania despite the existence
of substan   potnal  sects such as agriculre, wo-ind  y. forestry, fisheries.
and tourim  A recent World BaDo study (Makn Thrasidn Workjor Everybody)
dBcaes tha rra  povrty incidece exceeds uba in ienc by over two imes (1998
figures). Becase of dish bigh in e, and becase 45 percnt of thc county's 22.5
milion cWitizens are rwal, the urual poor accaun t two-tdids of the counoy's total poor.
- 98 -



Accordingly. ou Government ptsae high priorit on te objecives of rural income
gowth ad poveaty reduction.
The Country Assistane Strategy recently agreed with the Bank emphasmses these
objectives, and complmnts owr Europem Union (EU) accion strategy, wlich seeks
to increase runrl compe ness and estalbsh of a fmctioning runa market economy,
among other als  To pro   e BU accession and prowde an oerl fainewoyk for nmal
develo  en we approved a Natona Plan for Rural Dew kpm  (NPRD) m late 2000.
Te NPRD outlin thc need for a diverse set of public and pivare mveslxe   in ruwal
areas. Wbhle aachin dhe greatest importance to agcutua investents (both fanm and
nos-farm), the NPRD also stesss Ibe need for rwal         invesum     in
among o      aras: wateasanitation and roads, local govermet planing and project
preparai    smal ad medium entprise devdopment, Ibrestry. toism, and
employmet skills training. Phase I of ftie Prgm vwill support the objecfives of the
CAS and NPRD) by (1) mpring local govrace through efforts to strngtn the
capacity of local gov unermt and em _umes to plan and implemet inlhfstmcture
investments in a tanspar  and acountable manner cositent with budgetay finds;
and (2) fuing mad roads and walersanaon subprojects. in Phase 2, the menu of
nvesten optons, and locaions coverd, will expand, and he capacity budding
appoch will be refied and adapted to deal with a broader rng of invstnt choices,
takdng mito account the lessons leamed in Phase I capacity bulding activiies.
Tle NPRD also provides a framework for progammggran t assistance to rwl
areas througb thc EU's proposed Special Accession PrgTam for Agriculure and Rurl
Development (SAPARD), which will prospectively provide 150 million Eeros per year i
grant assstance, over a penod of seven years. The technical support provded by RDP
wil complement SAPARD by mrovting th abilty of rural stakebolders to prepare,
implmet and maintin viabl projects, theeby helping to aecure SAPARD funds.
Runrl development is inhereudy nesectoral in nature. Therefore, conducive
pdiies and insaitutonl aangents will be needed in three distinct sectors -
agriulture, local govetnmenticommnity development, and infrastructur - in order to
cnsurc cievuncat of Program o  ctives. In what follows, we descnle the policies and
commiments that we      to putsop   in order to support the Program.
Skxtor,po&i-e.r enabrbesf?iIrment ofthe Progwm
Agickl   . Agricul    emains the most imp   oa coomic activity for rural
households, accounting for about two-thrds of uome, on average. From 1997 to 2000
the Govenment unplenuented an intensive progamn of policy reform under th
Agriculture Sector Adjustment loan (ASAL). Th ASAL lcd to sigfiant changes in
WAnd egisaon, trade, ing and subsidy poliies, mral fice, terprse priuva n
cereals sector poicy, and the role of the Ministry of Agricultr, Food and Foresby. We
recgnize that a stae, narkoriented polcy envirounent is a necay condition for
development of a competitive private agicultrwal sector and an active nra economy.
We have therefore maitaned these rforms and intend to complete and deepen them.
2
- 99 -



One of the  ot importt sco issucs not resolved by the ASAL is he compktio of
st   faums privatm. Stt fims at presen cowe about 9 paen of wabic land,
down from 17 percent in 1997. A Wtho  progress oward fal ivatization of state frms
has been slow in 2001. we will complete te process in 3 yeas or less, and we hawv
developed a plan to achiev this goaL
Our stra     for rejuva  of agriure, which is an impont compoet of
our rural development program, gOes beyond policy refonn. What is now noceded is
ineased imvetntent - pImiy private investmt but also well-chon plc
investments - to ap dte mmm   benefit fo  sctor reform. Two up_oS
nvestment loans. the riaon Proje and th Rmual Fiane Pject (de latter foused
on development of pnraru nral finan  intermediation) will suppot institutional c p
and development and provide addiioal resour   for i_vestm  in th agrcultua
secto. Institiosl develpimt i agruh      is also pomte 9thnw    two ongoin
Bank project, te Agriltural Support Services Project (ASSP), and dhe Cadastre and
Registtion Projet. Tho pmposed SAPARD progiam will provide sinift
invstmnt resoures for agrilture, both fm and non-firm actvibes.
The RDP, which itlly fands small-scale inestment m rural rosds and
watsatstioo. Wl povide iairt support to agriculture and agro-industry.
Improvm    ts in local roads wil icrase farme access to maikets, lower arrketg
cost and tbvel times, and tbaeby incsm g fm prefabdity. Both road and water
nvesm    s wll   rove the local iners   environmnt, and enhanc the pospecs
for develmkfnai of small and medium eaterpnses engaed in agicultural marktig nd
prOCessng at odte non-fim activities. Phase 2 of the RDP will also expnd the ma
of avabke insets       d may mclude support for o r ativites mmor dinecy  lated
to agriculture.
Local ;ov    enm   ar Conm    Isi   i    The success of the Proam's
activities for local capcty buldmig and impurena i  of demand-driven invesme
depends on two mlual suppotive pmciples of local instutdon  developent that we
have strongly supported, and v*1l continue to support: community driven develont
and democratic dectalzation
Our comnitnen to mmuniy driven developmeat is exprssed in the
Comprehensive l[)vlopmnt Frmcwork (CDF) agreed with the Bank, and in numerou
project actives, icdng the ongoing Social Development Fund (SDF). Moteover, i
November 2001,our Govanment approved a -Straegy for Aocekrating Public
Administration Reform" which stresss the role of ommunities in local development
strategy: "the development strategy of a local conuwnity Wpresents the poolg of the
local onuIt'5s lon-term aims and objectives, adopting local policies and the
aloation of rs       nooded to achieve those awis by aking into acount the needs,
expectations and wishes of its citims and the compon ts of the local political system."
- 100 -



Our coimziunt to the prsciple of t  entraition and autnomous loc
gov   ment re the policy of this Govamment is degonstated by a mumber of policy and
*            1evisim of th Law on Public Administration, vinch has recenly
been passed and which upholds die esseaW s of the decaizaion
fiamewok estabished m 1991. icluding dte autonomy of counties and of
cormnms
passage in 2001 of a new Law on Public Savices by the
Parliament at the ini    of Ministy of Public Administratio, which
eslalhies a suportive leg  framework for involvement of pnvaFt sector in
-         Such srvics;
*            acceleratd apernntation of tbe Law on Local Publc Fnance
(passed in 19), whicb provides m  anisms for i rgo         a tra rs
and f8ai    of local obligations; and initiation of new poles for
deteopmen ofnal obaities under the Novemer 2001 saty that include
imroved investment plnumjn; budgetig and accoucntiX
*            establishn  of local public admistration developmen sthate
(200 1). whicIb is based on the followvg principles, amon others: local
autonomy; dcccsializio of local services; cooperati  between centr and
locam            and various assocition to acheve  gional deveopment,
transparncy m local governrent inhcding local budgs; and citin
conslati   and paicipation.
Much remains to be done to uplevment this franework. The proposed Program
can only do this patally, throg its capacity bulding acivities and suppot for
imoved local budgeting and implemtation of the equaiztion formula Alihough fte
RDP c   xmot address a broad range of npOmt decoalition msues (e.g ependiture
assagnae, loca govem°   nt terms of seAce) it is expected dtht the proposed Public
Administa  on Loan (PAL) cma be used to rher a more exteiive agenda of
intitutioa development and reform. The linkage betwon thes mwo projets is thus
iortan  t sice the broader insttutionol enonmen fur local govenmt i which the
RDP operats. which affects the utinabiliy of RDP activities, wil be inflenced by
Govement actions and commimts under thc PAL. The RDP, for its pat, wig
prvic mportan feedback on the decentralization pocess (e.& on outy and comunem
accountabli and responsiveness to ower lwi bodies and co_nsu  s) whicb provide
useuid iput to activies aimed at strghening local adminis tatkon to be supped
wer the PAL.
In sum we sppot the fodlowing princs and pracomes for srgtengf     local
govenment mid ccmunw     itntitsioos:
4
-101 -



The autonomy ofeach level of local govennment, and the rewponuiveness of
higher evs of gov_m    t to itaves ematig fIom lower levels;
lThaw    r  of local goemeNt actnites and accountabilityfor dkcisions to
citzens and community groups
Inplemeraaon ft/e equaianionformda andofbudeting      provisson bI the
Law on Lol Pubic Finnc, og wih ransparen bodgetin and provisi
ofnomation to lcal councds on draft and fIal budgets;
A mom extnsive agwda for Implemenlaion ofdventralfinpOicies
expected to be supported thrugh the proposed Pabic Admbistraton Loan
whch wl address the broder ftamewk for intergoermena finance.;
MabLurmi        of communit driven duveJopjmeni activilies initiated by thm
SocW Develpment Fuad (SDF), by providing the qpporhmity for a strtured
collaboration between conumaties and local              oi
accountability of local adminision to commnitmy groups and the citenry at
large, . is will gie community groups grater awcs to outsi fis, it will
prof* grater _oonunty nput into l    cal         decso processes,
and it wal ipve appropriae sharig of responsibiiies betwen local
athintrtin,community groops and the privat sector in ipmptanion
operaio and manenance of loally iniiated vestents.
Mastructw    'MTe NPRD emphasizes the inportanc of wural infiastct   as
one conr  tor to  ral income grwth and povemly reduction. For cxample, good qualty
mral utilities and roads reduce the cost and tme associated with accessing rual markets,
they imve the investmnat environme, the health of rura popuaion, and they reduce
the coms of beah care. lbe necd fat such investnts is widely recognzd, and is a
par of the CGova,i    statey fot developuen of local pubhe seics, appoved im
Novber 2001. Assessnts canried out in the early stages of the RDP prparaion
indce  do roads and wawrsxii     awe at the top of commu and village prioities.
Some, arms also pac high prioWty inproved gas betaL teleconurnucahons. and
nooinufastusawu needs sucb as vocational tWainDg ad small business development
Tle Program will be able to address sme of the atter issues in Pbase 2. as local capacity
to handle a bader range of such issues increases. It shduld be wentoned that in Phase I
tbe Pfogr-m wvl be able to indirecy address some broader needs by providing
wataluntato filities and road acces to some loeal scbools and hospitals. This will
comyplet the activites of the upcomig Rual Educato Project and an ongoing
Healh Projea
We strongly endorse tie following approacbes to mfasrcte investmet
Dmad drin wapoach. The RDP wiDl encowsg communes and their
ihabant to mke ftr own ivestment decisions from amrg a rge of
- 102 -



-1  py!ll.j  't W!, I 
iivil l.tu1"



.9  .                .I.
I;          ~~      ~~~~~~~~IsI   ~
111  ~~~~~~iijI~~~~~IH  ~I  I         bI 



i_, ,,,,~ ,,, . 3r1U0 _JO33;H
E l<>    s     q~nd!pdqp-
VIPW an~ alpa "A &   £Rm eq oq.jqp -owq m3aup PwQinamoA lua av
VG*AW Abjod a dWopp otdjo Pq im m  a uApoqo PC 4Qo.m 1L-iW~oaad
eqL uOPeSscos na ew geq    .   Hcd  w.mat -   m
pezqx* kiw" qwwmumjo wagi mu ua %odm"pxuuo otqpwe smwo
Auup In VJOQ   pxu 4=dowW up a4  ; A=Ndn iap GM  S tq
mspwp m*s.apm ,~ -Jwua~mI Upm~1mqnta  4I  -A 3aqaJn
woUdYo in PM3  oJoepjogi OU ofe es "a OtI4 wa tt Ps mmi mme pupw
mqt,   g iuaaUtgm o(ojd PM optow  'ppm £30 sU sMWw j
P'UB DR1dJOUIn lijoddOS */A- mm 1 I UUm wuu -wwq uw mewu
-dooow up q nd emaao.1vrw eama4-e
'0ua40u put ft~peig U0yWgmsqoe spewp Aps uMjo uoa*kw ao up
4m t mOW1 =WU,909S s1 imu= a"0 NIjL lop '*SOq4mU uqouw *=Minub
mgJ PNUUuup   spp mq ad *a)nuemo oeqap.poW inmdo
.U0j   gor eqa Ueap.udx. pt 'sruoPM 3a13103 Aqum w bA~u
I 0 oIBspq4 Pus P00- juP-Pe luaui.£guqso AP* qa pFA' aauAP =nMM
00 p3q ISOdbIU!  Lpodao dcr up Oupl 1D URiol awp o E amm



Additional
Annex 12
RDP Area Selection Process
Selection of Target Areas. While selecting the pilot areas for RDP the main concern of the Area Selection
Team was to find the proper balance criteria emphasizing local poverty, and those emphasizing the
institutional readiness of the local administration to support or become a good partner for project
implementation. The weights given to the main sets of indicators used during the selection i.e. poverty,
institutional readiness and commitment for implementing project objectives, varied for each of the three
selection stages and levels (regions, counties and communes).
Selection of the 5 Development Regions. The Development Regions are only recently created structures,
with no administrative functions at present. It was decided with the National Steering Committee that RDP
will in Phase 1 work in one county in each of these regions to ensure good geographical coverage, and a
degree of social, economical and cultural diversity.
While choosing the S pilot regions, only the socio-economic criteria were used. The aim was to select the
poorer development regions. The selection was done on the basis of two main indicators. The first was an
aggregated index, based on household level data, measuring the poverty incidence in rural areas, and the
second was agricultural GDP. Another set of complementary living standards indicators was used to
classify the problems and the needs in each region. These included: GDP per capita, unemployment rate,
infant mortality rate, share of the population without electricity, share of the population without access to
safe water/water supply systems, and density of public roads. Based on these data the selected regions
were: (1) North-East Region with headquarters in Piatra-Neamt; (2) Southern Region with headquarters in
Calarasi; (3) Northwest Regoin with headquarters in Cluj; (4) Southeast Region with headquarters in
Braila; and (5) Southwest Region with headquarters in Craiova.
Selection of the 5 PMlot Counties. In each region, Phase I of the project will be implemented in one county
and 20 communes (for a total of 5 counties and 100 communes). As shown in the RDP Institutional and
Social Assessment prepared for RDP, an issue requiring careful consideration is the relationship between
the county and the commune level administrations. Despite the fact that according to the law they are
independent administrative units, with equal rights, the long history of full financial dependency of the
commune from the county council, together with the low level of locally generated income, induced a
pattern of informal, but very strong subordination. This is why the Area Selection Team considered it very
important for the project to make sure that selected counties not be good partners for the communes,
opened to changing the old mentalities and to promoting a new relationship with the communes that respect
the autonomy of the commune administration (similar considerations apply to the commune administration
in its relationship with community groups).
During the selection, counties had to demonstrate an ability to act as good institutional partners. They had
to be willing to adopt transparent, accountable, and participatory decision-making procedures related to the
project (and to propose credible methods to achieve this); to support the use of least cost engineering design
and economic decision criteria; and to show commitment to improved implementation of budget
equalization process and other practices relevant to RDP county-level. The five participating counties were
selected on a competitive basis through an intensive selection process that extended from May to July,
2001.
- 106 -



The steps made to select these counties were as follows:
1)    Regional meetings were held to explain the RDP concept, and the county selection process, to the
representatives of the counties within each of the 5 selected development regions (each region contains
about 6 counties).
2)     Written questionnaires were distributed in each county to test their institutional readiness and their
capacity to be good partners, and their commitment to support project implementation and project
objectives. In this questionnaire there were also several open-ended questions allowing the counties to
propose mechanisms for supporting the implementation of the project's objectives and giving us the
possibility to assess their understanding of the principles presented. The three main sections of the
questionnaire were: a general description of the county, commitment to project objectives and experience
and capability (for the county as a whole and for the county council). Some examples of tasks set for the
counties, or questions asked, are presented below:
*   designation of counterpart staff for the project, presenting their positions and the skills;
* proposal for the development and implementation of a fair and transparent process to select 20
communes within the county for becoming beneficiaries of the assistance through the first phase of
the project;
*   proposal for the setting up of a representative county level stakeholder committee, presenting who
the members should be and which should be their range of attributions within the rural
development activities of the county;
*   firm commitment of resources to support the capacity-building activity including vehicles, office
space, and participant costs for training;
*   proposal on how to select the county council members and staff that will participate in the training
and who they should be;
*   evidence of special efforts in the past to support the communes;
*   submission of a formal resolution by the county council indicating how the formula for
equalization grants for the next budget year will be changed to be more transparent and predictable
to the communes.
3)     Data on local conditions were assessed (e.g. indicators of income level and living standards,
indicators showing the level of pollution of the underground water, other programs financing infrastructure
projects in rural areas that active in the county). The data were collected from the National Institute for
Statistics, from the Ministry of Waters and Environment Protection and Ministry of Health and Family. In
this way the evaluation team made sure the data are collected were from the same source and reflected the
situation at the same moment.
4)     The written questionnaire responses were evaluated by a four person committee of county level
stakeholders that representatives of the communes, in accordance with an agreed evaluation grid.
5)     Oral interviews were held (2 hours for each county team) with a short list of counties in the
competitive range (the selection panel of five persons included a representative from the Ministry of Local
Administration, one from the Ministry of Public Finance and one from the Ministry of Public Works,
Transports and Housing; the RDP project team participated as facilitators and observers).
6)     Selection of one county per region.
7)     Visit to selected county to confirm responses.
- 107 -



8)     Ratification by National Steering Committee.
The weight of the poverty criteria for the selection of the pilot counties was 20%. Despite the fact that this
percentage looks small, in reality the marks obtained at this section were very important, being critical in
determining the short list of counties to be interviewed. This is why the counties finally selected as pilot
belong to the poorer quintile of each one of the regions. The 5 selected counties were: Dolj (in Southwest
Region), Calarasi (in South Region), Tulcea (in Southeast Region), Botosani (in Northeast Region) and
Salaj (in Northwest Region).
Selection of the 100 Pilot Communes. The mechanism for selecting the 20 communes within the pilot
counties was developed based on the same principles used during the selection of the pilot counties and
incorporates the best suggestions/approaches coming from the selected counties. It followed the rules and
the steps approved by the National Steering Committee.
For communes, more weight was given to the level of poverty. The set of socio-economic criteria to be
used have been decided for each county, based on its specificity and on the relevant available data. The
weight allocated to this type of criteria was balanced with the marks given for the institutional readiness of
the commune for becoming a reliable partner during project implementation. The selection process carried
out so as to allow proper assessment of the whole commune, and not only of its local administration or of
the mayor.
In each pilot county an advisory committee comprised of key stakeholders (representatives of the local
administration, prefecture, of the decentralized offices of various ministries with a role in rural development
- public health, environment, education, finance, representatives of the minorities, NGOs, private sector
etc.) defined the indicators and the selection criteria aimed at reflecting in the most accurate way the
socio-economic environment of the county. The aim was to capture the various type of rural poverty
existing in Romania and predomination types in the different selected counties (e.g. poverty determined by
isolation, poverty determined by a big dependency rate, poverty determined by the lack of income resources
etc). The selection process gave great emphasis to impartial application of agreed criteria to all applicants.
With regards to commune selection the World Bank collaborated in a team effort with county level
stakeholders. The transparency and the faimess of the overall process was supervised and monitored by
the WB-DFID area selection team.
The steps of the selection process were as follows:
*   county level meetings were held to explain the commune selection process to the representatives of
all the communes.
*   written questionnaire were distributed in each commune aiming at identifying their
socio-demographic structure, their access to basic infrastructure and services (roads, water, public
transportation, health care and services), other project/programs present in the comuna and
projects financing infrastructure, institutional readiness for becoming good partners and their
commitrnent to support project implementation and project objectives. The questionnaire also
identified and evaluated the best initiatives developed by the communes in terms of local
development, assess the level of citizen or stakeholders involvement and the willingness of the
commune/community to adopt new approaches with regards the arrangements for operation and
maintenance etc.
*   local conditions and needs were evaluated based on statistical indicators relevant for assessing the
- 108-



level of poverty, range of needs, etc.
*   questionnaires were evaluated by a 7 person committee (established at county level and formed
from persons that were members of the team who prepared the questionnaire for the county and
who are supporting RDP implementation but without any political involvement e.g. technical staff
from the financial and technical department of the county council, representatives of the civil
society, educational establishments, environment, representative of the County Advisory Board,
representatives from the other counties where the selection process took place, and one person from
the WB-DFID area selection team). The evaluation was done in accordance with an agreed
evaluation grid, prepared for each county. The highest and the lowest scores were taken out and
the average of the 5 remaining marks represented the final mark for the questionnaire.
*   the points for the socio-economic criteria were added for each commune, the total representing the
final score for the desk evaluation.
*   oral interviews and field visits were initiated in the communes in the competitive range (the top 20
conimunes plus all those within 5 points of the bottom commune in the top 20), prepared by the
commune based on the Interview Guidelines sent by the selection team in all the short-listed
communes The commune mayor and the commune administration had the duty to post leaflets/the
guidelines inforning the community about the meeting in at least 3 places in all the villages. The
questions from the standard grid aimed at reflecting the needs/poverty level at commune level, the
social pattems, the level of social capital and the institutional capacity.
*   the interview has 2 parts: one dealing with the local authorities, local leaders, people involved in
the preparation of the answers to the questionnaire, and the second represented by discussions with
several commune inhabitants chosen randomly. In the case of the large communes they were
people living in the most remote/isolate village(s). The mark obtained at the interview was added
to the desk assessment marks and formed the total score for the commune.
*   the 20 communes were selected.
*   the selection was ratified by the county-level Advisory Committee.
*   the National Steering Committee ratified the final results of the commune selection process, for all
counties.
The total number of marks a commune could receive during the selection process was 100. These marks
were distributed between the 5 parts of the selection process: Sections A, B and C are part of the written
questionnaire to be completed by the communes and have a total weight that varied as follows: 75 points in
Tulcea, 70 in Calarasi and Botosani, 69 in Salaj and 68 in Dolj. The 3 sections illustrated local needs that
can be covered by the project (section A), the institutional capacity already existing in the commune
(section B) and the commitment for supporting implementation of RDP and its principles in the commune
(section C). The number of points allocated varied from one county to another based on the local
specificity (e.g. general lack of access to basic infrastructure and the aim of the county to address this
mainly in the most critical areas, less programs active in the area or a limited tradition in promoting local
initiatives and establishing formal or infornal associations/groups, lack of skills/tradition in filling in
written questionnaires/project application forms and the higher importance in such case of the interview,
environmental aspects to be considered etc.).
The evaluation was based on a standard evaluation grid. In order to keep this process fair the grid was
prepared in Bucharest and discussed with the county team only after the final deadline for the submission
of the questionnaires by the commune. All the team members involved in the assessment of the
questionnaires had to sign a Confidentiality Commitment.
Section D has a total weight varying from 15 to 16 marks. These were allocated based on the statistical
data provided by the county offices of the National Commission of Statistics, Department of Public Health,
Ministry of Labor and Social Solidarity, Labor Office, School Inspectorate etc. The list and the number of
- 109-



indicators was slightly different in each county. The team was aware of the local specificity of each region
and county and also of the problems related to the quality and availability of data. There were cases when
one or two of the indicators initially proposed for the assessment of the socio-economic conditions of the
communes had to be dropped due to the inaccuracy of the data collection.
Section E was represented by the interview/ field visit and has a total weight of 1O points in Tulcea, 15 in
Botosani, Calarasi and Salaj, and 18 in Dolj. The interview with the commune team was conducted as a
structured process for which the commune received in advance the guidelines, informing them about the
topics to be discussed. The marks allocation for the interview was based on an evaluation grid on which
each member of the team put its marks. The final mark for the interview was the average of the marks
allocated by each evaluator.
The fact that in Tulcea only 10 points were allocated for the interview was due to the fact that this was the
first county in which the selection mechanism was tested. After this first experience, the team leamed that
in order to make a more accurate selection not favoring the communes with skills in writing proposals, it
was necessary to allocate a higher number of marks for the interview. In this way the changes in positions
between the short-listed communes were much more significant, allowing the poor communes with lower
level of skills in preparing such questionnaires to be between the selected ones, but also to dropping some
communes that benefited unfairly from the support of skilled persons (often outsider not living in the
commune).
After the selection process was over a double check was performed, during which both quantitative
poverty indicators (from an income based poverty map) and qualitative data (from the area selection
questionnaires/field trips) were applied for the selected 100 communes. The use of two sets of poverty
indicators, quantitative and qualitative, followed best practices of the World Bank Social Sector.
The results show that 94 out of the 1 00 communes are poor. These communes are either in the lowest half
of the rural income distribution - a harder test than comparing them to the national income distribution - or
they meet at least three qualitative poverty criteria, including: high infant mortality rate, higher than
average number of residents qualifying for social protection assistance, and increasing household
dependency ratio in the commune. Of the selected communes, 30% are extremely poor, meaning that on
quantitative criteria, these localities fall in the bottom quintile for rural areas. Despite that fact that almost
all selected communes are poor, some effort was made to exclude very poor communes having little or no
economic potential, for example those with a declining population trend, or having larger elderly
populations. Such communes deserve assistance, but of a different type than can be provided by RDP,
which is focused on infrastructure investments.
The fact that a very few non-poor communes having exceptionally receptive local administrations are
included in the project will make a good point of comparison for poorer communes, and allow some cross
commune learning.
- 110-



r  \                        1,                             , ^      z                      A8°     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROM^AN IA
\ E UKRAINE -- ~~~~~RURAL DEVELOPMENIT
; ' ~ t'           _,_ . _ .-|       BOTOSANa,PROJECT
| Hl)>IGARY - S~~~~~~~SATVd              )   hi Mk 4R A  - U R E          5QuCEAVA - 8~ =p ,
HUNGARY ~              MAP,E, Nl     ,       <    ssrEr                        .                          i   |M-|"k~
}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I';]v  S*      T R I,;h TAl, '  <f       >E   1['\                                   .   |;eI.eqe 
~~~~-A             L  A  t- lJl .  S  -=l-fou;.\o vi.r  l
o _ < LtJ) t E E rl nc l ~~1 At, A, - - 0rr Illl--,>sE
*  -.   .,I,,.IN.upo.:aS   ^'-   P           t  /-,    _ fl /         *        t!  t  )   ._  sIsTl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fr. rl ,rl,p.~~~~~~lrqi._il~C
| } > > {s; ilrmaj  rF j 
;           :         ?^-itJl't'E     '    °ti;;l   .;i-0</        '     <   9  _     _uU'R9_ji;                ,~~~~~~~~~~~~r,, E 
r;, 1r;  1   J  ~~~~~~~  b .    1             &     t rl |  {~~~~~~
_ ~  ~~~~~~~ . ---                      t [I,r         )s               ~                                     , _H\/./                      ;
C~ ~ I.                                                           t,ojE t        ueJi
,, Z rE!i--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.4ru ,,.,; ;r-- 'tt.l....,,. ;  - l A
' " {-  1-!   ,   };   T,~~~~:..- N-Pw,. r                                                                               lj_CI:lI
>   /   }  -  '              P    F.  r.    Iil       -Fl.zle.ll  ;       1-       ep   t-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.)lo
,~~~~~~~~~o _  . -,hT,.              '     rJ       lrl --                         U           L ,i, .^_ . 
io~~~~~ - te i         L  JCAE5 r  . -
FED REP OF   .   ,  l~~~~~~n.r n  r.:       >.   -  .     <       i C 4 I A FJ ,E !  __rS~~~~~~~ov-
Y                                                            U GO5 L AVl A   ;  0   -i   .  i  *   /  -  ;ift__n.lznlj~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
(SRSA V01TEsIGtO      .sx    E    D    L.;      .                        .,- r,t.v IJ j *      ~   o     t; > ,! L !0 
_                                           :   -,  ,  1,  -  -rz-1.-l - - - q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. k -
,  --' ~~~~~~~~--  '  '  - --       .       BULGA;IA                                                ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lbz-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B                                               C  A E_ __ 



