Report No. PID9324
Project Name             Romania-Rural Development Project (@)
Region                   Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                   Other Agriculture
Project ID               ROPE57960
Borrower(s)              GOVERNMENT OF ROMANIA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
Address: Address: 1, Piata Victoriei,
Sector 1, Bucharest, Romania
Contact Person: Vasile Ciomos, Director
Tel: 40 1 313 98 84
Fax: 40 1 313 98 84
Email: vasile.ciomos@gov.ro
Environment Category     F
Date PID Prepared        March 19, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      December 12, 2001
Bank Approval Date       March 19, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Background Rural areas remain extremely important to the Romanian
economy. In 1999, 45t of Romania's population of 22.5 million resided in
rural areas, primarily in village settlements clustered administratively
into communes, which are the current and traditional seat of local
government.  Agriculture dominates the rural economy and employs 74; of
working rural residents. Agricultural income (both in-kind and cash) is
the largest household income source, followed by wages (appearing to
derive primarily from urban based jobs) and government transfers (mainly
pensions). Too many rural workers are underemployed and/or engage in
semi-subsistence farming aimed primarily at providing the household with a
stable food supply. The macroeconomic statistics present the problem in
stark terms. Although agriculture accounted for 40t of total employment in
Romania in 1998, it contributed to less than 20t of GDP. Poverty rates in
rural regions are high and rising and greatly surpass those in urban
environments. In 1999, 22t of rural residents were estimated to be living
in poverty compared to 11t in urban households. The Bank's ECAPOV study
(Making Transition Work for Everybody) indicates that in 1998, two-thirds
of the country's total poor population resided in rural areas. Rural
poverty has worsened since 1997. The decline in rural incomes has been due
primarily to compression of household wage income, while agricultural
income has remained stable and provided a cushion for rural households in
a declining macroeconomic environment.Background analytical work
commissioned in the early stages of RDP preparation revealed factors that
continue to impede growth and poverty reduction. Foremost among these is
the low productivity of existing assets, which reduces household incomes.
Low asset productivity is due in part to lack of household integration
into markets for agricultural commodities, inputs and land. Strategies to
improved market integration require interventions from several sectors,



including agriculture (improvements in marketing systems, support for
producer marketing groups, better agricultural extension), rural
infrastructure (investments in transport, telecommunications), and rural
finance. In addition, it was found that lack of access to infrastructure
services and housing significantly constrains growth in household
disposable income. Good quality rural utilities and roads reduce the cost
and time associated with accessing rural markets, enhance the investment
environment, improve the health of rural population, reduce the costs of
health care, and have important consequences for poverty reduction and
growth. Local governments (and in some cases community groups) are
responsible for the provision of these public goods and services in
Romania. However, these institutions are currently weak, despite the
existence of a promising legal framework for administrative and fiscal
decentralization, and an encouraging pattern of increased community
mobilization started in the last several years under the Social
Development Fund (SDF) Project. Government strategy and activities of
other donors in rural development. With the large majority of Romania's
poor living in rural areas, the Government has put a heavy emphasis on
rural development. In 1998-99, it developed a National Rural Development
Program (NRDP) to provide a framework for the EU's Special Accession
Program for Agriculture and Rural Development (SAPARD) facility, which is
expected to provide 150 million Euros per year in grant funds through
2007. While the bulk of SAPARD grant funds will be used to fund projects
in primary agriculture and agro-industry, approximately 22; of total funds
are slated for rural infrastructure, primarily for larger scale commune
roads and water supply. Originally scheduled to begin in 2000, the
program's initiation has been delayed and it is not likely to begin
implementation before 2003. To reap the full benefits of SAPARD requires
local institutional capacity to identify and appraise viable investments,
which does not exist at present. Support in applying for private sector
rural and agricultural grants will be provided by the Rural Finance
Project, which was approved by the Board in 2001. The Government also
wants to quickly upgrade the capacity of local public institutions to
enable access to funds for infrastructure grants. Phase 1 of the RDP will
help to fill this gap by strengthening of local administration capacity
for preparation of viable project proposals, thereby facilitating access
to SAPARD funds. It will also complement SAPARD by: (a) supporting
smaller scale investments in poorer areas, since SAPARD does not fund
small projects nor emphasize less favored locations. RDP will focus on
infrastructure investment in Phase 1, which complements SAPARD's primary
emphasis on grants to private sector agriculture.      The RDP team was able
to provide input to the NRDP early in the preparation process, through
studies that were prepared on poverty, rural development, and local
government. RDP is thus rooted in a government policy framework
supporting rural areas. The Project also directly supports implementation
of Romania's decentralization policies, embodied in the Law on Local
Public Finance, and the Law on Public Administration, which gives autonomy
to local governments (counties and local councils) and assigns them
general responsibility for local services, (including roads and
water).Main issues concerning capacity in local government and communities
A social and institutional assessment carried out in preparation for this
project revealed significant weaknesses in local government and community
investment planning and decision making capacity, but also great
variability between locations, with some local leaders and constituents
exhibiting significant potential for transparent and effective local
-2 -



development action, and others not. The following issues were identified
as relevant for the Project:i) Limited involvement of community groups and
the poor in local government decisions and the project cycle, and low
government accountability. After three rounds of local elections, the
culture of government consultation and accountability, and citizen
participation is weakly rooted in counties and communes. ii) Inadequate
skills for investment planning or project preparation in local government
and communities. County councils have the most experienced staff among
local governments, but there is little, if any, consideration of
alternative technical or cost options for investment projects. Communes
have even weaker capabilities, and while Community Based Organizations
(CBOs) in some areas have already developed capacity through the
activities of the Social Development Fund (SDF) project, considerable work
remains to be done.iii) The local government budget process as a
constraint. Intergovernmental budget transfers, i.e. revenue transfers
from the national to local level, are low and unstable, making local
planning for investment in and maintenance of infrastructure and other
services very difficult. iv) Dominance of commune councils by county
administration. County councils tend to dominate local councils as a
result of their greater resources and traditional hierarchical approaches
to public administration in the country. They are often not prepared to
respond in a positive way to initiatives coming from communes and
community groups. v) Small size of communes. Communes as administrative
entities are often too small to cope with the infrastructure assigned to
them under the Local Public Administration Law. For some types of
infrastructure, and for smaller communities, this limits the
cost-effectiveness of decision-making and management. Local investment
needs and prioritiesA detailed social and institutional assessment was
carried out, and was supplemented by extensive informal interviews with
local governments and rural citizens to determine their investment
priorities. Rural water/sanitation and roads consistently headed the
list, although in some locations gas heating was an important priority,
while in others local employment and vocational training competed with
infrastructure for top priority.    The priority given to roads and
water/sanitation coincides with the priorities of rural communities
participating in the SDF project.Main issues in the rural water/sanitation
(RWS) sectorDeclining systems with poor service coverage and management.
Water and wastewater service levels in rural Romania are low by
international standards. Of around 10 million people living in rural
areas, constituting 45% of the total population, national statistics
indicate that about one-third have access to a piped water supply system
maintained by nearby urban centers. This overstates actual access since
many of these systems are not functioning. The majority of rural
population is served by either public or private wells and the rest (about
17%) with small commune piped systems with public stand posts.    Poor water
quality and its causes. Intensive agriculture and livestock management
has resulted in serious pollution of shallow ground water which is the
main source of drinking water in rural areas. Nitrate pollution is an
especially serious concern. Some rural areas suffer from limited access
to water. The following RWS sector issues stand out:i) Water supply and
sanitation awareness. Health conditions in rural areas are poor and
declining. In 2000, infant mortality country-wide for children under the
age of five was 21%, one of the highest levels in Eastern Europe.    This is
partly due to poor quality of water, together with the general decline in
the level of health care services and housing conditions. The rural
- 3 -



population has little understanding of the impact of poor water quality on
human health and child mortality, and although understanding of the
dangers of infant nitrate intoxication (blue baby syndrome) has increased
in recent years, Romania lacks any substantial information and awareness
campaigns on environmental health. ii) Policy, legal and regulatory
framework for RWS. The mandate to formulate policies on rural water
supplies in Romania is split over a number of ministries and over
different levels of public administration.iii) Commune level management
structures for RWS. Communes have been legally charged with
responsibility for local public services. The commune council sets the
tariffs for water. No guidelines or standards for technical and financial
management have been developed and no external monitoring currently takes
place. The absence of an institutional structure for rural water
management is widely considered as the biggest constraint on sustainable
development of the sector. Main issues in the transport sector involving
local roadsBackground on local roads. The terms 'local roads' refers to
county, commune, and village roads. The National Administration of Roads
(NAR) is responsible for national roads (approximately 15,000 km) which
are owned by the state. The county roads (approximately 36,000 km), some
of which include local rural roads, are administered and managed by the
County Technical Department, although the corporatized county construction
units, formerly part of the County Technical Department, often function as
de facto managers of county (and sometimes commune) roads. Commune roads
(app. 28,000 km) are administered by the commune council's technical
office. The commune is also responsible for village roads (app. 30,000
km) defined as low volume roads that serve scattered villages and
communities, frequently giving access to agricultural land. In practice,
no one has taken responsibility for village roads. The ownership issue
must be clarified for future development because with it comes financial
responsibility. The following roads sector issues stand out:i)
Jurisdictional responsibility, financing and administration/management of
local roads. First, there is imprecise functional designation of local
roads and for some roads it is unclear which government entity and which
specific level of government is responsible. Second, mechanisms to
finance local roads are unclear, and financial resources (off-budget,
on-budget or from donors) are unstable. Third, there is a need for more
competent administrators and managers (either government bodies,
consultant organizations, or user groups) that can ensure consistency with
national policies.ii) High cost of local roads. There is evidence that
local roads are more expensive to rehabilitate and maintain than national
roads. This phenomenon has multiple causes. iii) National local roads
strategy. The Government lacks a national strategy for rural (local)
roads that ensures consistency between local roads initiatives and
national policy and regulatory strategy.iv) Village roads. There is no
legal framework that clearly designates ownership of and responsibility
for village roads. These roads are neglected yet in some cases are quite
important for access of farms to external markets.
2. Objectives
The project development objective (PDO) is to strengthen the institutional
capacity of local administration, community/user groups and private
service providers: a) to plan, implement, operate and maintain small
infrastructure investments in a participatory and accountable manner; and
b) to increase the access of rural inhabitants in pilot areas to markets
and social services (through road rehabilitation investment grants), and
- 4 -



improved water and sanitation (through water/sanitation investment
grants). The PDO will be pursued in selected geographical areas, chosen
according to eligibility criteria that include poverty status, with an
investment menu limited to water/sanitation and roads (Community Based
Organizations (CBOs) will also be able to invest in other projects
permitted by the SDF Operational Manual, e.g. small income generating
projects).
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank has built considerable experience in Romania with policy dialogue
in the rural sector and public administration. It can draw on
international experience and lessons learned from similar projects
implemented in other countries, including rural development projects,
social funds, freestanding rural roads and water/sanitation projects,
local government decentralization efforts, and small rural infrastructure
projects. The Adaptable Program Loan, a relatively new instrument,
provides flexibility in adapting project design during implementation,
with an agreed framework of policy and institutional reform.Because of its
experience in the sector, the Bank has also been able to contribute to
development of an inter-donor framework for collaboration on rural
development. In particular, it has collaborated with the EU in Brussels
and Bucharest, and SAPARD officials in the Ministry of Agriculture, to
develop the rural development strategy that underpins SAPARD. The project
framework established by RDP will also provide the opportunity for the
British aid agency DFID to fund an additional related project.
4. Description
Components. The program will consist of three components: Component A -
Capacity Building; Component B - Rural Infrastructure; and Component C -
Project Management, Public Awareness Campaign and Expansion Strategy.
A. Capacity Building
B. Rural Infrastructure
C. Project Management, Public Awareness Campaign and Expansion Strategy
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                 $8.78
IBRD                     $40.00
IDA
LOCAL COMMUNITIES        $0.05
SUB-BORROWER(S)          $4.59
Total Project Cost       $53.42
6. Implementation
Selection of Target Areas. Five of Romania's seven development regions
have been selected to participate in Phase 1 of the APL. The selection
was carried out on the basis of six criteria, with primary emphasis given
to those having the lowest GDP per capita (for details, see Annex 12).
Based on these development criteria, the five regions selected were
Southwest, South, Southeast, Northeast and Northwest. In each region, the
project will be implemented in one county (out of approximately 6 in each
region) and 20 communes (out of about 60 per county).The five
participating counties were selected on a competitive basis. Counties
went through an intensive briefing, questionnaire and interview process
intended to reveal candidates that have a clear understanding of and
- 5 -



commitment to project aims. On the basis of questionnaire responses, a
short list of counties was developed and these were interviewed by teams
of consultants to determine whether criteria for participation in the
project were met. Applicants had to demonstrate the capacity to act as a
good institutional partner willing to adopt transparent, accountable, and
participatory decision-making procedures in local government, least cost
engineering design and economic decision criteria, and other practices
relevant to RDP project objectives, including local contribution to the
project. This process has been completed and the National Steering
Committee has approved selection of the counties of Dolj, Calarasi,
Tulcea, Botosani and Salaj, as well as 100 communes within these
counties.Implementation Responsibilities. The project has a three-tier
implementation approach that will allow efficient management and
monitoring, and maximum possible decentralization of responsibilities and
local participation. National Level Coordination. The National Steering
Committee (NSC) will oversee implementation of the RDP, provide overall
guidance, suggest changes to the design of the project during
implementation if monitoring and evaluation assessments indicate the need
for correction, and ensure harmonization of local and national
priorities. The NSC will ratify the proposed changes in the allocation
between regions and windows. It will also make recommendations on issues
of national policy, for example recommendations on roads and water policy
emanating from studies carried out during Phase 1.A Project Management
Unit (PMU), a central unit in Bucharest, will act as a secretariat to the
National Steering Committee and be responsible for management and
reporting associated with commune level subprojects. Management and
reporting for community based organization (CBO) subprojects will be the
responsibility of the Romania Social Development Fund (the distinction
between commune and CBO projects is explained further below). The RSDF is
an organization with administrative and financial capacity and procedures
already established under an ongoing Bank project, the Social Development
Fund. Consequently, the following discussion focuses primarily on the
PMU. The PMU's tasks entail, among others: (i) recommending allocations
of grant monies among counties; (ii) coordinating procurement technical
assistance and goods for selected large procurement tasks in the capacity
building component; (iii) issuing implementation guidelines (through the
Operational Manual and further refinements of it); (iv) coordinating the
project monitoring system; (v) auditing performance of its deconcentrated
units (PIUs); and (vi) preparing financial reports and processing
disbursement requests; and handling project funds (loan proceeds and
Government contributions) according to the financial management
arrangements. Regional Coordination. County-level Project Implementation
Units (PIUs) of the PMU have been established in the capitals of the 5
pilot counties to manage work programs. Since Phase 2 will be a
scaling-up phase, efforts will be made during Phase 1 to evaluate the
future role of these PIUs as regional coordinators for the project. The
core functions of the PIUs will be to: (1) undertake "Bank" oversight
tasks (coordination of local TA/training teams (TATs), project screening,
verification of invoices, verification of construction supervision, etc.);
(2) assist in coordination of tasks that the communes because of their
small size are not likely to carry out in the future (e.g. project
technical design, complicated economic analysis, construction, etc.); and
(3) to initially carry out some tasks for which communes will assume
progressively more responsibility (e.g. procurement, some M&E), or for
which county level stakeholders will increase their capabilities (e.g.
- 6 -



training coordination, county level M&E). Some of these latter activities
will be expected to reduce during Phase 1 as communes demonstrate increase
mastery of participatory investment planning and project management
tasks.Coordination at the level of local beneficiaries (pilot communes,
associated communes and community groups). Project implementation tasks
will be carried out by the local beneficiaries along with outside private
service providers, with monitoring by the PIU and beneficiaries. Tasks
undertaken by local beneficiaries (along with the CIAC and the commune at
large) in collaboration with TA/training teams (TATs) include: (i)
establishment of overall investment priorities and the relative importance
of roads and water/sanitation; (ii) decision-making on specific roads or
water/sanitation investment options, based on an analysis of the capital
and recurrent costs implications of project alternatives (the latter
prepared by an outside consultant) and cost-benefit or cost-effectiveness
analysis; (iii) procurement, where the commune elects to undertake this;
(iv) overseeing investment implementation, including approval of
maintenance works and payments, and reporting to the PIU or PMU any
implementation difficulties; (v) operation and maintenance; and (vi)
monitoring project progress and impact.Funding Arrangements. In the pilot
counties, grant funds to finance civil works will be made available for:
(i) subprojects financed at commune level (Commune Window: approximately
$30 million); and (ii) subprojects financed at the level of the community
based organization (CBO Window: $2 million).Commune Level Window. The
RDP will finance infrastructure projects (water/sanitation, roads) at the
level of an individual commune - or an associated group of communes - with
key decisions made by the commune council on the basis of technical
information from the TAT and citizen input (CIAC views, public
consultations), as well technical input from external private sector
consultants. Each pilot commune can implement up to two projects during
Phase I of RDP. The maximum amount of funds allowed to a single commune
as RDP grants during this period will be determined by the NSC, but is set
prospectively at US $300,000. Disbursement patterns are to be evaluated
periodically, with unspent funds in a given commune or county re-allocated
across locations, as appropriate, and subject to approval of the NSC,
based on recommendations from the PMU, and Bank acceptance.Project Cycle
for Commune Window. Rural investment projects will conform to the
following general project cycle. The Operational Manual gives more
detailed, specific guidelines for water/sanitation, and roads
subprojects:(i) Identification. Training and facilitation of commune
stakeholders and project beneficiairies, will start as soon as possible
after project effectiveness. An initial task will be to help the commune
develop a participation action plan, and to monitor and support
implementation of that plan through the project cycle. The commune will
identify commune-wide general investment needs as well as infrastructure
needs. The TAT will then, in close collaboration with the commune,
complete an assessment of the configuration and condition of the local
infrastructure network (water/sanitation and/or transport assessment).
Specific project options will emerge from this exercise which can then be
costed by a contracted private design firm knowledgeable in cost-effective
design approaches. Based on an evaluation of the budgetary implications
of subproject capital and lifecycle costs, and an economic assessment, the
commune council will ratify the project choices that it believes meets
local needs and wishes, and are affordable, economic, and sustainable.
The commune and beneficiaries will be given training and assistance in
assessing obligations for payment of at least 10% of capital costs, and
- 7-



all recurrent costs, over the project life cycle, and in identifying
potential revenue sources (including local taxes). Detailed plans for
procurement, and an operation and maintenance plan, will be required of
the commune stakeholders and beneficiaries.(ii) Feasibility study,
engineering design, screening and approval. The commune council will
submit its candidate proposals to the PIU, which will screen them for
compliance with RDP eligibility criteria (technical, social, financial,
and cost-sharing). The commune (individually or in association with other
communes,) or the PIU will then tender out the feasibility study to a
consultant who will prepare an evaluation report. All necessary permits
will accompany the feasibility studies. Subproject proposals will be
screened at the PIU and those meeting the selection criteria will be
considered approved for funding.(iii) Implementation. Once a project has
been approved for funding, the PIU or commune will tender out the civil
works. Procurement options and procedures are explained in Section E 4.3
in more detail. Supervision of works will be the responsibility of a
certified site supervisor selected by the commune, or PIU. To increase
cost-effectiveness of supervision, the PIU will seek arrangements for
sharing the same site supervisor with more projects. PIU staff will be
responsible for oversight of the site supervisor and oversight of M&E,
much of the data collection for which will be carried out by project
stakeholders and beneficiaries.Community Based Organization (CBO) Window.
A smaller portion of infrastructure grants ($2 million in total) will be
channeled to very poor communities during Phase 1, to finance individual
projects submitted by community based organizations. Such subprojects
projects will focus on small-scale infrastructure up to a total cost per
project of US$75,000. Early in the commune facilitation process the TATs
will, with the commune, identify the social-geographical structure of all
villages to ensure that each village and social group is properly
represented. The participation action plan developed early in the commune
facilitation process will ensure this. To be eligible for CBO projects,
communities will have to meet pre-established SDF criteria (in addition,
for roads subprojects, they will need to agree to form a PRA to maintain
the road.) Villagers will prepare and propose candidate projects for the
CBO window with the assistance of consultants and facilitators, hired by
the RSDF, and submit them to RSDF for review and ranking against the
eligibility criteria. Implementation of the CBO sub-projects will be done
applying SDF procedures as spelled out in the RSDF Operational Manual.
The principles of community participation and least-cost technical
solutions will be consistently applied.Financial management (see Annex 6b
for detailed Review of Financial Management Arrangements). The Project
Management Unit (PMU), established within the Ministry of Public
Administration (MPA) will bear overall responsibility for the financial
management aspects of the Project. The Romanian Social Development Fund
(RSDF) will administer only the funds through the CBO window and will
report regularly to the PMU, in a timely manner for consolidation of the
entire Project at the PMU level. All financial management and
disbursement procedures will be in accordance with the relevant World Bank
guidelines. Disbursements. Disbursements from the Loan be made based on
traditional disbursement methods (i.e., from the Special Accounts with
reimbursements made based on Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) and full
documentation, and direct payments from the Loan Account). There will be
two Special Accounts, one only for the CBO window and one for the rest of
the Project. The Government will establish, maintain and operate, under
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, the Special Accounts
- 8 -



denominated in the Loan currency, at a commercial bank acceptable to the
Bank. The PMU will be responsible for disbursements from the first
Special Account, which will fund all Commune window and non-CBO costs.
RSDF will be responsible for a second Special Account, which will only
fund grants through the CBO window and costs associated with such grants.
The PMU will also use a separate project account for the Government
contributions to the Project.
7. Sustainability
Sustainability. The project design promotes the sustainability of
training/TA activities and subprojects through a number of approaches.
First, rural development advisory groups will be established in each pilot
area to ensure inclusion of all beneficiary groups and stakeholders.
Second, given the variability in the quality of local leadership and in
receptiveness to the project concept, the area selection process has been
designed to identify pilot areas that are willing and institutionally
ready to participate in the project. Third, the training is designed to
be relevant to local needs, with a balanced emphasis on (i) development of
technical skills in project development and infrastructure; (ii)
participatory planning and decision-making; and (iii) project financing.
Fourth, although some politicians that are trained will leave office after
several years, county and commune government staff and other local
stakeholders (including community groups and the private sector) will also
be trained and can be expected to retain their acquired skills through
continued use. Fifth, skills will only be maintained after the project if
there are funds for local investment over the long term. These are
expected to be available after the end of the project due to improvements
in the equalization formula, possible increases in local tax revenue that
the project will promote, and continued existence of donor and off budget
government support for infrastructure. Finally, project training has a
strong emphasis on participation which increases the likelihood of strong
local ownership in subprojects, and increases the incentive to maintain
them.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Maintain a Conducive Policy Regime for Rural Areas. Bank projects perform
better within a market oriented policy framework. The Romania ASAL has
supported creation of such an environment, with extensive reforms
undertaken from 1997 through the present.Coordinate with Other Donors
within a Common Strategic Framework. The Bank's Vision to Action observes
that the World Bank cannot shoulder all rural development activities.
Cooperation with other donors is required, as well as a shared strategic
framework. The Romania RDP is based on coordination with EU/SAPARD, and
on a national rural development strategy to which the Bank has contributed
heavily through its preparatory analytical work.Anticipate
Inter-ministerial Coordination Problems. An OED evaluation of Bank rural
development projects concluded that integrated rural development projects
have been a problematic element in the Bank's rural lending portfolio. A
major problem with such projects is the difficulty in obtaining
cooperation from many line ministries when implementation of a large
number of activities occurs and these cut across ministries. Therefore,
an inter-ministerial National Steering Committee was formed in January,
2001 and this has established the basis for future inter-ministerial
cooperation.Local and Community Involvement is Essential. Past experience
has shown that rural development projects are most effective when they are
-9-



conceived and implemented with and by the beneficiaries (individuals,
community and user groups, local government.) Beneficiaries have to
assume increased responsibility for delivery, maintenance and financing of
projects of their own choosing.Need to Mainstream Social Fund Activities.
A recent OED evaluation of social funds found that they are good at
mobilizing communities, but that lack of project sustainability is an
issue, with many project implementation, operation, and maintenance
activities ultimately carried out by entities outside the community that
depend on continued donor support to function. The RDP will help to
address this problem by taking an important step toward mainstreaming
community driven investment activities into commune-level decision-making
and implementation processes.Infrastructure Operations and Maintenance.
Rural water supply and local roads have typically been adequately operated
and maintained only when O&M responsibility is assumed by the
beneficiary. Many rural water supply systems that currently exist in
other countries have been implemented through Government and external
grant funds, and most of these installations have ceased to operate
because of inadequate O&M. Maintenance is also chronic problem in rural
road projects. These problems will be alleviated in the case of water by
carrying out the upfront field inquiry and sensitization campaign, with
adequate cost-recovery provisions that beneficiaries agree to before
project implementation, and in the case of roads by highlighting
maintenance issues early, establishing an affordable local maintenance
plan covering the life of the investment, and, where possible, having
beneficiaries allocate funds or actually maintain at least a portion of
the local road network.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)    Y
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The environmental impact assessment conducted
during preparation pointed out that there is adequate capacity at the
county level in evaluating project proposals and monitoring the
environmental effects, mainly water quality. This will be further
strengthened by providing computer equipment and sampling and monitoring
kits to be installed in the offices of the EPIs and DPHs in each of the
five selected counties. Staff of both the EPIs and DPHs (Directorates for
Public Health) will also be involved in the national stakeholders'
workshop to be organized at the beginning of project implementation to
ensure a common understanding of RDP requirements, including environmental
procedures, and in the training and technical assistance to be provided to
local administration authorities under the capacity building component.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Henry F. Gordon
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:  (202) 473-2961
Fax:  (202) 614-4221
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
- 10 -



The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
March 22, 2002.



