Report No. 23383
Report No: I057960 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 02/21/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: ROMANIA         Project ID: P057960
Project: RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT       Task Team Leader: Henry F. Gordon
Authorized to Appraise Date: December 12, 2001 IBRD Amount ($m): 40.00
Bank Approval: March 19, 2002    IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: ECSSD     Sector: AY - Other Agriculture
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)          Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The project objective is to increase access of rural inhabitants in pilot
areas to markets and social services (through road rehabilitation
investment grants), and improved water and sanitation (through
water/sanitation investment grants), with citizens in communes empowered
through inclusion in infrastructure decision-making and monitoring of
project progress, and participatory commune Investment Advisory Committees
(CIACs) demonstrating a capability for project planning, coordination of
implementation, and Operating and Management (O&M). The Project
Development Objective (PDO) will initially be pursued in a limited
geographical area, with an investment menu limited to water/sanitation and
roads subprojects (pilot counties are listed below).
I.A.3. Project Description:
Components. The program will consist of three components: Component A -
Capacity Building; Component B - Rural Infrastructure; and Component C -
Project Management, Public Awareness Campaign and Expansion Strategy.
Component A: Capacity Building (US$1.92 million total cost). The aim of
Component A is to strengthen the capacity of local governments to plan and
coordinate sustainable infrastructure investments that are technically and
economically viable, and to do so in a participatory manner. The
component will finance TA and training activities for local stakeholders,
primarily communes and their constituents, but also private service
providers, judet council technical staff and other local stakeholders.
TORs have been developed for preparation of a commune training curriculum.
The course areas are essential to the development of technically and
financially sound rural infrastructure projects that reflect community
priorities and are consistent with local budget options. Each short
course will be followed by about a week devoted to application of concepts
learned, with support from a TA/training team (TAT). Each county and
commune will have repeated contact with a single training and TA team over
the course of the project (each team will cover 4 communes). This will
allow continuity and trust to develop between the local or county council
and the team. A TAT will consist of up to three specialists having skills
and experience in the areas of (1) facilitation of participation; (2)
engineering and project management; and (3) basic public finance
(budgeting and taxation) and project economics.
Training will begin before most of the engineering related activities
occur for sub-projects, in order to allow time for the local council to



engage the community, and make planning and project related decisions.
Most communes will experience two project cycles in order to fully learn
the process and be able carry it out in the future without additional TA
or training. A reduced level of TA and an increased responsibility by
communes will occur as Phase 1 proceeds.
Component B: Rural Infrastructure (US$48.24 million, total cost)
The aim of the infrastructure component is to increase access of rural
inhabitants to transport and water/sanitation services. This component
will provide funding for demand-driven investments prepared by communes
(through the Commune Window) and Community Based Organizations (through
the much smaller CBO Window, which will fund water/sanitation and roads,
as well as other items on the SDF menu, primarily income generating
projects). In connection with the water/sanitation subcomponent, the
component will also fund a Public Environmental Health Promotion campaign,
and a rural water/sanitation strategy study. In connection with roads,
the component it will fund studies aimed at improving the broader legal,
institutional and regulatory framework for rural transport and roads.
Component C: Project Management (US$2.86 million, total cost)
The component provides the project management support necessary for
project implementation, including funding for TA, training, staff and
equipment costs associated with establishment and operation of the
national Project Management Unit (PMU), and five regional Project
Implementation Units (PIUs).
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
Five regions have been approved for participation in Phase 1 of the
project through a competitive selection process for counties and communes.
The chosen counties are Salaj (Northwest), Dolj (Southwest), Botosani
(Northeast), Tulcea (Southeast), and Calarasi (South). Selection of these
counties has been ratified by the RDP National Steering Committee. Within
these counties, 100 pilot communes have been chosen for participation in
Phase 1 of the APL.
B. Check Environmental Classification: F (Financial Intermediary
Assessment)
Comments:
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)          Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)     No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)       No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)         No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)     No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)       No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          Yes
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
- 2 -



Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The project will fund on a demand-driven basis small rural road
rehabilitation, rural water supply construction and rehabilitation, and
improvement of existing sanitation facilities. Environmental effects
might occur as a result of (i) the improper location of sub-projects, as
in the case of construction of water supply networks in the vicinity of
natural habitats; (ii) the improper design of sub-projects, as in the case
of the use of a contaminated water source, or the improper rehabilitation
of roads that may result in poor drainage; (iii) the improper management
of construction works, as in the case of air pollution caused by the
digging process; and (iv) the improper management and operation of the
sub-projects, as in the case of groundwater and soil pollution when septic
tanks are not emptied regularly.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
In accordance with the provisions of the EMP, environmental screening will
occur for each small infrastructure subproject, and the local EPI (at
county level) will evaluate the subprojects and issue the necessary
permits. The environment permit will be a condition for issuing the
necessary building permits by the county council EPIs will also be
involved in inspecting the construction and operation phases. Project
eligibility will be conditional on compliance with both Romanian and EU
environmental standards related to water supply, sanitation and road
projects. The project operational manual includes environmental
indicators that will be used to provide yearly monitoring reports on
environmental impact by county environmental specialists.
There is adequate capacity at the county level in evaluating project
proposals and monitoring the environmental effects, mainly water quality.
This will be further strengthened by providing computer equipment and
sampling and monitoring kits to be installed in the offices of the EPIs
and DPHs in each of the five selected counties. Staff of both the EPIs
and DPHs (Directorates for Public Health) will also be involved in the
national stakeholders' workshop to be organized at the beginning of
project implementation to ensure a common understanding of RDP
requirements, including environmental procedures, and in the training and
-3 -



technical assistance to be provided to local administration authorities
under the capacity building component.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
A stakeholders consultation was organized to discuss the draft EA and the
Environment Management Plan. The meeting was attended by a wide range of
stakeholders from the central Government and the five selected counties.
Participants included representatives of the following: (i) the
Ministries of Water and Environment Protection (MWEP); Public
Administration (MPA); and Public Works, Transport and Housing (MPWTH);
(ii) selected communes from the five counties selected for the first
phase of implementation; (iii) the local inspectorates for environment
protection of the pilot counties; (iv) county councils and prefectures;
(v) the NGOs involved in environment protection and social development in
the selected counties; (vi) the national institute for research in
environmental engineering. The EA and the EMP were sent in advance to
participants to enable them to review the project concept and the
environment issues.
Almost all invited stakeholders managed to participate and their
contributions to the discussion were significant. The participants found
the draft documents satisfactory and compliant with the project design
and requirements. The only critical issue brought to our attention during
the meeting was related to the recent decision taken by the Ministry of
Water and Environment Protection (MWEP) to downsize by 30 percent the
staff of the county-based Inspectorates for Environment Protection
(IEPs). This decision may lead to lower IEP performance (most probably
not in quality but in timing of response to requests for environment
assessments, issuing clearances and monitoring). Subsequent discussion
with a State Secretary in MWEP indicated that this would not be the case,
but this should be monitored and if necessary staffing of the IEPs should
be reconsidered by the ministry.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
I S3. - No safeguard issues
[XI SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      8/31/2001        8/31/2001
Date of "in-country" disclosure 10/24/2001        10/24/2001
- 4-



Date of submission to InfoShop   12/13/2001      Not Available
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by            Name                                  Date
Task Team Leader:                  Henry F. Gordon December 7, 2001
Project Safeguards Specialists 1: Johnson Appavoo/Person/World Bank      December 11, 2001
Project Safeguards Specialists 2: Nirmala Saraswat/Person/World Bank     December 11, 2001
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                       Name             Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:   Bernard Baratz   December 11, 2001
Sector Manager/Director:           Laura Tuck      December 12, 2001
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 5 -



