Page  1
June 22, 1999
H.E. Decebal Traian Remes
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
17 Apolodor Street
Bucharest
Romania
Re:
Japanese Grant Agreement for Preparation of a Rural Development 
Project
Grant Number TF025592
Excellency:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant 
funds provided by Japan, to make a grant in an amount not exceeding five hundred 
twenty-seven thousand United States dollars (US$527,000) (the Grant) to Romania (the 
Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient hereby confirms its request that the Bank 
carry out the activities described in paragraph 1 of the Annex to this Letter 
Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said 
purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon 
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Christiaan J. Poortman
Acting Country Director
Bulgaria and Romania Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
ROMANIA
By /s/ Decebal Traian Remes
Date:  July 22, 1999
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
1.
The purposes of the Grant is to assist in the preparation of the Rural 
Development Project (the Project) which has the main objective of improving social 
and/or
physical infrastructure in rural areas in Romania. The Activities (the Project) 
for which the Grant is given are as follows: (a) a study of the functions and capacity 
of local administration entities; (b) a study of rural poverty with a view to 
determining priority areas for intervention under the project; (c) design of certain 
types of intervention for social and/or physical infrastructure development in rural 
areas; (d) social assessment including consideration of gender aspects of rural 
poverty; and (e) a rural development workshop to study proposals for intervention and 
to engage stakeholders in the selection of types of intervention.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants’ services required for the 
Activities.
Page  2
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient. The 
Recipient shall cooperate with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to 
carry out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the results of the 
Activities. The Recipient shall indemnify the Bank against any costs or liabilities 
incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against the Bank in connection with the 
Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of 
its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by December 31, 1999. After 
that date, the Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to 
assist in the carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility solely of the 
Bank and shall be done according to the Bank’s applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, Romania on the Consultants or any of the Consultants’ personnel 
(other than nationals or permanent residents thereof) in connection with the 
Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the 
Activities. Whether or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any 
time suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of the following events has 
occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any 
other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to 
make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development credit 
agreement with the International Development Association shall have been suspended. 
The Bank may also terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds if: (a) 
the Bank has decided, at any time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw 
its support to the Project; or (b) the Recipient has withdrawn its request for the 
Bank’s assistance in the financing of the Project. 
8.
The Bank is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not have 
any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient. The Recipient shall have no right to 
any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement.
