Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4654 RO
Loan Agreement
(Rural Development Project)
between
ROMANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 3, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 4654 RO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 3, 2002, between ROMANIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
Page  2
WHEREAS (A)  the Bank has received a letter dated January 30, 2002, from the 
Borrower describing a two-phased program of policies and actions (the Program) designed to
 
strengthen the ability of local governments and community groups to undertake rural investments 
in an efficient and accountable manner, and improve rural livelihoods and living standards of 
rural population in the selected regions of the Borrower through development and 
implementation of projects in those regions, including infrastructure projects; 
(B)
the Borrower has requested the Bank to support the execution of the two phases 
of the Program through extension to the Borrower of loans up to the equivalent of one hundred 
million Dollars ($100,000,000) over a period of eight (8) years; and
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to assist 
in the financing of the Project, which constitutes the first phase of the Program.
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.
The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended through October 6, 
1999) with the modification set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part 
of this Agreement:
Page  3
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to read as follows:
"(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and 
to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."
Section 1.02.
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Beneficiary” means any local government or another organization at the 
commune level eligible to receive and administer a Sub-grant in accordance with the criteria set 
forth in the Project Operational Manual;
(b)
“Community Based Organization”, or “CBO” means an organization at the 
commune level which has a status of a legal entity in accordance with the applicable laws of the 
Borrower, and which is eligible to receive and administer a Sub-grant under Part B(2) of the 
Project in accordance with the eligibility criteria set forth in the RSDF Operational Manual;
(c)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1)(a), (2), (3)(a) and (c) and 4(a) as set 
forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement – for Special Account A referred to 
in Part B.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and categories (1)(b), (3)(b) and (4)(b) as set forth 
in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement – for Special Account B referred to in 
Part B.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(d)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, services, incremental 
operating costs and amounts paid on account of withdrawals made by a Beneficiary or CBO 
under a Sub-grant referred to in Section 2.02(a) of this Agreement;
(e)
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(f)
“Grant Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Part B.2 of Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement;
(g)
“IAPSO” means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the United 
Nations Development Programme (UNDP);
(h)
“MPA” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Administration, or any legal 
successor thereto;
(i)
“MOPF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Public Finance, or any legal 
successor thereto;
(j)
“NSC” means the National Steering Committee established pursuant to the 
Government Decree No. 336 dated March 22, 2001, which consists of representatives of the 
Page  4
MPA, the Ministry of Public Finance, the Ministry of Health and Family, the Ministry of 
Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Housing, the 
Ministry of Development and Prognosis; the Ministry of Water and Environmental Protection, 
the Ministry of Small and Medium-Size Enterprises, the RSDF, the Association of County 
Council Presidents and the Association of Communes; or any legal successor thereto;
(k)
“PIU” means the Project Implementation Unit established in each of the Project 
Regions as a local branch of the PMU, or any legal successor thereto; 
(l)
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit established within the MPA 
pursuant to the Ministerial Ordinance No. 487 dated July 27, 2001; or any legal successor 
thereto; 
(m)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Part A.5 of   Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement; 
(n)
“Project Operational Manual” means the manual setting forth the operational and 
administrative procedures in respect of the preparation, approval, processing, financing, 
implementation and supervision of Sub-projects under Part B(1), as well as procedures for the 
implementation of the Project, as such manual may be amended from time to time upon 
agreement with the Bank; 
(o)
“Project Regions” mean collectively the following five counties of the Borrower:  
Salaj, Dolj, Calarasi, Tulcea and Botosani; and “Project Region” means each and any such 
region;
(p)
“RSDF” means the Romanian Social Development Fund, established under the 
Law No. 129/1998 and amended by the Law No. 628/2001, as a public-interest, non-profit entity 
with legal personality and enjoying administrative autonomy, or any legal successor thereto; 
(q)
“RSDF Operational Manual” means the manual adopted by RSDF setting forth 
criteria and procedures for selection, financing  and implementation of Sub-projects, as such 
manual may be amended from time to time upon the agreement with the Bank; 
(r)
“Special Accounts” means the accounts referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and “Special Account” means each and any such account.
(s)
“Sub-grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made to a Beneficiary or 
CBO out of the proceeds of the Loan for the carrying out of a Sub-project;
(t)
“Sub-project” means a specific infrastructure project under Part B(1) or B(2) of 
the Project, which is proposed to be carried out by a Beneficiary or CBO, respectively, utilizing a 
Sub-grant; and 
(u)
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the  
MOPF, MPA and RSDF pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01(c) and (d).
ARTICLE II
Page  5
The Loan
Section 2.01.
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to forty million Dollars 
($40,000,000).
Section 2.02.
The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (a) amounts paid (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of withdrawals made by a 
Beneficiary or CBO under a Sub-grant to meet the reasonable cost of goods, works and services 
required for the Sub-project in respect of which, the withdrawal from the Loan Account is 
requested; and (b) expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, services and incremental operating costs required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03.
The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2006 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04.
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan promptly after the Effective Date. 
Section 2.05.
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not 
withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06.
(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR 
Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and 
including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next following 
Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in U.S. dollars for value the 
first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest 
Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined 
by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted average 
margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank 
Page  6
offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by 
the Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it 
that include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of 
its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to 
the Borrower of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which 
case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07.
Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears on  
March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08.
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.
(a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, technical, and environmental practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall, through the MOPF, enter into a Subsidiary Agreement with 
the MPA and RSDF, whereby MPA shall be assigned the responsibility for utilizing the Loan 
proceeds allocated from time to time under Categories (1)(a), (2), (3)(a) and (c) and (4)(a) set 
forth in the table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and the responsibility  for the  
implementation of the Project except for Part B.2 thereof.
(d)
The Borrower, shall make a portion of the proceeds of the Loan, allocated from 
time to time under Categories (1)(b), (3)(b) and (4)(b) set forth in the table in Part A.1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, available to RSDF under the Subsidiary Agreement  and under 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, including those set forth in 
Page  7
Part A.2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(e)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes 
of the Loan, and, except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not assign, amend, abrogate or waive, the Subsidiary Agreement or any provisions thereof.
Section 3.02. (a)  the Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
Sub-grants will be made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions as 
set forth or referred to in Part B of  Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each Sub-project in such 
manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with its 
obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04.
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed 
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the 
Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower 
on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.
(a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the 
Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project and 
each Sub-project (including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it).
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and the records and accounts for the Special Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank who shall be contracted not later than September 15, 2002;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
Page  8
year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of  statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Financial Monitoring Reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02
.
(a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Part B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a Financial Monitoring Report (FMR), in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Bank, which:
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the loan, and explains variances between the actual and 
planned uses of such funds;
(ii)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned Project implementation; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end 
of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the 
incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar 
Page  9
quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after each 
subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01.
Pursuant to Section 6.02(p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
the Project Operational Manual or the RSDF Operational Manual shall have 
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived without prior approval of the Bank;
(b)
a situation shall have arisen, which shall make it improbable that the Program or 
a significant part thereof will be carried out;
(c)
the Subsidiary Agreement shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the PMU or RSDF to 
carry out the Project;  and
(d)
RSDF shall have failed to perform any of  its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement.
Section 5.02.
Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)  
the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given 
by the Bank to the Borrower; and
(b) 
any event specified in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.  
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01.
The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly executed between MOPF, MPA, and 
the RSDF; and
(b)
the PMU staff, including an engineer, a training specialist, a monitoring and 
evaluation specialist and an assistant has been appointed; and an engineer, an accountant and an 
assistant have been appointed for each PIU, all staff referred to above with qualifications, 
experiences and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
Page  10
Section 6.02.
The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01.
The Minister of Public Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02.
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 
of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Public Finance
17, Apolodor Street
Bucharest
Romania
Telex:
Facsimile:
11239
401 312 6792
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Bucharest, 
Romania, as of the day and year first above written.
ROMANIA
Page  11
By
/s/   
Mihai Nicolae Tanasescu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
/s/
M. Ziad Alahdad
Authorized Representative 
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the 
% of
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Sub-grants
100% 
(a)  under Part B(1) 
30,086,300
       of the Project
           (b)  under Part B(2)
2,000,000
       of the Project
(2)
Goods
337,290
100% of foreign 
expenditures,
100 % of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(3)
Consultants' services
100% of foreign 
Page  12
and training 
expenditures and 
80% of local 
(a) under Part B.1
3,055,010
expenditures
     of the Project
(b) under Part B.2
119,420
      of the Project
(c) under Part C.1
806,160
      of the Project
(4)
Incremental Operating Costs
75%
 
(a)  for PMU and PIUs
482,060
 
(b)  for RSDF
22,700
(5)
Unallocated
3,091,060
TOTAL
40,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  and
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means incremental costs incurred by each PMU, 
PIUs and RSDF on account of implementing of their respective Parts of the Project, which shall 
include: salaries for RSDF staff (excluding Government employees), utilities, office supplies and 
maintenance of equipment and vehicles.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of: (a) payments made under Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in Part 
A.1 of this Schedule until the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement has been paid; (b) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (c) payments under 
Category (1) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 to this Schedule in respect of a Subproject 
unless the Sub-grant has been provided pursuant to the Grant Agreement in accordance with the 
procedures, terms and conditions set forth in Part B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each; (b) consultants’ services under contracts with consulting firms costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent each; (c) consultants’ services under contracts with individual 
consultants costing less than $25,000 each; (d) training;  (e) incremental operating costs; and (f) 
Sub-grants in an amount equivalent to less than $230,000 each,  all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Page  13
B.
Special Accounts
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars separate special deposit accounts: (a) 
Special Account A – with respect to categories (1)(a), (2), (3)(a) and (c) and (4)(a) as set forth in 
the table in Part A.1 of this Schedule, which shall be administered by the PMU; and (b) Special 
Account B – with respect to categories (1)(b), (3)(b) and (4)(b) as set forth in the table in Part 
A.1 of this Schedule, which shall be administered by the RSDF; in a bank or banks acceptable to 
the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special Account has been 
opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into a Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of the Annex to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of each Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Financial Monitoring Report does 
not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be made 
by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of  (A) the records and 
accounts for a Special Account, or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with 
respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of Financial Monitoring Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have 
notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  
Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits 
into the Special Accounts may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special Accounts 
was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide 
such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the respective Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the 
Page  14
respective Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the respective 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex 
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Annex:
(a)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount to be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account and deposited into Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex 
equivalent, in the case of Special Account A – up to the equivalent of $3,600,000; in the case of 
Special Account B – up to the equivalent of $200,000 provided, however, that unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation for:  (i) Special Account A shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $1,800,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan 
Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of 
$12,500,000; (ii) for Special Account B shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $100,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall equal or exceed the equivalent of $500,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request for deposit into a Special Account of an amount which in the aggregate does not 
exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into a Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Accounts, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposit into the respective Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the 
documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each 
Page  15
such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into a Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall 
have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of a Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be 
withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
Page  16
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into a Special Account, once the 
total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of each Authorized Allocation for the respective 
Special Account. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to said Category shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in each  
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project constitutes the first phase of the Borrower’s Program, and the objectives of 
the Project are: (i)
 
to improve local administration capacity for accountable and efficient 
investment decision making and implementation with a particular focus on infrastructure 
investments; and (ii) to increase the transport access of rural inhabitants in pilot areas to markets 
and social services, and access to improved water and sanitation services.  
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
:  Local Government Capacity Building
1.
Development of training modules in the areas of local government facilitation, local 
infrastructure/engineering, and local budgeting and economic analysis, and training of training 
teams (training of trainers) in delivering those modules. 
2.
Provision of training and
 
advisory services to local administrations to develop a capacity
 
for accountable investment planning and infrastructure project development.
3.
Provision of technical assistance to CBOs in selected villages.
4.
Provision of equipment to Beneficiaries to support the implementation of the 
Sub-projects.
Part B:
Rural Infrastructure
1.
Provision of Sub-grants to finance Sub-projects to increase rural communities’ access to 
improved water and sanitation services and to rehabilitate local roads.
2.
Provision of Sub-Grants to CBOs to finance Sub-projects; including small-scale 
infrastructure and local income generating Sub-projects
. 
3.
Development of programs to promote increased awareness of health related water and 
sanitation issues and of studies to improve the implementation of the Sub-projects in rural water 
and sanitation services and local roads rehabilitation.
Page  17
Part C:
Project Management and Technical Assistance on Public Awareness and Expansion 
Strategy   
1.
Support for implementation and monitoring of the Project, including support to the PMU 
and PIUs.
2.
Provision of technical assistance and goods for carrying out: (a) workshops to increase 
the awareness of national stakeholders of the financial options under the Project; (b) a campaign 
to increase public awareness of the financial options under the Project; and (c) a study on 
expanding the lessons learned from this Project to the second phase of the Program. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by  April 30, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Date Payment Due
Payment of Principal
September 15, 2006
1,275,000.000
March 15, 2007
1,295,000.000
September 15, 2007
1,315,000.000
March 15, 2008
1,335,000.000
September 15, 2008
1,355,000.000
March 15, 2009
1,370,000.000
September 15, 2009
1,390,000.000
March 15, 2010
1,415,000.000
September 15, 2010
1,435,000.000
March 15, 2011
1,455,000.000
September 15, 2011
1,475,000.000
March 15, 2012
1,495,000.000
September 15, 2012
1,520,000.000
March 15, 2013
1,540,000.000
September 15, 2013
1,565,000.000
March 15, 2014
1,585,000.000
September 15, 2014
1,610,000.000
March 15, 2015
1,630,000.000
September 15, 2015
1,655,000.000
March 15, 2016
1,680,000.000
September 15, 2016
1,705,000.000
March 15, 2017
1,730,000.000
September 15, 2017
1,755,000.000
March 15, 2018
1,780,000.000
September 15, 2018
1,805,000.000
March 15, 2019
1,830,000.000
TOTAL
40,000,000.000
Page  18
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I
. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of the Part B:
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
 1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works under Sub-projects estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
Page  19
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $121,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $149,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Goods to be procured in accordance with  the provisions of Part C.2 of this Section may 
be procured through IAPSO in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the 
Guidelines.
5.
Procurement of Small Works
Works under Sub-projects estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, 
may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The 
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest 
price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the 
contract successfully.
6.
Procurement of Works and Goods under Sub-projects
Works estimated to cost less than $35,000 equivalent and goods under Sub-projects shall 
be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines and the 
procedures set forth in the Project Operational Manual -- with respect to Sub-grants under Part 
B.1 of the Project, and the procedures set forth in the RSDF Operational Manual – with respect 
to Sub-grants under Part B.2 of the Project.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
Page  20
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and works procured in accordance 
with the provisions of Part B of this Section; and (ii) the first contract to be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Part C.1. of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first contract to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in C.2. through C.5. above, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier/execution of any contract under 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on 
the comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping 
procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.  Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  The short list 
of consultants for services, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for development of designs under Part B of the Project, and for carrying out 
Page  21
Project audit, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, including services of the PMU and PIU staff, shall be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms   estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
SCHEDULE 5
Page  22
Implementation Program
Part A
: Project Management
1. 
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, on or about March 31, 2004, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by July 31, 2004, or such later date as the Bank shall 
request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views 
on the matter.
2.
The Borrower shall assign the responsibility for carrying out Part B.2 to  RSDF under the  
Subsidiary Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower, represented by the MOPF, MPA, 
and RSDF under terms and conditions which shall have been agreed upon with the Bank and 
which shall include, inter alia, provisions whereby: 
(a)
the Borrower shall make a portion of the proceeds of the Loan, allocated from 
time to time under Categories (1)(b), (3)(b) and (4)(b) in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, available to RSDF in the form of a grant; 
(b)
RSDF shall be required to implement Part B.2 of the Project in accordance with 
the RSDF Operational Manual and the provisions of this Agreement; 
(c)
RSDF shall furnish to the PMU not later than 25 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter reports on the implementation of Sub-projects, prepared in accordance with the 
guidelines specified in the Project Operational Manual, and working plans with estimates of a 
total number and aggregate amount of Sub-projects planned to be carried out for the subsequent 
calendar quarter; and
(d)
RSDF shall be required to administer Special Account B in accordance with the 
provisions of Part B of Schedule 1 and Annex to Schedule 1 to this Agreement and to maintain 
financial management system for Part B.2 of the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 4.01 of this Agreement.
3.
The Borrower shall assign the responsibility for carrying out the Project, except for Part 
B.2 of the Project, to  the MPA under the Subsidiary Agreement under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Page  23
4.
During Project implementation, the Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain: (i)  the PMU  within MPA, with staffing and resources which shall be 
adequate to enable the PMU to effectively implement the Project, except for   Part B.2, and 
which shall be acceptable to the Bank, including but not limited to the following staff: a director, 
a
financial management specialist, a procurement specialist, a monitoring and evaluation 
specialist, an engineer, a project assistant, a training specialist, and an accountant; and (ii) each 
PIU, with staffing and resources which shall be adequate to enable the PMU to effectively 
implement the Project, except for Part B.2, and which shall be acceptable to the Bank, including 
but not limited to the following staff: a director, a procurement specialist, an engineer, a project 
assistant, a training specialist, and an accountant;
(b)
cause the PMU to prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than  November 30 
and May 31 of each year commencing from November 30, 2002, semi-annual working plans 
which shall set forth projected sources and utilization of funds for the Project for the upcoming 
calendar semester; and
(c)
maintain the National Steering Committee, with a composition and terms of 
reference acceptable to the Bank, which shall provide oversight, coordination and policy 
guidance for Project implementation.
5.
The Borrower shall ensure that adequate budgetary allocations shall be made to the 
Project Account each calendar quarter during Project implementation for financing Project 
expenditures.
Part B:
Implementation of Sub-projects
For the purposes of carrying out Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project, the Borrower  through 
NSC shall ensure that:
1.
(a)
the PMU and RSDF shall select Sub-projects for financing from the proceeds of 
the Loan in accordance with the criteria and procedures set forth in the Project Operational 
Manual and RSDF Operational Manual, respectively, and said criteria shall exclude any water or 
wastewater Sub-projects involving construction of new or substantial alteration of existing water 
schemes which shall use or may cause potential pollution of international waterways; and
(b)
for the purposes of this paragraph, the term “international waterways” means any 
tributary or other body of surface water that is a component of the Danube, Prut,  Siret, and 
Somes. 
2.
PMU and RSDF shall provide financing, on a grant basis, for approved Sub-projects 
pursuant to a standard agreement  agreed upon with the Borrower and the Bank (the Grant 
Agreement), to be entered into between PMU and a Beneficiary, and between RSDF and a CBO, 
respectively. The Grant Agreement shall include, inter alia:
(a) 
a description of the Sub-project, together with an estimate of the cost thereof;
(b) 
the amount to be provided to a Beneficiary or CBO under a Grant Agreement; 
Page  24
(c) 
the implementation schedule for the Sub-project;
(d) 
the degree to which cost sharing shall be required to be made by the Beneficiary 
or CBO with respect to the financing of the Sub-project for the implementation of which 
assistance is provided to such Beneficiary or CBO under the  Grant Agreement;
(e) 
the obligation of the Beneficiary or CBO to procure small works, goods and 
services to be financed under the Grant Agreement in accordance with the procedures set forth in 
the Project Operational Manual or in the RSDF Operational Manual, respectively;   
(f) 
the obligation of the Beneficiary or CBO to report to PMU or RSDF, 
respectively, on the progress of Sub-project implementation and to enable representatives of 
PMU, RSDF and of the Bank, if the Bank shall so request, to visit the facilities, construction sites 
or other activities to be financed under the Grant Agreement; and
(g) 
the obligation of the Beneficiary or CBO to maintain records and accounts for 
expenditures incurred under the Sub-project and financed from the proceeds of the Loan made 
available to the Beneficiary or CBO under the Grant Agreement and to submit to PMU or RSDF, 
respectively, at regular intervals statements with respect to such records and accounts.
