                                    Document of
                                  The World Bank




                                                            Report No: ICR0000611




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                   (IBRD-46540)




                                       ON A

                                       LOAN

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$40 MILLION

                                   TO ROMANIA

                                       FOR A

                        RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                    June 25, 2008




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
South Central Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                          (Exchange Rate Effective March 17, 2008)

                                                   Currency Unit = New Lei
                                                  New Lei 1.00 = US$0.42046
                                                  US$1.00 = New Lei 2.39837

                                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                                    January 1 - December 31

                                           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APL     Adaptable Program Loan                                     MPA          Ministry of Public Administration
ASAL    Agricultural Sector Adjustment Loan                        MPF          Ministry of Public Finance
BOM     Build, Operate and Manage                                  MPOW         Ministry of Public Works
CAB     County Advisory Boards                                     MPWTH        Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Housing
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy                                MWEP         Ministry of Waters and Environment Protection
CBO     Community Based Organizations                              NAR          National Administration of Roads
CDD     Community Driven Development                               NARD         National Agency for Regional Development
CEE     Central and Eastern Europe                                 NRDA         National Regional Development Agency
CFAA    Country Financial Accountability Assessment                NSC          National Steering Committee
CIAC    Commune Investment Advisory Committee                      OD           Operational Directives
CIDA    Canadian Aid NCB National Competitive Bidding              OED          Operations Evaluation Department
COA     Court of Accounts                                          O&M          Operation & Maintenance
CPS     Country Partnership Strategy                               OP           Operational Policies
DFID    Department for International Development (British Aid)     PAD          Project Appraisal Document
DGPF    Directorate General of Public Finance and State            PAL          Public Administration Loan
        Financial Control                                          PCN          Project Concept Note
DPH     Directorate for Public Health                              PDO          Project Development Objective
EA      Environmental Assessment                                   PEHP         Public Environmental Hygiene Promotion
EIS     Environmental Impact Study                                 PHARE        Poland and Hungary: Assistance for Restructuring
EMP     Environmental Management Plan                                           their Economies Programme
EPI     Environment Protection Inspectorates                       PHRD         Policy and Human Resources Development
ERR     Economic Rate of Return                                    PIU          Project Implementation Unit
EU      European Union                                             PMR          Project Management Reports
FMS     Financial Management System                                PMU          Project Management Unit
GDP     Gross Domestic Product                                     PRA          Private Road Association
GOR     Government of Romania                                      RDA          Regional Development Agencies
ICB     International Competitive Bidding                          RDP          Rural Development Project
ICR     Implementation Completion Report                           RED Model    Roads Economic Decision Model (RED)
ISA     International Standards on Auditing                        RMMS         Road Maintenance Management System
ISR     Implementation Supervision Report                          RSDF         Romania Social Development Fund
LAG     Local Action Groups                                        RWS          Rural Water Supply
LEADER+ Liaison Entre Action de Développement                      SAPARD       Special Accession Program for Agriculture and
        de l'Economie Rurale +                                                  Initiative Rural Development
LEPA    Local Environment Protection Agreement                     SDF          Social Development Fund
LLPF    Law on Local Public Finance                                SME          Small and Medium Enterprises
LMU     Local Monitoring Units                                     TA           Technical Assistance
MAFF    Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry                 TAT          Technical Assistance Training Team
MDP     Ministry of Development and Prognosis                      TRT          Technical Review Teams
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation                                  VP           Vice President
MIS     Management Information System
MOF     Ministry of Finance



                          Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
                        Country Director: Benoit Paul Blarel
                         Sector Manager: John V. Kellenberg
                    Project Team Leader: Karin Shepardson
                       ICR Team Leader: Maria L. Amelina

                                              ROMANIA
                                Rural Development Project
                                             CONTENTS


Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 11
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 19
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 21
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 21
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 23
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 24
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 25
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Process................ 30
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results, Resulting Measurements of Project Outcomes 33
 Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 41
 Annex 7. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 44
 Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 47
 Annex 9. Country Context/Additional Background ..................................................... 48
 Annex 10. Background Studies Carried Out During Project Preparation .................... 49

Map IBRD No. 31304

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Rural Development
Country:                Romania                Project Name:
                                                                     Project (APL #1)
Project ID:             P057960                L/C/TF Number(s):     IBRD-46540
ICR Date:               06/26/2008             ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                     GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                    Borrower:
                                                                     ROMANIA
Original Total
                        USD 40.0M              Disbursed Amount:     USD 39.8M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: F
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Public Administration and Interior
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date              Process        Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        05/10/2000    Effectiveness:         08/01/2002        08/01/2002
Appraisal:             01/14/2002    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              03/19/2002    Mid-term Review:                         05/14/2005
                                     Closing:               12/31/2006        12/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory           Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory           Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:      Highly Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory           Performance:          Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators             (if any)              Rating

Potential Problem Project No                   Quality at Entry     None


                                              i

at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):
Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                          Yes                                      None
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original         Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other social services                                          2                  2
Roads and highways                                            25                40
Sanitation                                                    25
Sub-national government administration                        23                33
Water supply                                                  25                25


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Participation and civic engagement                           Primary          Primary
Rural markets                                                Primary         Secondary
Rural non-farm income generation                             Primary         Secondary
Rural services and infrastructure                            Primary          Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                       At Approval
Vice President:           Shigeo Katsu                     Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:         Orsalia Kalantzopoulos           Andrew N. Vorkink
Sector Manager:           Holger A. Kray                   Kevin M. Cleaver
Project Team Leader:      Karin Shepardson                 Henry F. Gordon
ICR Team Leader:          Maria L. Amelina
ICR Primary Author:       Maria L. Amelina



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objective (DO) is to strengthen the institutional capacity of
local administration, community/user groups and private service providers : a) to plan,
implement, operate and maintain small infrastructure investments in a participatory and
accountable manner; and b) to increase the access of rural inhabitants in pilot areas to
markets and social services (through road rehabilitation investment grants), and improved
water and sanitation (through water/sanitation investment grants). The PDO will be



                                              ii

pursued in selected geographical areas, chosen according to eligibility criteria that
include poverty status, with an investment menu limited to water/sanitation and roads.
Community Based Organizations (CBOs) will be able to invest in these and other
subprojects types permitted by the SDF Operational Manual.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from       Revised          Achieved at
                                                approval          Target        Completion or
                                               documents)         Values         Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Unit reductions for infrastructure investments over baseline in 5 counties (road
                $/km)
Value
quantitative or 86.55                                                         40.00
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/02/2002                                                      09/28/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   45% increase in percentage of households contributing at least once a year (in
                cash or in-kind) to road maintenance, for villages with finalized road projects
                                                                              40% (note: field
                                                                              reviews indicate

Value                                                                         some costs are

quantitative or 26%                                                           recovered through

Qualitative)                                                                  tax on vehicles
                                                                              which were not
                                                                              included in the
                                                                              survey reponse)
Date achieved 09/02/2002                                                      09/28/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :   % of villages with year round transport access by car
Value
quantitative or 88%                        100%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/02/2002                   09/28/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 4 :   Percentage of households paying water charges per cubic meter, for villages with
                finalized water projects.



                                                iii

                                                                             58.3% (overall
                                                                             project villages,
Value                                                                        2006 survey) 92%
quantitative or 8.3%                                                         of the households
Qualitative)                                                                 connected to water
                                                                             network in project
                                                                             villages
Date achieved 09/02/2002                                                     11/15/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 5 :   50% increase in households with access to running water in their yards or house,
                for villages with finalized water projects
Value
quantitative or 24%                                                          36%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/02/2002                                                     09/28/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 6 :   50% increase of number of households with individuals invited by mayor or vice
                mayor to participate at public meetings
Value
quantitative or 27%                                                          40%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/02/2002                                                     09/28/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 7 :   Median time to school during wet weather
Value
quantitative or 20 minutes                                                   15 minutes
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/02/2002                                                     06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 8 :   % of villages isolated because of snow or flood
Value
quantitative or 57%                                                          29%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/02/2002                                                     06/30/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 9 :   % individuals considering themselves as increasing possibilities to make local
                elected leaders take into account their opinions
Value           7                                             new indicator 15



                                                iv

quantitative or                                            in 2006
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2006                                   06/30/2006     09/28/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
               Water Access within RDP communes

Indicator 10 : (1) Time to carry water (by gender)
               (2) Reported lack of water
               (3) % individuals spending more than 30 minutes to get water

               (1) 23 minutes average;                                    (1) 11 minutes

               43 minutes Men; 18                                         average; 9 minutes
                                                                          men; 11 minutes
Value          minutes women (job fell                                    women (job fell to
quantitative orto women 36% time;                                         women 25%, men
Qualitative)   children 18%; 29%
               shared)                                                    11% and shared

               (2) 30%                                                    64% of time)

               (3) 8%                                                     (2) 3%
Date achieved 09/02/2002                                                  06/30/2006
Comments       Note: Data is consistent in both RDP and control communes on the greater role
(incl. %       of women in carrying water and accordingly overall benefits to women are
achievement)   higher.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target    Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value          Values (from                      Achieved at
                                              approval         Revised       Completion or
                                             documents)    Target Values      Target Years

Indicator 1 :  50% increase of competitiveness of contracting- number if contractors per bid on
               RDP works contracts
Value
(quantitative  3.7                                                        5.6
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 09/02/2002                                                  09/28/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :  Existence of O&M Plan in the project communes
                                                                          No final target on
                                                                          this - indicator
                                                                          added later. Further
Value                                                                     survey work to be
(quantitative  77%                                                        done- some
or Qualitative)                                                           respondents likely
                                                                          interpreted this in a
                                                                          more formal way
                                                                          than intended



                                               v

Date achieved 09/02/2002                                   09/28/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                               Actual
 No.    Date ISR
        Archived           DO                 IP           Disbursements
                                                           (USD millions)
  1     05/09/2002      Satisfactory      Satisfactory                0.00
  2     05/30/2002      Satisfactory      Satisfactory                0.00
  3     08/07/2002      Satisfactory      Satisfactory                0.00
  4     12/31/2002      Satisfactory      Satisfactory                0.20
  5     01/29/2003      Satisfactory      Satisfactory                0.20
  6     04/18/2003      Satisfactory      Satisfactory                0.51
  7     12/22/2003      Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory             2.07
  8     06/15/2004      Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory             2.92
  9     06/23/2004      Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory             2.92
  10    12/20/2004      Satisfactory      Unsatisfactory             5.43
  11    05/31/2005      Satisfactory      Satisfactory                6.50
  12    02/10/2006      Satisfactory      Satisfactory               18.51
  13    07/20/2006      Satisfactory      Satisfactory               21.95
  14    06/11/2007      Satisfactory      Satisfactory               36.68
  15    12/20/2007      Satisfactory      Satisfactory               40.00



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                      vi

I. Disbursement Profile




                           vii

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
At appraisal and at present (2008), the importance of rural space in Romania cannot be
overestimated. Romania has the largest share of rural population among the Central and Eastern
Europe (CEE) countries. At 45 percent of its total population of 22 million, this is more than
twice the European Union (EU) average. Rural areas are the main loci of poverty in the country.
In 2000 poverty rates in rural regions were at their peak (see Table 1). Both incidence of poverty
and the absolute number of the rural poor by far surpassed those in urban areas.

                         Table 1. Spatial Analysis of Poverty, 1995 ­ 2006




Source: World Bank estimates based on HBS data.

Administratively, the rural population resides in 2688 communes (comunas) which may include
one or more villages or hamlets. Communes are governed by elected mayors and local councils.
Legally, communes represent a second tier of self-governance but are not hierarchically
subordinated to counties, the first tier of self governance. Communes have legally defined fiscal
revenue sources and a set list of service provision/public investment mandates. Pre-appraisal
reports demonstrated that the low capacity of local administrations to develop adequate and
realistic budgets and the non-transparency/incompetence of budget execution (in addition to
macroeconomic growth issues) had led to the deterioration of public services. In addition, citizens,
especially in rural areas, rarely participate in decision making processes.

At the time of project preparation, rural infrastructure in Romania was poor and deteriorating.
In 1992, investment for the whole transport sector was only US$35 million, and after a 400%
increase in 1995, still remained below 0.3% of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) as compared to 2-
-3% normally observed in both developing and developed countries. Rural transport was
dominated by horse and cart with motorized vehicle ownership low.

Rural water and sanitation services in Romania were considered deficient with on-site
household or community wells, stand pipes, and pit latrines predominating. In 2002, a very large
urban/rural divide in access to basic water services was apparent (Table 2).

                 Table 2: Condition of Infrastructure in Rural and Urban Areas, 2002
World Bank 2002 Household Survey                   Urban                       Rural
Housing Poverty                                Non-      Poor     Total    Non-     Poor     Total
% No Bathroom                                    9        33       13       78       93        84
% No Flush Toilet                                5        20        8       62       77        68
% No Hot Water System                           11        36       15       80       95        86
Source: World Bank HHS data 2002

Romania was also facing a critical problem of nitrate pollution in groundwater, with "above
acceptable levels in 39 of 41 counties in the country", raising public health concerns with infant
deaths from methaemoglobinaemia (blue baby disease).

For more information on the relevant context, see Annex 9.

To address the challenges of rural development National Rural Development Program (NRDP)
was developed. The program was to provide a framework to the EU's Special Accession Program
for Agriculture and Rural Development (SAPARD) facility expected to provide 150 million
Euros in grant funds through 2007. At the time of the project design, the start of the program was
scheduled for 2000, subsequently delayed until 2003. 22 per cent of the funds were earmarked for
rural infrastructure. One of the major concerns of the GoR about program implementation was
lack of local capacity to identify and appraise viable investments.

The project was designed as a means of responding to these poverty and capacity challenges. As a
vehicle to alleviate rural poverty in a sustainable manner by improving local institutions and
contributing to investments/training in water and local roads construction and maintenance, the
project was not only in line with, but central to, the Bank's core mandate and the achievement of
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The project contributed to the advancement of 3 of
the 5 themes of the Romania 2001 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), namely promotion of
economic growth; building of institutions to increase accountability and transparency; and greater
access to opportunity.

RDP was designed as a two-phase APL to be implemented over eight years. Phase 1 was to build
local capacity and build small rural infrastructure projects (see PDO section below), and Phase 2
was to divest more responsibilities to local governments, expand to a larger number of communes
and expand the menu of investments. The APL as an instrument was chosen because it provided
flexibility in adjusting project design during implementation in aligning it with national policies
and EU accession priorities.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The PDOs were formulated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) as follows:
The development objective of the project was to strengthen the institutional capacity of local
administration, community/user groups and private service providers: a) to plan, implement,
operate and maintain small infrastructure investments in a participatory and accountable manner;
and b) to increase the access of rural inhabitants in pilot areas to markets and social services
(through road rehabilitation investment grants), and improved water and sanitation (through
water/sanitation investment grants).

There is a discrepancy between Schedule 2 and PDO formulations. Since these discrepancies are
formal rather than substantive, we will assess the project against the more detailed PDO
formulation.

Key Indicators
The key indicators formulated in the PAD are presented in the data sheet. They reflect those
outlined in progress reports and specified in the Implementation Supervision Report (ISR) dated
December 2007. See Section F of the Data Sheet.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
PDO has not been revised.


                                                  2

The baseline data collected in 2002 enabled the team to refine the indicators to reflect feasible
expectations of the project impact. As stated in PAD, the indicators were specified after the
baseline data has been analyzed. Modifications of indicators (from PAD stage to final ISR) reflect
better targeting of proxies, not substantive changes. For example, "50% increase in consultations
from baseline" (PAD 2002) was revised to "50% increase of number of households with
individuals invited by mayor or vice mayor to participate at public meetings" (ISR December
2007). A sophisticated Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system of the project impact (Section
2) enables the effect of the project to be isolated from other contextual/developmental changes.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
PAD defines the primary beneficiaries of the project as the citizens of the communes and
community/user group members in the 100 pilot communes. The Commune Investment Advisory
Committees (CIACs), a working group of active community members overseeing the
implementation of infrastructure sub-projects and primary recipients of project training, are
singled out as direct beneficiaries. Secondary beneficiaries include private sector service
providers (e.g., design firms and civil works contractors), county council staff, and TATs
(Technical Assistance Training Teams) comprised of local consultants that considerably upgraded
their professional skills during project implementation. Local government is considered to be a
beneficiary as represented in CIACs. (on omissions among beneficiaries see 2.1 design issues that
presented difficulties at implementation)

1.5 Original Components (as approved) ­ unchanged
Component A: Training and Capacity Building (US$1.84 million total base costs). The aim
of Component A was to strengthen the institutional capacity of the beneficiaries (see above) to
plan, implement, operate and maintain viable small infrastructure investments in a participatory
and accountable manner. The component aimed to finance Technical Assistance (TA) and
training activities for local stakeholders (private service providers, county council technical staff,
etc.) and beneficiaries (see 1.4 above).

Teaching courses were to develop technically and financially sound rural infrastructure sub-
projects, reflecting commune and beneficiary priorities consistent with local budget options. The
modules covered the following issues: (i) the project cycle for roads and water/sanitation sub-
projects; and participation in project decision making; (ii) participatory commune infrastructure
assessment (local assessment carried out by TA/training teams (TAT) in collaboration with
commune stakeholders); (iii) budgeting, bookkeeping and project financing; (iv) participatory
project decision-making; (v) procurement rules for contracting; and (vi) participatory monitoring
and evaluation. Each short course was planned to be followed by the application of concepts
learned, with support from a TA/training team (TAT).

Each county and commune was to have repeated contacts with a single TAT over the course of
the project (each team to cover 4 communes) to allow continuity and trust to develop between the
beneficiaries and the team. A TAT consisted of up to three specialists having skills and
experience in the areas of (i) facilitation of participation; (ii) engineering and project
management; and (iii) basic budgeting, taxation, and project economics.

Most of the training was to be carried out before the beginning of infrastructure activities, so that
the beneficiaries and communities could make planning and project related decisions. It was
planned that most communes would experience two project cycles so as to fully learn the process
and be able carry it out in the future without additional TA or training. A reduced level of TA and
an increased responsibility by communes was to occur as Phase 1 proceeded.



                                                   3

Component B: Rural Infrastructure (US$42.45 million total base costs). The aim of this
component was to increase access of rural inhabitants to transport and water/sanitation services.
This component provided funding for demand-driven investments through the Commune window
(sub-projects prepared by individual communes or an associated group of communes) and
through the smaller CBO Window (prepared by Community Based Organizations (CBOs), and
was to be managed by the Romania Social Development Fund, RSDF). The CBO window
intended to fund water/sanitation and roads sub-projects, as well as other items on the RSDF
menu, primarily income generating sub-projects. In connection with the water/sanitation
subcomponent, the component was to fund a Public Environmental Hygiene Promotion (PEHP)
campaign, and a rural water/sanitation strategy study. In connection with the roads
subcomponent, the component was to fund five studies aimed at improving the broader legal,
institutional and regulatory framework for rural transport and roads. Under the information
center sub-component the project was to fund the creation of the information centers at the
commune level.

Component C: Project Management (US$2.81 million total base costs). The component was
to provide project management support by the Project Management Unit (PMU), and five
regional Project Implementation Units (PIUs).

1.6 Revised Components
Components were not revised.

1.7 Other Significant Changes
Significant changes in the project included:
    · The CBO window (Component B), was implemented in parallel with the first wave of
         training, not in sequence as planned because of: (i) unrealistic planning for the speed of
         preparation of training materials and, therefore, later than expected training launch; and
         (ii) the need to satisfy expectations at the community level since all the communities
         were pre-selected at project preparation.
    · The second cycle of training was run in parallel with (not in sequence, as originally
         planned) the first wave of investment sub-projects. The change was made to compensate
         for the longer than expected time for contracting and sub-project approval procedures.
    · The Closing Date was extended by 1 year to compensate for: (i) the unexpected
         requirement that every sub-project approval occur at the national level (see 2.1 below);
         (ii) delays in construction caused by floods in 2005; and (iii) re-bidding of works because
         of contractors' over-stretched capacity in the post-flood period.
    · The information center subcomponent was scaled down because the Knowledge
         Economy Project became operational in the same counties and introduced IT centers.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
Project Preparation. Project preparation was involved and lengthy (27 months) because of:
    · generally longer project preparation spans at that time;
    · the challenge of adapting the Community Driven Development-type (CDD) intervention
         to the format of working with a formal local government;
    · need of adapting the CDD-type procedures to the post-socialist environment;
    · efforts to adapt the design to the EU integration framework and SAPARD disbursements.
To address these challenges, the project preparation team carried out four studies (funded by a
Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) grant) of rural poverty, gender



                                                  4

characteristics of rural poverty, rural development challenges, and local government institutions.
To decide on the formats and the menu for infrastructure intervention, a study of social and
physical infrastructure development in rural areas was carried out (see Annex 10 for more details).

Coordination with other Bank and non-Bank Interventions. One grant window in Component B
(the CBO window, see 1.5) was implemented by the Social Development Fund (SDF). DFID
funded data collection for a rigorous baseline that included household and local leader surveys
and contributed to more nuanced M&E. Coordination with SAPARD was planned but proved
difficult to achieve in practice. At appraisal, SAPARD was starting up and placed a priority on
private farmer investments. The project intended to complement this through a focus on building
capacity for infrastructure with an emphasis on smaller scale investments in poorer areas less
likely to receive SAPARD funds. SAPARD shifted its emphasis more toward infrastructure at
midterm in response to local floods and lower demand on the private side. At completion of both
programs, there remained a heavy unmet demand for rural infrastructure improvements, thus RDP
crowding of SAPARD investments was never a coordination concern. Bank team coordination
with Brussels and the EU delegation were periodic, and the PMU coordination with Agriculture
was most frequent in the last year of RDP in the context of planning for post-accession funds.

Project Design.     The resulting project design was innovative, relevant and forward looking. It
adapted CDD-type characteristics of bottom-up mobilization (preparation studies identified that
social passivity is common in post-socialist communities and hinders development) and blended
it with capacity building for local governments. To assist in the transition from social passivity to
popular participation in public decision making and then to the inclusion of publicly determined
investment priorities in formal investment budgeting, the project decided to assist communities
in creating intermediate institutions that would unite public officials and informal
community representatives in project-specific public decision making. The incentive for such
collective work was construction of demand-driven infrastructure. The new institutions and
organizations were made sustainable by providing the beneficiaries with training and practical
knowledge of project selection, supervision and maintenance, thus empowering them to replicate
skills and decision-making formats created by the project. Importantly, the project aimed to
enhance water and roads infrastructure in about 100 communes and fund sub-projects for about
20 inter-community associations, thus fostering horizontal social, economic and administrative
ties, important for democratic development and EU integration.

Design Issues that Presented Difficulties at Implementation
1. While accurately identifying and targeting beneficiaries at the local levels, the project did not
    identify relevant national government structures (e.g., the Ministry of Public Administration
    and the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry (MAFF) responsible for the absorption of
    the EU funds) either as primary or as secondary project beneficiaries. Despite later efforts of
    the team to engage national and supra-national agencies (the Ministry of European
    Integration, Special Accession Program for Agriculture and Initiative Rural Development
    (SAPARD) Agency), these were not specific identified activities with their own budget
    allocations and responsible Project Management Unit (PMU) staff. Because of (i) lack of
    national and supra-national engagement; (ii) the shifting schedule of the launch of SAPARD
    operations and its affiliation with a different line ministry (MAFF); and (iii) the managerial
    challenges of the first two years of project implementation, connections to the national rural
    policymaking agencies and to the EU structures did not come to full fruition. In the long term,
    this could limit the dissemination of the considerable results achieved by the project.
2. Operationally, the decentralized management design (national level PMU and local level
    PIUs) was difficult to jump start, as it was difficult to delineate in practice the channels of
    decision making. At the same time, after the difficult adjustment process was over (see


                                                 5

    "explaining unsatisfactory ratings" section), the benefit of the decentralized model was in
    creating capacity in each project county, increasing overall project sustainability.
3. Dual objectives of training for a broad set of longer term issues relevant for budgeting and
    public decision making and shorter term more specific training targeting a limited 2 item
    intervention menu (roads and water) was initially confusing to participants, who only
    understood the relevance of the longer term issues later.
4. Timing: pre-selecting all 5 project counties and communes within these counties created
    false expectations on the ground of quick disbursements, putting unnecessary stress on the
    project team to deliver before initial capacity building procedures were in place.
5. In-kind labor contributions brought into the project from the CDD experience of lower
    income countries proved to be difficult to implement in the middle income context of
    Romania, especially at the later stages of the project because of: (i) rising living standards
    and ability to provide cash contributions; and (ii) low levels of civic participation (as captured
    by the surveys).
6. Creation of two public institutions at the local level for different stages of sub-project
    implementation proved in many cases redundant. CIACs were largely effective and well
    integrated, Local Monitoring Units (LMUs) less relevant and less well absorbed.
There was no QAG associated with the project.

Adequacy of Government Commitment. At project initiation the government was concerned
about gaps in the capacity of rural Romania to absorb SAPARD, Poland and Hungary:
Assistance for Restructuring their Economies program (PHARE1), and other accession funds, and
therefore interested in a project that could help fill these gaps. The Letter of Development Policy
addressed to the Vice President (VP) of the World Bank and signed by four relevant ministers
testifies to this commitment. Cooperation with the government is reflected in a significant
contribution of project preparation materials to the National Rural Development Program.
Commitment to an eight year program (2 Phase APL) is another testimony to the GoR
commitment at the time of the preparation. The government (belatedly) demonstrated its
commitment by approving a streamlined procedure for the approval of sub-projects to overcome
the delays incurred in implementation of the first cycle of sub-projects. (see "factors that gave
rise to problems" below).

Assessment of Risks at Preparation. Risks were adequately identified at the project preparation
stage and most of the mitigation mechanisms proved effective. The project was identified as high
risk from the procurement point of view and reinforced procurement capacity and emphasis on
rigorous training and oversight not only provided for satisfactory procurement reviews by the
Bank throughout the project, but helped deal with difficult procurement issues at the sub-project
level in a transparent, timely, and public manner, turning them into learning opportunities for the
communities.

Of the implementation risks identified during project preparation, the most detrimental to project
progress proved to be the delay of counterpart budget support (for more detail, see factors that
gave rise to problems below).

Another identified risk that was not overcome by the suggested mitigation mechanism was lack
of coordination among ministries. The National Steering Committee (NSC) was not a sufficient



1 PHARE was extended to Romania and other countries while maintaining the original Poland and Hungary name.




                                                     6

mechanism to bring relevant ministries together. At the beginning of project implementation the
SAPARD agency under the MAFF was still in the process of being established and other
departments of MAFF did not have the mandate to deal with rural infrastructure. MPA, in charge
of local governments and regional infrastructure, was a legally appropriate home for the project at
inception, however, since it is not in charge of implementing the EU supported National Rural
Development Programme, it cannot implement lessons learned directly, which creates
institutional barriers to direct transfers of knowledge accumulated during project implementation.
Again, this is a structural issue of administrative coordination and largely outside of the project
team's control. In contrast, the County Advisory Boards (CAB) were effective in bringing
together different administrative and civil society players at the county level, which bodes well
for sustainability.
2.2 Implementation
Factors that Contributed to the Success of the Project. The implementation successes of the
project grew out of its challenges, a tribute to the strength and creativity of the implementation
team. Creative adaptation of the project design to the inevitable challenges of reality made the
project more relevant and, ultimately, more sustainable.

Some of the key implementation successes are:
    (a) The format of training, where officials participated in collective learning and
         formulations of their priorities proved to be a very effective design innovation;
         participants reported that "we now see our governments as partners" and "we have seen
         our neighbors in new light; we now talk to each other differently";
    (b) The multi-sectoral Technical Assistance and Training Teams (TATs), consisting of
         professional facilitators, engineers, and accountants, was an important project innovation;
    (c) Decentralized county level PIUs proved to be very effective at continuous county and
         local level interactions. They not only managed the project, but also actively contributed
         to the transfer of knowledge about management, procurement, project preparation and
         monitoring to stakeholders at the county and local levels (hence the hiring of the whole
         PIU teams by 2 out of 5 counties - see 2.5 below);
    (d) Additional training provided to mayors, county council members and administrators, as
         well as potential project managers, in addition to concentrating on procurement and
         financial management, created effective buy-in at the local/county levels; and
    (e) Strict enforcement of the least-cost design principle while also insisting on high quality
         of construction created difficulties during the bidding process and became more difficult
         to implement with dollar depreciation and increased local budgets, sometimes perceived
         as a softer budget constraint. At the same time, it forced the contractors to search for
         creative solutions, and the commune leaders to appreciate the need to adjust their
         infrastructure sub-projects to the hard budget constraint, both important new experiences
         and skills highly appreciated by local administrations and construction firms, as revealed
         in numerous interviews conducted during the joint Implementation Completion Report
         (ICR)/supervision mission.

Factors that Gave Rise to Problems. During project implementation, legislation (Law on Public
Finance) was introduced requiring that civil works funded from foreign loans have feasibility
studies approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. This lengthy national level vetting required
batching of projects, not approve-as-projects-are-ready system, as initially planned. Combined
with the need for prior approvals by the Interministerial Committee this led to significant delays.
Much effort was spent in negotiations for an exemption from this legislation. A Project-specific
amendment was passed in June 2005, allowing for the sub-project approvals at the local council
level, as envisaged by the original design. Once passed, this legislative change sped up project
implementation, leading to faster reviews and accelerated disbursements.


                                                   7

Delays in counterpart funding presented significant problems for timely disbursements and
implementation. The delays were overcome later in project implementation when disbursements
were made quickly to the well trained and well prepared communities. However, the delays led to
significant frustrations on the part of recipient communities and diminished enthusiasm about
project processes and objectives. This was a government risk, largely outside of the project
team's control.

Additional pressure in the project was created because of the insufficient amount of time
budgeted for capacity building. Not enough time was allocated to the contracting of the
umbrella training firm, adaptation of materials, and training of trainers. As a result, considering
that sites for intervention were pre-selected and pressure was high to start disbursement, training
operations were executed under these partially artificial pressures. This partly explains why the
full effect of training and capacity building only became apparent (at the national level, local
appreciation became evident much sooner) during site visits and after qualitative and quantitative
measurements of project satisfaction were collected and analyzed.

The low quality of infrastructure sub-project designs prepared by local firms resulted in the
need to establish two Technical Review Teams (TRTs) of project engineers and managers across
the five counties to spot check designs and make recommendations for improvements. Later
challenges occurred with poor contract compliance by small rural contractors who were exposed
to international standards for the first time. Numerous receptions of works were postponed during
the first cycle of investment due to the need to correct problems. Many rural contractors had
never had their work questioned before and were surprised by the project's attention to quality
assurance and by the project's enforcement of contract and design conditions. The concept of a
local "project manager" position for works supervision was new to most communes, so
specialized training to local councils was added later to strengthen local capacities. The ultimate
effect was empowerment of the community to question and demand accountability of local
engineering firms, and the introduction of trained professionals to represent them and
supervise the contractors.

Explaining Unsatisfactory Ratings. In April 2003, the project management was rated
unsatisfactory. In December 2003, the project overall rating was lowered to unsatisfactory. The
reasons for the lowering of rating were: (a) serious delays in project implementation; and (b) top-
down non-transparent managerial style of PMU management. Specific deficiencies included the
failure to develop the Management Information System (MIS) system, deficiencies in
procurement training, and ineffective communications with PIUs, which resulted in mutually
contradictory project implementation decisions.

It was agreed (following a joint portfolio review between the Bank and Government of Romania
(GOR) in March 2004) that the constraints of high level approval of county level sub-projects
should be eliminated. More importantly, the PMU management team (both in relation to county
level PIUs and in terms of multisectoral horizontal cooperation among PMU members) was
forced by the Client and the Bank supervision team to review its decision making practices,
making them more collegial and transparent.

The Bank team, together with the PMU and in consultations with the GOR, developed an action
plan with specific benchmarks for implementation, management, and monitoring and
evaluation. During the supervision of December 2004, while overall progress continued to be
rated Unsatisfactory, training and capacity building were rated Highly Satisfactory. Such a
dramatic increase in rating was triggered by the fact that the first round of training was completed,


                                                 8

resulting in highly positive commune feedback, expressed in meetings and through the press, and
validated by high and significant ratings reflected in user surveys. The overall rating of the
project was upgraded to satisfactory during the mid-term review in May 2005. The community
training program and its impact on absorption capacity has been assessed by the Sector Manager
in the project ISR as a best practice.

Thereafter, until the end of project implementation, project ratings did not fall below satisfactory
and the capacity building component was consistently rated as highly satisfactory. The last
supervision mission witnessed the closely-knit work of the PMUs and PIUs at the end of project
implementation, a testimony to the success of the "practicing what the project preaches" approach
- institution-building within the project management as well as in the project communities.

2.3 M&E Design, Implementation and Utilization
The rigorous design of the monitoring and evaluation tools made it possible to trace the project
impacts more accurately and objectively than is customary in CDD/rural infrastructure projects.
In most instances, a rigorous design of the M&E system and inclusion of control and treatment
areas in the M&E design meant that the effects of the project could be isolated from multiple
other contextual effects which could have contributed to shifts in tracked indicators. Most
projects trace change without including control territories into the design and then often claim
most of the change to be project achievements. Naturally, such an approach increases the
magnitude of claimed impact. The fact that this project put objective analysis above poorly
substantiated but potentially higher claims deserves a special mention and is to be commended
and replicated.

M&E Design. The project was underpinned by a rigorous evaluation system. Two waves of
household and local officials' surveys (panels both on households and public officials) in control
(matched pairs) and treatment (project) areas were supplemented by objective data on the quality
of infrastructure and public investment in both control and treatment areas. For more details on
the innovative aspects as well as the limitations of the M&E design, the sample size, survey
questions, and additional robustness tests performed, see Annex 5.

M&E Implementation. Surveys were fielded in the beginning of the project, at mid-term, and
close to the end of the project in 2006. The first and third waves used similar questionnaires and
were combined into a panel. The findings of the evaluation work underpin the key indicators. The
changes of the magnitude anticipated in the PAD and in the project progress reports indeed took
place. As expected, once we control for other contextual and macroeconomic changes the
magnitude of the effect diminishes but remains robust and significant.

Monitoring of Sub-project Implementation. The MIS system was made operational late in the
project cycle (late 2005). While much effort was put into the introduction of the computerized
MIS system, and data with decentralized interfaces to link to PIUs, it appears that the use of the
system was not fully internalized by the project team. Less integrated and simpler formats of
project oversight were used in parallel and often more heavily relied on in practice, as they were
more user-friendly. It was concluded that the MIS design was likely too ambitious for a
project of this size; however, its base of data may have become more critical if the project
expanded with a second phase APL as originally planned.

M&E Utilization. M&E systems were effectively used to refine key indicators and to isolate the
effects of the project intervention in a rigorous and persuasive manner (see Annex 5).




                                                   9

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
The project triggered the environmental assessment and international waters safeguards. The
Environmental Management Plan (EMP) at appraisal was complete and thorough and was
adhered to during sub-project implementation. In addition, local inspectors were present at
several training sessions on good supervision practices including environmental issues, and
reported satisfaction and increased knowledge. All construction sub-projects addressed
environmental aspects in their feasibility studies at the design stage and were reviewed and
authorized by the environmental authorities at the county level. The May 2007 supervision
mission noted that several water investment communes had not obtained water operating permits
because of a lack of awareness of the need and the PMU was asked to survey all water sub-
projects to ensure compliance with this process.

International waters safeguard (OP 7.50).Three sub-projects were located on international
waterways. Work done in these areas was repair/rehabilitation, which did not affect the
international waterways nor was adversely affected by other riparians' water use.

Fiduciary Compliance. Throughout the project, all audits were on-time, satisfactory, and
unqualified. The final financial management review showed full compliance with all aspects of
financial management. World Bank procurement post-reviews were also fully satisfactory with
very limited comments for improvements. The team handled contract re-bidding, contract
amendments, and enforcement of quality in outputs in a sound and transparent manner which
included an internal system of quality review checks.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
The institutions and organizations created within the life of the project are expected to continue
operating, increasing project sustainability:
    · CIACs were observed during monitoring missions continuing to influence local public
        decision-making and being involved in public investment oversight;
    · Two out of five PIU teams were retained as complete teams by counties with local budget
        to oversee and coordinate EU grant absorption. Individuals from the other three PIU
        teams were hired as staff of county administrations.
    · TATs are being hired as consultants by communes and counties for advisory support on
        the local budgetary process, new investments project preparation, and on integrated rural
        development initiatives.
    · Commune Associations formed under the project continue cooperating, specifically, in
        applying for and implementing EU projects. Eleven of 17 RDP commune associations
        were selected as beneficiaries under EU Grant-financed training for Local Action
        Groups (LAGs) within the EU LEADER+ program (Liaison Entre Action de
        Développement de l'Economie Rurale) from about 44 territories selected country
        wide (25%).

Operation & Maintenance (O&M) arrangements for the infrastructure appear overall sustainable
as well. The O&M post-project survey (2007) revealed that:
    · 78% of communes with water sub-projects and 45% with roads sub-projects created
        special O&M departments in the commune;
    · water household connection rates reached over 75% in 2008, 92 % of which are metered;
    · 84% of communes with road investments reported collecting taxes for roads
        maintenance;
    · 90% of communes with road investments were confirmed to have included road
        maintenance funds in their 2007 budget.



                                               10

M&E Tools and Data Base. Considering a unique baseline and a control and treatment setup (see
M&E section), it would be highly beneficial for the Client to pass the whole data base to a
national level research entity to preserve the information contained in the surveys. It is also
advisable to use parts/whole RDP M&E questionnaires to assess the effectiveness of similar
projects in the future, to build comparability/rigorous measurement practices into similar
projects, eventually improving M&E practices nationally. The findings and the tools (the
questionnaires, interview scripts) need to be made publicly available, displayed on an
appropriate monitoring and evaluation site of the agency responsible for the funding of rural
infrastructure (This work could be financed under the technical assistance funding program for
Axis III "Diversification and Quality of Life" under the National Rural Development Programme
which is the responsibility of MAFF), so that the tools are examined and used by researchers and
practitioners and the results are disseminated.

Follow-up Operation. The preparation of the Phase 2 Adaptable Program Loan (APL) was
cancelled. The preparation of a related project Rural Regional Development was subsequently
stopped as well in the context of a decision by the Ministry of Public Finance to freeze new
lending operations with the Bank in Romania. It should be mentioned, that county officials
repeatedly stated that they wanted the project to continue and be replicated on their territory (see
Annex 6)

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives
The project objectives correspond to and remain highly relevant for different aspects of the
current Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) pillars (FY06-FY09). The institutional capacity
building objectives correspond to pillar 1 - accelerating structural and institutional reforms to
support sustainable growth. Training and skill building to budget for, design, supervise and
implement infrastructure works and then to maintain the constructed infrastructure corresponds to
pillar 2 - addressing fiscal vulnerabilities and modernizing the public sector. The gender aspects
of the program and work in the poorer rural areas add to the achievement of the pillar 3 objectives
- targeting poverty reduction and promoting social inclusion. The project objectives have
acquired new relevance with the need to absorb the EU integration funds. Rural infrastructure
projects that will be supported under Axis III of the National Rural Development Programme
require capacity of local governments to cooperate with the community based initiatives such as
LEADER. The successful utilization of Axis III funds is contingent on strong associations among
rural communities being established and operational. All these capacity building issues are
directly tied to the RDP objectives and it is recommended that approaches pioneered by the RDP
are disseminated and absorbed by the above mentioned EU integration structures.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The output targets as planned (see Annex 2) were mainly achieved during project implementation
(see Section 2.3 and Annex 5 for a discussion of the effects of advanced M&E tools on the
measurement of project outcomes).

Objective (a) Training and Capacity Building - Outputs and Outcomes
Training and capacity building objectives were achieved through the engagement of the localities'
residents in decision making about the relevance of public investment to be undertaken. The
incentive for participation in this process about local investments was used to attract the local
population to formal local governance and demystify it in citizens' eyes. This tool was also used
to train local officials in more formal and structured public decision making. A series of
extensive trainings that involved both local government officials and the population is the


                                                 11

crucial output of the project. User surveys demonstrate high level of participation (about 2,500
rural dwellers trained), high retention levels, and high satisfaction rating (95% satisfactory and
highly satisfactory).

Training has also led to measured increased participation. Household level survey analysis
showed that 63% of the population participated in public meetings and 68% of respondents asked
to identify the community needs. More than 75% of community residents acknowledged that the
Local Council took into account their opinion about project activities. This is higher than in
control groups of comparable communes in Romania.

The second outcome reported by the commune members to the ICR/supervision mission in the
majority of the visited communes is improved community cohesion: new, more effective and
constructive forms of interaction among community members and between community members
and local administrations, and increased interpersonal trust and cooperation. In a post-socialist
context, these are important outcomes and have an independent developmental value. The
commune level trainees (both local government officials and rank-and-file commune members)
also reported on the usefulness of the training in accessing funds from other donor/government
sources and on the ability to use the newly obtained resources more effectively, transparently and
inclusively. Importantly, project-created agencies (primarily CIACs) are showing signs of
"growing" into organic local institutions.

The third institutional achievement of the project is training and assistance in the creation of
associations of communes. The Project funded the training for 19 commune associations and
funded collective sub-projects for 17 commune associations. In a country where associational life
is poorly developed and local government associations are not common, this experience is
demonstrative and important, particularly in view of the associational approach to regional
development championed by the EU regional and rural development policies. While several
associations of communes established within the RDP have initiated pilot LAGs under the
LEADER axis in the National Plan for Rural Development supported with EU funds, the
connection of this experience to the post-accession EU rural development activities needs to be
made stronger and replicated.

Training and Capacity Building - Measured Outcomes
The description of the rigorous measurement of project effects on each of these aspects of
capacity building (measured against the control areas) can be found in Annex 5. Here capacity
building improvement is broken down into the following dimensions (defined by the main project
objectives), each bringing a distinct contribution to local development capacities. Below each
dimension, the most important results of the project are summarized:2

    · Accountability - defined by Ackerman (2005) as a pro-active process by which public
        officials inform about and justify their plans of action, their behavior and results and are
        sanctioned accordingly;
             The percentage of individuals informed about the draft of the local budget
        significantly increased from 9% in 2002 to 16% in 2006 for households in RDP
        communes (Table 2, Annex 5);




2These are the four core features of "Community Driven Development" (see for example Binswanger,
Hans and Aiyar, Swaminathan, 2003 or Stuart Gillespie, 2004).




                                                 12

             Significantly more information flowed to households in project communes than to
        those in other communes. The 15% of individuals in 2002 in RDP communes who
        considered themselves sufficiently informed about local programs had increased to 18%
        in 2006 (Table 3, Annex 5);
             In both 2002 and 2006, a third of households in RDP communes perceived their
        local governments were spending public funds appropriately, according to community
        needs; whereas households in non-RDP communes increasingly disapproved of the way
        these resources were spent (Table 4, Annex 5);

    · Participation - defined as the commitment of the authorities to involve the individuals in
        the decision making processes and the engagement of the individuals to participate in the
        activities;
             In more than 60% of RDP communes, local councils involved the local community in
      discussing and agreeing on investment priorities and decisions in the period 2004-06
      (Table 5, Annex 5);
             The percentage of individuals in RDP communes who considered that the local
      authorities or elites decided alone about public investments decreased from 35% in 2002 to
      29% in 2006, while in non-RDP communes significantly more households felt this to be the
      case in 2006 (Table 6, Annex 5);
             Significantly more households in RDP communes feel that their opinions are taken
      into account by local authorities (21% vs. 7% in control communes in 2006: Table 7, Annex
      5);

    · Capacity Building on Infrastructure Sub-projects - improvement in technical
        knowledge (familiarity with concepts such as strategy, planning, evaluation etc.)
        achieved through training and experience in applying (writing proposals and fulfilling
        requirements) and implementing sub-projects;
             The percentage of households in RDP communes that were involved in non-RDP
      small projects more than doubled from 32% in 2002 to 70% in 2006, whereas households
      in control communes did not report a significant change (Table 10, Annex 5);

    · Sustainability - defined as improved involvement of people in the maintenance and
        operation of infrastructure sub-projects;
             Households in RDP villages contributed more in cash and less in labor in 2006 than
      they did in 2002, although labor contributions were found to be lower in control communes
      in 2006 too (Tables 8-9, Annex 5).

Objective (b) Rural Infrastructure - Outputs and Outcomes
Another output was delivery of infrastructure (new water systems and upgraded roads). In total,
the project financed 200 individual commune sub-projects (145 road rehabilitation; 2 bridges; and
53 water supply); 17 Commune Association sub-projects (2 water supply and 14 road
rehabilitation; and 1 Bridge); and 33 CBO sub-projects (24 Road rehabilitation; 7 water supply; 2
community center rehabilitation). Flexibility of the 3 window design (smaller CBO investments,
medium sized individual commune investments, and larger investments to commune
associations) was highly appreciated because it provided: (i) flexibility to get some smaller
investments started early to show concrete results; (ii) earmarked funds to individual communes
to correspond with training modules; and (iii) promoted the emergence of larger associations to
enable replication of learning with neighboring (often non-RDP) communes. Demand for
association investments was higher than the project could meet; however, competition for limited
funds also created spin-off investment pipeline proposals for future EU funds. Delivered
infrastructure, as validated by social surveys and engineer/other relevant specialist assessments,


                                                13

was highly relevant for the beneficiaries, built to higher standards than previously done in
Romanian rural areas, and was accompanied by sustainable capacity building, which is not
practiced by other donors. Importantly, RDP infrastructure sub-projects were completed at lower
cost than comparable sub-projects funded by other donors. The road investments achieved a
substantially lower average unit cost (Table 3) as compared to average costs of the 15 gravel
roads financed under EU SAPARD (US$91,129/km) in the same time period and baseline costs
in pilot counties in previous years (US$86,554/km).

             Table 3: RDP Average Sub-project Costs in US$ by County (Judet)
                         Macadam Road Average Price for                Water Supply
Item No.    Country           One Complete km (US$)          Average Price (US$) per km Network
    1        Botosani                 34,776                                29,476
    2        Calarasi                 39,770                                23,336
    3          Dolj                   39,695                                28,734
    4          Salaj                  35,604                                20,994
    5         Tulcea                  50,414                                26,512

Costs were largely influenced by pre-set unit cost caps, and the project's heavy emphasis on
investment affordability and locally-adapted designs. Technical reviews focused on ensuring the
minimal acceptable technical standards within budget. Some design solutions involved
innovations with locally available materials including one bridge which used the frame of a horse
carriage as part of the reinforcement beams. Several road designs were reconfigured to combine
compacted ballast and bitumen treatment due to a shortage of local supply of crushed stone. All
project designs were certified by local engineers.

The experience of practical tendering, contracting, and monitoring and supervising the quality of
work has increased participating communities' integration of these practices into formal local
governance. Delivery on the two main project outputs - high quality and relevant training
and actual delivery of services has led to the achievement of the over-arching objective of
strengthening local governance and improving capacity of local administrations and
communities.

At the county level, the Project made an effort to help county administrations translate relevant
project experience into county practices. In the more successful cases, Tulcea and Salaj, the
County Councils have built on RDP participatory approaches by integrating them into their
routine investment resource distribution decisions.

Overall, the project development objective was achieved, communities were mobilized, and
the mobilization is showing signs of sustainability. The achievement of the development
objectives indicators is further assessed below (Annex 5) by comparing households in project
communes to households in non-project communes, of similar average characteristics and
probability of eligibility. Double differencing techniques were used (2002 and 2006, for control
and RDP households in eligible communes) to isolate factors that may influence change on the
RDP (and control) population and could erroneously bias project results.

Rural Infrastructure ­ Measured Outcomes
To asses the impact on quality and access of infrastructure investments (roads and water) this
section analyzes only villages selected for infrastructure investments. The rationale is that if
villages with no new RDP financed investments are included, there would be a risk of severely
biasing down the impact results of the road and water investments. Villages trained but not




                                                14

qualified for the investment are completely excluded from this part of the analysis. Three key
results can be summarized here (for specific measures of outputs see Annex 5):

i) RDP villages significantly reduced their use of soil as a primary material for roads compared
to control villages with similar non-RDP investments (see Table 11 in Annex 5);

ii) Higher number of villages reported improved access to a main road in villages with finalized
road sub-projects (see Table 12 in Annex 5); and

iii) Improvements in water and sanitation in villages with finalized water sub-projects as
measured by greater household access to water sources in courtyards and less time spent to
access clean drinking water (Tables 13 and 15 in Annex 5).

It is also important to note that the RDP infrastructure projects were completed without mis-
procurement/corruption cases or allegation. Considering that SAPARD and other programs
operating at the same time in rural areas of Romania had such reported problems, this effect
should be attributed to community involvement, transparent procurement practices, and careful,
on ­ the ground supervision by the county level PIUs.

3.3 Efficiency
Road improvements were most popular among the beneficiaries (145 - representing 73% of
commune investments). At appraisal, a targeted economic rate of return (ERR) for commune road
investments under the project was set at 10%, which is lower than a standard road or highway,
but was considered acceptable for the project's strong focus on poorer rural commune low-
volume roads. The World Bank's Roads Economic Decision Model (RED), developed for low-
volume rural roads, was used on several road type assumptions to establish this initial ERR target.
Initial capital costs, major repair cost, and maintenance costs were on average in line with the
range of costs incurred during the project life. On average the initial capital costs were
US$37,000/km for gravel roads (typical unless the community increased its cost sharing), and the
per kilometer costs ranged from US$20,000-US$75,000.

At project completion, the initial model assumptions were reviewed and adjusted based on actual
project experience using an "average" project road with gravel (80%) and bituminous treatment
(20%). The RED model for average gravel roads yielded an ERR of 18 and 23% over 10 and 20
years respectively. Surface treatments for this lower traffic level just met the target ERR of 10%
for the 20 year evaluation period, but not for the 10 year evaluation period while the smaller
group of bituminous road surface treatments with higher traffic, resulted in an acceptable ERR of
16% for 20 year evaluation period, but barely misses the target ERR of 10% for 10 year discount
period. A more detailed description and interpretation of these results and are presented in
Annex 3.

In sum, the vast majority of roads (approx. 90%) financed under the project met and in most cases
exceeded the economic criteria established at appraisal. The economic return on the limited
number of road sub-projects with bituminous treatment (total 30, with over half in Salaj with
higher returns as described above) is less certain. However, high macroeconomic (and traffic)
growth related to EU accession, combined with substantial infrastructure investments with EU
Structural and Cohesion Funds planned over the next 7-10 year period, contributing to higher
rural-urban connectivity rates, are in favor of higher rather than lower economic rate of return.
Assumptions and projected traffic growth rates used in the end-of project economic analyses are
provided in Annex 3.



                                                15

The primary economic justification for water investments was based on human health impacts
from contaminated drinking water and the opportunity cost of time spent on access to clean
drinking water. At appraisal, it was estimated that approximately 60% of the wells in the selected
five counties were contaminated with nitrates. In a final survey of 49 RDP communes with water
investments, 93% reported that at least one well exceeded public health standards for nitrates, and
58% reported both marking and closing wells as a consequence of testing. Overall 77% reported
having wells still marked at the end of the project. Significant reductions in travel time to clean
water were achieved as reported earlier. Despite all the awareness work, one death of an infant
with blue baby disease is known to have been reported in Dolj county during the course of the
project. Public health reporting and identification of cases remains an ongoing challenge with
further work needed on the public health and data collection side. A new Bank loan starting in
2008, Integrated Nutrient Pollution Control, will upscale and replicate much of the successful
public awareness and educational materials piloted under this project given that the groundwater
contamination challenge and access to clean drinking in rural areas remains a public health
concern. Romania at end of project was not meeting MDGs for access to clean drinking water. An
estimated 46,000 people in 33 communes directly benefited from improved access to clean
drinking water under the project - however this is still a small sub-set of the rural population of
Romania.

Per capita investment costs for water improvements in the PAD were estimated to range from
US$13 to US$132 depending on the technological solution. The project investment selection
criteria set a cap of US$120/capita for project investment based on likely economic sustainability,
with proposals above this to seek special exception approvals. Five water investments received
special exception approvals from the National Steering Committee for exceeding this cap with the
most expensive approved at US$150/capita in a more isolated commune in Lozna, Salaj with only
850 beneficiaries. The lowest per capita investment of US$30/capita was in one of the largest
communes (6600 beneficiaries) in Modelu, Calarasi.

Financial sustainability of water investments are measured by adequacy of sustaining operations
and maintenance costs, and through household connection rates. Overall, the O&M prospects are
quite positive with data collected by the PMU (2007 survey) indicating that 78% of the
communes with water sub-projects organized O&M departments (some contracted this out to
larger utilities if the distance was feasible). The number of house connections was increasing
steadily, and estimated to reach 57% of beneficiary households at the end of 2007, and 78% at the
end of 2008. Of those connected at the time of data collection, 92% were metered. On the other
hand, only one third of the cost of the water provided through public taps was covered by fees
paid by beneficiaries, with the rest covered from the local budget. However, the data shows that
the average number of public taps per sub-project has decreased by about one third since the end
of works, while the number of household connections has been increasing continuously.

3.4 Justification of the Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: satisfactory. As stated in 3.1, project objectives remain highly relevant in today's
context. They are in line with the Bank's CPS with the GOR and the Romanian National Rural
Development Strategy, seeking to promote the development of local governance, local
infrastructure, and rural associational life. Channels of achieving the objectives and the entry
points were well chosen both strategically and tactically (for specific main achievements see 3.1).
Road and water projects were chosen and completed in a highly demand-driven, efficient and
transparent manner. Key indicators have shown statistically significant positive growth and have
been rigorously measured. The planned outcomes were achieved efficiency of the investments
was measured as high. For all these reasons, the project is rated satisfactory.



                                                 16

 3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
 The overarching theme of the project is effective capacity building at the local level so that the
 project communities are in a better position to participate in EU/other regional development
 projects. This result has been achieved with capacity increased not only at the commune level, as
 originally planned, but at the county level as well.

 a)     Poverty Impacts, Gender, Other Outcomes and Impacts
 The project was successful in targeting poor counties for intervention as the RDP communities
 have higher values for deprivation indicators (i.e., poverty rates, lack of water supply and of
 modernized roads, etc.) than the national average (Table 4).

     Table 4: Water and Sanitation Infrastructure in Project and Non-project Areas, 2002
                                    Water Supply       Public Sewage       Bath Inside the    Poverty
                                   Inside the House        System              House           Rate
Botosani                                  2.9                1.8                2.6             54
Dolj                                      3.2                0.4                2.2             43
Salaj                                    13.6                0.6                10.8            35
Tulcea                                    8.8                4.8                7.7             43
Calarasi                                  5.9                0.2                5.1             45
The mean of all the counties             14.3                2.2                11.6            44
The mean of the other counties           15.3                2.3                12.4            41
 Census data 2002 and Poverty Map Data, CASPIS, 2003.

 Poverty rates of the selected communes within counties are not measurably lower, as the poverty
 criterion was combined with other criteria. The indicators in the selection process at the commune
 level were openness/tradition of participation and the openness/effectiveness of self-governance.
 The communes that received an additional grant under the CBO window had more stringent
 poverty/accessibility criteria.

 The gender/marginalization aspects of the project included, first, special efforts to encourage
 the active participation of women in CIACs. All CIACs had female members. One commune
 (Chilia Veche) was primarily composed of women, with one of the group members (a woman)
 being subsequently elected as mayor.

 The second gender aspect of the project is the final beneficiary effect. The main beneficiaries of
 the improvement of the water system are women, as they are by far the main household carriers
 of water (Table 14, Annex 5). After project implementation, the mean time required for this effort
 for women decreased from 18 to 11 minutes, while in the control communes the time remained
 constant (See Table 15, Annex 5).

 b)     Institutional Change/Strengthening
 The main objectives and core activities of the project were institutional capacity building (for
 more detail see Sections 2 and 3). The main institutional outcomes are as follows:
      · Strengthening of public oversight at the local level;
      · Increased transparency of local planning procedure/budgets;
      · Increased capacity of rural communes (both government and the population) to
         hire/monitor firms for public construction/maintenance;
      · Increased capacity of rural communities to cooperate among themselves for
         construction/maintenance of bigger scale/interconnecting infrastructure;
      · Creation of feedback mechanisms for local communities.




                                                 17

c)    Other Outcomes
Commune Level
    · Increased empowerment of the population (many of the more active CIAC members have
        been elected to positions in councils i.e., have joined formal local governance structures);
    · More intense participation of the population in local decision-making through
        involvement in practical technical infrastructure issues, previously considered too
        technical for popular consideration;
    · Creation of concrete mechanisms and transfer of skill for public control over the quality
        of infrastructure/sanitation construction;
    · Creation of skills for effective and transparent selection/monitoring of contactors for the
        construction/maintenance of public assets;
    · Demonstrably increased capacity to prepare infrastructure sub-projects for other donors
        (e.g., SAPARD, post accession funds project pipeline).

Horizontal Intra Communal Level
    · 19 commune associations provided with training and 17 commune associations given
        funding for collective projects;

Regional Outcomes
    · Adoption of RDP procurement rules in regional procurement practices; absorption of
        regional PMU staff into regional management structures to preserve procurement/project
        management knowledge in house;
    · Blacklisting of dishonest/poorly performing firms.

d)    Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (based on Mission Reports and Social
Survey)
    · Increased business activity;
    · The price of land and the number of applications for business permits doubled;
    · Retention of young people in rural areas.

e)    Secondary Effects
    · Use of the project experience in developing the National Rural Development Program
        approved by the EU commission (Bank TA to MAFF and PMU participation in Advisory
        panels);
    · Communes are better prepared for the absorption of EU funds and for inter-communal
        cooperation (reports of new applications by RDP communes);
    · The cadre of trainers that participated in the project training continue to provide paid
        services to the project and other communes in communal mobilization and project
        management; and
    · In Salaj county (judet), project communes occupy top positions in a public rating of
        ability to attract public investment (reported during ICR mission).

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
For beneficiary survey results see above. A stakeholder workshop held in Bucharest at the end
of the project showed that heads of municipalities and CIAC members were highly satisfied both
with project outcomes and their increased skill levels and capacity. Specifically, they cited (i)
their ability to use skills acquired in their everyday practices of communal management and
contracting for public works; (ii) augmented activity in project areas in creating associations with
other communities to access EU funds; and (iii) increased capacity to individually apply for
outside funding for development purposes. One of the main comments from key stakeholders


                                                 18

were regrets for not continuing with a second phase of the project in the context of government
challenges with foreign debt management and the forthcoming EU grant post accession funds.
Many stakeholders commented that their initial engagement with the project was primarily
infrastructure focused, while with hindsight they believed the more important and long lasting
contribution was the increased local capacity building.

Stakeholder workshops were held to discuss outputs and recommendations of the rural road and
water strategy studies with leadership and significant participation from other line ministries and
key stakeholders (e.g., Romanian Water Association and Ministry of Transport hosted the
workshops).

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The two main potential risks are as follows:

1.     Risk of the reversal of the decentralization legislation, which would diminish the validity of
local capacity building; and

2.     Diminishing budget funding for local infrastructure operations and maintenance which
would lead to the disrepair of the constructed infrastructure.

Both risks to sustainability of the development outcomes are moderate. In the case of risk 1, the
emphasis of the EU priorities and funding as expressed in the Lisbon Agenda in general and, in
particular, in the assessment of the Romania National Reform Program on administrative capacity
building and cohesive infrastructure development are convincing guarantees of the continuity of
local capacity-building policies. The commitment of 19.67 billion from Structural and Cohesion
Funds for 2007-2013 to these and other priorities singled out in the Lisbon Agenda are guarantees
of funding for local/regional infrastructure development. Such guarantees mean increasing
demand for skills in participatory management of infrastructure sub-projects promoted by the
project and a high likelihood of sustainability of infrastructure built. In addition, the project has
developed O&M strategies for each sub-project, which provided specific guarantees for the
sustainability of the infrastructure constructed during the course of the project. EU accession
reforms (with phased in requirements) promote fiscal decentralization and current membership
within the EU includes fiscal monitoring which promotes a stable policy environment.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
5.1 Bank Performance:
 i.    In Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory. The project design was well thought through and thoroughly prepared. An
extremely capable project preparation team delivered preparation materials instrumental in the
development of the National Rural Strategy. The RDP incorporated the experience and
institutional capacity created by the RSDP project. The project management team provided for
the design of a methodologically advanced evaluation at a time when extremely few projects
(none in Europe and Central Asia region) were subjecting themselves to such scrutiny. As a result,
the designed project stood the test of time, remained relevant, and delivered both on
infrastructural and institutional objectives. In hindsight, more could have been done during
preparation to better manage timetables including advancement of training material preparation
prior to project launch.




                                                  19

 ii.   In Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory. This has been a well and closely supervised project. Fifteen supervision
missions were fielded over the life of the project. Between missions, close lines of
communications between the PMU and the Bank and the government and the Bank team were
maintained. The supervision team identified problems early and successfully addressed them in a
structured and constructive manner. The supervision team used openings for inter-project
cooperation (e.g., Knowledge Economy project) to leverage the resources of Bank projects and to
disseminate lessons learned. The supervision team demonstrated flexibility in adjusting
implementation to changing conditions. At the time the project was rated unsatisfactory (see
Section G of Data Sheet), the Bank team was proactive in identifying and resolving the problems
associated with the unsatisfactory ratings.

iii.   Justification of Rating for the Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

5.2 Borrower Performance:
Rating: Satisfactory
  i.   Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory. The Government was committed to the project preparation and
implementation. Despite some delays in counterpart funds and high level approvals introduced by
the law on Public Finance during the early years, overall Government commitment to the project
remained steady. The lead Ministry representative (Minister's Counselor) maintained active
involvement in the project including regular participation in field visits, and proactive work to
help simplify procedures, including an eventual project exception to the requirement for high
level feasibility study approvals. The Government should be commended for sharing data
necessary for project evaluation work.

 ii.   Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory. The PMU was highly committed to the project. Despite early problems of
communication with the PIUs and establishment of project management systems, the PMU
improved its performance considerably, succeeding to deliver the number of sub-projects
specified at the inception despite a changing macroeconomic environment. The PMU should be
commended for managing complicated procurement and tendering issues at the local level
effectively.

Rating: Highly Satisfactory. County PIUs displayed a high level of commitment and creativity.
PIUs were effective communicators both with communities and with county administrations.
Through their hard work and dedication, sustainability of the work on the ground is more assured.
In fact, a high percentage of PIU staff (about 50%) were retained by county administrations or
local communities as consultants reflecting appreciation of the value added they provided. Project
staff turnover was highest for PIU accountants and engineers who became more in demand given
the training and experience received during project implementation,

Special Mention: Monitoring and Evaluation - highly satisfactory. For all the reasons described
in 2.3 and 2.5 the M&E design, implementation, and analysis can be considered best practice.
Rigorous assessment of project effects and effectiveness not only helped accurately track the
effects of the project, but helped demonstrate its impact both to the Bank and the Client at mid-
term, when doubts about the importance of training lingered. Furthermore, as specified in 2.5, it
can be used as a separate output by the Client as a baseline for further measurements of the
effects of rural infrastructure/water projects and as a methodology for designing accurate surveys
and evaluation systems in the future.


                                                 20

iii.  Justification of Rating of Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory Overall the Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory based on
demonstrated adaptability and learning by doing with a strong focus on project development
outcomes, compliance with loan covenants and agreements, and quality of inputs. Quality of
client engagement during implementation increased during the second half of the project through
a stronger focus on outputs of inter-sectoral teamwork which was an innovative and
demonstrative model for local stakeholders.

6. Lessons Learned (both project-specific and of wide general application)
Key lessons include:
    · Local level (implementation: Beneficial impact of multi-sectoral training teams working
        at the local level. These teams are not formed organically and it is important to be able to
        overcome sectoral resistance in fostering such collaborations;
    · Local level (design): Institution building for public participation and control of the
        activities of local government is an important aspect of effective decentralization. In a
        top-down post-socialist environment, it takes time to build these skills. Different
        temporality of capacity building and investment activities should be adequately factored
        into project design so that the clients are not frustrated by the unrealistic expectation of
        fast and sustainable institution building. When sufficient attention is given to capacity
        building, there is a greater possibility that the created structures be institutionalized and
        used by the communities in other similar contexts.
    · National level: It is important to build into a locally implemented project some resources
        and mechanisms for dissemination of results and policy dialogue with the national
        government Otherwise, the effects of the project, even when significant, may not be fully
        understood at the national level, which is likely to hinder policy implications and
        replication;
    · General: Rigorous measurement of projects with well matched (or randomized) control
        and treatment areas gives the Bank much more confidence in assessing the developmental
        impact of the Bank's intervention and can be a tool in itself of promoting the project-
        initiated approaches with clients. The results are likely to be more nuanced and, because
        of the increased burden of proof, appear smaller numerically (e.g. not a 50% increase,
        just 15%, but with a demonstration that a rigorous effort has been made to isolate other
        effects). Such nuanced, more careful measurements should be encouraged by Bank
        management and promoted as best practices.

The ICR team perceived a continuing gap between the EU requirements for the capacity of
communes to absorb EU regional funds and the actual ability of rural communes to do so. The
knowledge generated by the project and its institution-building successes need to be scaled up and
passed to an increased number of communes. We recommend that the Country Unit resumes the
dialogue with the EU structures and the GOR about incorporation of the Project results into
relevant EU integration agencies/government structures responsible for rural and regional
development.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/Implementing Agencies

Two participating counties submitted written comments on the draft ICR (Annex 6). The project
was highly appreciated with sustained impacts at the local level, although regret was expressed
for not continuing with the second phase of the APL. There was concurrence with the ICR report
with no specific comments raised for World Bank response. The implementation team requested



                                                 21

their names be included in the final ICR (Annex 7). The project results clearly reflect the
extensive efforts and personal dedication of these team members, many who are continuing to
promote the RDP lessons today in ongoing programs aimed at absorption of EU grant funds.




                                              22

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing



(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                             Appraisal            Actual/Latest
            Components                    Estimate (USD                                Percentage of
                                          millions) (as in       Estimate (USD          Appraisal
                                                PAD)                millions)

  CAPACITY BUILDING                                   1.84                    1.90          103%
  RURAL INFRASTRUCTURE                               42.45                   48.17          113%
  PROJECT MANAGEMENT,
  PUBLIC AWARENESS
  CAMPAIGN AND EXPANSION                              2.81                    2.95          105%

  STRATEGY
                Total Baseline Cost                  47.10                   55.18          117%
   Physical Contingencies                             3.09                    0.00          0.00
   Price Contingencies                                2.83                    0.00          0.00
                 Total Project Costs                 53.02                   55.18          104%
   Project Preparation Fund                           0.00                    0.00           .00
   Front-end fee IBRD                                 0.40                    0.40          100%
   Total Financing Required                          53.42                   55.58          104%

(b) Financing
                                                             Appraisal       Actual/Latest

        Source of Funds                    Type of            Estimate        Estimate    Percentage
                                        Cofinancing             (USD            (USD      of Appraisal
                                                              millions)       millions)
  Borrower                               Central Budget              8.78            8.48       97%
  Local Communities (counties
  and communes)                          Local Budget                4.64            7.29      157%

  International Bank for
  Reconstruction and                                               40.00            39.81      99.52
  Development

Note: Sub-borrower funds in the original finance plan are indicated here under local communities because
the project did not include on-lending. Local budget represent direct co-financing of loan and central
budget. Local combines both county and commune budget funds. The project allowed flexibility for
investment size to be increased with the provision of additional local funds.




                                                    23

             Annex 2. Outputs by Component

           PAD Target Outputs by                    Key Performance               Actual Outputs Achieved (from final Aide-Memoire
                  Component                      Indicators (from PAD)              dated October 2007 and ISR dated 12/05/2007)
1. Training and Capacity Building:           Output Indicators:             Targeted training to local officials on more formal and
Communes and local investment advisory       Number of commune              structured public decision making. Extensive trainings for
infrastructure committees have been          infrastructure assessments;    county and commune-level officials (both formal and
trained and have satisfactorily              participation action plans,    informal) assessed as successful and highly successful
demonstrated skills in participatory project and M&E action plans, and      respectively. Commune-level training led to greater
identification/development; participatory    procurement plans              awareness about project, civic empowerment to participate in
planning; local infrastructure assessment;   completed and satisfactorily   decision-making, greater technical capacity of elected
decision making and budgeting; and           initiated vs. target.          officials. Measured increase in citizen participation in the
procurement. Local design engineering                                       training, public meetings, investment prioritization, etc., as
firms and county council engineers have      Number of commune plans        measured by household survey results. Financial
attended workshops on low cost project       for O&M completed and          contributions from citizens were considered easier than
design under RDP.                            initiated vs. target           mobilizing in-kind contributions. Reported improved
                                                                            community cohesion. 19 associations of communes created
                                                                            and given training; 17 commune associations' collective sub-
                                                                            projects funded. Multisectoral groups of trainers created that
                                                                            are responsive to the needs of a particular community.
2. Rural Infrastructure: Water/              Number of sub-projects         Project Financed:
sanitation and road sub-projects identified, submitted, approved,           (i) 200 commune window local infrastructure sub-projects;
prepared and implemented; strategies for     tendered, initiated,           (ii) 17 Commune Association sub-projects;
national water/sanitation and roads          completed, and maintained      (iii) 33 CBO sub-projects.
strategies prepared and discussed in NSC;    up to project standards
satisfactory completion of studies for roads percentage of available grant Overall, O&M prospects are good, and even more positive
classification/financing, maintenance        funds disbursed, in total, and for the water sub-projects (as evidenced by increasing
management; study on low cost technical      for separate (commune,         household water connections, commune budget allocations
standards completed, with training for       CBO) windows.                  for road maintenance).
private sector, county council engineers,
and other stakeholders.
3. Project Management and M&E.               Number of staff trained in     Contract Bidding and Management. Fewer contract
PMU/PIU staff hired and trained in           MIS system vs. target          terminations and re-bids in the second cycle of investments
procurement, financial management, and       showing satisfactory           thanks to mid-stream supplemental training to communes on
selection criteria; FMS, MIS and M&E         demonstration of skills;       contract management.
systems established and functioning at       M&E baseline survey
PMU/PIU and commune levels.                  established.                   Monitoring component supposed to include technical
                                                                            supervision (by PMU/PIUs), as well as participatory
                                                                            monitoring (through LMUs). Technical supervision worked
                                                                            very well over the entire area and lifetime of the project, yet
                                                                            participatory monitoring only in limited number of
                                                                            communes because of complex reporting formats and
                                                                            requirements. Informal communication channels preferred by
                                                                            people in most cases to report problems with sub-projects.

                                                                            Transparency, accountability and access to infrastructure in
                                                                            RDP communes, but also important differences between
                                                                            RDP counties with respect to these indicators.

                                                                            KPIs show good progress on most dimensions. However,
                                                                            KPIs proved hard to update frequently because of over-
                                                                            reliance on survey data and lack of end project values (last
                                                                            survey carried out in 2006).

                                                                            MIS only partially implemented as initially planned due to
                                                                            design complexity but was comprehensive enough to cover
                                                                            the PMU needs.



                                                                   24

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

At appraisal, a targeted economic rate of return (ERR) for commune road investments under the
project was set at 10%, which is lower than a standard road or highway, but was considered
acceptable for the project's strong focus on poorer rural commune low-volume roads. The World
Bank's Roads Economic Decision Model (RED), developed for low-volume rural roads, was used
on several road type assumptions to establish this initial ERR target. Typical initial capital costs,
major repair cost, and maintenance costs were assumed at the project outset (Table 2 of Annex 4
in PAD) for a range of road types expected. These target costs were based on the then prevailing
prices and engineering considerations. They are on average in line with the range of costs
incurred during the project life, although costs of transporting road materials varied substantially
(distance to obtain suitable materials was much higher in Calarasi, in the southern farm belt, than
in Salaj where good road materials could be obtained nearby). This affected design considerations
and, occasionally, the choice of sub-projects in a given area. For example, on average the initial
capital costs were US$37,000/km for gravel roads (typical unless the community increased its
cost sharing). The per kilometer costs ranged from US$20,000-US$75,000.

At project completion, the initial model assumptions were reviewed and adjusted based on actual
project experience using an "average" project road with gravel (80%) and bituminous treatment
(20%). The RED model for average gravel roads yielded an ERR of 18 and 23% over 10 and 20
years respectively, which are likely understated due to omission of accident costs and very
conservative traffic growth estimates due to likely urbanization in Romania. The surface
treatments for this lower traffic level would just meet the target ERR of 10% for the 20 year
evaluation period, but not for the 10 year evaluation period (which probably is more relevant in
these cases). For the smaller group of bituminous road surfaces, surface treatments, but with
higher traffic (in Salaj county) the surface treatment appears to provide acceptable ERR of 16%
for 20 year evaluation period, but barely misses the target ERR of 10% for 10 year discount
period. However, in these cases there was local willingness to increase cost sharing and to pay for
the higher quality road, probably in the expectation of traffic growth.

There was uncertainty in the input values for both traffic growth estimates and the expected
maintenance costs and they depend on each other. If traffic grows more than expected, reduction
in aggregate user costs will be higher, but so will the maintenance costs. There was also a
learning curve. The bituminous surface treatments in Salaj are likely to last longer and have a
higher rate of return than calculated because the road were in better condition to start with and the
soil conditions are good. In Dolj local preference favored bituminous treatments and were tried,
but were unsuccessful due to sandy soil and high transport costs to obtain better materials. Gravel
was finally chosen as the optimal surface type in Dolj. The selection of a gravel surface was
influenced by the project emphasis on sustainability of road maintenance and awareness-raising
of the substantial difference in the longer term maintenance costs for various levels of road
treatment. However, in the context of rapid economic change related to EU accession which is
heavily financing infrastructure improvements and focused on modernization of Romania ­ the
desire and willingness to pay for bitumen roads in the future is only rapidly growing in rural areas
(many mission field interviews confirm this, although the ability of local administrations to pay
for the maintenance of bitumen roads is an open question). Even if the project roads are in some
stage applied with bituminous surface treatments, the engineered gravel roads - which would have
to be done in any case - provide a good base for such treatments.

Assumptions and projected traffic growth rates used in the end-of project economic analyses, and
the RED Model outputs for roads are presented below:


                                                 25

Value of time and base data for
Base Data
Country Name                                         Romania
Project Name                               Rural Development Project
Road Identification Code             DC in Salaj, page 2. Other counties, page 3
Road Name                                          Case Studies
Currency Name                                         Dollars
Currency Symbol                                           $

Duration of the Wet Season (days)                        90
Evaluation Date                          January 1, 2008/January1, 2005
Road Agency Economic Costs Factor                      0.85
Discount Rate (%)                                      12%
Evaluation Period (years)                            20 and 10
Initial Calendar Year                            2008 (Salaj)/2005
Population Served (persons)                      3000 (Salaj)/2500




                                     26

     Traffic Data in Salaj

                                Normal Traffic                            Normal, Generated and Diverted Traffic Growth Rate



                   Daily Traffic Composition   Daily Traffic Composition              Traffic Growth Rate (%)
                   2008 (veh/day)  2008 (%)   2027 (veh/day)  2027 (%)   2008 ­ 2012 2013 - 2017 2018 - 2022     2023 - 2027
Buses Medium              6          3%             8           3%          2.0          2.0          1.5            1.5
Cars & Minibuses         60          29%           113          36%         3.0          3.5          3.5            3.5
Trucks Medium            20          10%            33          10%         3.0          2.0          2.5            3.0
Tractors                 30          15%            43          14%         3.0          2.0          2.0            1.0
Animal Carts             30          15%            32          10%         1.5          0.0          0.0            0.0
Bicycles                 30          15%            43          14%         1.5          2.0          2.0            2.0
Trucks Articulated       30          15%            44          14%         1.5          1.5          2.0            3.0
                                     0%             0           0%          1.5          1.8          1.9            3.0
                                     0%             0           0%          1.5          1.8          1.9            3.0
Total                   206         100%           316         100%
Weighted Average                                                            2.3          2.1          2.2            2.2




                                                             26

The Costs
                                                   Do Nothing           Gravel     Surface Treatment
Capital Costs ($`000/km)                                                21.0             75.00
Fixed Financial Maintenance Costs
($'000/km/year)                                       5.00              2.50              4.00
Variable Financial Maintenance Costs
($'000/km/year/ADT)                                  0.003              0.004            0.000



The Results
Solution Summary                                                 Gravel          Surface Treatment
Net Present Value (million $) at 12% Discount Rate               0.099                0.0737
Internal Rate of Return (%) 20 year evaluation period             32%                  16%
Internal Rate of Return (%) 10 year evaluation period             30%                    9%




                                                             27

Traffic Data in the Other Counties for (Gravel) Roads

                                                                                   Normal, Generated and Diverted Traffic
                                      Normal Traffic                                           Growth Rate


                          Daily Traffic  Composition  Daily Traffic  Composition         Traffic Growth Rate (%)
                             2005                                                2005 ­ 2010 -                   2020 -
                           (veh/day)       2005 (%)   2024 (veh/day)  2024 (%)   2009   2014       2015 - 2019   2024
Buses Medium                   4              3%            6           3%        2.0      2.0          1.5         1.5
Cars & Minibuses              40             28%            75          34%       3.0      3.5          3.5         3.5
Trucks Medium                 10              7%            17          8%        3.0      2.5          2.5         3.0
Tractors                      20             14%            29          13%       3.0      2.0          2.0         1.0
Animal Carts                  20             14%            21          10%       1.5      0.0          0.0         0.0
Bicycles                      30             21%            43          19%       1.5      2.0          2.0         2.0
Trucks Articulated            20             14%            29          13%       1.5      1.5          2.0         3.0
                                              0%            0           0%        1.5      1.8          1.9         3.0
                                              0%            0           0%        1.5      1.8          1.9         3.0
Total                         144            100%          220         100%
Weighted Average                                                                   2.2     2.1          2.2         2.2




                                                           28

The Costs

Financial Investment Costs ($'000/km)                   0.00               37.00       75.00
Fixed Financial Maintenance Costs ($'000/km/year)       3.00               2.50         4.00
Variable Financial Maintenance Costs                    0.008              0.004        0.00
($'000/km/year/ADT)




The Results

                                                                                 Surface
The Solution Summary                                          Gravel Roads       Treatment
Net Present Value (million $) at 12% Discount Rate               0.096            -0.011
Internal Rate of Return (%) 20 year evaluation period            23%               11%
Internal Rate of Return (%) 10 year evaluation period            18%                2%




                                                29

   Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Process

   (a) Task Team Members

           Names                          Title                  Unit   Responsibility/
                                                                           Specialty
Lending
Henry F. Gordon          Sr. Sector Economist                  ECSSD  Task Team Leader
Milena Messori           PAD Coordinator                       ECSSD  Operations
                                                                      Assistant
Piotr Wilcynzski         Flow of Funds, Project Management
                         Specialist                            ECSSD  Project Design

Christoph Pusch          Rural Infrastructure                  ECSSD  Rural
Antti P. Talvitie        Roads/Transport Specialist            ECSSD  Rural Roads
Rita Klees               Environmental Specialist              ECSSD  Environment
Jennie Litvack           Local Government and Social Funds
                         Specialist                            PREM   Local Governance

Gabriel lonita           Infrastructure Specialist             ECSSD  Agricultural
                                                                      Specialist
Jennifer Sara            Rural Water/Sanitation Specialist     RSD    Rural Water
Christina Malmberg Calvo Rural Roads-Peer Reviewer             RSD    Rural Roads
Bogdan Constantin        Financial Management Specialist              Financial
Constantinescu                                                 ECSPS  Management
Ranjan Ganguli           Financial Management Specialist       ECSPS  Financial
                                                                      Management
Naushad Khan             Procurement Specialist                ECSPS  Procurement
Michael Nelson           Operations Analyst                    ECSPS
Sohaila Wali             Program Assistant                     ECSSD  Administrative
Kari Homanen             Rural Water/Sanitation Specialist     ECSSD  Rural Water
Dana Dobrescu            Capacity Building, Area Selection,
                         MIS Specialist                        ECSSD  Rural Public Health

Lucian Luca              Cost/Benefit Analysis Specialist      ECSSD  Economic Analysis
Laura Tuck               Sector Director                       ECSSD  Quality Assurance
Vincente Ferrer-Andreu   Rural Development & Capacity
                         Building-Peer Reviewer                RSD    Capacity Building

Deborah Wetzel           Decentralization & Local Institutions-
                         Peer Reviewer                         PREM   Decentralization

Kavita Sethi             Rural Water/Sanitation Specialist     RSD    Rural Water
Jennifer Ngaine          Team Assistant                        ECSSD  Administrative
Nicholay Chistyakov      Senior Finance Officer                LOA    Disbursement




                                              30

           Names                         Title                Unit   Responsibility/
                                                                        Specialty
Supervision/ICR
Henry Gordan            Sr. Sector Economist               ECSSD   Task Team Leader
                                                                   (through Dec. 2003)
Karin Shepardson        Sr. Operations Officer             ECSSD   Task Team Leader
                                                                   (2004-2008)
Bogdan Constantin                                                  Financial
Constantinescu          Sr. Financial Management Specialist ECSPS  Management
Myrtle Laura Diachok    Operations Analyst                  SDV    Evaluation
Elmas Arisoy            Sr. Procurement Specialist          ECSPS  Procurement
Silviu Calin Radulescu  Sr. Health Specialist                      Public Health
Sarah Leigh Hammill     Sr. Program Assistant              ECSSD   Administrative
Gottfried Ablasser      Consultant                         ECSSD   Quality Review
Ana Maria Ihora         Program Assistant                  ECSRO   Administrative
Blaga Djourdjin         Procurement Analyst                 ECSPS  Procurement

Florian Gaman           Romania Engineering Faculty,
                        Consultant                         ECSSD   Rural Infrastructure

Maninder S. Gill        Sector Manager, Social Development ECSSD   Mid-term Review
Kari Homanen            Water Engineer/Consultant          ECSSD   Rural Water
Juergen Voegele         Sector Manager                     ECSSD   Quality Review
Gabriel Ionita          Sr. Agricultural Specialist        ECSSD   Rural Specialist
Keith W. McLean         Sr. Social Development Econ        ECSSD   Governance

Benoit Blarel           Sector Manager/Country Manager     ECSSD/
                                                           ECCU5   Quality Review

Lucian Bucur Pop        Sr. Social Development Specialist   ECSSD  Evaluation/Social
Antti P. Talvitie       Lead Road Specialist/Consultant    ECSSD   Rural Roads
Maria L. Amelina        Sr. Social Development Specialist  ECSSD   Social/ICR Leader
Ximena Del Carpio       Economist                           ECSSD  Impact Evaluation
Imogen Wade             Junior Professional Associate      ECSSD   ICR




                                             31

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle
                                No. of Staff Weeks    USD Thousands (including
                                                      travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98                                                            17.91
  FY99                                                            57.66
  FY00                                  45                       107.17
  FY01                                  83                       244.74
  FY02                                  80                       236.43
  FY03                                                             2.42
              Total                    208                       666.33

Supervision/ICR
  FY02                                   6                        20.77
  FY03                                  43                       220.87
  FY04                                  28                       179.79
  FY05                                  27                       137.74
  FY06                                  29                       130.82
  FY07                                  16                        73.66
  FY08                                  25                       100.00
              Total                    174                       863.03




                                    32

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results, Resulting Measurements of Project Outcomes

General Approach and Sampling. The use of randomized experiments is popular in evaluating
health and education projects due to the ability to reliably measure and attribute the effects of
treatments on beneficiaries. This approach is rare in infrastructure and capacity building projects
due to the difficulties inherent in measuring impact. This evaluation purposively selected the
sample by pairing geographically similar and closely located counties and by using
matching techniques to determine the pairs. From these pairs, control and treatment
households were randomly drawn so that standard randomized evaluation techniques could be
used, such as difference-in-difference. The entire sample was selected from adjacent counties;
"treatment" communes were defined as those that receive training and/or an infrastructure
investment; "control" communes - those located in the region but are not part of the project. The
original sample was 2,914 households located in 182 villages belonging to 58 communes; 35
communes fall in the treatment group and 23 in the control group. The sample decreases by 31
percent due to resource limitations, however the sampling framework (proportionality of control
to treatment) remains true to the original sampling strategy. It is worth noting that the multiplicity
of objectives and phasing of this project further stratifies the treated sample into five groups (see
Table 1), three treatments (roads, water and capacity building) and two phases (for roads and
water investments).

         Table 1: Final Sample of Beneficiaries by Project Type and Level of Completion
                                                              2002                       2006
                                                       No. of        No. of       No. of      No. of
                                                      Villages       HHs         Villages      HHS
  Finalized Road Project                                58           1131           58          798
  Ongoing Road Project                                  24           403            24          271
  Finalized Water Project                               13           280            13          187
  Ongoing Water Project                                  7           125            7            86
  Not any project, commune with sub-projects            21           300            21          160
  Control Group                                         58           660            58          518
     Total                                              181          2899          181         2020

Instruments and Data. Three survey instruments were developed - household, village and
commune levels - to collect information relevant to the various project components and to capture
potential positive and negative spillover effects. Baseline data were collected before the project
took place (2002), soon after the first training cycle was completed, and follow up stage was done
in 2006, after a large part of the project investments had been completed. Standard household
surveys were used and adapted to the project objectives. At the village and commune levels,
instruments were developed directed to key informants and local authorities; the final sample for
the village includes 181 localities (123 in project counties and 58 in non-project counties) and for
the commune 123 communes (100 are project communes and 23 from non-project communes).
The content of the instruments for the household and village remain almost the same for all
periods, baseline and follow up, but the commune instrument is only partially similar making it
challenging for the evaluation team to use for double differencing estimations.

The questionnaires (in addition to household characteristics, labor market participation, economic
activities, assets, income/expenditure sections) have extensive sections on formal/informal
participation in public life, trust, collective action, mode of transportation and destinations, access
and use of water and water sources, health and hygiene issues. Qualitative data include eight
focus groups/open ended interviews carried out in three of the project counties. Members of focus



                                                    33

groups were project activists and commune level administrators. Furthermore, the ICR team
together with the project M&E team performed additional robustness tests (questionnaires and
monitoring and evaluation report attached) to do justice to the meticulous measurement system
developed by the project and to refine the measurement of key indicators.

Method of Impact Measurement. An advantage of adopting an experimental approach to
evaluating this project is to ensure that the treated group is similar to the control group in
observable and unobservable characteristics. Differences between the two groups after the
treatment can then be reliably attributed to the project. Given the broad geographic nature of the
project and its infrastructure investments and because it is difficult to have both control and
treatment in the same village, randomization is implemented at the commune level rather than at
the village level.

Estimating the magnitude of impact of infrastructure sub-projects with exactitude, despite
randomization efforts, is very difficult, particularly because of biases introduced from the
demand driven nature of the project. This project experienced a few important drawbacks in the
sampling that subsequently affected results in a non-trivial manner; however the evaluation team
is confident that results are reliable even if the effects are biased down, or less than what they
truly were. The points of consideration are: 1) Randomization bias due to the initial
randomization of the communes and subsequent selection of villages within the treatment
communes to actually receive infrastructure investments. This is a common problem faced by
multi-phase selection, particularly when the final selection depends on community initiatives and
skills to apply (i.e. CDDs). 2) Contamination bias which occurs when the randomized-out
communes seek and receive alternative substitute investments, similar to the treatment (i.e. roads,
water sub-projects). 3) Attrition bias may have occurred when we had to restrict our sample to a
smaller size due to limited resources. In our case this is less of a problem due to the careful
selection of the subsequent smaller sample; moreover, attrition due to drop out rates was at a
naturally expected rate and not a major source of bias. As we mentioned above, we expect that
results remain valid and give correct patterns of impact, however the estimations may be biased
down (due mostly to contamination) preventing exact impacts to be estimated.

For the actual estimation the data at baseline were tested using the following estimation:

                      F(Y0 , Xij |Tij =1, Eij =1) = F(Y0 , Xij |Tij = 0, Eij = 0)
                            ij                            ij


where i is the household and j the locality, Y0 is the outcome of the village in the absence of the
                                                ij

project and Y1 is the outcome with treatment (at baseline they are both Y0 . Eij when it equals 1
               ij                                                               ij

the village is eligible to receive the project and 0 if its not, lastly Tij is whether it is treated with
the project, 1 if it does and 0 if it does not. Mean project impacts were estimated by looking at
both treatment and control, conditioning on X characteristics. With project data it was observed
that some treatment outcomes are significantly different for control and treatment; however, there
is no reason to expect the trends to be different prior to the intervention. In other words, it is
assumed, due to the randomization, that the localities followed parallel paths despite the
occasional unbalance in some outcome variables at baseline.

For the estimation, double differencing was used to ensure that impact is not due to favorable
initial characteristics in either group. Double difference specifications compares the change,
before and after, in various dimensions (access to water, time to the city center etc.) in treatment
localities with the corresponding change in control localities. This approach controls for area


                                                  34

specific characteristics and secular trends that might confound the impact of the project on the
outcomes obtained. The estimation following the notation above in a regression form is as
follows:
                                 Yijt = i +t + Tij + j Xijt +ijt
                                                     
                                                       j


where t is the time period, i fixed effects for each household and t fixed effect for each time
period and ijt is the error term. Here, it is the  coefficient that is of interest as it the difference
in difference estimate of the project. Empirically, the data collection strategy was taken into
account so that village clusters were added as well as county strata.

Specific Measures of Training and Capacity Building Outcomes
The percentage of individuals informed about drafting the local budget has significantly increased
for households in RDP communes compared to non-RDP communes. This is an important proxy
for transparency, an outcome indicator proposed in the PAD and subsequent project documents.
The percentage of individuals who declared themselves more aware of public investment
priorities in RDP communes in 2006 doubled from 2002; however the positive trend is not
significant when compared to the average for households in control communes (Table 2).

           Table 2: Percentage of Individuals with Information about the Local Budget
                                                      RDP                  Control            Double
                                                                                            Difference
                                                 2002    2006        2002         2006
  Have you been informed           Yes    9       16       6           5         8**
  about the draft of the local     No     91      84       94         95         -8
  budget?

  Do you know the spending         Yes    5       10       4           5         4
  priorities of this budget?       No     95      90       96         95         -4
We exclude the DK/DA answers. ** p<0.05

For accountability and participation, having information is a key factor a household needs to be
part of the process. The percentage of individuals who considered themselves sufficiently
informed about local programs is not very large - only 18% from the project communes. Table 3
shows that more information flowed to households in project communes than control households
in non-RDP communes.

               Table 3: Do You Feel Sufficiently Informed About Local Government/
                                Commune Programs and Activities? (%)
                                   RDP                Control                 Double
                                                                            Difference
                              2002      2006       2002      2006
              Yes              15         18        14        11                7*
              No              71          63        68        73               -15**
              DK/NA           14          19        18        16                8*
              * p<0.10, ** p<0.05. Household survey

From an accountability perspective, it is important to know whether people perceive resources are
spent appropriately (or not) by community leaders. Table 4 shows that households in the non-
RDP communes increasingly disapprove of the way these resources are spent.




                                                  35

              Table 4: Do You Think Money Is Spent According To Community Needs?
                                     RDP                Control             Double
                                                                          Difference
                               2002       2006      2002     2006
                Yes              33        30        30        18             10
                No               30        29        27        42            -15*
                DK/DA            37        41        42        40              6
                Total           100        100       100      100
               *<0.10


  The involvement of households in the decision-making process is a good proxy for measuring
  participation. Whether local councils make investments priorities alone or with the help of the
  community via consultations is a factor analyzed in Table 5. The table shows that the control
  communes make decisions mainly at the local authorities' level (more than 60% of them) while in
  the RDP communes the community members are involved in more than 60% of the cases. Given
  that this particular data was collected in 2006 (retrospectively), we can only speculate that the
  causality is attributed to the intervention.

                         Table 5: How Priorities and Solutions For Investments
                                 Were Decided On In 2004-06 Period, (%)
                                                                    RDP    Control    RDP-
                                                                                      Control
     Priorities         Through local council decision              47       65       18
     Agreement          Through local council decision and          64       40
                        community consultation                                        -24*
     Solution           Through local council decision              48       61       13
     Agreement          Through local council decision and          63       50
                        community consultation                                        -13
     Total                                                         100        100
     Total N                                                       73         18
  *<0.10, **<0.05. The sum of the percentages may be higher than 100, as in some communes more than
  one investment is proposed between 2004/2006.

  Being consulted is a proxy for participation and satisfaction with a decision. The percentage of
  individuals in RDP communes who consider that the local authorities or elites decide alone
  decreased, while in the control group, the percentage of households who consider decisions are
  made solely by elites increased significantly from 28% to 48% (Table 6).

              Table 6: Suppose Decisions Should Be Made About a Development Project,
                            Who do you think would make the Decisions? (%)

                                                    RDP              Control       Double Difference
                                              2002       2006    2002       2006
Local Elites Would Decide                      35         29      28         48         -27**
All People Would Be Asked To Say Their         36         39      35         27           12
  Opinions
DK/DA                                          29         32      37         25          15**
  * P<0.10, ** p<0.05

  Another proxy for participation is how much people feel they influence the decision making of
  local authorities. Table 7 shows that the difference between control and RDP communes is




                                                    36

     significantly different, with households in control communes feeling that their opinion is less
     crucial to elected authorities than RDP households.

                      Table 7: How Important Are the Opinion of the Ordinary People
                                       For the Elected Local Authorities?
                                               RDP                Control          Double Difference
                                          2002      2006      2002      2006
        Very Little/Little Importance      77        79        85         93              -7**
        Much/Very Much Importance          23        21        15         7                7**
        *P<0.10, ** p<0.05

     In terms of participation in the form of contributions (cash or in-kind), Tables 8 and 9 show that
     households in RDP villages contributed more in cash (through direct transfers or tolls) and less in
     labor in 2006 than they did in 2002. The tables also show that labor contributions overall are
     lower in 2006 than in 2002 across all types of villages (eligible and control); we know that a
     parallel public works program operates in these villages by providing a minimum income
     guarantee which may have some direct influence on the pattern observed across all villages.

                     Table 8: How Do You Contribute To These Roads' Maintenance?
                 RDP Villages with        RDP Villages with      RDP Villages without             Control
                  Finalized Roads           Ongoing Roads       Road Sub-projects, from           Villages
                    Sub-projects             Sub-projects         Project Communes
                  2002         2006       2002       2006          2002           2006         2002      2006
Money              10           23          9         12             11            12           4         15
Labor              23           17         31         17             26             9           14        10
Machines           4             4          6          2              2             3           1         1
Other              0             2          0          2              1            2            0         4
I don't            66           52         59         66             64            71          80         64
DK/NA              3             7          2          7              2            6            2         7

                Table 9: How Do You Contribute To The Maintenance Of The Roads? (%)
                                               RDP                Control           Double Difference
                                          2002      2006      2002       2006
     Money                                  10       19         4         15                 -2
     Labor                                  25       14        14         10                -6*
     Machines                               3        3          1          1                 -1
     Other                                  1        2          0          4                -2*
     Did you Contribute Periodically?       27       20        16         20               -12**
     (yes=1, no=0)

     Another measure of how capacity building efforts indirectly influence villager participation is
     determined by the extent of households' involvement in beneficiary communes in developing and
     implementing other, non-RDP small projects in the village compared to households in control
     communes. Table 10 shows there is a significant percentage increase in the involvement of
     households in public sub-projects in RDP communes, whereas households in control communes
     do not report a significant change. Involvement of households in local sub-projects is an outcome
     worth noting and directly aligned with key outcome indicators. It is also important to highlight
     that increased involvement of village inhabitants on the reduction of costs - be it through in-kind
     labor, ownership or local promotion of "know how" - has direct effects on the sustainability of
     capacity learning and promotion of local development.




                                                     37

      Table 10: Authorities That Involved Commercial Units/Individuals in the Last Public
             Projects (for the communes with at least one project in the previous years)

                                        RDP                   Control              Double Difference
                                  2002        2006       2002         2006
    % of Households in             32%        70%        36%          33%                41%**
    Communes Involved
        No of cases                56          74         14           18
   ** p<0,05.

Rural Infrastructure

One indicator of quality is the material used for the roads. Soil, gravel and asphalt are the three
most commonly used materials, with soil being the cheapest and asphalt the most expensive (and
most costly to maintain). An increase in the percentage of gravel over soil roads (the primary road
rehabilitation focus of the project) is considered an improvement; Table 11 shows that RDP
villages significantly reduced their use of soil as a primary material for roads compared to
control villages with similar non-RDP investments. The project discouraged asphalt upgrades in
most investments because of the high cost for maintenance and heavy focus on financial
sustainability. Salaj County is the exception, where bitumen/gravel mix roads were approved
more frequently since their rural road network started with a higher grade base.

                      Table 11: Material of Construction Used For the Majority
                                       of the Roads in the Village, %
                       RDP Villages with Finalized               Control
                           Roads Sub-projects                    Villages             Double Difference
                        2002              2006                2002       2006
 Asphalt/Cement           2                6                   16          12                 8
 Graveled Road           47                65                  65          73                 10
 Soil                    51                29                  20          16               -18**
 Total                  100               100                 100         100
 Total N                 49                49                  51          51
Village survey. Only the villages that answered this question both in 2002 and in 2006 were included. ** p<0.01

The project measured accessibility (or lack thereof) to wider markets and the village at large
through time period of isolation due to severe weather conditions (a symptom of poor road
quality). A higher number of villages reported improved access to a main road in the villages with
finalized road sub-projects; Table 12 illustrates these improvements. The percentage change is
significant and of a similar magnitude for large trucks (a good proxy for commercial or mass
transport activity).

                     Table 12: How Many Months in the Last Year (12 months)
                                     Was the Main Road Accessible?
                                      RDP Villages with
                                           Finalized
                                     Roads Sub-projects            Control Villages      Double Difference

                                       2002         2006          2002        2006
Not at all/never                        0             0             0           0                0
From one month to 11 months             12            4             8           15             -14**
All year long                           88            96            92          85              14**
Total                                  100           100           100         100
                                        50            50            48          48
Only the villages that answered at this question both in 2002 and in 2006 were included. ** p<0.01



                                                     38

A second infrastructure objective is water and sanitation improvement, particularly in terms of
access. In the villages with finalized water sub-projects, Table 13 shows that water access
improved (more households have access to water sources in their courtyards compared to control
households). The percentage of households with a new water system in 2006 is 19 points higher
than in 2002. The cost to have a full household system, including septic and the short time from
the beginning of the project until the follow up survey are two plausible reasons why households
in RDP villages more often opted for courtyard access to water. Another interesting finding is the
substantial decrease in distance (measured in time) to water sources (clean drinking water);
in project villages with finished water sub-projects time halved, from 23 to 11 minutes, while in
the control villages the time interval remained almost the same.

           Table 13: Type of Water Supply, For Households in RDP (finished) Villages
                                             RDP HHs with
                                          Finalized Sub-projects                           Double
                                            for Water Supply        Control Group        Difference
                                            2002         2006       2002       2006
Connection inside the house from              9           11         10         10
public system                                                                                  1
Connection outside the house, courtyard      16           35         12         15
from public system                                                                            16*
Connection from public system                24           42         21         24            14
* P<0.10

Water investments at the household level are easier to measure than village-wide infrastructure
investments due to attribution of the investment (in the household) and the directness of the effect.
This case is not an exception: there is an increase in the number of households with
bath/shower inside the dwelling and a measurable change (increase) in the ease of access to
clean drinking water in RDP communities. The baseline data shows that RDP and control
communities were significantly different at baseline with 114 meters for RDP and 77 meters for
control; double difference estimations show that the change for RDP is significantly larger than
for control villages, 36 and 16 meters respectively. The most important impact was on the first
quartile - if 25% of the households in the worst position in 2002 had to go on average about 450
meters to drinking water sources, in 2006 the mean distance for the fourth quartile decreased to
only 140 meters.

The project contributed to direct environmental improvements through the Public Rural
Environmental Hygiene Promotion Sub-Project. Focus group reports demonstrate that
drinking water quality and safety has improved, with especially positive impacts on children's
health, as a result of the water supply investments. Testing of wells was done by community
members and schools as part of a campaign that proved successful, resulting in contaminated
wells being marked and closed and the broad use of well-testing kits. Demand for water testing
kits increased beyond what the project provided, and a survey near the end of the project reported
additional independent purchases of such kits in 26% of participating communes with water
investments.




                                                39

Gender Effects of the Project

             Table 14: Who is Responsible for Carrying and Collecting Water?
                                       RDP                    Control
                                 2002        2006       2002         2006
           Woman                  36          25         30           21
           Man                    18          11         13           11
           Both man and           29          19         29           31
           woman
           Children               2           1          2            0
           Other                  2           3          1            1
           No specific person     14          41         26           36

   Table 15: Time Needed to Carry Water by the Person Responsible for Carrying Water
  Who's responsible                    RDP (finished      Control            Double
  for carrying and                       water sub-                         Difference
  collecting water?                       projects)
                                     2002      200      200     200
                                                 6       2       6
  Woman               Mean            18        11       9       9          -8
                      Unweighted     104        45      215     93
                      Count
  Man                 Mean            43         9       9      13         -38
                      Unweighted      54        21      89      57
                      Count
  Both man and        Mean            16        10      10       8          -4
  woman               Unweighted      71        37      215     125
                      Count
  Children            Mean            76        14      13       5         -53
                      Unweighted      7          2      16       1
                      Count
  Other               Mean            12        21      12      13          8
                      Unweighted      7          6       5       6
                      Count
  No specific         Mean            13        11      19      10          7
  person              Unweighted      37        61      120     167
                      Count




                                          40

Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

Written comments on the draft ICR were received from two of the participating counties and are
presented below:
TRANSLATION - ROMANIA SALAJ COUNTY COUNCIL
Chairman's Office

Ref: 4976/June 23, 3008

To:   Mr. Benoit Blarel
      Country Manager
      World Bank Office Romania

Dear Mr. Blarel,

As Chairman of the Salaj County Council, I have read with great interest the Implementation
Completion Report on the Rural Development Project (RDP). As shown in the report, the Salaj
County is one of the five pilot counties in Romania which, through a competitive selection
organized in 2001, became one of the beneficiaries of this project.

The project surprised through the innovative approach of rural communities, in terms of both
institutional and infrastructure aspects, as demonstrated by its two major objectives:

    -    Enhancement of the institutional capacity of rural communities to access and implement
         infrastructure projects;
    -    Development of the rural infrastructure through roads rehabilitation and water supply
         works.

As a result of this successful project, rural communities from 22 communas of the Salaj County
have been trained, and 44 rural infrastructure projects have been carried out, including:
modernizing and rehabilitation of 36 communal roads, 7 water supply systems and one bridge
over the Somes River.

From the very early stages of the Rural Development Project, the Salaj County Council
committed itself to and supported the implementation of the project with all its components:
logistic, financial and human resources.

We have been fully available to cooperate with the project implementing team and to support
local communities in carrying out the project objectives.

We appreciate the contribution of the RDP to the enhancement of the competence of local
government entities involved in the project to increase absorption of foreign financing, EU funds
in particular, which are highly needed to achieve sustainable rural development.

Based on the evaluation of the outcomes of this project in the Salaj County and its impact on rural
communities, we do believe in the high importance of the implementation of such programs also
in the future, including World Bank projects, in view of a balanced development of the county.




                                                 41

I am taking this opportunity to thank you again for the participation of the World Bank in the
successful implementation of this project with sustainable results, a project which has brought so
many benefits to the Salaj County.

Please receive the expression of our high consideration,

SS/    Tiberiu Mare
       Chairman
____________________________________
ROMANIA TULCEA COUNTY COUNCIL

Letter No. 626/June 19, 2008

To:    Mr. Benoit Blarel
       Country Manager
       World Bank Office Romania

Dear Mr. Blarel,

Through this letter I would like to inform you that the Rural Development Project, implemented
also in our county, has had a very good impact overall, with respect to increase of the local
government's capacity to develop own projects and investments, as well as the achievement of
rural infrastructure investments, which are highly needed in the Tulcea County.

The main objectives of the projects included:
    -    Increase of institutional capacity of the rural communities to access and implement
         infrastructure projects;
    -    Rural infrastructure development through water supply systems and road building

Training has been provided to the rural communities of 22 communas in our (Tulcea) County,
and a number of 40 rural infrastructure projects have been carried out, including: 22 water supply
systems, and rehabilitation and modernizing of 18 village roads.

An amount of about 9 million dollars has been used for: 90 km of stone paved roads; 129 km of
water supply system, 9 tanks and 5 drilled wells.

Both ourselves, the Tulcea County Council, and the communas involved in this program, think
that the project objectives have been fully achieved, and that there is still need for this kind of
programs, in order to ensure a balanced and sustainable development of the rural area.

We express our regret at certain governmental decisions which have conducted to blocking the
second phase of the RDP. We have constantly supported this alternative to continue RDP
development and we understand that such programs play a decisive part in laying the foundation
for sustainable development.

The Tulcea County will therefore continue to make use of the expertise of the PIU Tulcea
implementing team, and has set up an entity comparable to the PIU, called the Tulcea County
Association for Sustainable Development. Its main role is to enhance the absorption of EU funds
and to secure international financing in the rural areas in particular.




                                                 42

As a conclusion, considering also the Implementation Completion Report, we can affirm that the
experience acquired through the RDP, both in terms of implementation of infrastructure projects,
and the contribution of the project to community and inter-community development is highly
useful and will continue to be used by the Tulcea County for improving rural infrastructure.

Please receive the expression of our high consideration,


SS/   Gheorghe Bunduc
      President
      Tulcea County Council




                                               43

Annex 7. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

An implementation team member expressed overall agreement with the ICR however requested
that they also be recognized in the final ICR. Thus, the full list of project team members over the
5-year implementation period, many who are continuing this work in some form in Romania
today, are presented below.

Borrower Project implementation team

(a) Task Team Members

           Names                                    Title                        Unit       Responsibility/
                                                                                               Specialty
· Andrei Naumescu                              PMU Director                     PMU          Team Leader
· Monica Preda                               Financial Manager                  PMU      Financial Management
· Doina Anton                              Procurement Specialist               PMU   Coordination Of Procurement
· Mara (Danaila) Sescu                       Training Specialist                PMU     Coordination Of Training
· Ionel David                      Monitoring And Evaluation Specialist         PMU         M&E Activities
· Sorin Stanescu                  Senior Diplomat Engineer, Infrastructure      PMU   Coordination of Engineering
· Iulia (Carciumaru) Andrei                     Accountant                      PMU      Financial Management
· Amalia Dobrescu
· Mihai Ioan
· Georgiana (Gheorghe)                            Assistant                     PMU         Administration

    Burcan
· Aurelian Nebel
· Vlad Nicoara                                 Legal Advisor                    PMU      Legal And Contracting


                                  Botosani County - Implementation Team

· Dan Octavian Botez                          PIU Coordinator                    PIU    Project Coordination At
                                                                                             County Level
· Victor Diacenco
· Manuela Brunchi                          Procurement Specialist                PIU  Procurement At County Level
· Ovidiu Gonciar
· Vasile Halasanu                            Training Specialist                 PIU       Training Activities

· Ovidiu Nechita                 Senior Diplomat Engineer, Specialized For
                                            Infrastructure Works                 PIU         Engineering

· Sebastian Gabriel Chirila
· Ramona Viculeac                                 Assistant                      PIU        Administration
· Simona Bulgariu
· Carmen Agapi
· Magda Volintiru                               Accountant                       PIU     Financial Management


                                 Calarasi County - Implementation Team
· Nicoleta Mincu                                                                        Project Coordination At
· Adriana Culea                               PIU Coordinator                    PIU         County Level
· Gabriel Dima
· Emil Leau                                Procurement Specialist                PIU  Procurement At County Level
· Alina Boldinog



                                                44

· George Stana
· Viorel Ghita
· Manuel Andrei                      Training Specialist             PIU        Training Activities
· Doina Cretu
· Adriana Culea
· George Stana                Diplomat Engineer, Infrastructure      PIU            Engineering

· Alina Boldinog
· Irina Simiantu
· Stefan Nicolescu                       Assistant                   PIU          Administrative

· Luminita Sitaru
· Paraschiva Muresan
· Ana Maria Breazu
· Florin Hodorog
· Dorina Ursu                           Accountant                   PIU       Financial Management

· Rares Ionescu
· Letitia Bulgaru

                           Dolj County - Implementation Team

· Sorina Georgescu                    PIU Coordinator                PIU      Project Coordination At
                                                                                   County Level
· Adrian Plugaru                   Procurement Specialist            PIU   Procurement At County Level
· Adriana Rotaru                     Training Specialist             PIU        Training Activities
· Anisoara Rotaru
· Dan Bica
· Victor Draga                Diplomat Engineer, Infrastructure      PIU            Engineering
· Valentin Popescu
· Silvia Ionescu Lupeanu
· Magda Colteve
· Oana Degeratu                          Assistant                   PIU          Administrative

· Mioara Chiritoiu
· Angela Dondera                        Accountant                   PIU       Financial Management


                           Salaj County - Implementation Team

· Salvador Bolba                     PIU Coordinator               PIU Project Implementation At County
                                                                                     Level
· Ioan Neagu                      Procurement Specialist           PIU   Procurement At County Level

· Emanuela Calinici                 Training Specialist            PIU         Training Activities
· Onut Prodan
· Viorica Narosi          Senior Diplomat Engineer, Infrastructure PIU           Engineering

· Iarina Marian
· Octavia Durus                         Assistant                  PIU          Administrative

· Viorica Mesesan
· Veronica Hossu                       Accountant                  PIU      Financial Management


                          Tulcea County - Implementation Team

· Dan Dragan                         PIU Coordinator               PIU  Project Coordination at County
                                                                                     Level



                                        45

· Georgeta Abduraman           Procurement Specialist           PIU Procurement at County Level
· George Rosca                   Training Specialist            PIU     Training Activities

· Mariana Olariu       Senior Diplomat Engineer, Infrastructure PIU Engineering Project Activities
                                                                          Implementation
· Mihai Ioan
· Shermin Ibraim                     Assistant                  PIU       Administrative

· Mihaela Lungu
· Catalina Stamate                  Accountant                  PIU   Financial Management
· Ariana Teodor




                                     46

Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents

1. Project Appraisal Document (PAD), Report No. 22224-RO, February 22, 2002
2. IBRD Loan Agreement
3. Baseline Survey Report
4. Integrated Safeguard Data Sheet
5. ISRs, RDP Final Supervision ISR#15 dated 12/05/2007
6. Aide-Memoires
7. Report on Sampling and Weighting used in Analysis
8. County Newsletters by PMU
9. Project Video, "Rural Development Phase I 2002-2006, a Trustworthy Project", Conen
    Consulting and Poztiv Film Productions
10. Public Environmental Hygiene Promotion (PEHP) Report
11. Raport Asupra Pachetelor Educationale Pentru Scoli Din Cadrul task - Ului 2
12. Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Study
13. Study on Jurisdictional Responsibility (Classification), Management and Financing of Rural
    Local Roads.
14. PMU Final Report, 2007
15. Follow-up Survey: Final Report October 2006
16. Beneficiary Survey
17. Social Surveys
18. Impact Evaluation
19. O&M Survey
20. Survey Questionnaires
21. Series of 4 PHRD-funded studies on: (i) rural poverty, (ii) gender characteristics of rural
    poverty, (iii) rural development challenges, and (iv) local government institutions; see Annex
    10 for complete list of preparation studies




                                                47

Annex 9. Country Context/Additional Background

The 1999 Law on Public Finance discontinued targeted transfers for local investments which led
to a dramatic decrease in investments in infrastructure. As demonstrated in the Romania 2002
public expenditure review, the technical and financial inability of local governments to raise
resources internally or from financial institutions became a major hindrance to the development
of rural areas, increasing disparities between rural and urban living standards (Tables 1 and 2
below).

                Table 1: Funding of Local Capital Expenditures, 1996-2002 (%)
                                                  1996        1997        1998     1999    2000
Total Capital Expenditures1                      12,990        9,542       7,590    7,342   7,063
Real % Change                                         ...     -26.5%     -20.5%     -3.3%   -3.8%
Budget Savings                                      13.2         24.2       17.8     55.1    48.8
Targeted Transfers                                  86.8         75.8       82.2     44.9    51.2
Targeted Transfers for Local Investments2           76.6         67.1       61.2       0.0     0.0
External Loans                                       0.4           2.9       7.1     12.6    11.5
Communal Roads and Waterworks                        0.0           0.0       8.7       6.4   10.2
Housing Fund                                         0.0           0.0       0.0     18.2    13.2
Other Transfers                                      9.8           5.8       5.2       7.7   16.4
Total Capital Expenditures/Total                    27.6         25.3       25.7     22.9    20.2
Expenditures
1) In 2000 Billion Lei.
2) Discontinued in 1999 with the implementation of the Law on Local Public Finance.
Source: Ministry of Public Administration; Urban Institute (2001); World Bank.

                   Table 2: Structure of Capital Expenditures, 1996-2002 (%)
                                               1996            1997         1998      1999      2000
Public Administration                             3              5            5         6         7
Education                                         0              0            0         4         4
Public Works and Housing                         68             63           64        51        50
Transport and Communications                     25             27           26        11        10
Earmarked Expenditures1                                                                24        25
1) Beginning in 1999.
Source: Ministry of Public Administration; Urban Institute (2001); World Bank.




                                                  48

Annex 10. Background Studies Carried Out During Project Preparation

The project preparation team carried out 4 studies (funded by a PHRD grant) of rural poverty,
gender characteristics of rural poverty, rural development challenges, and local government
institutions. To decide on the formats and the menu for infrastructure intervention, a study of
social and physical infrastructure development in rural areas was carried out. These studies were
supervised by a team of lead specialists in the Bank in each field. These studies, apart from
informing project preparation, served as inputs into the National Rural Development Program
developed in 1998-1999. The project, therefore, at its inception was well integrated into the
national rural development framework and was well positioned to contribute a meaningful and
relevant intervention.

Other preparation studies included:

Consultant Papers Commissioned under RDP:

"The Factors Underlying Poverty in Rural Romania: Market Failure, Asset Productivity, and
Demographics" Roman Lopez and Timothy S. Thomas, RDP background paper (1999).

"Basic Data to Collect in the Commune as a Proxy for Income/Wealth" Sharon Holt, RDP
background note (2001).

"Rural Development and the Role of Land Markets in Romania" Roy Prosterman and Jennifer
Duncan, RDP background paper (1999).

"World Bank Rural Development Projects in Central and Eastern Europe" Cristina Esanu, RDP
background note (2000).

"Background on Rural Development in Romania and Justification for RDP Approach" Sharon
Holt, RDP background note (2001).

"Rural Development: Local Government Survey" Laurentiu Tachiciu RDP background paper
(1999).

"Equalization Grants in Romania: Recent Developments" Francis Conway, RDP background note
(2001).

"Funding Windows, and Pre-financing vs. Competitive Selection of Sub-projects" Jennie Litvack,
RDP background note (2000).

"RDP Background Notes on Local Governance and Participation: i) Transparency and
Participation Criteria as Presented in Application Form for Sub-project Desk Review; ii) Note on
How to Stimulate the 'Demand Side' of Governance in the RDP Project; iii) RDP Proposal for
CBO Window Activities" Sharon Holt, RDP background note (2001).

"Capacity Building Component: Final Report" Francis Conway and Fred Rosensweig (October,
2000).

"RDP Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Subcomponent" Sergio Calegari, RDP background
paper (2000).


                                                49

"Contribution to RDP PAD on Water and Sanitation Subcomponent" Wouter van den Wallbake,
RDP background note (2001)

"RDP Rural Roads Subcomponent" Anders Bonde, RDP background paper (2000)

"RDP Rural Roads Background Notes: i) Assumptions for Roads Sub-projects; ii) Participatory
Determination of Commune-Judet Roads Strategy; iii) Improved Site Supervision by Client's
Representatives; Commune Traffic Surveys" Edwin Connerly, RDP background notes (2001)




                                           50

