RESTRICTED
rILE      COPY                   Report No. p-734
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR AN
INTERIM SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
August 11, 1969



INTERNATIONAL DEVEIDPFMT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR FOR AN
INTERIM SECOND LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit in an amount in various currencies equivalent to US$1.5 million to
the Republic of Ecuador.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In February 1969 the Government requested financing from the
Bank group to fill the gap between full conmitment of funds under the first
livestock development project (mid-1969) and Bank/IDA consideration of a
broad, second-phase livestock project in mid-1970. In response to this
request, a mission visited Ecuador in March/April and prepared the accom-
panying appraisal report. Negotiations for the proposed credit took place
in Washington from June 30 through July 3, 1969. Ecuador was represented
by Ambassador Carlos Mantilla Ortega, Mr. Luis King (Deputy Technical
Director of the Planning Board), and Mr. Jaime Durango (Embassy of Ecuador).
3.        Since 1954, the Bank and IDA have made eight loans and two credi ts
to Ecuador for a total of US$76.4 million (net of cancellations).  The
proposed credit would increase the total of Bank loans and IDA credits to
Ecuador to US$77.9 million. The following is a summary statement of Bank
loans and IDA credits to Ecuador as of June 30, 1969:



-2-
Loan/                                                Amount (US$ M1illion)
Credit No.  Year       Borrower           Purpose  Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
94 EC      1954  Comite Ejecutivo de    Roads       7.5     -         -
Vialidad del Guayas
137 EC      1956  Emresa Electrica Qui- Power        5.0     -         -
to
176 EC      1957  Republic of Ecuador     Roads     14-5     -         -
177 EC      1957  fmpresa Electrica Qui- Power       5.0     -         -
to
212 EC      1958  Port Authority of      Port      13.0     -          -
Guayaquil
379 EC      1964  Republic of Ecuador )              9.0     -        2.3
51 EC      1964 Republic of Ecuador     Roads              8.0       5.4
501 EC      1967  Republic of Ecuador     Agri-      4.0     -        2.2
culture
124 EC      1968  Republic of Ecuador     Edu-        -     5.1       5.1
cation
555 EC      1968  Republic of Ecuador    Fisheries   5.31/   -         -
Total (less cancellations)                          63.3   13.1      15.0
of which has been repaid to Bank
and others                                        19.5
Total now outstanding                             43.8
Amount sold:                             1.8
of which has been repaid               0.9         0-9
Total now held by Bank and IDA                    37.6C  13.1
Total undisbursed                                  4.5   10.5      15.0
1/ Not yet effective.
2/ Excludes US$5.3 million for Loan 555-EC which is not yet effective.
4.        The Consortium Highway Project (Loan 379-EC/Credit 51-EC) is a
two-stage project which is being financed jointly by the Bank, IDA, AID and
IDB under the chairmanship of the Bank. Disbursements had been delayed as
a result of adverse weather conditions during 1965-66, lack of local con-
tractors qualified to undertake civil works and lack of interest among
qualified foreign contractors in submitting bids for civil works. Substan-
tial disbursements under the IDA Credit commenced quite recently as this
credit is solely for the financing of Stage II of the project. The project
is noll progressing reasonably well and is being kept under close review.



- 3 -
5.        IFC has made two investments, one in 1965 of approximately
US$2 million equivalent in equity and debt of La Internacional, a major
Ecuadorian textile firm, and the other in early 1969 of about US$250,000
equivalent in equity of Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo S.A., (Compania Finan-
ciera) a private development finance company.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
6.        Borrower:                Republic of Ecuador.
Amount:                  The equivalent in various currencies
of US$1.5 million.
Purpose:                 To assist in financing the extension
of the livestock development program
in Ecuador initiated with Loan 501-EC.
Amortization:            50 years including a 10-year period
of grace, through semi-annual installments
of 1/2 of 1 percent from February 15,
1980 through August 15, 1989 and of
1 1/2 percent from February 15, 1990
through August 15, 2019.
Service Clharge:         3/4 of 1 percent per annum on the
principal amount of the credit with-
drawn and outstanding.
Relending Terms:         To participating credit institutions--
18 years including 6 years of grace
with interest at 6 percent per armum
plus 1/2 percent per annum service
charge by the Central Bank. To
farmers--8-12 years including 3-5 years of
grace with interest at 10 percent per
annum.
PART III - THE PROJECT
7.        A report entitled "Interim Second Livestock Development Project"
(PA-17a) on the proposed project is attached. For a more detailed discus-
sion of the original project, see the appraisal report, "Livestock Develop-
ment Project'? (TO-582a) of April 24, 1967.
8.        The proposed livestock development project consists essentially
of an extension of the first livestock development project, the results of
which were better than expected.  Funds were fully committed (by June 30)
in 75 percent of the time forecast. While the Association has provided
assistance to the Government in the preparation of a broad-scale project
which originally was intended to follow the first project, it is not expected



- 4 -
to be ready for consideration by the Ececutive Directors before mid-1970.
Thus there would be a gap of approximately one year during which time the mo-
mentum generated under the first project would lessen, the effectiveness of
the administrative apparatus built up under the first project would diminish,
and further livestock development would be hindered. For these reasons, and
given the continuing strong demand for development financing in the livestock
sector, this Interim Second Livestock Development Project is proposed to fill
the gap.
9.        Ecuador is predominantly an agricultural country and approximately
65 percent of the present population of 5.7 million is rural. Agriculture,
including forestry and fishing, now contributes about one-third of the
gross domestic product and livestock accounts for approximately one-fourth
of total agricultural production.
10.       The principal commercial crops of Ecuador are bananas, coffee
and cacao, and they account for about 80 percent of total exports. In
view of the unstable world markets for these commodities, there is a vital
need for diversification in agriculture. One method of achieving this
objective is to expand production of beef, for which both domestic and
export demand are increasing.
11.       The coastal area in which the First Livestock Development Project
is being implemented and in which the proposed project will be carried out
represents about one-fourti of the land area of Ecuador. It has approxi-
mately 3.3 million hectares suitable for agriculture, 65 percent of which
are in production, with about 1.0 million hectares in improved and natural
pastures. At least 500,000 hectares of the unused coastal land could be
utilized for additional improved pastures in the beef cattle development
program.
12.       As under the first project, funds would be made available for
ranch development (land clearance, pasture renovation, fencing, water sup-
plies, yards and dips, machinery, improved breeding stock, and other
related inputs). It is estimated that 50 to 60 beef cattle ranchers would
participate in the project. Investment on each ranch would be phased over a
period of up to three years. Loans from the participating credit institu-
tions exceeding the equivalent of $100,000 in the aggregate would be sub-
mitted to the Association for prior approval. The terms to the participating
credit institutions (18 years including 6 years of grace at 6 1/2 percent
interest) and the participating ranchers (8-12 years including 3-5 years
of grace at 10 percent interest) would remain the same as under the first
project. Interest and repayments not required for servicing the IDA credit
or the commission of the Central Bank would be re-channelled through the
participating credit institutions to be relent to ranchers under the project
during the 18-year term of the subsidiary loan agreements. At the end of this
period, the funds would accrae to the Government.
13.       Benefits are expected to be similar to and proportional to those
estimated for the first project, i.e., the average annual net return to the



economy would be of the order of 27 percent.
14.       The Central Bank again would act as financial agent for the
Government in channelling funds to the participating credit institutions
and keeping the accounts for the total project.
15.       The coordination and supervision of the project also would remain
as before and would be carried out by the Project Commission, established
in 1967, composed of representatives of the National Planning Board, the
Central Bank, the Ministry of Agriculture, the participating credit insti-
tutions and the Coastal Cattlemen's Association. The Project Director
has technical responsibility for implementation of the project. (The
performance of the present Project Director has been excellent.) Technical
assistance to farmers is provided by qualified livestock technicians under
the supervision of the Project Director. This group is also responsible
for assisting farmers in the preparation of farm development plans, for
recommending these plans to the participating credit institutions as bases
for lending and for supervising the execution of sub-projects.
16.       Goods required for the project would be obtained through existing
commercial channels. There are several retail sources for these goods,
both imported and local, and sufficient competition is assured in securing
supplies. Since items would be purchased by individual ranchers and would
not be of substantial value, international competitive bidding would not
be appropriate. All purchases of livestock required for the project would
be subject to the approval of the Project Director with respect to the
quality and suitability of such stock.
17.       Of the total project cost of US$2.5 million (excluding working
capital), the ranchers would provide 20 percent and the participating
credit institutions would advance 80 percent. The Association would reim-
burse the participating credit institutions 75 percent of the amounts of
their loans. Thus the Association would cover 60 percent of the total
cost of the project with the participating credit institutions providing
20 percent out of their own funds. These figures are the same as in the
first project. The participating ranchers are unable to provide more than
20 percent of the total project cost since they would be contributing
substantial working capital in the form of herd build-up (implying lower
current income and higher operating costs in the early stages of ranch
development). The participating credit institutions too would provide a
large amount of short-term credit for working capital requirements not
financed by the participating ranchers, beyond the 20 percent of total project
cost. Under these conditions, the contribution by the Association of 60 per-
cent of total costs seems essential if the project is to be implemented.
18.       Of the total project cost of US$2.5 million, only about $550,000,
or 22 percent, represents foreign exchange expenditures (this proportion is
also the same as in the first livestock project), so that if IDA were again
to cover 60 percent of project costs, this would involve financing of about
$950,000 of local currency expenditures. I consider, however, that it would



- 6 -
be preferable to accept this amount of local currency financing in Ecuador
in order to assure the success of this strategically important project
rather than to seek out other lending opportunities that might be based
upon the financing of direct foreign exchange costs.
PART IV - LBGAL INSTRUMNSTS AND AUTHORITY
19.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Ecuador, the Banco Central of Ecuador and the Association; the Recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d), of the Articles
of Agreement and the text of a resolution approving the proposed development
credit are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
20.       The draft Development Credit Agreement follows the pattern of
credit agreements for other livestock development projects. However,
instead of having a separate project agreement between the Banco Central and
the Association, the Banco Central is to be a party to the Development Credit
Agreement itself.  Attention is drawn to tihe followving provisions:
a) Ecuador will enter into arrangements satisfactory to the
Association with the Banco Central for the management, administra-
tion and disbursement by the Banco Central of the proceeds of
the credit (Section 4.03);
b) Ecuador and the Banco Central will enter into Second Project
Subsidiary Loan Agreements with the participating credit
institutions, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, providing for the reimbursement to such institu-
tions of a percentage of the loans disbursed to ranchers under
the lending program, and prescribing the responsibilities of
the participating credit institutions under the project (Sections
4.05 and 4.06);
c) Interest and repayments not required for servicing the IDA
credit or the commission of the Banco Central wrould be used by
the participating credit institutions for livestock develop-
ment lending during the 18-year term of the subsidiary loan
agreements (Section 4.12(i) and Schedule 2, C).
PART V - THE ECONOMY
21.       A memorandum of August 11, 1969, entitled "The Economic Situation
of Ecuador," is attached.
22.       Ecuador remains one of the poorer countries in Latin America with
a per capita GDP of about $250. The economy is heavily dependent on exports
of bananas, sugar and cocoa, all commodities whose future is uncertain. Qn
the other hand, the recent discoveries of petroleum should bring considerable
benefits in due course.



- 7 -
23.       Over the next few years, Ecuador will need to diversify its econony
by shifting production to more promising fields, and Ecuador's development
program reflects these needs. The capital required for this process cannot
be obtained solely from internal savings and in view of Ecuador's poverty
and balance of payments weaknesses, at least some of the capital required
from abroad should be obtained on concessional terms.
24.       Government policies in the recent past have not been sufficiently
rigorous. Fiscal rigidities, especially in respect of revenue earmarked
to individual public entities, have resulted in large deficits at a time
when Central 'Government expenditures were increasing rapidly. In 1968/69
these increases were financed largely by borrowings from the Central Bank
and led to sharp increases in imports and a loss in international reserves.
The Government, however, has recognized the need for reverting to the
tighter control over domestic finances which has been traditional in Ecuador,
and is discussing with the Fund the main steps which are to be taken to
restore domestic financial equilibrium. In view of past experience in
Ecuador, it is reasonable to assume that corrective measures, although
belated, will be taken by the Government. In these circumstances I consider
it appropriate to proceed with some lending for high priority projects in
Ecuador, while keeping the country's financial policies and performance
under close review.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
25.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PERT VII - RECOMMENDATION
26.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
Presicent
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
Washington, D. C.
August 11, 1969



