CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 173 EC
Development Credit
Agreement
(Interim Second Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
AND
BANCO CENTRAL DEL ECUADOR
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 20, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 173 EC
Development Credit
Agreement
(Interim Second Livestock Development Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
AND
BANCO CENTRAL DEL ECUADOR
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 20, 1970


﻿AGREEMENT, dated January 20, 1970, between REPUBLIC
OF ECUADOR (hereinafter called the Borrower), BANCO CEN-
TRAL DEL ECUADOR (hereii,after called Banco Central), and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development has made a loan to the Borrower dated June
19, 1967 (Livestock Development Project), Loan 501-EC,
for a livestock development project aimed at increasing
beef production in selected areas in the territories of the
Borrower (hereinafter called the "First Livestock Loan");
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association to
provide further financial assistance for the same livestock
development project;
WHEREAS the Banco Central is willing to continue to act
as the fiscal agent of the Borrower in the carrying out of
such livestock development project and to undertake in
connection therewith certain ol-1-gations as hereinafter set
forth; and
WHEREAS the Association is willing to make a credit to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Development Credit
Agreement accept all the provisions of the General Con-
ditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of
the Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, sub-


﻿9
4
ject, however, to the following modification thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being here-
inafter called the General Conditions) :
The words "or Banco Central" are added after the words
"the Borrower" wherever they occur in Section 6.02(b)
and (d) and in Section 7.01(c).
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Development Credit
Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, the sev-
eral terms defined in the General Conditions have the re-
speetive meanings therein set forth, and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "the Project Commission" means the Special Com-
mission established by Executive Decree No. 719 of
July 14, 1967 to facilitate the execution of the First
Livestock Loan and other similar projects;
(b) "Special Interim Credit Account" means the account
and sub-accounts referred to in Section 4.02 of this
Agreement;
(c) "Participating Bank" means any financial institu-
tion, acceptable to the Association, which shall have
become a party to a Second Project Subsidiary Loan
Agreement;
(d) "Second Project Subsidiary Loan Agreements"
means the agreements to be entered into on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association be-
tween the Borrower, Banco Central and Participat-
ing Banks for the purpose of carrying out the Pr oject
and shall include any amendments thereto made with
the approval of the Association; and
(e) "Lending Program" means the part of the Project
described in paragraph A of Schedule 1 to this De-
velopment Credit Agreement.


﻿5
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in this Development
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to one million five hundred
thousand dollars ($1,500,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The A,,;ociation shall open a Credit
Account on its books in the name of the Borrower and
shall credit to such Account the amount of the Credit.
(b) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement.
SECTION 2.03. The Borrower shall be entitled to with-
draw from the Credit Account in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods or services required for the Project and to
be financed under this Development Credit Agreement the
equivalert of seventy-five per cent (75%), or such other
percentage as may be agreed from time to time between
the Borrower and the Association, of such amounts as shall
have been paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, shall
be required to meet payments to be made) for loans to
farmers; provided that no withdrawals shall be made from
the Credit Account in respect of any loan by a Participating
Bank under the Lending Program exceeding one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000) equivalent unless the prior ap-
proval of the Association to such loan shall have been
obtained.
SECTION 2.04. The currency of the United States of
America is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02
of the General Conditions.


﻿6
SECTION 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (34 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
in semi-annual installments payable on each February 15
and August 15 commencing February 15, 1980 and ending
August 15, 2019, each installment to and including the
installment payable on August 15, 1989 to be one-half of
one per cent (1/ of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent
(112%) of such principal amount.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of
the Credit to be applied in accordance with the provisions
of this Development Credit Agreement to expenditures on
Part A of the Project, described in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclu-
sively in carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Particular Covenants
SECTION 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause the Project
to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency and in


﻿7
conformity with sound administrative, financial, economic
and agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) The operating policies and procedures in respect of
the carrying out of the Project shall be the same as those
which are or have been agreed from time to time between
the Bank, the Borrower and Banco Central pursuant to
Sections 5.01(a) and (c) of the First Livestock Loan.
SECTION 4.02. Banco Central shall (i) establish and ad-
minister a Special Interim Credit Account and the neces-
sary sub-accounts, to be used exclusively for the purposes
of the carrying out of the Project, and (ii) have the Special
Interim Credit Account audited annually by auditors satis-
factory to the Association and transmit to the Association
promptly after the completion of such audit, and not later
than three months after the close of Banco Central's finan-
cial year, certified copies of the financial statements relating
to the Special Interim Credit Account and a signed copy
of the auditor's report relating thereto.
SECTION 4.03. The Borrower shall enter into arrange-
ments satisfactory to the Association with Banco Central
providing for the management, administration and dis-
bursement, by Banco Central, of the proceeds of the Credit,
through the Special Interim Credit Account. The Borrower
and Banco Central shall exercise their rights pursuant to
such arrangements in such a manner as to protect the
interests of the Association, the Borrower and Banco Ccn-
tral. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower or Banco Central shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving any provision of such arrangements.
SECTION 4.04. The Borrower shall cause the Project
Commission to oversee and administer the Project on the


﻿8
same terms and conditions as such Commission oversees
and administers the First Livestock Loan. The Borrower
shall not take or concur in any action which would have
the effect of amending, abrogating or otherwise altering
Executive Decree No. 719 of July 14, 1967 without prior
agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
SECTION 4.05. The Borrower and Banco Central shall
enter into Second Project Subsidiary Loan Agreements
with the Participating Banks, on terms and conditions sat-
isfactory to the Association, including those set forth in
Schedule 2 to this Development Credit Agreement, provid-
ing for the reimbursement by Banco Central, out of the
proceeds of the Credit, of such percentage of loans made
by any Participating Bank under the Lending Program as
may be agreed to from time to time by the Association under
Section 2.03 of this Development Credit Agreement. Except
as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower and
Banco Central shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, assigning, abrogating
or waiving any provision of any Second Project Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
SECTIoN 4.06. The Borrower and Banco Central shall
cause the Participating Banks to operate, in respect of the
Project, in accordance with sound business, agricultural,
administrative, economic and financial practices under the
supervision of experienced and competent management. The
Borrower and Banco Central shall exercise their rights and
fulfill their obligations under the Second Project Subsidiary
Loan Agreements in such a manner as to protect the inter-
ests of the Association, the Borrower and Banco Central.
SECTION 4.07. (a) The Borrower and the Association
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, each of them


﻿9
9
shall furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of the
Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information shall
include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower and the inter-
national balance of payments position of the Borrower.
(b) The Association, the Borrower and Banco Central,
as the case may be, shall from time to time exchange views
through their representatives with regard to: the perform-
ance by the Borrower and Banco Central of their respective
obligations under or pursuant to this Development Credit
Agreement, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit,
the Project, the Second Project Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ments, the Project Commission, the Special Interim Credit
Account, the financial condition of Banco Central, the ad-
ministration and operations of Banco Central in respect of
the Project, and of any agency or agencies of the Borrower
assisting the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project
or any part thereof, and other matters relating to the pur-
poses of the Credit and the maintenance of the service
thereof. The Borrower and Banco Central, as the case may
be, shall promptly inform the Association of any condition
which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the main-
tenance of the service thereof or the performance by the
Borrower or by Banco Central of their obligations under
or pursuant to this Development Credit Agreement or the
Second Project Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportu-
nity for representatives of the Association to inspect the
Project and any documents and records relating thereto
and to visit any part of the territories of the Borrower for
purposes related to the Credit.
SECTION 4.08. The Borrower shall cause Banco Central
to maintain or cause to be maintained records adequate to


﻿10
identify the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, to disclose the use thereof in the Project, to record
the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to reflect in accordance with consisten y maintained
sound accounting practices the administration and financial
condition of the Special Interim Credit Account; shall
enable the Association's representatives to inspect the
Project, the goods and any relevant records and docu-
ments in respect of the Project; and shall furnish to the
Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, the goods financed out of such proceeds,
the performance by Banco Central of its obligations under
or pursuant to this Development Credit Agreement, the
Second Project Subsidiary Loan Agreements, the Project,
the Special Interim Credit Account and the administration,
operations and financial condition of Banco Central insofar
as they may be pertinent to the execution of the Project.
SECTION 4.09. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes, and free from all restrictions, imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
SECTION 4.10. The Development Credit Agreement shall
be free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the laws
of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on or
in connection with the execution, delivery or registration
thereof.
SECTION 4.11. The Borrower and the Association agree
that Section 5.10 of the First Livestock Loan Agreement
shall be a part of this Development Credit Agreement, ex-
cept that the word "Association" shall be substituted for
the word "Bank" when such Se,tion 5.10 is treated as a
part of this Development Credit Agreement.


﻿11
SECTION 4.12. Except as the Borrower and the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall cause the
Participating Banks (i) to use the proceeds of payments
which they receive from farmers on account of loans
granted under this Credit and which are not currently re-
quired by the Participating Banks to service loans under
the Second Project Subsidiary Loan Agreements and to
recover the portion of loans to farmers not reimbursed by
Banco Central, for the purpose of continuing the financing
of livestock development in the territories of the Borrower
for the life of the Second Project Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ments, and (ii) to provide to farmers who have been
granted loans under the Lending Program the short term
credits necessary to complement said loans if not otherwise
available to them.
SECTION 4.13. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower undertakes to insure or cause to be
insured the imported goods to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit against marine, transit and other haz-
ards incident to acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.
ARTIOLE V
Remedies of the Association
SECTION 5.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions or in Section 5.02 of this Develop-
ment Credit Agreement shall occur and shall continue f>r
the period, if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent
time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its
option, may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal
of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable imme-
diately together with the service charges thereon and upon


﻿9
12
any such declaration such principal, together with such
charges, shall become due and payable immediately, any-
thing in this Development Credit Agreement to the contrary
notwithstanding.
SECTION 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is speci-
fled:
Banco Central shall not have performed one or more of
its covenants under the Second Project Subsidiary Loan
Agreements and such non-performance shall continue for
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Association to the Borrower and Banco
Central.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
SEcTIOioN 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of this Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01(b)
of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of this Development Credit
Agreement on behalf of Banco Central have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action;
(b) the arrangements with Banco Central provided for
in Section 4.03 of this Development Credit Agree-
ment shall have been made; and
(c) at least two Second Project Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ments satisfactory to the Association shall have been
duly signed and shall have become effective.
SECTION 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the


﻿13
General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opin-
ions to be furnishe( to the Association:
(a) that the undertakings by Banco Central in this De-
velopment Credit Agreement contained have been
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and de-
livered on behalf of, Banco Central and constitute
valid and binding obligations of Banco Central in
accordance with their terms;
(b) that the arrangements provided for in Section 4.03
of this Development Credit Agreement have been
duly and validly executed by the Borrower and Banco
Central and shall have become effective in accordance
with their terms; and
(c) that the Second Project Subsidiary Loan Agreements
referred to in Section 6.01(c) of this Development
Credit Agreement have been duly and validly exe-
cuted by the parties thereto and shall have become
effective in accordance with their terms.
SECTION 6.03. The date of April 30, 1970 is hereby spec-
ified for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Con-
ditions.
SECTION 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under
Sections 4.01, 4.04, 4.05 and 4.06 of this Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate on the date on which this De-
velopment Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date
twenty years after the date of this Development Credit
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 7.01. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1973 or such other date as shall be agreed between the Bor-
rower and the Association.


﻿14
SECTION 7.02. The Ministro de Agricultura y Ganaderia
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
SECTION 7.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministereo de Agricultura y Ganaderia
Quito, Ecuador
Cable address:
Minagricultura
Quito
For Banco Central:
Banco Central
Quito, Ecuador
Cable address:
Bancentral
Quito
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have


﻿15
caused this Development Credit Agreement to be signed in
their respective names and to be delivered in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
By /s/ CARLOS MANTILLA ORTEGA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ MOHAMED SHOAIB
Vice President
BANCO CENTRAL DEL ECUADOR
By /s/ CARLOS MANTILLA ORTEGA
Authorized Representative


﻿16
SCHEDULE 1
Description of Project
The Project is a continuation of the first stage of a
livestock development program of the Borrower and con-
sists of :
A. The granting of loans to farmers for beef cattle devel-
opment in the Coastal Area.
B. The provision of short-term loans for working capital
exclusively from local resources.
The Project is scheduled for completion in approximately
four years.


﻿17
SCIEDULE 2
Terms of the Second Project Subsidiary Loan Agreements
The Second Project Subsidiary Loan Agreements will
provide, except as otherwise agreed between the Borrower,
the Association and Banco Central:
A. Interest and Charges: that the interest on funds
loaned by Banco Central to the Participating Banks out of
the proceeds of the Credit shall be six per cent (6%) per
annum on the outstanding principal amounts of such funds
so loaned. In addition, Banco Central, on behalf of the Bor-
rower, shall charge Participating Banks a service charge
of one-half of one per cent (1/2o) per annum on such
principal amounts for the purpose of meeting administra-
tive expenses of the Banco Central in connection with the
Project. This total six and one-half per cent (61/2%) per
annum on the outstanding principal amounts due as interest
and charges from Participating Banks to the Banco Central
shall be payable in semi-annual installments commencing
approximately six months after the first disbursements
under the Second Project Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
B. Amortization: that the principal amounts shall be
amortized by payment of equal semi-annual installments
commencing approximately at the end of the sixth year
after first disbursements under the Second Project Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreements and ending approximately eight-
een (18) years after such first disbursements.
C. Use of Principal and Interest Payments by Banco
Central: that interest and amortization payments received
by Banco Central from Participating Banks and not re-
quired to service the Credit shall be made available to Par-
ticipating Banks for relending to farmers for livestock
development until the termination of the Second Project
Subsidiary Loan Agreements.


