Page  1
April 10, 2002
Lic. Eduardo Montealegre Rivas
Minister of Finance and Public Credit
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Managua, Nicaragua
Re:  
Grant for Preparation of the Off-Grid Rural Electrification 
Development project GEF-PPG  TF050821
Dear Mr. Minister:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the GEF to indicate the Bank’s agreement to grant to the Republic 
of Nicaragua (the Recipient) a Grant in an amount not exceeding US$350,000 (the Grant) for the 
preparation of an Off-Grid Rural Electrification Development project (PERZA). The Grant is made in 
response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance and for the purposes and on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The Recipient represents, by confirming its 
agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the 
said terms and conditions.
The award of the Grant does not constitute or imply any commitment on the part of the Bank, 
either as a GEF Implementing Agency, or in its own capacity, or the International Development 
Association, to assist in financing any project which will result from the activities financed by the Grant.
As stated in paragraph 4 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, this grant shall only finance 
expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Activities (as 
defined and listed in the Annex below) as long as those expenditures have not already been financed or 
are not expected to be financed under TF026676 pursuant to the grant agreement entered into the 
Recipient and the Bank (dated May 23, 2001 and countersigned by the Recipient on June 11, 2001).
The Member by confirming its agreement hereunder, confirms its commitment to the objectives 
of the activities to be financed by the Grant, and to this end, hereby undertakes to take all action 
necessary or appropriate to enable the recipient to carry out its obligations set forth in this letter and the 
Attachment hereto.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, dating, 
and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by the Bank of the copy of 
this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date 
of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
Page  2
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency
of the Global Environment Facility
By /s/  Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
By /s/ Lic.Eduardo Montealegre Rivas
Minister of Finance and Public Credit
Date:
April 29, 2002
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist in the preparation of the Off-Grid Rural Electrification 
Development project (
Proyecto de Apoyo a la Electrificación Rural en Zonas Aisladas del Sistema 
Interconectado Nacional-
PERZA-), which has as main objective to improve the quality of life of people 
in remote rural areas through improved access to new and renewable energy (the Preparation Project). 
The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as follows:
a)
The design and the preparation of model sub-projects to be implemented in the PERZA 
and regarding the new and renewable energy (NRE). The design and preparation of these sub-projects 
will include among others, the selection of the pilot sites; a technical and economic analysis for basic 
electricity provision of the NRE technology options; and the design of an adequate service mechanism 
based on a replicability criteria and the socioeconomic assessment of the Atlantic coast’s communities. 
b)
The design of a long-term wind velocity and solar radiation monitoring system for areas 
of the Recipient’s territory with significant amounts of wind and solar resources, in order to develop an 
inventory of renewable energy resources in such areas, including the provision of anemometers and 
solarimeters to the Recipient’s National Energy Commission (NEC). 
c)
The design of a subsidy allocation scheme making an inventory of all existing and 
Page  3
potential subsidy sources of the Recipient, and assistance in the determination and implementation of 
appropriate subsidies in specific project investments which will be take place in the PERZA.  
d)
The design of a long-term replication plan for off-grid electrification including the 
classification of the remaining unelectrified communities all over the Recipient’s territory into several 
types and the modeling of various service delivery options appropriate to the different communities. 
e)  The design of a rural micro-enterprise development module for the PERZA, consisting of: (i) 
the development of rural business services based on: (a) an identification of old and new productive 
activities through the use of electricity that can promise future productivity gains; (b) a design and test of 
appropriate business services to promote the development of productive activities, and (c) the carrying 
out of seminars to create networks (clusters) of rural small and medium enterprises to replicate of the 
rural business development  services; (ii) the development of rural micro-finance services based on: (a) 
the identification of the best suited financing schemes to overcome the cost barriers of NRE and 
productive appliances in rural territories of the Recipient, through the carrying out of surveys and rural 
financial market analysis and (b) the organization of seminars with micro-finance institutions related to 
the rural off-grid areas based on the market survey’s results for the identification of potential 
micro-finance partners for the rural micro-enterprises development.
f)
The design of the development of prototype rural infocenters through a business plan 
with pricing structures and other mechanisms to ensure cost recovery and different service levels adapted 
to local demand, which design will pursue: (i) minimum hardware investments; (ii) minimum operating 
and maintenance expenses;  (iii) the elaboration of suitable software applications for rural micro and 
small businesses, and; (iv) the design of a brochure and/or an internet site for rural micro-businesses 
which will include among other data, local content information and the environmental effects of 
processes and changes in production technology. 
g)
Design of a monitoring and evaluation plan for the implementation of the PERZA 
satisfactory to the Bank and including the adequate preparation of a mid-term review, and periodic 
surveys applied by the project management unit in the PERZA as included as part of the project 
implementation plan. 
h) The carrying out of audits of the Preparation Project satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1.
The Recipient shall:  (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and efficiency; (b) promptly 
provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose; (c) furnish all 
information covering the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as the Bank shall reasonably 
request; (d) from time to time exchange views with the Bank’s representatives on the progress and results 
of the Activities and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable the Bank to visit the territory of 
the Recipient for the purposes related to the Grant.  Without limitation on the foregoing, the Recipient 
shall, if the Bank shall so request, prepare and furnish to the Bank promptly upon completion of the 
Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, on the results and impact of the 
Activities.
3.
Procurement
3.1
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services and goods 
required for the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be 
Page  4
governed by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex.
3.2.
The Recipient shall ensure that all imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant shall be insured against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to 
the place of use or installation, and that any indemnity for such insurance is payable in a freely usable 
currency to replace or repair such goods.  The Recipient shall ensure that any facilities relevant to the 
Activities are at all times operated and maintained in accordance with appropriate practices and that any 
repairs or renewals of such facilities are promptly made as needed.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by the Bank on its books in the 
name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Activities to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant and not 
already financed or to be financed under TF026676 pursuant to the grant agreement entered into between 
the Recipient and the Bank (dated May 23, 2001 and countersigned by the Recipient on June 11, 2001).
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant and 
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
Amount of
% of
the Grant Allocated 
Expenditures to
Category
(in U.S. Dollars)
be Financed
(1)
Consultants’
310,000
85%
Services
(2)
Goods
10,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures , 100% of
local expenditures (ex
factory cost) and 85%
of local expenditures for
other items procured
locally
.
(3)
Operating Costs
30,000
100%
and Audits
Total
350,000
For purposes of this paragraph, the term “operating costs and audits” means a) reasonable 
expenditures for the project preparation unit of the NEC for periodic surveys, travel, ground 
transportation, hotel and a reasonable per diem; and b) audit costs; and all to the extent said expenditures 
are attributable to the carrying out of the Activities for the preparation of PERZA.
The term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any country other than that 
of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Page  5
Recipient and the term “local expenditures” means any expenditures that are not foreign expenditures.
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above: (a) no withdrawals shall be made: (i) for 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Letter Agreement; (ii) on account of payments 
for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in or services 
supplied from such territories; (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any 
import of goods, if such payment or import, to the Bank’s knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; or (v) 
after March 31, 2003 or such later date as the Bank shall establish by written notice to the Recipient (the 
Closing Date), except that withdrawals may be made for expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date 
and received by the Bank within four months after the Closing Date, after which time any amount of the 
Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled; and (b) if, in the Bank’s 
opinion, an amount of the Grant allocated to any of the items in the table in paragraph 4.2 above will be 
insufficient to finance the expenditures for such item, it may, by written notice to the Recipient, 
reallocate to such item an amount of the Grant then allocated to another item which in its opinion will not 
be necessary to meet other expenditures.
4.4
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall deliver 
to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by the Bank.  
Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by its Minister of Finance or such 
other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) be accompanied by such evidence in 
support of the application as the Bank shall reasonably request.  Authenticated specimen signatures of the 
person authorized t sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with the first application bearing his 
or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount of the Grant is supporting evidence must be 
sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the Bank that the Recipient is entitled to withdraw such 
amount from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities.  
The Bank shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the 
order of the Recipient.
4.5
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure for expenditures for:  (a) all contracts for goods; (b) all contracts for consulting services; 
and (c) operating costs and audits, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Recipient.
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  The Bank, 
at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the currency of the 
Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this 
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such value shall be as 
reasonably determined by the Bank.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and maintain in United 
States Dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with 
the provisions of the Attachment II to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
Page  6
5.1.
(a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Activities.
(b) The Recipient shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors with qualifications, experience and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the 
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, (C) a management 
letter from said auditors to the Recipient covering all auditor-discovered weaknesses in the Recipient’s 
internal control system and providing constructive suggestions therefore; and (iii) furnish to the Bank 
such other information concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account were made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in 
accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, 
until at least after one year after the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in 
subparagraph (b) above and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1.
The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing:  (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations specified in this letter 
Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the Bank has made a loan with 
the guarantee of the member, to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the  Bank  or any 
development credit agreement with the International Development Association shall have been 
suspended.
6.2.
The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account:  (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 
6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Bank, within 90 days 
after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities; or (c) if the Bank has decided, at any time after 
consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Preparation Project; or (d) if the Recipient 
has withdrawn its request for the Bank’s assistance in financing the Preparation Project.
Attachment I 
Page  7
Procurement
Section I.
Consultants’ Services
Part A: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the Introduction and 
Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers”, 
published by the IBRD in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant 
Guidelines), and the following provisions of this Section I.
Part B: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, 
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 
3.18 thereof applicable to quality and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services rendered by consulting firms for the Activities under paragraph 1.1 of the Annex to this 
Letter Agreement estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
2.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for rendered by consulting firms for the Activities under paragraph 1.1 of the Annex and 
estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for the 
selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of 
all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
Page  8
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms, irrespective of the 
contract amount, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants, irrespective 
of the contract amount, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
Section II.
Procurement of Goods
Goods shall be procured: (a) in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in 
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Guidelines); and (b) under contracts 
awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 
of the Guidelines.  The review procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply to such contracts, provided that the word “bids”, in such paragraph 4, shall be read as “quotations”.
 Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)  The term “eligible items” means the items set forth in the table in paragraph 4.2 of the Annex 
to this Letter Agreement;
(b)  the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and
services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)  the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to US$90,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Attachment
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly 
opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special 
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)  the Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw 
from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient 
shall have requested.
(b)  
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to the Bank 
requests for 
deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
Page  9
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to the Bank the 
documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Attachment 
for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Grant Account under the eligible 
items, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at such 
time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, the Bank shall not be required 
to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be made 
by the Recipient directly from the Grant;
(b)  if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time specified in 
paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex of this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for 
the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)  Once the total withdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall 
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals 
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special Account: 
(i) was made for an expenditure or an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Attachment; or 
(ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank:  (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
Page  10
