                                                                                                             99818
Transforming Croatia's Rijeka Port and City
Vanja Frajtic, Communications Associate in the Zagreb Office,
offers this story.
                                                                    Multi-Media
From Rijeka's waterfront, you can see large container vessels
steaming along the horizon like dots on the Adriatic. To attract
those ships to this deep water Croatian port while improving
the city's waterfront, major investments in terminals, docks,
and roads are being made.

Rijeka has been an important port over the centuries,
changing hands as it changed rulers, and cycling through
                                                                    On the Road (Video)
boom and bust. In the past decade, Rijeka has been in need
of an economic boost, and is getting one thanks to a public-
private partnership involving government authorities and one        Photo Gallery
of the largest private terminal operators in the world,
International Container Terminal Services (ICTSI).

The long term plan is to make the port—a gateway to Central
Europe—competitive to container and other maritime traffic,
while making the city more livable for its citizens and more
attractive to tourists.

The ambitious and massive overhaul of Rijeka's port is a
project of the government—through the state run port                Related Links

authority and the roads company—and the municipality of
                                                                    The World Bank in Croatia
Rijeka, with close support from the World Bank.
                                                                    Rijeka Gateway Project
The existing container terminal in Brajdica is the first to be
                                                                    Rijeka Gateway Project Additional
upgraded. New equipment and more workers are already                Financing
speeding up offloading of ships. Expansion of the terminal is
                                                                    Rijeka Gateway Project II
underway. Once completed, traffic could potentially triple.
That is the business objective of ICTSI, which will operate this    Rijeka Port Authority
terminal for 30 years.                                              Development of Ports in Croatia

"By 2016, the Brajdica terminal will be able to handle half a      Turning Croatia's Ports into Regional
                                                                   Gateways
million containers per year. Today it only handles 140,000,'"
says Antonio Passaro of ICTSI. ICTSI became a majority
shareholder in the concessionaire in early 2011, following one of the first successful public private
partnerships in the sector in Croatia.

As the port is reconfigured, some industrial operations are being moved off the waterfront, making room
for citizens, tourists, and businesses.

                         A new passenger terminal, big enough for cruise ships with 500 passengers to
                         dock, allows easy passage from sea to land, and reopens the waterfront.

                         Having ICTSI at the helm of the concessionaire saves the government from
                         having to finance most of the upgrading of the equipment and of the terminal
                         platform, while improving its revenue to reimburse the initial infrastructure.


Antonio Passaro


                         "They have planned an investment of EUR 70 million in the next five years, and
                         we believe that number will be much bigger over the concession period. From
                         this one terminal alone, revenue for the port will be EUR 17 million a year. With
                         this money we can make new investments, hire more people and improve the
                         living conditions in the city," says Denis Vukorepa, Director of Luka Rijeka, the
                         main port operating company.

Denis Vukorepa             Living conditions are already better thanks to a new connector road and bypass
                           from the container terminal to the highway. Noisy trucks no longer rumble
through narrow and crowded Rijeka city streets belching fumes ferrying containers from port to suburbs
or final destination city. There is less traffic and less pollution.

                         "According to data, 60,000 vehicles enter the city every day when people go to
                         work. It is good that we have a road like this that will get rid of the heavy traffic
                         in the city," says one citizen.

                         It also gets goods off the docks and on their way faster and cheaper.

                         "Early data show a 50% savings in time. This means that the entire process
                         before opening this road lasted an hour to get to the motorway to Zagreb, but
Ante Buneta              now it is done in a half an hour," says Ante Buneta, who manages the terminal
                         where containers are offloaded for further transport by rail or road.

And it means the way is paved for more container traffic in the future.
