Report No. PIC4403
Project Name:                  South Africa-Industrial Competitiveness...
and Job Creation
Region                         Africa
Sector                         Social Sector
Project ID                     ZAPA48606
Borrower                       Government of the Republic of South Africa
Executing Agency               Directorate General of the Department of
Trade and Industry
Estimated Project Cost         US$ 67 million
Date PID prepared              September , 1996
Proposed Appraisal Date        TBD
Proposed Board Date            TBD
Proposed Negotiations Date     TBD
Country and Sector Background
The South African economy emerged from a prolonged recession at the
end of 1993. Economic growth averaged 3.5% in 1995 driven primarily by
private investment, but employment remains stagnant. The accelerated
trade liberalization envisaged in the Government's recently announced
Growth, Equality and Redistribution strategy puts increased competitive
pressure on firms. The rationale for a more competitive manufacturing
sector is clear: the strengthening of the balance of payments, the need
for faster job creation, and easing the transition from mining and
beneficiated exports all require the rapid emergence of differentiated
light manufactures.
The broad economic challenge facing the Government is to redress
the extreme socio-economic dualism (a legacy of the apartheid system)
and to create jobs. Up until the eighties, South Africa followed an
explicit policy of import-substituting industrialization supported by a
complex system of tariffs and other import restrictions, and the
upstream production of beneficiated commodities. The result was a
manufacturing sector dominated by large firms that were highly inward-
oriented, capital-intensive, and marked by declining productivity.
Inward orientation also resulted in weak vertical and horizontal
networks between firms. Thus, the challenge in manufacturing is to
overcome the isolation of firms, strengthen networking among firms, and
encourage the entry of new firms.
The policy framework to meet this challenge is being put in place
by the Government. In the eighties, a shift towards a more outward-
oriented policy occurred: import protection policy began to be reformed
and incentives for exports were introduced. These efforts, which were
hampered by the continuing isolation of South Africa as a result of
sanctions, accelerated following the lifting of sanctions. The early



1990s was a period of political transition, during which diverse South
Africans perfected the art of developing consensus through painstaking
negotiations. In the arena of economic policy, the tripartite --
government, business, and labor -- National Economic Forum (NEF) (see 1)
became the forum for consensus development. In 1994, the Government
presented an NEF-supported trade reform package to GATT. Complementary
to the shift away from demand-side measures, a series of supply-side
measures are being envisaged to enhance industrial competitiveness.
Project Objectives and Description
The project's primary development objective is to increase the
competitiveness of the country's small and medium-sized firms, and
enhance their ability to take advantage of the ongoing trade
liberalization to expand domestic and export sales. A related objective
is to accelerate job creation by removing bottlenecks facing SMEs who
play an important role in the production of light manufactures -- where
the industrial jobs are. The project would achieve these objectives by:
increasing firm-level productivity, increasing firms' knowledge of
export markets, fostering networking and information-sharing among
firms, and reducing the risk associated with exporting.
Two of the three components of this project were prepared using
PHRD (Japan) Grant Funds that the government received in 1994 to examine
supply-side measures to enhance industrial competitiveness. Preparation
proceeded in a highly collaborative manner, and also involved extensive
consultation within South Africa through the tripartite forum involving
business, labor and government (NEDLAC). Other initiatives include a
program to set up a national investment promotion agency, and
development of a funding mechanism to upgrade the skills of blue-collar
workers. These other initiatives are at different stages of
consultation, political approval, and implementation.
Collectively, the PHRD set of initiatives form part of an
encompassing industrial strategy, developed and being implemented by the
government of South Africa. The proposed project will complement that
industrial policy in areas that an interest has been expressed in IBRD
support, and where IBRD has a comparative advantage based on its prior
international experience.
The likely project components are:
A Competitiveness Fund to support a matching grant scheme for
individual enterprises to help them access business support
services and travel with a view to enhancing technology and
productivity adjustments;
A Sector Partnership Fund to catalyze subsector partnershipsby
fostering networking and information-sharing; and
An Export Finance Guarantee Facility to increase the access of
small and medium-sized enterprises to short-term credit for
transactions purposes.
Project Financing
-2-



The estimated proposed project cost would be US$100 million
equivalent. Of the total project cost, IBRD would finance about US$67
million. Any possible co-financing by other donors would reduce the
necessary IBRD financing.
Project Implementation
The framework for project implementation will be a Project
Implementation Plan to be developed by the Government in association
with IBRD. The lead counterparts at the national level will be the
Department of Trade and Industry, in consultation with the Department of
Finance.
Project Sustainability
The project seeks to assist in the development of sustainable
enterprises and institutions in three areas: ((i) business enterprises
that have long-term sustainability due to increased competitiveness
through an upgrading of their technological and productive capability,
and which allows firms to take advantage of new opportunities in
domestic and export markets; (ii) subsector partnerships that foster
networking and increase productivity; (iii) the broadening of economic
participation through the emergence of new firms; and (iv) an
institutional framework that supports long-term private sector
development.
Lessons from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
The project draws upon lessons of previous Bank initiatives in the
provision of business services, and the Bank's experience in South
Africa: (i) business support services can contribute to accelerating the
process of firm-level restructuring and response through their catalytic
effects; (ii) business support services need to be market-oriented and
to operate on a cost-recovery basis to maximize their sustainability and
effectiveness; (iii) a lesson from IBRD non-lending services in South
Africa is that extensive dialogue and consultation in all aspects of
task design and implementation are crucial for success.
Environmental Aspects
No direct negative environmental impacts are foreseen from the
proposed project.
Program Objective Categories.
The project would contribute to the following Bank Group
objectives: (a) economic growth; and (b) private sector development.
1/   After the 1994 elections, the NEF was superseded by NEDLAC, the
National Economic Development and Labor Council.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
- 3-



1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by The Public Information Center week ending November 1, 1996.
- 4 -



