Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 16225-SA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SOUTH AFRICA
INDUSTRIAL COMPETITIVENESS AND JOB CREATION PROJECT
MAY 8, 1997
Macroeconomics
Southern Africa
Africa Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of May 5,1997)
Currency Unit  South African Rand
USS 1.00 = 4.44 Rands
FISCAL YEAR
April 1- March 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AEF            African Enterprise Fund
ANC            African National Congress
CCFF           Compensatory and Contingency Financing Facility
CF             Competitiveness Fund
CGIC           Credit Guarantee Insurance Corporation
DALA           Department of Agriculture and Land Affairs
DANIDA         Danish International Development Agency
DOF            Department of Finance
DOSE           Department of State Expenditure
DTI            Department of Trade and Industry
EDI            Economic Development Institute
ESW            Economic and Sector Work
EU             European Union
GATT           General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GEAR           Growth, Equity and Redistribution
GOSA           Government of South Africa
IBRD           International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICJC           Industrial Competitiveness and Job Creation
IFC            International Finance Corporation
ISP            Industrial Strategy Project
JGF            Japan Grant Fund
MIGA           Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
MPP            Manual of Policies and Procedures
MT             Management Team
NEDLAC         National Economic Development and Labour Advisorv Council
NESAP          National Environmental Strategic Action Plan
NGOs           Non-governmental Organizations
NORAD          Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
ODA            Overseas Development Association
PC             Project Coordinator
PHRD           Population Human Resource Development
RDP            Reconstruction and Development Programme
SIDA           Swedish International Development Agency
SMEs           Small and Medium-sized Enterprises
SMMEs          Small. Micro and Medium-sized Enterprises
SOE            Statement of Expenditures
SPF            Sector Partnership Fund
STB            State Tender Board
TORs           Terms of Reference
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
WTO            World Trade Organization
Vice-Presidents:               Callisto Madavo, Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFR
Country Director:              Pamela Cox, AFCO I
Technical Manager:             Ataman Aksoy, AFTMI
Task Team Leader:              Yvonne Tsikata, AFTM I



REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA
INDUSTRIAL COMPETITIVENESS AND JOB CREATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I . INTRODUCTION  ................................................................                                                                  I
2. SECTOR BACKGROUND ................................................................3
3.  THE PROJECT ................................................................8
A.. Project Objectives.8
B. Government Strategy and the Role of the Bank ................................................................8
C. Lessons Learned ...............................................................                                                              9
D. Project Description ...............................................................9
E. Project Cost and Financing.                                              ............................................................... 1 4
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT ...............................................................                                           16
A.  Project  Implem entation                                                               ............................................................... 16
Institutional Arrangements ...............................................................                                               16
B. Procurement ...............................................................                                                                 18
C. Disbursement ...............................................................                                                               19
D. Project Accounts and Audits ...............................................................                                                21
E. Project Monitoring, Reporting and Implementation Support ...............................................................                   21
F. Environment .......... .....................................................                                                               22
5. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ...............................................................                                                      24
A. Project Benefits ...............................................................                                                           24
B. Project Risks ............................................................... 24
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ...............................................................                                           26
TEXT TABLES
TABLE 2. 1: DISTRIBUTION OF MANUFACTURING EMPLOYM1ENT BY ESTABLISHMENT SIZE ..............................................4
TABLE 3. 1: SUMMARY OF ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT ...............................................................   1 4
TABLE 3.2: PROPOSED BUDGET AND FINANCING PLAN ...............................................................                                      15
TABLE 4.1: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS ...............................................................                                                1 9
TABLE 4.2: DISBURSEMENT OF LOAN PROCEEDS .............................................................                                             20



TEXT BOXES
Box 3. 1: Cost-Sharing Schemes
SUPPORTING ANNEXES
1.    Project Key Performance Indicators (Annex I from PCD)
2.     Manual of Operating Policies and Procedures for Competitiveness Fund and Bumble-Bee
3.     Description of Sector Partnership Fund and Operating Procedures
4.     Description of Short-Term Export Finance Guarantee Facility
5.     Outline of Project Functions
6.     Project Implementation Schedule
7.     Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
8.     The Benefits of Collective Action
9.     Cost-Sharing Schemes
10.    Environmental Analysis
11.    Supporting Tables and Charts
12.    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
This report was prepared by Yvonne Tsikata (Task Team Leader), with the contribution and teamwork of
Mmes./Messrs. Mark Dorfman (AFTPI), Brian Levy, Velinda Nava (AFTM 1), Jacomina de Regt, Jaime
Roman, Uche Mbanefo (AFTSI), Elizabeth Adu (LEGAF), Marcos Sugar (LOOAF), Francois Falloux
(AFTEI) and Andrew Singer (Consultant). Initial preparation of the project on the IBRD side was carried
out using Japan PHRD Grant Funds managed by Mr. Levy. Ms. Lucy Kimani provided secretarial
support in document preparation. Mr. Ataman Aksoy and Ms. Pamela Cox are respectively, the
managing Technical Manager and Country Director for the operation. The peer reviewers are Messrs.
Mark Dutz (LATPS) and Alfred Watkins (EMTIE).



- iii -
SOUTH AFRICA
INDUSTRIAL COMPETITIVENESS AND JOB CREATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                   Republic of South Africa
Implementing Agency:        Department of Trade and Industry, CGIC
Beneficiaries:              Private sector, especially Small, Micro & Medium-sized
Enterprises (SMMEs)
Amount:                     US$46 million equivalent
Terms:                      Single currency loan in US dollars, to be repaid in 15 years,
including three years of grace at the standard fixed interest rate
for US dollar Single Currency Loans.
Commitment Fees:            0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver.
Project Objectives:         The primary objectives of this project are to support sustainable
economic growth and job creation needs by enhancing industrial
competitiveness of South African firms, particularly SMMEs, thereby
accelerating their supply response. The Project's strategy to accomplish
these objectives is to: (i) catalyze the use of technological, marketing
and productivity-enhancing business development services; (ii) support
a process of information-sharing  and  foster networking  among
partnerships at the sectoral level; (iii) reduce bottlenecks associated with
short-term trade financing for SMMEs; and (iv) expand the role of
SMMEs in the industrial sector.
Project Description:        The project has three components. (1) A Competitiveness Fund to
support competitiveness enhancement and stimulate the market for
business development services through matching grants; (2) A Sector
Partnership Fund to support initiatives to foster informationl-shiarinig
and networking among groups through cost-sharing grants; and (3) A
Short-Term Export Finance Guarantee Facility to reduce the perceived
risk associated with export financing.
Benefits:                   The proposed project would support the Government's development
goals of greater economic, export and employment growth by
accelerating the pace at which South African firms adjust to the ongoilig
trade liberalization to compete more effectively in global markets. It
would increase the rate of return to investment by firms by increasing
their ability to assess export markets, through quicker turn-around, new
product designs, higher domestic and export sales, higher productivity,
and lower product rejection rates.  The project would broaden the
participation of SMMEs in the economy by affording them opportunities
to enhance their dynamic capabilities through the use of business
development services. Stimulating the market for service provision will
lead to greater sustainability and, ultimately, less need for public
intervention or support. Finally, the export guarantee component will
strengthen the export financing capacity of banks and increase the access
of small and medium-sized firms to such financing.



- iv-
Risks:                      The project's principal risks are as follows: as the first IBRD project in
over thirty years, start-up could be slow due to administrative, budgetary
or contracting procedures.  To mitigate this implementation risk,
procedures to be followed were agreed on prior to negotiations and the
tendering process for the Competitiveness Fund Management Team is
already underway.  Other risks include the possibility that trade
liberalization will falter, hence slowing the opening of the economy, or
that the novelty of the scheme in South Africa and firms' undervaluing
of these services could result in sub-optimal demand and in an
unwillingness to pay for these services.   The authorities have
demonstrated their commitment to a phased and comprehensive opening
up through a trade liberalization agreement with the World Trade
Organization which they are already implementing.  The pro-active
outreach and early marketing of the funds by the administrator in
particular is intended to increase information about the advantages of the
schemes and help overcome any lack of demand issues. In addition, the
potential beneficiaries (private sector) were consulted extensively in
project preparation. Finally, overall project implementation support will
be maintained at a high level to enable a quick adjustment of the project
should the need arise, and should the risks become higher than currently
estimated.
Financing Plan:             See para. 3.24-3.26 and Table 3.2
Staff Appraisal Report:     1 6225-SA
Map:                       IBRD-28514
Project Identification No.:   ZA-PA-48606
Vice-Presidents:     Callisto Madavo, Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFR
Country Director:    Pamela Cox, AFCO0
Technical Manager:   Ataman Aksoy, AFTMI
Task Team Leader:    Yvonne Tsikata, AFTMI



1. INTRODUCTION
1.1    South Africa is one of the richest and economically most important countries on the African
continenit. With a population of 42 million, gross domestic product (GDP) of US$134 billion, and total
area of 1.2 million square kilometers, the country dwarfs the rest of Southern Africa and accounts for
more than a third of the output of all sub-Saharan Africa. It is by far the most industrialized country on
the continent with manufacturing contributing 26% of GDP, mining around 11% and agriculture only
5%. The foreign debt burden is low by international standards (17.8% of GDP), it has a sound market
economy with a well-developed private sector, and inflation is manageable (around 9%). The size and
sophistication of the economy show potential not only for the country's own growth, but also as an
engine for regional development. Following protracted negotiations, on April 26-28, South African
voters of all races elected a Government of National Unity in the first all-race elections in the country's
history in April 1994. The African National Congress (ANC) won 63% of the popular vote and Mr.
Mandela was elected President.
1.2    Despite a successful political transition, South Africa faces other daunting challenges. While
South Africa's per capita income of about US$3 100 places it firmly in the category of middle-income
countries, its social indicators are more comparable with low-income countries of Africa. Apartheid's
legacy is a highly skewed distribution of income and assets.  The Gini coefficient that measures the
extent of income inequality is 0.6 (where a Gini of 0 signifies absolute equality and I indicates maximum
concentration of income).
1.3    Unemployment remains staggeringly high despite the emergence in 1994 from an economic
recession. Restructuring the existing budget to adequately address poverty alleviation concerns is an
important part of the Government's strategy to address the challenges of poverty and inequality
reduction.  Equally important, accelerated labor-demanding economic growth will be crucial in
generating the necessary jobs and financial resources to meet these challenges.
1.4    A key element of the Government's growth strategy is trade and industrial policy reform. On
trade policy, current trade liberalization has already begun to reduce the anti-export bias inherent in the
previous trade regime designed to support an import-substitution or self-sufficiency strategy.  On
industrial policy, additional supply-side policies are to be instituted for human resource development,
training, work organization, investment promotion among others.
1.5    South Africa's manufacturing sector needs large changes in its operation and organization if the
country's remarkable political transformation is to be underpinned by sustained economic success.
Increasingly, the sector will have to compete in global markets (rather than protected domestic markets)
and ownership will have to reflect the composition of the country's population.
1.6   Enhanced performance by South Africa's Small, Micro and Medium-sized Enterprises (SMMEs)
is important to achieving the transformation of the manufacturing sector.  First, SMMEs play a
disproportionately large role in light (more labor-intensive) manufactures and experience the world over
shows that nimble medium-sized enterprises can be effective competitors in the global market place.



- 2 -
Second, new businesses generally start up small. Thus a business environment that is attractive to
SMMEs can add importantly to the opportunities for entrepreneurs from South Africa's historically
disadvantaged communities. To support both of these objectives, the Ministry of Trade and Industry
(MTI) has given high priority to SMME development.'
1.7   International evidence suggest important competitiveness gains from  the use of business
(including technical and marketing) support services by firms. SMMEs in South Africa however, have
had little or no access to business support services. These tended to be tied to contractual relationships
with a few institutions, such as research institutions and large-scale formal firms. Finally, years of
import-substituting industrialization and the imposition of financial sanctions after 1985 resulted in a
relative lack of exporting (or competing) experience among all but the largest of firms.
1.8   This project will support the acceleration of the supply response (of both domestic sales and
exports).of firms in two ways: (1) by catalyzing the use of technological and productivity enhancing
business services and making them more broadly available in order to increase the competitiveness of
firms; and (2) by reducing the perceived risk of financial institutions towards trade financing towards
emerging SMME exporters. Further, by enhancing the performance of South Africa's SMMEs, the
project can broaden opportunities for entrepreneurs from previously disadvantaged groups and contribute
to job creation.
The statutory definition of manufacturing SMMEs is based on employment (200 employees or fewer),
turnover (R40 million or less) and assets (R15 million or less).



2. SECTOR BACKGROUND
2.1   South Africa's economic growth averaged 3% between 1994-1996, insufficient given the needs
and the backlogs of social infrastructure. Manufacturing which accounts for 26% of GDP is likely to be
one of the most important sectors in the country's growth in the short- and medium-term. As the largest
employer after the government (employing 61% of the formal labor force), an acceleration of job
creation will depend largely on sector's performance.  Manufacturing output grew rapidly in the
seventies averaging 5.3% annually between 1972-1981. Between 1981-1994, related to factors discussed
below, output stagnated and exhibited greater year to year volatility (Annex I1). Employment has shown
a similar trend -- in particular, no job creation has occurred in the past two years in the sector despite a
recovery in output growth.
2.2   The manufacturing sector in South Africa has historically been dominated by large highly
inward-oriented and capital-intensive firms and characterized by declining total factor productivity
growth in recent decades. This was partly due to two sets of policies followed until the mid-eighties.
The first was import-substituting industrialization supported by a complex system of tariffs and other
import restrictions. The second was upstream mineral beneficiation (that is, adding value to South
Africa's raw materials). The anti-export bias created by protection skewed incentives towards producing
for the domestic market. Exporting, for many firms, was a reaction to depressed domestic demand -- a
vent-for-surplus export behavior, which reversed once domestic demand revived. Inward orientation and
to some extent, the apartheid system, resulted in weak vertical and horizontal networks between firms.
Finally, in conjunction with sanctions, these policies led to missed opportunities for learnine and higher
productivity. The consequent weak international competitiveness has been well documented.
2.3    Manufacturing exports have trended upwards since the late eighties. In dollar terms, exports of
manufactured goods quadrupled between 1988-1995, albeit from a low base compared to more modest
growth in beneficiated and primary product exports. The export base appears to be broadening slightly.
In 1990 the top five manufactured exports (iron and steel, mineral ores, chemical products, machinery
and processed coal products) accounted for 58% of total export revenue. By 1995, this share had
dropped to 52%. Most recently manufacturing exports grew by 12% in real terms in 1996.
2.4    Despite manufacturing's respectable performance, even more stellar performance is required,
given the country's needs and the sector's potential. Scope exists for diversifying exports and increasing
the role of SMMEs in the sector.  Government has indicated that "the enhancement of the
competitiveness of the country's industries on the domestic and international markets has become the
primary focus of industrial policy, with inward-looking demand-side and import replacement industrial
policies making way for an outward-oriented and supply-side approach aimed at enhancing global
competitiveness, growth and employment generation".'
2.5    SMMEs. Relative to international norms, small and medium-sized establishments are under-
represented in South African manufacturing output and employment. In 1996 South Africa had 68,700
manufacturing firms. The share of manufacturing employment in South Africa firms with 100 or more
employees was higher than in Korea, Singapore (both of which are generally viewed as being oriented
2   Monitor Group, various cluster studies (1993, 1995); Levy (1996).
3   Support Measures for the Enhancement of the International Competitiveness of South Africa's Industrial
Sector, Submission by Government to the Trade and Industry Chamber of NEDLAC, 1995.



-4-
towards large firms), Malaysia or the average for a group of nine countries with per capita incomes in the
$2,000 - $5,000 range. While an overwhelming number of manufacturing establishments (57,100 or
83. 1%) had 20 or fewer employees, they accounted for only 10.6% of employmenit (see Table 2. 1).
2.6    The Government's competitiveness-enhancing strategy includes the following: tariff reforms, a
systematic drive to promote SMMEs, initiatives to upgrade labor skills, ensuring access to credit for
smaller firms, and a heightened emphasis on fostering technological and organizational development
within and across firms.
2.7    The policy framework to meet this competitiveness challenge is being put in place and has
created incentives for firms to seek new opportunities in global markets. In the late 1980s, the shift
towards a more outward-oriented policy accelerated in earnest: import protection policy began to be
reformed and incentives for exports introduced. These efforts were hampered by the continuing isolation
of South Africa as a result of sanctions, and the overvaluation of the rand during the late 1970s due to
gold price boom. The efforts accelerated following the lifting of sanctions. In 1994, the Government
made a WTO offer that further signaled a clear shift in trade policy. The offer included the elimination
of all non-tariff barriers, a reduction in the number of tariff rates and in tariff ceilings, the announcement
of a five-year period of phasing down tariffs (with the exception of three subsectors where the phase-
down period is eight years), the removal of import surcharges, and the phasing out of the General Export
Incentive Scheme (GEIS). The net effect was to lower the average tariff rate from 19% (including
surcharges) in 1994 to 12% in 1996, reduce the dispersion in the tariff structure, and introduce greater
transparency.
TABLE 2.1: DISTRIBUTION OF MANUFACTURING EMPLOYMENT By ESTABLISHMENT SIZE
Establishmn  ize         Nm      ofSaeoal                      Ditbuinf           Sh- a"re- of- total
Establishments     etblishment          emlyet             employment
(No. of employees)()(%
1-5                 17,500  ---~25.5                       27,000               1.7.. .....
6-19                39,600               57.6              143,000              8.9
20-49                5,600                8.2               152,000              9.5
50-199                3,900                5.7              327,000              20.4
200 or more             2,100                3.1               953,000             59.5
TOTAL                 68,700               100              1,602,000      1      100
-- - - - --
Source: Schedule of National Small Business Act (1/2), 1996.
2.8    Another element of competitiveness concerns wages and labor relations. Wages in South
Africa's formal manufacturing sector are in the mid-range among middle-income countries--about one-
third those of Korea and Taiwan, but much higher than those prevailing in Indonesia and Bangladesh.
High product quality, quick turnaround, and reliability in meeting delivery schedules will be critical for
exporting success. This suggests that a re-emergence of conflict-ridden industrial relations (with the



- 5 -
attendant work stoppages) would undercut the ability of firms to penetrate export markets. On the
positive side, work-days lost to strikes have fallen since 1994 and the authorities are close to completing
a Government White Paper on a New Integrated Human Resources Development Strategy. The strategy
represents a fundamental shift in the policy environment surrounding industrial skills development in
South Africa. The strategy would strengthen the linkages between skills training and national economic
and social development and promote a more effective and efficient training system.
2.9    The ongoing trade policy reform is undoubtedly important in reducing the anti-export bias that
firms previously faced.  International experience suggests, however, that while policy reforms are
necessary in that task, they are not sufficient to generate sustainable export growth and economic growth.
The pro-active provision of travel and business development support services to help firms enhanlce
their productivity and market exposure is also important in increasing their competitiveness. Information
about markets, product design, packaging, quality control, reliability of supplies, marketing and
distribution is critical for export success, and this non-price competitive advantage is emerging as
equally important in today's global markets.4
2.10   Traditionally, SMMEs in particular have had little information or access to these services and
consequently are frequently unaware of the potential gains and high return to their investment.5  More
generally, under past policies of economic isolation and import substitution, fewer opportunities for
learning existed, there was little external competitive pressure to ensure efficiency, sector associations
aimed at lobbying for special deals because of the discretionary tariff system, and state-run export
promotion was underutilized and not very effective. An immediate challenge is to reshape the existing
commercial relationships in the marketplace for business services to make them more broadly available.
-2.1 1 International experience suggests that strong, service-oriented subsector partnerships can also
play an important role in fostering productivity and competitiveness. The kinds of activities which a
well-functioning partnership active in a vibrant subsector might undertake include: (i) preparation and
provision of programs to improve the productivity and competitiveness of members; (ii) provision of
information on trends in the subsector domestically and globally, and other domestic issues of particular
relevance to subsector members; and (iii) a forum to facilitate networking and information-sharing among
members (see Annex 8). The advantage of the networking approach is lower transaction costs, increased
specialization by firms and the leveraging of resources.
2.12   These subsector level partnerships have taken different forms in different countries, ranging
from subsector business associations to joint, subsector focused public-private assistance centers as the
focal point. It is not self-evident what would be the appropriate organizational form for subsector
partnerships in South Africa currently in the development of the country's institutions to support an
outward-oriented industrial restructuring. For good reasons, there has been wariness of prematurely
investing public resources in a supply-driven (or donor-driven) initiative to erect manufacturinig
assistance centers, which may not be adequately anchored in the needs of client firms. While there exists
a dense population of business associations, these associations were historically oriented
overwhelmingly towards lobbying, rather than towards enhancing the productivity qf members.
Moreover (and especially problematic) the terrain of business associations is intensely politicized and
polarized
4   Non-price competitiveness factors (i.e. not labor cost or exchange rate related) include marketing, information,
reliability and communications.
Based on firm surveys and interviews in South Africa between 1994-96.



- 6 -
2.13   Finally, one important feature of the SMME sector in South Africa that influenced the project
design is its broad diversity. For example, there exist firms with strong competitive potential, especially
in export markets; SMEs who are not necessarily high potential (yet); and very small formal emerging
enterprises (that is with fewer than 20 employees); and informal microenterprises.6 This diversity has
two important implications. First, it implies that not all objectives can be equally served by all programs.
Second, the diversity means that SMMEs will differ in their needs and absorptive capacities by size, by
the market segment they serve, and by the prior education and experience of their entrepreneurs.
Consequently, the design of programs should vary according to which segment of the SMME population
is to be served. The project will emphasize enhancing business services for and technical capability of
the first three segments, i.e., competitive exporters; not yet high potential SMEs; and formal enterprises
with fewer than 20 employees, with accommodation for customized packages for each segment's needs
(for example, standardized versus specialized).7
2.14   The project addresses three types of market failures, two in the delivery of business development
support services and one in the provision of trade financing for SMMEs.
2.15   First, there is a demand-side failure resulting from inward orientation and relatively higil levels
of market concentration. Firm interviews in South Africa suggest that small to medium-sized firms
seriously undervalue the gains during firm-level adjustment from the use of support services and travel.
These help to increase the firm's awareness about how best it can find its niche in an international
marketplace, establish contacts with export outlets and with sources of imported inputs that can help
build competitiveness. Because they undervalue the benefits from these services and travel abroad, these
firms perceive both as "expensive" and therefore of low interest. Matching grants that temporarily share
the costs of procuring services can induce firms to experiment with technological support that they might
otherwise be reluctant to use. The temporary use of financial incentives can yield pernanent benefits,
thus bypassing the need to create a public sector institution likely to develop a stake in its contiluilig
existence.
2.16   Second, there is a supply-side failure having to do with access, rather than availability. For a
country with a per capita income of about US$3100, South Africa is quite well-endowed with specialist
(and to some extent, generalist) services. These resources are, however, found in a few narrow networks
that need to be broadened to incorporate more fully SMMEs. Substantial technical capability exists
across a range of technikons8, universities and parastatal institutions, significant export marketing
capability among private and "semi-official' providers, plus a few good quality NGOs and other
providers of generalist business services. Additionally, there appears to be a broad array of private
management and engineering consultants. For the most part though, the technical, export marketing and
private consulting firms are "locked up" either within research and technical institutions, or in
contracting relations with the large-scale already well-established and well-resourced corporate and
6   The statutory definition of SMMEs for manufacturing is based on employment (200 employees-or fewer),
turnover (R40 million or less) and assets (R15 million or less).
7   For informal microenterprises, international experience suggests financial interventions are more effective than
interventions aimed at enhancing technical or marketing capability.
8   Technikons are the South African equivalent of U.S. community colleges and offer two year programs leading
to certificates in technical areas.



public sector. The challenge is to "unlock" these resources and make them more broadly accessible to
SMMEs.
2.17   There is a third market failure that the project seeks to address: one of informational
asymmetries on the part of South African financial institutions about SMMEs' ability to execute export
orders. When an enterprise receives an export order from overseas, the two basic stages of the export
process require swift and reliable funding if both direct and indirect exporters are to successfully fulfill
these orders (with the latter defined as enterprises that supply intermediate goods to enterprises exporting
directly to importers, as well as final goods producers selling to local trading companies). The two
stages are: producing the good which requires pre-shipment financing and offering the orders on credit
requiring post-shipment financing. With the ongoing trade liberalization, South African firms have faced
increasing import competition as well as export opportunities. Yet the process whereby financial
institutions provide working capital based on export orders (as opposed to overdraft facilities based on
underlying collateral cover) had, until recently, been largely restricted to very large firms that could also
draw upon existing assets for collateral. As such, financial institutions have been reticent to invest in the
training and systems necessary to adequately review and appraise export and production documentation
characteristics of trade finance transactions. Further, the focus of commercial financial intermediation
had, until recently, been on collateralized lines of credit which firms used at their discretion. Pre-
shipment export financing generally cannot provide the same level of collateral cover yet is financing
directed at a particular transaction and not subject to the borrower's discretion. Further, trade financing
involves mitigating risk through verification and security of confirmed export orders. The result of these
limitations in the capacity of financial institutions is that the financing for many creditworthy export
projects has not been provided. The aim of this project is to accelerate the change in this process (as
some institutions have slowly developed trade finance departments) and reduce the inability to handle
exporter performance risk over time by increasing the experience between SMME exporters and banks.
Joffee, A. et al. Improving Manufacturing Performance in South Africa, Report of the Industrial Strategy
Project, International Development Research Centre, University of Cape Town Press, Cape Town, 1995.



3. THE PROJECT
A.    Project Objectives
3.1    The primary objective of this project is to support sustainable economic growth and job creation
needs by enhancing industrial competitiveness of South African firms, particularly SMMEs, thereby
accelerating their supply response. The Project's strategy to accomplish this objective is to: (i) catalyze
the use of technological, marketing and productivity-enhancing business development services; (ii)
support a process of information-sharing and foster networking among partnerships at the sectoral level;
(iii) reduce bottlenecks associated with short-term trade financing for SMMEs; and (iv) expand the role
of SMMEs in the industrial sector.
B.     Government Strategy and the Role of the Bank
3.2    For the past few years, the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) and the Bank have been
involved in a continuing dialogue on broad issues of trade and industrial policy. The dialogue began
with a stocktaking of trade policy, in particular its impact on incentives for exporting. It moved on to a
discussion about supply-side measures to complement the ongoing trade liberalization and facilitate
adjustment by firms. Under the leadership of the DTI (and with some support from Japan PHRD Grant
Funds), a series of cross-cutting initiatives have been designed.  In some cases these are behig
implemented with the guidance and close collaboration of a South African team with representatives
from business and labor. The initiatives include, the establishment of a National Investment Promotion
Agency, investigation into a training levy, and establishment of a pre-shipment export finance guarantee
as well as subsector/cluster initiatives.'° This project is complementary and supportive of the country's
evolving strategy for industrial support. Indeed it is an integral part of the array of supply-side measures
to enhance industrial competitiveness that the Government has formulated in consultation with the
private sector and labor.
3.3    This project is fully consistent with the strategic focus of the Bank's work in South Africa (as
discussed in the background section of the accompanying Memorandum  of the President).  The
overarching objective of the country strategy for South Africa is the reduction of poverty and inequality.
In particular, one of the four strategic pillars revolves around the need for macroeconomic stability and
more rapid economic growth. Improved industrial competitiveness, (through support of cost-sharing
grants for essential technical, marketing, business and buyer identification skills) will contribute to
placing the economy on a high growth path. South African firms need to restructure and quickly upgrade
the skills referred to here if they are to compete successfully in a more open economy. Failure to do so
will result in a contraction of employment.  Globally, SMMEs tend to be concentrated in light
manufacturing, especially of differentiated products which tend to be more labor-intensive, and a similar
pattern prevails in South Africa. However, for reasons of South Africa's apartheid past and the policy of
mineral beneficiation, SMMEs account for a smaller share of industrial output in South Africa relative to
other middle-income countries. SMME share of industrial output must expand if industrial growth is to
be more labor-demanding. Further, the development of SMMEs, which this project supports, is an
important avenue for the upward mobility of South Africa 's historically disadvantaged community.
'°  The subsector cluster initiatives aim at benchmarking the clusters vis-a-vis the other countries, diagnose the
key bottlenecks in that sectoral cluster with a view to making competitiveness-enhancing recommendations.



-9 -
3.4   South Africa's economic importance in the region is without question, and the development of
the neighboring countries is intertwined with South Africa. A growing South Africa can have positive
multiplier effects for the region through increased trade, investment, the transfer of technology.
Conversely, a weak South African economy is likely to have adverse repercussions for some of the
countries.
3.5    This project builds on earlier dialogue and work in trade and industrial policy and reflects a good
understanding between the Bank and the implementing agencies.  Furthermore, the Bank brings
extensive cross-country experience with the design and implementation of matching grant schemes
across a range of countries (see Annex 9). The Government, which hitherto has been extremely selective
in accessing IBRD financial assistance, has determined that this area is a high priority one where they
would like the Bank's assistance.
C.    Lessons Learned
3.6   The project draws upon the lessons from previous and ongoing matching grant schemes, both
international as well as those designed by the Bank. It also draws on South Africa's experience with
export and technology promotion. Matching grant schemes have been successfully implemented through
Bank projects in India, Kenya and Mauritius --in each case increasing exports and sales by multiples of
the grant received by the firms. Annex 9 describes in detail the performance of these and other schemes.
Key lessons from these previous initiatives (including those that did not perform as well) are namely
that: (a) business support services can indeed contribute positively to firm-level restructuring and
response through their catalytic effect on capacity utilization rates, rejection rates and generally a sharper
focus on being responsive to the demands of customers; (b) application processes for grants need to be as
streamlined as possible, otherwise considerable delays can ensue; (c) the institutional location of the
funds is important -- business support services should not be set up under the umbrella of public agencies
(or even central banks as in two of the cases) except in exceptional circumstances; (d) good accountiig
and auditing procedures are needed to minimize fraud; (e) the overall macroeconomic and financial
environment must be conducive, with sufficient and quick availability of credit, and certainty of policy
and prices; (f) early and active marketing of the funds to all target groups by knowledgeable fund
managers is crucial.
3.7   South Africa's own experience suggests that making business support services more market-
oriented and forcing them to operate on a cost-recovery basis is a more successful way of identifying the
potential clients and their needs. A lesson from the Bank's non-lending services in South Africa is that
extensive dialogue and consultation in all aspects of task design and implementation are critical for
success.
D.    Project Description
3.8   The project has three components. (1) A Competitiveness Fund to support competitiveness
enhancement and stimulate the market for business development services through cost-sharing grants
(Annex 2); (2) A Sector Partnership Fund to support initiatives to foster information-sharing and
networking among groups through cost-sharing grants (Annex 3); and (3) A Short-Term Export Finance
Guarantee Facility to reduce the perceived risk associated with export financing (Annex 4). Aniex 5
illustrates the institutional and administrative responsibilities for the project and the flow of funds.



Box 3.1 Cost-Sharing Schemes
The starting principle of cost-sharing schemes is that having an active market in support services, where the range of
individual firm service requirements is matched by a plurality of specialist providers is most effective in getting
firms to innovate. To facilitate the rapid development of this marketplace, the cost-sharing scheme approach
utilizes a combination of interventions:
*   active promotion to the private sector of the benefits of utilizing support services to build competitiveness;
*   ongoing technical assistance on the process - how to decide on service usage - how to select a provider - how to use
the results;
*   matching grants, usually covering 50% of the costs of service fees and travel expenses, which are aimed at speeding
the rate at which firms try out service usage.
Other key features and principles of these schemes have been:
*   Matching grants are deliberately temporary, typically lasting three or four years only
*   Matching grants are deliberately partial
*   They focus on stimulating the demand side of the market for support services to build a buyers' market
*   Recipients select themselves
Examples: Two examples follow on services that could use the two cost-sharing schemes under this project (the
firm-level Competitiveness Fund) and the sector-level Sector Partnership Fund). The examples are partly based on
experience elsewhere and partly based on ideas generated during interviews with potential users in South Africa.
Making a Virtue out of Poor Management. A local investor buys a run-down coffee estate from a parastatal,
discovering that that no fertilizer or pesticide have been used for the past twenty years. After initial investigation,
he decided to make a virtue out of a weakness, and market his coffee specifically to the growing European market
for certified organic (produced without the use of artificial fertilizers or pesticides) foods, for which a premium
price can be obtained. For this, he discovers he requires certification from a European organic foods organization.
This involves paying for the services of a certification expert to inspect the estate, and the processing and storage
facilities to be used. The cost totals $12,000, of which half is reimbursed by the Competitiveness Fund. His share
of this is recouped in premium price realization within three months. He returns later to obtain a second grant
within this planned development into organics for Europe, in order to purchase a mailing list of European organic
foods importers/wholesalers, the price of which is $2,000.
Adding Value to Vanilla. A firm growing vanilla for export wants to explore the possibilities of adding value to the
unprocessed product, in order to expand the sales revenues generated from a fixed area of land. It decides as a first
step to purchase a $200 report on international markets for vanilla products, published by a consulting firm in
Germany. On the basis of this report, the management decides to engage the services of an expert in vanilla extract
production, based in the UK. This expert was located on the recommendation of two buyers in Europe. She
undertakes a feasibility study including full costing and return forecasts, plus an initial evaluation of sites available
at the farm. The cost of this work is $20,000 including travel. On the basis of the study, the firm follows through
with this expansion plan, using the same expert to plan and supervise the start-up of the new extract plant.
Lecture by Andrew Singer, October 22, 1996; Mauritius: Technical Assistance to Enhance Competitiveness Project,
Report No. 12693-MAS.



1.    The Competitiveness Fund [Project Cost US$37.64 million, of which IBRD wouldfinance
US$20.64 million]
3.9    The Competitiveness Fund (CF) will support the introduction of business development know-
how and expertise to South African firms through four instruments: (1) A cost-sharing grant scheme, in
which firms can be reimbursed for 50% of the costs of a broad range of approved business support
services, including marketing, production and general business strategy, provided they are identified in a
competitiveness-enhancing plan. The Competitiveness Fund is deliberately designed to be temporary,
lasting four or at most five years. Prospective grant recipients will know from the outset that this
intensive assistance will only be available temporarily. The 50% firm contribution will help increase the
probability that the firm will graduate to paying fully for support after the scheme has ended. (2) Free
technical assistance tofirms on business planning basics and consultants' selection and management by
a management contract team. This complements the first instrument and is intended to build confidence
in entering, what is for many firms, the new and unknown activity of buying business development
services. (3) The encouragement of an active market in business development services by the provision
of service development grants. Local organizations wishing to build their capacity to supply such
services to the South African market will receive grants to cover half the costs of developing such
services. It is expected that these funds would be committed within four years. A possible extensioni of
a further year, could be agreed upon between the Government of South Africa and IBRD at the project
mid-term review. (4) The Competitiveness Fund will include as a sub-component the "bumble-bee"
outreach initiative to microenterprises and very small enterprises (identified as SMMEs with 20 or fewer
employees). The Bumble-bee programme provide free technical assistance on business planning and
development.
3.10   The "bumble-bee" program" will utilize technical skills available, particularly in academic
institutions, to provide specialized consulting services to this segment of the SMME sector. One of the
consequences of South Africa's apartheid past is that resources and information tend to flow within
narrow networks (see para. 3.13). Consequently, smaller SMMEs are often unaware of what skills might
be potentially available to them. The program will therefore encourage individuals in academic
institutions, NGOs and scientific universities, who possess useful technical skills to develop capabilities
as consultants by accrediting them and providing training for them. It will also encourage these smaller
enterprises to try out utilizing these individuals to experience the benefits by: offering a preliminary
diagnosis of the firm's leading constraints, producing and disseminating an information package
detailing the range of available services and by funding the initial exploratory visits by these techniical
consultants.
3.11   Management of the Fund. International experience suggests that no existing institution, public or
private, is likely to be perceived and trusted as sufficiently independent to manage the fund impartially.
Further, a key task of the Competitiveness Fund manager is to engage in extensive outreach. This
manager must win the confidence of entrepreneurs who have little experience of using outside help, and
support those entrepreneurs to develop their programs for enterprise upgrading and exporting. Finally,
the team managing the fund will need in-depth knowledge of the kinds of business services available in
the international marketplace, since many useful services may need to be purchased outside South
The name "bumble-bee" derives from the notion of the transfer of knowledge (particularly on the range of
available business and other services, and on diagnosis of current operations) by a network of qualified
individuals at technical and research institutions as they visit smaller firms.



- 12-
Africa. For these reasons the management of the Fund will be undertaken by a private management
contractor on the basis of a competitive tender (see para. 4.12-4.14).
3.12  The Competitiveness Fund and the Bumble-bee program will be governed by a Manual of
Policies and Operating Procedures which specifies the operational procedures of the component in more
detail, including detailed eligibility criteria and safeguard mechanisms. The institutional arrangements
for implementation are described in paras. 4.4 to 4.8 below.
3.13  Reaching smaller firms. Special efforts have been made to ensure that grant funds from the
Competitiveness Fund reach smaller firms (whose owners are more likely to belong to previously
disadvantaged groups). The Fund would support the use of standardized or group-oriented services by
such firms. The Management Contractor responsible for implementing the scheme is expected to ensure
that its outreach and promotion activities reach SMMEs. At least 60% of grants by number would be
reserved for SMMEs as per the statutory definition i.e meeting the joint requirements of: employment
(200 employees or fewer), turnover (R40 million or less) and assets (RI5 million or less). Finally, the
"bumble-bee" sub-component, which will provide free technical assistance is aimed exclusively at
enhancing outreach to the smallest of firms. that is firms with 20 or fewer employees.
2.    The Sector Partnership Fund (Project Cost US$5.73 million, of which IBRD wouldfinance
US$3.83 million)
3.14  The Sector Partnership Fund will support subsector partnerships in the preparation of business
development (including technical and marketing) programs that aim to improve the competitiveness and
productivity of organizations. The component would support the development of such programs through
the provision of matching funds, on a cost-sharing basis (35 percent paid by participating organizationis
and 65 percent covered by the project) for eligible programs mounted by subsector partnerships. The
intent is that, once the programs are designed, their delivery is contracted out to private, domestic or
foreign service providers. An important condition is that the proposed program must be more effectively
planned and executed collaboratively by the partnership members (that is, that it be a shared activity) rather
than individually.  All program  information must be available to all members of the partnership.
Information cannot be exclusive to an individual firm but may be proprietary to the group as a whole. This
latter provision applies to the development of services as well.
3.15   Technical programs would aim to enhance the productivity with which organizations pursue their
specialized business activities. Such programs are likely to include initiatives to: improve organization
of the workplace; upgrade the quality of equipment; strengthen design capability; plus other initiatives to
enhance product quality. They might also include targeted, short-duration initiatives to enihance the
skills of specific categories of workers. Marketing programs would aim to enhance the ability of
organizations to pursue initiatives to penetrate new domestic or export markets. The SPF will also
support programs to promote the dissemination of subsector-specific, but not organization-specific,
information.
3.16  Programs could be either short-term in their design, or could aim for more sustained institutional
development. Experience elsewhere indicates that time-bound programs in areas such as the above
would often be mounted as short "courses" (ranging from a two-hour presentation to a two day program).
Other examples include: a collaborative exploration of export opportunities in specific target markets; a
collaborative initiative (which might include both labor and business organizations) to strengtien
workplace skills or workplace organization practices industry-wide in areas of identified weakness.



- 13-
3.17  Given the relative lack of experience of South African organizations with successful networking,
it is likely that many qualifying partnerships that aspire to participate in the SPF will lack the skills to
develop a qualifying proposal. For this reason and based on the experience from other countries with
these networks, the SPF will make available the services of a "network facilitator" to work with
partnerships that so request in the development of their proposals. This network facilitator can be chosen
by the partnership from a roster of eligible facilitators approved by the Governing Committee which will
have oversight responsibility for this component. Included in the roster should be facilitators who have
experience reaching micro- and very small enterprises. The SPF will cover costs of technical assistance
for proposal development up to a maximum of RI0,000.
3.18  The Sector Partnership Fund is intended as a pilot vehicle to "kick-start" a variety of partnerships
capable of providing services and network opportunities to participants. In time, these partnerships could
reinforce a renewed commitment to productivity-oriented activities by a broad array of subsector
associations. Due to the pilot nature of the component, agreement was reached on an early review and
revision of monitoring indicators by a specialist consultant contracted for that purpose.
3.19  Annex 3 describes the design and operational guidelines of the component in more detail,
including the detailed eligibility criteria for acceptable partnerships, proposals and expenditures.
Implementation arrangements are described in paras. 4.9 to 4.1 1 below.
3.    Short-Term Export Finance Guarantee Facility (Project Cost US$43.73 million, of which IBRD
wouldfinance US$21.53 million).
3.20  The objective of this component would be to backstop Government measures to strengthen
financial intermediation for emerging SMME exporters. It will do so by reducing the level of exporters'
risk which financial institutions bear. Thus it will create an incentive for these institutions to develop a
stronger capacity to appraise and manage the risk of these types of such loans (see also para. 2.17 on the
nature of the market failure and the links to exporting response). It therefore aims to accelerate the
development of SMME export finance mechanisms on a sustainable basis.
3.21   Specifically, this component would finance a reserve fund established by Governmeit to
backstop potential losses of a facility established to guarantee financial institution PFI loans to SMME
exporters. The IBRD loan would disburse against claims. Such a guarantee facility is already operable
and is administered by the Credit Guarantee Insurance Corporation (CGIC) on behalf of the Government.
The facility would guarantee 90% of the non-performance risk of SMME exporters borne by
participating financial institutions"2. Such exporters are defined as satisfying the following two criteria:
(i) having up to R5.0 million in total assets (about US$1.1 million); (ii) having no more thani 200
employees. Coverage would be offered for a period of up to 180 days (pre-shipment) and up to 180 days
(post-shipment) 3. Covered PFI loans would be not less than R50,000 (US$11,100) nor greater than RI
million (US$220,000). A premium of approximately 3% per annum would be charged for such
guarantee coverage and covered PFI loans could only finance up to 90% of the value of export proceeds.
PFI loans would cover the input and working capital costs of producers exporting their final products.
The facility was designed with a streamlined set of approval mechanisms so as to overcome the
difficulties experienced with a previous facility. The scheme is consistent with WTO guidelines.
12 This is a modification of the existing facility.
13  This is a modification of the existing facility.



- 14-
3.22   Formally, DTI will delegate responsibility for project management to CGIC through a Subsidiary
Agreement.  Furthermore, participating financial institutions will have to sign Master Guarantee
Agreements with CGIC.
E.    Project Cost and Financing
3.23  The project's estimated total cost is US$88.6 million, with a foreign exchange component of
about US$68.2 million excluding contingencies. Table 3.1 below summarizes the estimated costs by
component. Costs were calculated excluding taxes and duties, and are based on end- 1996 prices.
3.24   Foreign Exchange Costs. Foreign exchange costs (excluding contingencies) represent 76.9% of
the total project costs. They are based on an analysis of projected expenditures, experience with
matching grant programs elsewhere, and an assessment of existing business support services in South
Africa. The foreign exchange percentages for major expenditure categories are estimated as follows: (i)
100% for database acquisition and overseas travel; (ii) 60% for short- and long-term consultants; and (iii)
50% for staff training.
TABLE 3.1: SUMMARY OF ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
(US$ MILLION)
COSTSa/             FOREIGN COSTS   COMPONENT
AS % OF TOTAL   COST AS % OF
PROJECT COMPONENT         LOCAL FOREIGN  TOTAL              COST         TOTAL COST
Competitiveness Fund        16.5      21.1      37.6            56               42.4
Sector Partnership Fund     2.5       3.3        5.7            57               6.6
Export Finance Guarantee    0.0      43.7       43.7            100              49.3
Project Administration      1.5       0.0        1.5             0               1.7
TOTAL COSTS                 20.5    68.1       88.6             76.9             100
a/ Rounded to one decimal place.
3.25  The project would be financed by the proposed Bank loan of US$ 46 million equivalent (52% of
the total project cost); the beneficiary firms and organizations in South Africa (US$18.9 million, about
21.3% of total project cost); and the Government of South Africa (US$23.7 million, 26.7% of total
project cost). The contribution by the beneficiary firms includes the 50-50 counterpart funding ulider the
Competitiveness Fund matching grant and the 35-65 under the Sector Partnership Fund, and 10% of the
risk by private financial institutions plus 3% premium paid by users. The Bank loan would cover any
remaining costs. In addition, the Government will support the Sector Partnership Fund by in-kind grants
such as office space, office equipment, and telephone lines as necessary. Table 3.2 below summarizes
the project financing plan.



- 15-
TABLE 3.2: PROPOSED BUDGET AND FINANCING PLAN
(US$ MILLION)
IBRD AS
PROJECT COMPONENT           GOSA a/       PRIVATE    IBRD          TOTAL    % OF TOTAL
FINANCE
Competitiveness Fund            0.0           17.0         20.64      37.74         54.9
Sector Partnership Fund         0.0           1.9          3.83        5.73         66.7
Export Finance Guarantee        22.2          0.0          21.53      43.73         49.2
Administrative                  1.5            0            0          1.5          0.0
TOTAL COSTS                     23.7          18.9         46.0        88.6         51.9
3.26  The IBRD loan will be a fixed rate dollar-denominated single currency loan. The loan would be
repaid in equal principal installments over 15 years, with a three-year grace period.



4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.    Project Implementation
4.1   The project will be implemented over a period of four years. Project completion is expected by
September 30, 2001, with a closing date of March 31, 2002. A mid-term review of the project will be
carried out no later than February 1999. A summary of the implementation support plan and schedule
are shown in Annex 6.
Institutional Arrangements
4.2   Overall responsibility for project implementation will reside with the Department of Trade and
Industry (DTI). A draft Project Implementation Plan has been prepared in association with IBRD. The
Plan makes explicit the objectives and operating parameters of each project component, indicates the
institutional and managerial arrangements, and contains precise monitoring indicators to evaluate
outcomes. Finalization and adoption of the Plan is a condition of loan effectiveness.
4.3   Project Management. The execution of the Plan will be led by the Project Coordinator based in
DTI (see Annex 5 with responsibilities chart). The Project Coordinator will have the following main
responsibilities (see also paras. 4.22-4.23):
* Ensure that budgetary, procurement, contracting, disbursement, administrative, accounting, auditing,
and reporting arrangements are carried out in accordance with the Loan Agreement and agreed
Implementation Plan;
*  Collect the Annual Operating Plans for the Project's three components from the implementing bodies
(Competitiveness Fund Management Team, SPF secretariat, and CGIC);
* Assemble and send to the Bank Semi-Annual Project Implementation Reports;
* Sub-contract impact assessment studies; and
*  Act as the central link between the component managers and IBRD, although open lines of
communication will prevail between component managers, and IBRD technical staff working on
each component.
4.4   The day-to-day operation and implementation of the three components will be the responsibility
of the Competitiveness Fund Management Team, the Sector Partnership Fund Secretariat and CGIC
respectively. The policies and procedures guiding the implementation of the CF, SPF, and Short-Tern
Export Finance Guarantee Facility are described in their respective Manuals of Operating Policies and
Procedures (Annexes 2, 3 and 4 respectively).  These Manuals included detailed selection and
monitoring criteria. The organization and management of each component is explained below.
4.5   The Competitiveness Fund. The CF would be administered as follows: the management and
day-to-day operation of the Competitiveness Fund will be undertaken by a Competitiveness Fund
Management Team, to be appointed by competitive tender and comprising a joint South African and
international consortium with a skill mix as specified in the Competitiveness Fund Operating Manual and
Letter of Invitation (LOI). The DTI and the Bank have agreed on the selection procedure for the



- 17-
Management Team (para. 4.12-4.15). The Bank will provide no-objection for the terms of reference,
short list, and draft contract for the Management Team. Review procedures for contracts under the
Competitiveness Fund are highlighted in para 4.15.
4.6   Responsibility for oversight formally will vest with the Competitiveness Fund Governing Board
which will be responsible for monitoring the overall direction and performance of the Management
Team, and for recommending changes in design or execution as needed. The Management Team will
submit to the Board regular annual work programs, followed by quarterly reports detailing achievement
of these plans. The Governing Board will comprise Chief Directors from six chief directorates of the
DTI (Regional Industrial Development; Small Business Promotion; Foreign Trade Promotion; Industry
and Technology Strategy and Industrial Promotion I and II). At the discretion of the Governing Board,
other individuals could be asked to advise the Board.
4.7   The Management Team is expected to work proactively in promoting the scheme and in helping
to fill the gaps in firms' knowledge. It will be expected to establish offices in Johannesburg and other
major industrial centers of the country. The Management Team will have a Team Leader and a team that
will work directly with enterprises in developing grant proposals and in selecting the specialized service
contractors needed to implement their plans. The main functions of the MT will be to:
* Actively promote the program among its potential beneficiaries;
*  Assist firms in analyzing their assistance requirements and  in the preparation  of their
competitiveness-enhancing plans;
* Assist the firms in the selection of consultants and approve the terms and conditions of the contracts
between the firm and the service providers, ensuring that the firm finances its share of the cost;
* Supervise the formalization of the contracts between the firms and the selected consultants/service
providers;
* Request disbursement of the grants to reimburse the firm;
* Monitor the implementation of each firm plan including established monitoring indicators; and
* Report on a regular basis to the Governing Board, progress on its work program.
4.8    Given the close relationship between the Competitiveness Fund and the DTI's Productivity
Enhancement and Improvement Programmes, the Management Team leader will liaise closely with the
Chief Director, Regional Industrial Development Programme (RIDP) in DTI.  Alongside the
Competitiveness Fund, the "bumble-bee" programme will be managed under the same management
contract. 14
4.9   The Sector Partnership Fund. The SPF would be administered as follows: the SPF would be
managed by the Sector Partnership Fund Governing Committee, with the assistance of a small
secretariat. The Governing Committee would comprise six persons from the DTI directorates of Industrial
Promotion (2), Industry and Technology, Foreign Trade Promotion, Small Business Promotion and the
Ntsika Enterprise Promotion Agency -- the institution responsible for implementing non-financial SMME
4  It is expected, however, that the Management Team will sub-contract the management of this programme to a
private sector South African sub-contractor, who would be an individual specializing in SMME outreach work.
This team member will liaise closely with the Chief Director, Small Business Promotion in DTI.



-18-
support on a wholesale level. Management of the SPF would comprise three distinct tasks, to be allocated
as described below.
4.10   First, in addition to providing oversight of the SPF, the Governing Committee will also approve
all applications to participate in the SPF. The Governing Committee could be assisted in this by outside
extra-Committee expertise as it deemed necessary and appropriate.  Second, the Secretariat, with
guidance from the Governing Committee, will be responsible for compiling the roster of network
facilitators, which would then be approved by the Governing Committee. Third, administration of the
SPF will be contracted to up to two full-time equivalent contract administrative staff (consultants)
located in DTI with the following functional responsibilities: accounting of the Fund, preparation of
regular reports on the progress of the scheme; overall co-ordination, and secretarial support. The duties
and the obligations of the contract staff will be restricted to administration of the Sector Partnership Fund
exclusively, as detailed in their terms of reference. As appropriate, the SPF secretariat will liaise and
share information with the cluster secretariat of the DTI and the Competitiveness Fund Management
Team.
4.11   The Short-Term  Export Finance Guarantee Facility.  An existing agency, the Credit
Guarantee Insurance Corporation (CGIC), will manage the scheme on behalf of the Government. CGIC
is a private company operating in South Africa, serving as the largest credit insurer in the country. CGIC
was established in 1956 and is owned by a consortium of leading banks and insurance companies. As
with other facilities offered by CGIC, this facility is administered under the terms of the 1957 Re-
Insurance Act, which provides that the Department of Trade and Industry will account for disbursements
through the Minister to the Cabinet and Parliament, subject to audit by the Auditor-General. Facility
oversight is provided through the Reinsurance Committee, which is in place.
B.    Procurement
4.12   Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.1 below.  Procurement will be the
responsibility of the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI). DTI will organize bid evaluation for all
procurement activities, constitute a consultant selection committee for the Competitiveness Fund
Management Team, evaluate the consultant proposals and make recommendations on the contract award
thereof. The detailed procedures and timetable were agreed on at pre-appraisal and are included in the
Project Implementation Plan.
4.13   No goods or civil works would be financed under the project. The major services to be procured
are (i) the management contract for the Competitiveness Fund; and (ii) the consultant services procured
by recipients of the grants under the two matching grant schemes under the supervision of the
management contractor and the SPF secretariat. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) was advertised in
Development Business in January 1997.
4.14  The selection process for the management contract for the Competitiveness Fund started at pre-
appraisal and is under way in accordance with Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, January 1997 (the Guidelines), and South Africa's State Tender
Board (STB) procedures. The appraisal mission reviewed the latter and found them satisfactory. The
complete bid packages for this technical assistance contract including the letter of invitation (LOI), and
the terms of reference have been discussed with DTI. The selection and hiring of all other consultants
would be in accordance with competitive commercial practices consistent with the Guidelines. As
indicated in the Manuals of Operating Policies and Procedures for both the Competitiveness Fund and
the Sector Partnership Fund, the Management Team and the SPF secretariat will ensure that the service
contracts in (ii) are provided at a reasonable cost, and also take into account other relevant factors such



-19-
as time of delivery, efficiency and quality of the services, and the competency of the respective service
providers.
4.15   Review Procedures. All consultants' contracts for employment of (i) individual consultants
costing US$50,000 equivalent or more; (ii) consulting firms costing US$100,000 equivalent or more,
would require the Bank's prior review. With regard to the cost-sharing grants under the Competitiveness
Fund, the CF Governing Board and the Bank will review the first five contracts, regardless of size, to
ensure the proper procedures are being followed. Thereafter, an ex-post review will be carried out on a
selective basis. With respect to the Sector Partnership Fund, the Bank will review the first three
contracts.
TABLE 4.1: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ MILLION)
CATEGORY                    CONSULTING              OTHER                  TOTAL COSTS
SERVICES
Consulting Services & Training       5.4a/                                          5.4
(4.0)                                         (4.0)
Cost-sharing Business Services      39.5 b/                                        39.5
(20.5)                                        (20.5)
43.7                   43.7
Export Finance Guarantee                                   (21.5)                  (21.5)
TOTAL                                44.9                   43.7                   88.6
(24.5)                 (21.5)                 (46.0)
Note:  a/     Services will be selected in accordance with the Bank Guidelines and State Tender Board
Procedures.
b/     Private sector operators would obtain services according to commercial procedures,
generally by direct contracting where quality would remain of paramount importance.
C.    Disbursement
4.16   The closing date for loan disbursements would be March 3 1, 2002 (para. 4. 1). The loan proceeds
would be disbursed against the categories shown in Table 4.2 below. Projected expenditures and
disbursements are presented in Annex 7.
4.17   Given the Government's interest in speedy implementation of the project, as well as the
implementation arrangements that have been made, retroactive financing up to 10% of the loan value is
recommended. This would apply to expenditures made not earlier than the appraisal date (February 3,
1997). Withdrawal requests, as agreed with the authorities, shall be processed on a reimbursement basis.



-20-
4.18   All disbursement requests will be on the basis of certified Statement of Expenditures (SOEs),
except for payments under contracts above $100,000 equivalent for consultant firms and $50,000
equivalent for individual consultants. All disbursement requests corresponding to contracts above these
amounts shall be fully documented (i.e. copies of invoices, or other documents that substantiate payment
to the consultant). Reimbursement requests should be made to the Bank on a monthly basis, along with
appropriate supporting documentation, for both foreign and local expenditures. The documentation for
SOEs would be retained at DTI and available for review by the Bank's implementation support missions
and independent or external project auditors.
4.19   The Competitiveness Fund Management Team will be responsible for preparing supporting
documentation, which it shall submit on a demand basis (ie as submissions come in) to DTI which will
process disbursements to firms with approved grants (see para. 4.20). A similar procedure shall be
followed for the Short-Term Export Finance Guarantee Facility, where CGIC will be responsible for
submitting claims data and documentation to DTI. For the Sector Partnership Fund, the staff at the
secretariat will be responsible for preparing supporting documentation. The Financial Management
Directorate of DTI will review documentation, issue payment and consolidate the data for requesting
disbursement of loan proceeds. Timely disbursements of grant funds will be crucial to the
implementation success of both the Competitiveness Fund and the Sector Partnership Fund. In this
respect, this Directorate has committed to a three day turnaround on requests for funds.
TABLE 4.2: DISBURSEMENT OF LOAN PROCEEDS
Category             Loan Amount a!   Share of expenditures to be financed
(US$ million)               Cl.)al
Cost-sharing grants
(Competitiveness Fund)            17.0           50% of eligible expenditures
Cost-sharing grants
(Sector Partnership Fund)          3.5           65% of eligible expenditures
Consultant services & training
Sector Partnership Fund           0.33                    100%
Competitiveness Fund              3.64                    100%
Export Finance Guarantee Facility  0.03                   100%
Export Finance Guarantee Facility    21.5               90% of claims made
TOTAL                                 46.0
a/     Amounts financed are exclusive of tax and refer to amounts financed by IBRD.
4.20  The procedures for use of grant funds would be as follows (Appendix A of Annex 2). First, after
approving a competitiveness-enhancing plan presented by the firm, the Management Team on behalf of
DTI would sign an agreement with the firm specifying either the travel or consulting services that will be
contracted by the firm (including terms and conditions of the contract), or travel arrangements. The firm
will send a copy of the contract signed with the consultant to the Management Team. Second, the MT
will obtain the necessary funds from DTI to reimburse the firm for the cost of travel or consulting
services (except for grants for individual consultants exceeding $50,000 or for firms above $100,000).
Request for grant funds equal to or above these amounts will require the Bank's and CF Governing



-21-
Board's prior review. If the contract with the consultant stipulates two or three payments, the MT would
reimburse the firm for up to half of each of the payments made to the consultant. Third, the MT would
submit to the Governing Board and Project Coordinator, monthly reports on the use of these funds.
Procedures for the use of sector partnership funds would be similar and are spelled out in Annex 3.
D.    Project Accounts and Audits
4.21   During appraisal, it was determined that satisfactory arrangements are in place to ensure proper
financial management of each component of the project. The system includes a very detailed budgetary
process, effective internal controls, a cash-based computerized accounting process, and rigorous external
audit. The Department of Trade and Industry will be responsible for all project and loan accounts to
reflect all project resources, expenditures, assets and liabilities which would be maintained annually in
accordance with generally accepted principles. The annual project accounts would be prepared in
accordance with international accounting standards and audited by the South Africa Auditor-General in
accordance with generally accepted auditing principles.  The Auditor's report will consist of the
following opinions: (i) accuracy of the Receipts and Payments Account for the project; (ii) reliability of
the statement of expenditures used as the basis for disbursements; (iii) adequacy of the accounting
systems and internal controls, and recommendations to mitigate them if less than adequate. The audited
project accounts and the auditor's report thereon would be submitted to the Project Coordinator who
would send them to the Bank within six months following the end of the fiscal year.
E.    Project Monitoring, Reporting and Implementation Support
4.22   While the overall responsibility for project implementation rests with the Department of Trade
and Industry, the Project Coordinator will be responsible for monitoring the performance of each of the
Project's components against: (a) the progress of procurement, disbursement and physical
implementation; (b) the benchmarks for the key performance indicators agreed on which form the basis
for monitorable outcomes hoped to be achieved under the project. In particular, the Project Coordinator
will assemble the Semi-Annual Implementation Report, prepared with the collaboration of each
implementing unit (see para. 4.4). The Implementation Reports will describe progress against the targets
in the Annual Operational Plan (AOP) and give particular attention to the progress with the
Competitiveness Fund. The Implementation reports would include calculations of the agreed Key
Indicators of Project Performance.
4.23  IBRD will support implementation actively through tri-annual implementation support field
missions in the first year, and then bi-annual visits thereafter. IBRD input to provide this support is
estimated at about I 1 staff weeks per year and will require the expertise of Bank and outside consultants
in business development services and financial analysts.  Annex 6 summarizes the proposed
implementation support schedule for the project. Prior to each field mission by IBRD, the Project
Coordinator will set up a timetable of key meetings, as agreed between the Project Coordinator and the
mission leader. The Project Coordinator is also responsible for notifying all component managers of the
dates of field missions, and for ensuring the availability of component managers and staff for
discussions.
4.24   Impact Assessment(s). The effectiveness of all three components will be evaluated during the
project's life and at the end through: (a) preliminary impact assessments will be carried out early in the
program (see para 4.29); (b) a mid-term review; (c) an interim impact assessment; and (d) a final impact
assessment. The Project Coordinator will be responsible with the IBRD Task Team Leader for the
organization and conduct of the mid-term review and the interim impact assessment. The Sector



-22-
Partnership and Competitiveness Fund managers, in consultation with the Task Team Leader, will be
responsible for organizing the preliminary impact assessment of the SPF.
4.25  (a) Preliminary impact assessments for the Competitiveness and Sector Partnership Funds. For
the SPF, this will be carried out after the funds for the first three applications have been disbursed or six
months after the first three have been approved, whichever comes first. A reputable and widely
recognized specialist service provider  will be contracted to review the program  and refine the
performance and monitoring indicators of the SPF if necessary. For the Competitiveness Fund, the
preliminary assessment will be conducted six months after the approval of the first grant.
4.26  (b) The mid-term  review for all three components would be carried out 18 months after
effectiveness or after 50% of the cost-sharing grant funds have been disbursed in the case of the CF and
SPF, whichever comes first. The focus of this first assessment would be to evaluate the effectiveness of
the management arrangements in place to administer the funds. Towards that end, firm-level surveys
will be carried out as part of the assessment to obtain firms' opinions on the operation of the scheme.
4.27  (c) An interim impact assessment of the CF and SPF will be carried out 24 months after
effectiveness or when 65% of the funds have been disbursed, whichever comes first. In addition to
continued focus on the effectiveness of the management arrangements, the assessment would evaluate
evidence of changes in firm behavior in response to the utilization of the cost-sharing grants.
4.28 (d) A final impact assessment will be carried out 3.5 years (42 months) after effectiveness. The
performance indicators in this assessment will be variables such as sales and export performance, and
employment growth (see Annex 1 for further details on the key monitorable indicators). This final
assessment would be carried out by independent consultants.
4.29   An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) will be prepared within six months of the closing
date of the loan of March 31, 2002 (para. 4.1) by the Government of South Africa.
F.     Environment
4.30   The Government is developing a National Environmental Strategic Action Plan (NESAP)
through a widely consultative process involving different tiers of government, business, labor, NGOs and
other members of civil society. Within this national environmental context, the Department of Trade and
Industry (DTI) wants to play a pro-active role by ensuring that industrial development does incorporate
environmental concerns systematically. To that effect, DTI has established a new Directorate of
Standards and Environment (DSE - created in 1996). DSE has been conceived as an environmental
promotion and advisory unit without any regulatory function, the latter being the responsibility of the
Department of Environmental Affairs and Tourism (DEAT) which DSE is in close liaison with.
4.31   During the project life, DSE will be carrying out activities that will maximize the environmental
"value-added" to firms. DSE will help SMMEs: (a) access economically and environmentally sound
technologies through the establishment of a National Center for Cleaner Technologies in partnership
with Denmark and other South African institutions; (b) access relevant information through the
development of an environmental information system; (c) build environmental awareness and capacity;
(d) promote fast-growing green industrial sectors; and (e) develop environmental partnerships and
networking inside and outside South Africa.
4.32   The project is in category B and an environmental analysis was carried out (Annex 10). The
analysis provides more background on South Africa's environmental policy particularly in the industrial



-23-
sector, and details specific planned environmental actions that are relevant for the project. As the project
is primarily financing technical assistance, direct investments will not be financed. Nevertheless, firms
benefiting from technical assistance under the project and willing to further invest will have to conform
with South Africa's environmental regulations. These have been reviewed and were found satisfactory.



5. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    Project Benefits
5.1    Anticipated benefits of the project are that it will:
(i)    Support the Government's development goals of greater economic and export growth, and
employment creation;
(ii)    Accelerate the pace at which South African firms adjust to the ongoing trade liberalization to
compete more effectively in global markets, and hence increase their output, exports and employment;
(iii)   Increase the rate of return to investment by firms through quicker turn-around, new product
designs, higher domestic and export sales, higher productivity, lower product rejection rates;
(iv)   Broaden the participation of SMMEs in the economy by affording them opportunities to enhance
their dynamic capabilities through the use of business development services;
(v)    Stimulate the market for service provision leading to greater sustainability and, ultimately, less
need for public intervention or support; and
(vi)   Build the export finance capacity of banks and increase the access of small and medium-sized
firms to such financing.
B.    Project Risks
5.2    The project's principal risks are:
(i)    As the first IBRD project in over thirty years, project start-up could be slow because of
administrative, budgetary or contracting procedures;
(ii)    Trade liberalization will falter, slowing the opening of the economy and associated competitive
pressures;
(iii)   Enterprise level restructuring (independent of the project) may in the short-run prevent visible
realization of employment gains;
(iv)   Critical investment in human capital development may be insufficient or not timely enough;
(v)    Industrial relations deteriorate, preventing conducive workplaces to implement change;
(vi)   Grant abuse or fraud;
(vii)   The novelty of the scheme in South Africa and firms' undervaluing of these services could result
in sub-optimal demand and in an unwillingness to pay for these services; and



-25 -
(viii) That participating financial intermediaries (PFIs) are unwilling to participate under the changed
parameters of the Short-Term Export Finance Guarantee facility.
5.3    Risk Management. The above risks will be attenuated to some extent through policy and
project design features. The authorities have demonstrated their commitment to opening the economy by
agreeing to a phased and comprehensive program of trade liberalization with the WTO. They started
implementing this program  in 1995.  Upgrading skills quickly and furthering human resource
development are fundamental issues that the Government is grappling with. A Government Green Paper
on Training discussed in the tripartite NEDLAC was issued in March 1997. The number of days to lost
to work stoppages and strikes has declined over the past three years. Safeguard mechanisms against
abuse include the introduction of strict eligibility criteria for programs and expenditures, the requirement
that the Management Contractor establish a close working relationship with individual applicants and
provide free technical assistance on eligible programs and the best service providers for the specific task,
as well as the requirement that applicants contribute both financial resources and their time towards the
program. The active and early marketing of the funds by the Management Contractor in particular is
intended to increase information about the advantages of the schemes. In addition, the potential
beneficiaries (private sector) were consulted extensively in project preparation. Finally, overall project
implementation support will be maintained at a high level to enable a quick adjustment of the project
should the need arise, and should the risk become higher than currently estimated.



6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1    Agreements reached at Negotiations
(a) Terms and conditions related to the operation of the Competitiveness Fund, Sector Partnership Fund
and the Short-Term Export Finance Guarantee, as well as general project management.
(b) Details of the mid-term review and impact assessments (paras. 4.24-4.28).
(c) Monitoring and performance indicators (para. 4.22).
6.2    Conditions of Loan Effectiveness
The following would be conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a) Adoption of a Project Implementation Plan (para. 4.2).
(b) Appointment of the Competitiveness Fund Management Consultant (para. 4.5).
6.3    Conditions of Disbursements
The following are conditions of loan disbursements for the short-term export finance guarantee scheme:
(a) Execution of a subsidiary agreement between CGIC and the Government (para. 3.22).
(b) Modification of the risk sharing formula between the Government and the participating financial
intermediaries (PFls) to reflect 10% or greater risk taken by the PFIs (para. 3.21).
C: lWINWORDIBOARDMSARBOARD.DOC
May 7, 1997 4:57 PM



SOUTH AFRICA
INDUSTRIAL COMPETITIVENESS AND JOB CREATION PROJECT
ANNEXES



- 28 -                                                         Annex I
Project Design Summary
REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA
INDUSTRIAL COMPETITIVENESS AND JOB CREATION PPROJECT
PROJECT DESIGN SUMMARY
Narrative Summary       Key Performance Indicators al  Monitoring and Supervision    Critical Assumptions and Risks
CAS Objective
*  Labor-demanding                                                                   *  Favorable macroeconomic
economic growth.                                                                     environment.
*  Absence of adverse termns of trade
shocks.
*  Availability of credit.
Project Development
Objectives
*  Enhanced competitiveness  *  Higher productivity as    *  Firm surveys of         *  Investment in human capital and
of firms.                    measured by total factor    participating firms.        progress in skills upgrading initiatives.
productivity growth.     *  Firm surveys.           *  Industrial relations will not deteriorate.
*  Increased firms' ability to   .  Larger supply response;    *  Firm surveys.      *  WTO trade liberalization offer will
take advantage of new        higher growth in output    *  Sector-level survey.      continue to be implemented according
market opportunities.        (domestic, exports)                                     to schedule.
*  Accelerate job creation.    *  Increased employment in   *  Firm and manufacturing
participating firms or less  census surveys.
contraction relative to non-
assisted firms and sector.
*  Increased awareness,      *  Higher export orientation   .  Project monitoring (firm
Intereastd ankowlredges in    (measure qualitatively and   evlain)
interest and knowledge in   through export/output
exporting.                  ratios); increase in number  *  DTI export register.
of new exporters.
*  No. of service providers
*  Strengthened network of      showing gains in activity    *  Survey of service
business services.           and range of services.      providers.
*  Majority of PFls indicate..
*  Reduced perceived risk of    willingness to provide   *  Survey of participating
export financing for and     future trade financing in   financial intermediaries
by smaller firms.           the absence of a guarantee.



- 29 -                                                             Annex I
Project Design Summary
Project Outputs                                              For all three components:
.   Management team           *  No. of firms and service    .   Project progress reports   *   Appointment of top-level consultants,
implements Comp Fund          providers assisted.            e.g. preliminary and          especially the team leader for CF and
matching grant scheme &    *   Market penetration ratios     interim assessments,          Bumble-bee programme.
Bumble-bee program.           (no. firms of target group).   audits and MIS.           .   Pro-active marketing of the matching
*   Sector Partnership Fund is   *  No. of collective initiatives  *  Project monitoring.      grant funds and guarantees.
implemented.                  launched.                                               *   Sufficient interest by and awareness of
firms.
*   PFIs willing to participate under
changed parameters of export finance
*   Short-term Export Finance  *  No. of firms receiving PFI                                   scheme.
Guarantee Facility is         loans; value of export
implemented under a new       orders supported through
risk-sharing formula.          PFI loans.
*  Oversight bodies and       *   $46 mn (IBRD); $23.7 mn                                  .   Timely start-up of project (inactive
management teams              (Gov't); $18.9 mn                                            borrower) & streamlined procedures.
appointed.                    (private).
al Baseline values for 1998-2001 are being calculated and will be available before effectiveness. They will be revisited after the preliminary impact assessments scheduled for six
months after effectiveness.



- 30 -                                 Annex 2
Manual of Operating Policies & Proceduresfor Competitiveness Fund & Bumble-Bee
REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA
INDUSTRIAL COMPETITIVENESS AND JOB CREATION PROJECT
MANUAL OF POLICIES AND OPERATING PROCEDURES
FOR THE COMPETITIVENESS FUND
AND THE "BUMBLE BEE" PROGRAMME
1     THE COMPETITIVENESS FUND (CF)
1.1    Objectives and Essential Concepts
1.    Objective. The Competitiveness Fund (CF) is intended to stimulate the use of foreign and
domestic business development services by private firms. Such services quickly introduce into firms the
skills, knowledge, information and contacts needed to retain or expand market share against import
competition or to expand exports. These support services help to build realism about how best the firm
can find its niche in an international marketplace. It establishes contacts with export outlets and with
sources of imported inputs that could help build competitiveness. South African firms, however, appear
to seriously undervalue the gains of firm-level adjustment from the use of business development
services. This Manual of Policies and Operating Procedures (MPP) specifies agreements reached on
exactly how the Competitiveness Fund is to operate.
2.     Three Instruments. Thefirst instrument, the core of the scheme, consists of the provisions of
service user grants. Private enterprises will receive grants to cover half the costs of using business
development services. A broad range of services is covered, including marketing, production and
general business strategy. From international experience, about 80% of grant support will likely go
towards technical and productivity adjustments within the factory, and about 20% will support direct
efforts at marketing.
3.    The second instrument provides free technical assistance to firms on how to make the best
possible use of business development services to inject the skills and knowledge to build
competitiveness; this complements the first instrument. This will build confidence for many firms
entering the new and unknown activity of buying business development services.
4.    The third instrument further encourages an active market in business development services by
the provision of service development grants. Local organizations wishing to build their capacity to
supply these services to the South African market will receive grants to cover half the costs of
developing them. This will match the increased demand for services with increased local supply
response.
5.    Limiting Misuse of Funds. The scheme will guard against misuse by insisting on a 50%
contribution by the firm itself, and by paying grants only on a reimbursement basis, conditional on meeting
certain agreed obligations. Also, the scheme will insist on specifying verifiable outputs, accounting for
funds used as agreed. Close working relationshipswith each grant-recipientfirm will allow members of the
CF management team to follow up on any unusual aspects causing concern. In exceptional cases, the CF
management team could insist on a competitive tendering process.



- 31 -                                 Annex 2
Manual of Operating Policies & Procedures for Competitiveness Fund & Bumble-Bee
6.     Resources. The matching grant part of the CF will have a total grant fund of the rand equivalent of
US$17 million. These funds are to be committed within four years. A possible one year extension may be
decided by mutual agreement between the World Bank and the Government of South Africa (to be
determined at the time of the Project Mid-Term Review).
7.    Affirmative Action on SMMEs. At least 60% by number of all grants committed are to go to
SMMEs, according to the statutory definition.
8.    Level of Support.  Each grant to a recipient firm  must be matched 50/50 by an equal
contribution by the firm itself. This will ensure a strong sense of ownership remains with the recipient,
together with a strong motivation to obtain good value for money from the activity supported.
9.    Impact. The impact of the scheme will be evaluated primarily on whether supported firms are able
to translate grant support into increased future sales, either to export markets or within a domestic market
steadily less protected by tariff barriers. As an acceptable working measure of impact, the scheme will aim
for additional annual sales of 8 rand for every 1 rand of grant support, directly attributable to the supported
firm-level plan, and to be achieved within two years of grant disbursement.
1.2    Eligibility Criteria for Grant Support
10.    These criteria apply to all grants, except for special criteria that apply only to service
development grants, as specified in Section 1.7.
1.2.1  The Eligible Firm
11.   Only private firms are eligible. Parastatals, government entities and other firms where the
government or its agencies have effective management control, by being the largest single shareholder,
or by having a majority on the board, are not eligible. The CF is open to firms in all manufacturing
sectors,I and to firms supplying tradable services that are included in the South Africa's Standard
Industrial Classification Divisions 85 through 88 inclusive, excluding sub-division 853 (household
services). More tradable services may be added by DTI subject to IBRD no-objection.
1.2.2 The Eligible Firm-level Plan
12.    To be eligible for grant support, the essential criterion is that the applicant firm must have
written down a realistic plan for the development of its business activities. This plan would take it from
its present situation to some future situation, representing a clear enhancement of its international
competitiveness.
13.   The plan must be driven by a written statement, which demonstrates that the firm has given
serious consideration to the planning issues involved, such as:
lThe DTI definition of manufacturing, based on the SITC classificationwill apply to the CompetitivenessFund.



- 32 -                                 Annex 2
Manual of Operating Policies & Procedures for Competitiveness Fund & Bumble-Bee
*  why one particular direction of planned enterprise development was chosen instead of others; on what
assumptions this direction depends; and why this development direction can be considered realistic and
achievable;
* the sequence of steps required within the plan, in order to achieve the improvement in international
competitivenessdesired;
* the resources required for each step within the plan, both internally and externally sourced;
*  best estimates of the likely benefits to the firm to be achieved by the plan, plus a comparison of these
with the likely costs and risks to the firm; and
*  an approximate timed action plan.
14.    The plan may include several separate usages of business development services and travel. The
plan should, however, only seek to deal with competitiveness issues clearly definable in the firm's
present state. A plan to build international competitiveness might typically take a firm through three
stages:
(i)    investigation of the target market, be it domestic or foreign, usually starting with desk research or
preliminary phone research, followed then by more intensive field interviewing, either carried out
by the firm's staff or by an outside service supplier;
(ii)   supply package adaptation on the basis of information collected from the market, in order to bring
what is being supplied presently into line with customer preferences, and to meet global
competition; for instance, through changes in product design, rationalizing production to reduce
costs, or through improved quality assurance; and
(iii)   with the adaptation completed, active selling of the improved supply package.
1.2.3  The Eligible Activity
15.   Any use of external business development services or travel, demonstrably contributing to any
step within an eligible firm-level plan, can be supported. The following examples are what would
normally qualify:
*  in-factory consultancy and short-term contract management services, up to six months in duration per
introduced expert, would normally qualify, but new permanent staff appointmentswould not;
*  consultancy or short-term contract management assistance directed specifically at improving labor
productivityor yields on raw materials would normally qualify;
* assistance in improving in-house capabilities in design-related techniques such as pattern-making,
prototyping, grading, sizing, counter-sampling and so on would normally qualify. Buying in a set of
designs for one season only, with no aim for longer-term enhancements,would normally not qualify;



- 33 -                                 Annex 2
Manual of Operating Policies & Procedures for Competitiveness Fund & Bumble-Bee
* the expenses of exposure tours for factory personnel, to view alternative techniques and technologies in
factories elsewhere would normally qualify; and
*  market tours to explore new export market opportunitiesby marketing personnel would qualify.
16.    Supplier Selection. The choice of service supplier will be made by the recipient firm, and will not
be restricted to suppliers on any particular register or roster. However, the CF management team will seek
to satisfy themselves as to the supplier's competence for the task involved, and that there is a direct arms-
length commercial relationship between supplier and client. The team will also seek fair fee rates,
according to prevailing market rates (see para. 17).
17.   Competitive Tendering. Grant support will typically be conditional on an acceptable process of
quotes received from at least three contenders. In support of this arrangement, the CF management team
will gather information on guideline fee rates for different types of business development services. This
requirement may be waived at the discretion of the management team, for example in cases where there
are fewer than three service providers readily available.
18.   Avoiding Double Subsidies. There is a danger that firms will access other (mostly DTI)
schemes alongside the Competitiveness Fund, and thus receive double subsidies. To avoid this, recipient
firms will be bound, in the letter of agreement, to declaring any support received from any other source,
for activities supported by CF grants. In cases where support from other sources is less than 50% of
eligible expenditures, a grant could be obtained from the CF to "top up" the total support received to the
50% figure. For example, a firm may obtain Export Marketing Association (EMA) assistance for a trade
fair participation that forms part of its plan approved by the CF. This assistance could be topped up to
50% of eligible expenditures on that particular eligible activity.
19.   Verifiable Output. For each eligible activity for which grant support is being sought, the firm
concerned will be expected to define at least one "verifiable output". Delivery of this output will allow
the CF management team to verify that the activity has indeed taken place, as described. Depending on
the circumstances, such a verifiable output might consist of a detailed engineering drawing or a prototype
incorporating quality improvements; a set of standard times developed for a production process, against
which productivity will be assessed; or an externally commissioned market research report. The CF
management team will assist client firms in defining suitable outputs that will allow them to verify
activities, but which are in any case beneficial to the firm, rather than produced merely for the benefit of
the scheme.
20.    Group Activities. Group activities covering more than one firm, for instance those sponsored
by trade associations or suppliers of services, can be supported. Applications will, however, be evaluated
separately for each firm. In particular, grant support must be matched by direct 50% contributions of
participating firms. Grants cannot be provided to match contributions from association funds.
1.2.4 The Eligible Expenditure
21.    Expenditures on service fees, plus expenditures on travel and incidental expenses charged at
cost, incurred wholly and exclusively on a qualifying activity, are eligible for grant support.



- 34 -                                Annex 2
Manual of Operating Policies & Procedures for Competitiveness Fund & Bumble-Bee
22.   Limits on Travel Expenses. Air travel can only be supported on the basis of published
economy class fares. Subsistence expenses will be supported at cost, but up to a maximum set to match
the current rates supported by the Department of Trade and Industry's EMA scheme.2 These rates will
be adjusted at least once every six months, to take account of inflation and rand depreciation.
23.   Exclusions. Salaries for staff employed by the supported firm are not eligible, nor are recurrent
costs such as royalty fees. No expenditures on hardware can be supported, even where equipment or
instrumentation purchases forms an important part of a firm-level plan.
24.   Conflict of Interest. A serious potential conflict of interest could emerge if the CF were to
provide grant support to private consultants who were directly or indirectly affiliated with the
professional members of the CF management team. In such a situation, there could be a strong incentive
for management team members to steer firms toward services of related organizations. As a way of
avoiding this risk, no firms or individuals associated directly or indirectly with the CF management team
can receive matching grant support for any consulting services that they might provide on a fee basis to
firms.
25.   Maximum per Firm. The maximum total grant funds that could be provided to any one firm
may not exceed US$100,000.
1.3    Management of the CF
1.3.1  Management Structure
26.   The CF Management Team. The management and day-to-day operation of the CF will be
undertaken by a Competitiveness Fund Management Team, to be appointed by competitive tender. The
contractor for this task is expected to be a consortium that will include both South African and overseas
team members.
27.   The CF Governing Board. Responsibility for oversight of the CF will formally vest in the
Competitiveness Fund Governing Board (CF Governing Board). The CF Governing Board will be
responsible for monitoring the overall direction and performance of the CF Management Team, and
recommending modifications in design or execution as needed. The CF Goveming Board will meet at
least once every operational quarter and as needed. Logistical arrangements for CF Governing Board
meetings, together with agenda and minutes' preparation will be handled by the CF management team.
The members of the CF Governing Board will consist of the following representatives from the
Department of Trade and Industry (or if Chief Directorate names change, persons acting in these
functional capacities):
The Chief Director, RIDP
The Chief Director, Small Business Promotions/InternalTrade
The Chief Director, Foreign Trade Promotion
The Chief Director, Industry & Technology Strategy
The Chief Director, Industrial Promotion I
The Chief Director, Industrial Promotion 11
2Currently, EMA support for export market research is on the basis of a grant of R400 per day. Thus, CF support will
currently support subsistence expenditures of no more than R800 per day, and will do so with a 50% grant.



- 35 -                                Annex 2
Manual of Operating Policies & Procedures for Competitiveness Fund & Bumble-Bee
as well as persons brought in by the Board to join, and who will act in their individual capacities.
28.   Initial Responsibilities. The first task of the CF Governing Board will be to approve the terms
of the Manual of Policies and Operating Procedures. At its first meeting in December 1996, the CF
Board elected as Chair. Together with the CF Programme Manager within DTI, he will be the DTI
contact person with the World Bank for all issues affecting the CF. Within three months of contract
start-up, the CF Manager will present to the CF Governing Board full details of operational arrangements
developed, for its approval. Specifically, the terms of the letter of agreement (see below) and other
documents of legal standing will require Board approval.
1.3.2  Processing the Individual Grant
29.   Delegated Approval Powers. The first five applications for CF assistance will be reviewed by
the Governing Board and the World Bank regardless of size. In addition, any grant funds that go towards
consultancy services for individuals of $50,000 or more (or for consulting firms that exceed $100,000)
will require ratification from the Bank and the Governing Board. All other applications will be
considered and approved by the person within the CF management team designated CF Manager.
30.   Ex-Post Review. All approvals by the CF Manager will be considered at the next meeting of the
CF Board, in order for the board to give guidance on future approval policy, when iteeded. The Board
may only revoke an approval already granted by the CF Manager if fraudulent information was provided
within an application.
31.   Plan Preparation. The approach to ensuring that plans are of good quality will be one of
"quality management" through providing inputs up front, rather than "quality control" through technical
evaluation of plans. Two options for "quality management" will be available to firms. In the first
option, firms will have the right to submit plans prepared independently. However, to ensure that the
proposed initiatives are presented in good faith, and are broadly consistent with the market positioning of
the firm, no plan will be supported without a visit to the firm by a member of the CF management team.
In the second option, firm-level plans will be prepared by the firm with the active support of the CF
management team.
32.   Labor Retrenchment. In cases where the CF management team judges that the use of business
development services might result in downsizing, the team will seek to ensure that the terms of reference
for the service provider includes consideration of labor retrenchment implications, and of alternatives to
downsizing.
33.   Letter of Agreement. On receiving approval for grant support, each recipient will be required
to sign a letter of agreement. This binds the recipient to present defined deliverables for viewing by the
CF management team. The team has the right to view verifiable outputs, but not to take them off a client
firm's premises, or take copies or photographs. All outputs from supported activities remain the
exclusive property of the supported firm, with commercial confidentiality fully preserved. Contractor
staff will respect the commercial confidentiality of all deliverables, outputs and information supplied
during contact with the firm. The letter of agreement must be explicit that firms must declare support
received from any other sources, particularly other DTI incentive schemes. Failure to disclose such
information may constitute a basis to cancel any grant funds already approved.



- 36 -                                Annex 2
Manual of Operating Policies & Procedures for Competitiveness Fund & Bumble-Bee
34.    Supporting Documentation. The letter of agreement also binds the recipient to back up all
claims for the reimbursement of half of eligible expenditures with receipted invoices/vouchers for all
fees and incidental expenses being supported, to enable the CF management team to verify that the
expenditures have indeed been made.
35.    Sales Data. The letter of agreement also binds the recipient to provide continuing sales and
employment data, sufficient to enable the management team, or afterwards, the DTI, to track the direct
impact of the grant support on the enhanced competitiveness of the firm, and thus to monitor the
achievement by the scheme of its impact target. Sales data is to extend from at least two years before
grant receipt up to at least three years after grant receipt.
36.    Grant Reimbursement. Grant support for expenditure is on a reimbursement basis. Recipient
firms are expected initially to fund whatever costs of supported activities have to be paid in advance,
later claiming back 50% reimbursements.3
37.   Payment Arrangements. Authorization for payment will require the signature of the CF
Manager plus any one member of the Governing Board. This authorization will confirm that the terms of
the Letter of Agreement have been fulfilled to the satisfaction of the signatories. With this authorization,
the Finance Directorate of the DTI will pay grants to recipients without the need for further verification.
38.   Management Information System [MIS]. The CF management team will develop within three
months after contract start-up an MIS that tracks the progress of each of the various stages in the
processing of individual approaches and individual grants. This system will allow statistical breakdown
of the effectiveness of outreach of the management team.
1.4    Monitoring CF and Contractor Performance
39.   Indicators. Scheme and contractor performance during the period will be evaluated primarily
with concerning activities carried out, based on annual work plans approved in advance by the CF Board.
Scheme impact will be evaluated primarily with respect to the performance indicators found in Annex I
of the Staff Appraisal Report and include eventual incremental annual sales revenue achieved per unit of
grant.
40.   Contractor Performance.  As part of the contract, the management contractor will be
committed to develop, and obtain Governing Board approval of an annual work plan for each twelve-
month period of operation of the contract. Annual work plans will refer to periods September 1 to
August 31, and will be provided to the Bank by September 15 for each period. They will specify in
detail the activities to be carried out to launch and promote the scheme, and to manage it under the terms
of this manual. The work plan will specify the man-day inputs for each activity, and the individual
responsibilities within the contractor's team. Progress made in achieving this plan, plus modifications
proposed to the plan, will be reported to the Governing Board for each operational quarter, to be
submitted within 10 days of the end of each operational quarter. Modifications to annual plans are then
to be agreed with the board.
31t is common for service suppliers to accept at least 50% of total fees to be paid on completion. Client firms with
cashflow constraintswill be encouragedby the CF managementteam to negotiate such terms.



- 37 -                                Annex 2
Manual of Operating Policies & Procedures for Competitiveness Fund & Bumble-Bee
41.   Twice-Yearly Progress reports will be submitted to the Bank by March 15 and September 15 for
each period, beginning March 1998. The Progress reports will contain the following elements:
*  number of applications received, value of application, one paragraph description of each application;
*  number of applications approved, value;
*  number of applications rejected, one paragraph description in each case, next steps;
*  breakdown of approvals:
manufacturing, support services
by size of firm (number of employees)
whether single-firm or group
by feature targeted (quality, productivity etc.)
by source of service (local, domestic)
by size of grant; and
other relevant demographic information on firm;
*  number of site visits made by each team member;
*  number of disbursements, value, elapsed time after authorization;
*  number of overseas trips;
*  operating costs versus budget, line by line;
*  copies of press cuttings;
*  reports on special events (seminars, press briefings, etc.);
-  project implementation issues arising, and suggestions or recommendations; and
- minutes of Governing Board committee meetings during period under review.
42.   SMME Outreach. The initial annual plan will include specific activities aimed at obtaining
wide publicity and exposure for the scheme, with particular emphasis on reaching SMMEs. Contractor
performance in achieving SMME outreach will be monitored particularly closely by the Governing
Board.
43.   Final Impact Study. A sample survey of recipient firms will be used to evaluate the scheme's
impact. This will be carried ou one year after the final grant disbursement, but to be completed by two
months after project closing date (March 31, 2002).  This timing will enable the results to be
incorporated into the Implementation Completion Report for the project. The survey will be contracted
out by the Governing Board to an independent specialist, this choice to be approved in advance by the
Bank. The survey will include comprehensive site visits to a minimum of 5% of recipients, and will seek
not only to evaluate direct incremental impact on sales revenue, but also to gather information on indirect
impact, such as on customer orientation, quality assurance, continuing product development, employee
motivation, and company image. It will also specifically seek to evaluate the willingness of firms to
continue using specialist services after scheme support, at full market prices.
44.   Interim Impact Survey. Although the final impact survey will allow all stake-holders to
properly evaluate the eventual impact of the scheme, these stake-holders will also require an interim
evaluation somewhat earlier. A project-wide Mid-Term Review is planned by March 31, 1999 (SAR
para. 4.26). At least one month before the review, the Governing Board is to furnish a detailed report on
the progress to date with the scheme. The board will therefore commission a smaller representative
survey, to achieve an interim evaluation of impact within this report.



- 38 -                                 Annex 2
Manual of Operating Policies & Procedures for Competitiveness Fund & Bumble-Bee
1.5    Accounting and Audit Arrangements
45.   Financial Audits. The SAR, section 4D, specifies project auditing and reporting requirements.
The CF scheme will require an annual financial audit by the Office of the Auditor General, with certified
copies of audited accounts to be submitted to the Bank at the end of each fiscal year.
46.    Operational Audits. The scheme will also require annual operational audits, to assess whether
objectives are being met, and procedures respected. Appointment of contractors for these operational
audits, plus the terms of reference, are again to be satisfactory to the Bank. The Governing Board will
therefore propose, ahead of scheme start-up, these audit details, and submit them to the Bank for
approval.
47.   Management Accounts and Records. Administration of the scheme by the CF management
team will require detailed internal record-keeping for management purposes. However, internal record-
keeping arrangements will need to be approved as acceptable to both the appointed financial and
operational auditors. To allow the CF management team to function effectively, these arrangements will
be submitted by the CF Manager to the Auditor General and the operational audit contractors within
three months after scheme start-up, with agreement on acceptable arrangements to be concluded at the
latest one month after submission. In the event of delays, or failure to agree, the Governing Board will
have the authority to approve record-keeping arrangements as being acceptable for audit purposes.
1.6    Amendments to this Manual
48.   This Manual may be modified as required, to achieve the objective of the scheme, but only by
decision of the CF Governing Board, and after ratification by the Bank. The Manual should seek to
preserve a balance between achieving the objectives of the scheme and minimizing leakage on the one
hand, and preserving simplicity, automaticity and transparency in approvals and management procedures
on the other.
1.7    Special Procedures for Service DevelopmentGrants
49.   Eligible Recipients. For service development grants, any legal entity not receiving government
funding towards its regular operating costs is eligible. Thus, business or industry associations and NGOs
wishing to develop services to sell to their target group of firms would normally be eligible.
50.   Plans for Service Development Grants. In the particular case of service development grants,
the CF will support the development of new or existing services aimed at assisting client firms in
building international competitiveness. Plans for such grants must first demonstrate that the services to
be developed are likely to be salable, and second, that they are likely to assist the target group of firms in
building international competitiveness.
1.8    Relationship of the CF to other Support Schemes
51.   It is anticipated that the Productivity Improvement Programme (PIP) will refer a substantial
number of firms to the Competitiveness Fund. Under the PIP rules, firms supported under that scheme
can be required to collaborate with a Productivity Audit, which is arranged and funded by the PIP. This
seeks to determine causes of below-norm performance, and recommends what actions the firm should
take.



- 39 -                                 Annex 2
Manual of Operating Policies & Procedures for Competitiveness Fund & Bumble-Bee
52.   If, after receipt of such an Audit, the firm concerned decides to use external support services
(and/or travel) to assist in implementing the recommendations, then the firm will be recommended to
contact the CF, to obtain grant assistance for this activity. However, use of CF support will in no way be
a condition of further PIP support. Also, to avoid conflicts of interest, the contractor carrying out a PIP
Audit for a particular firm may not then supply further services with CF support.
53.   In support of the close relationship between the CF and the PIP, the CF Manager will liaise
closely with the Chief Director, RIDP.
2   ADMINISTRATIONOF THE "BUMBLE BEE" PROGRAMME
2.1    General Description
54.   The "Bumble-Bee" Programme aims at using technical skills available (particularly in academic
institutions, as well as NGOs and science councils), to provide specialized consulting services to
SMMEs, aimed at enhancing their competitiveness.
55.   One of the consequences of South Africa's apartheid past is that resources and information tend
to flow within narrow networks. Consequently, smaller SMMEs in particular are often unaware of what
skills might potentially be available to them. Even when aware of these skills, until SMMEs experience
utilizing them, they tend to undervalue them. The programme will therefore encourage individuals in
academic institutions, having useful technical skills, to develop capabilities as consultants. It will
encourage SMMEs to try using these individuals, and to experience the benefits. In this way, it will
develop and encourage ongoing linkages between academic institutions and SMMEs.
The Programme:
*  identifies and accredits individuals on the faculties of technikons, universities, technical colleges and
NGOs and science councils with the interest and potential to offer consulting services to SMMEs (as
per the legal definition)with 20 or fewer employees;
*  contracts out initial three-day training courses for up to 150 such individuals, aimed at developing
capabilitiesas consultantsto SMMEs;
*  produces and disseminates to SMMEs and other referral points an information package detailing the
range of available services;
*  and then funds initial exploratory visits by these individuals to existing SMMEs, by paying for four free
hours of their consulting per firm, up to an agreed ceiling which may be revised by the Bumble-
Manager in consultation with the Governing Board and IBRD.
56.   The intention is that the outcome of each funded initial firm visit will include recommendations
for further more detailed work, plus, where appropriate, assistance with an application to the CF for
follow-up assistance. The total funds provided are intended to be sufficient for 5000 SMMEs at this end
to access this programme.



-40-                                 Annex 2
Manual of Operating Policies & Procedures for Competitiveness Fund & Bumble-Bee
2.2    Management of the Programme
57.   Alongside the Competitiveness Fund, this Programme will be managed under the same single
management contract. It is expected, however, that the contractor will sub-contract the management of
this Programme to a private-sector South African sub-contractor, who would provide the services of an
individual specializing in SMME outreach work of this sort. This team member will liaise closely with
the Chief Director, Small Business Promotions.
58.   All legally defined SMMEs in manufacturing with twenty or fewer employees will be eligible
for this programme.
59.   There will be special arrangements in place to guard against abuse.  All candidates for
accreditation will be interviewed, and will be expected to provide suitable references. All candidates for
accreditation will be required to attend one of the three-day training courses. Program service provider
participants will be required to self-monitor in small groups (of three or more); evidence of fraud or free
riding by one will result in exclusion by all (in Grameen-Bank style). The CF management team
consultant managing the programme will carry out spot checks to ensure that work paid for is indeed
being carried out. A short visit report will be a condition for payment. No individual may receive
funding for more than one hundred firm visits.



Appendix A [of Annex 2]
Competitiveness Fund (CF) Organizational Chart
COMPETITIVENESS FUND (CF)
Organizational Chart
CF GOV. BOARD
Mngment Conrco
Bu1mble Bee'
Sub-contractor
Bumble Bee
Provider
[ Micro a nd very small firms
<20 employees I
i                          i
§aW w~~~~~~~Seric  Provider. .



Appendix B [of Annex 2]
Competitiveness Fund Operational Flow
COMPETITIVENESS FUND OPERATIONAL FLOW
STAGE OF PROGRAM           Firms                  CF Management Contractor              Service Providers
STAGE OFPROGRAM Firms
Advertise
MARKETING                                           Adverti
application to CF                develop diagnostic and
business diagnosis  database tools
Invite proposals                NTOR for consultancy projects
DIAGNOSIS                                                   *lr
select appropriate service provider   Propose work
I               program and fee
SELECTION          select service provider        agree fee and prepare contract           sign contract
and agree fee                   monitoring of project
I                        and defined deliverables                      l
Sign contract                      I                            undertake project
I                      proof of payment
firm pays agreed fee           and completion of project
DELIVERY          to service provider              C
CF grant funds released  -    fee paid
firms  -  review of pro ram on--  local service provider -
EVALUATION



-41-                                       Annex 3
Description of Sector Partnership Fund and Operating Procedures
REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA
INDUSTRIAL COMPETITIVENESS AND JOB CREATION PROJECT
THE SECTOR PARTNERSHIP FUND
COMPONENT DESCRIPTION AND OPERATING PROCEDURES
A.    OBJECTIVES AND FUNCTIONS
1.    Background. International experience suggests that strong, service oriented subsector partnerships
can play an important role in fostering productivity and competitiveness. The kinds of activities that a well-
functioning partnership active in a vibrant subsector might undertake could include:
* preparation and provision of programs to improve the productivity and competitiveness of members;
* provision of information on trends in the subsector domestically and globally, and other domestic issues
of particular relevance to subsector members; and
* a forum to facilitate networking and information-sharingamong members.
2.    These subsector level partnerships have taken different forms in different countries. In some
countries (for example, Colombia, Italy, Germany), subsector business associations have provided the focal
point for these subsector partnerships. In other countries (for example, Japan, Denmark, Korea) the focal
points have been joint, subsector focused public-private assistance centers.
3.    It is by no means self-evident what would be the appropriate organizational form for subsector
partnerships in South Africa to support a outward-oriented industrial restructuring. For good reasons, there
has been wariness of prematurely investing public resources in a supply-driven (or donor-driven) initiative
to erect manufacturing assistance centers, which may not be adequately anchored in the needs of client
firms. And while there exists a dense population of business associations, these associations have
historicallybeen oriented overwhelminglytowards lobbying, rather than towards enhancingthe productivity
of members. Moreover (and especially problematic) the terrain of business associations is intensely
politicized and polarized.
4.    The Sector Partnership Fund. Given this lack of clarity, the proposed Sector Partnership Fund
(SPF) does not pre-identify one organization form as preferred to others. Rather, it is intended as a p lot
vehicle to "kick-starf' a variety of partnerships capable of providing services and network opportunities to
participants. In time, these partnerships could reinforce a renewed commitment to productivity-oriented
activities by a broad array of subsector associations.
5.    The SPF will support subsector partnerships in the preparation of technical and marketing programs
which aim to improve the competitiveness and productivity of organizations. The component would
support the development of such programs through the provision of matching funds, on a cost-sharing basis
(35 percent paid by participating organizations, and 65 percent covered by the project) for eligible programs
mounted by subsector partnerships. The intent is that, once the programs are designed, their delivery is
contracted out to private, domestic or foreign providers.
6.    Access to the SPF will be based on two sets of criteria. First, to qualify for access to the SPF,
partnershipswill need to meet a set of minimum criteria as to the way in which they are composed. Second,



- 42 -                                      Annex 3
Description of Sector Partnership Fund and Operating Procedures
partnershipswhich meet these criteria will need to provide, as a basis for their application for SPF support,
a detailed statement of purpose and program objectives.
7.    The SPF is intended as a catalyst -- inducing organizations to co-operatively devise partnership
initiatives, demonstrating through these initiatives what can be the benefits of strong, productivity-oriented
subsector partnerships, and providing opportunities for "learning-by-doing' as to what kinds of partnership
initiatives have the greatest prospects for success. The expectation is that, having once experienced the
benefits to be derived from such partnerships, organizations will spontaneously commit to supporting
organizations capable of sustainably providing the relevant services. Consequently, the scheme is designed
to be temporary, to operate only for a single four year period.
B.    ORGANIZATION OF THE SPF
8.    Size of the SPF. For program matching grant support, a grant ceiling of (in 1996 rand) RI million
would be set per subsector/partnership. A reasonable target is that over a four-year period, 65:35 matching
grant support for programs will be provided to approximately 62 existing subsector partnerships, at an
average cost of R250,000. Total matching grant cost for this subcomponent would thus amount to RI 5.5
million.
9.     Access to the SPF. In principle, access to the Fund is available to any partnership within South
African manufacturing (broadly defined to include agro-processing)that puts forward a qualifying program
(see below for eligibility criteria). In practice, participation is likely to come from two distinct routes:
*  as a follow-up activity to the high profile, "cluster initiativee' now being undertaken jointly by
business, government and labour -- with the catalytic leadership impulse coming from the Department
of Trade and Industry and the Industrial Development Corporation. These "cluster initiativeg'
increasingly are being recognized as effective mechanisms for engaging a broad range of industry
stakeholders in a high-quality learning process which helps re-orient industries and organizations from
inward-oriented and rent-seeking to outward-oriented and competitive business strategies.
* from initiatives made by sectoral partnerships themselves, who are likely to have learned of the
program via Business South Africa, FABCOS, NAFCOC, SACOB etc. (as umbrella organizationsthese
would not themselves be directly eligible) and have independently made the intensive initial effort
needed to access the SPF.
10.    Oversight of the SPF. The SPF, though not directly part of the DTI/IDC's cluster initiative, is
closely linked to it. The cluster process will itself be an important source of demand for the SPF.
Additionally, the integrated subsectoral methodologies, and participative processes which characterize the
cluster initiatives, are especially well-suited to the identification and development of high-quality sector
partnership programs. For these reasons, the governing body responsible for oversight of the SPF
(Partnership Fund Governing Committee) will comprise 6 persons from the Industrial Promotion, Industry
and Technology Strategy, Foreign Trade Promotion, Small Business Promotion Chief Directorates within
DTI (or their functional equivalents in the event that the names of the directorates should change) and the
Ntsika Enterprise Promotion Agency.
11.   Management of the SPF initiative. Management of the SPF will be carried out by the Governing
Committee assisted by a small secretariat. Management of the SPF comprises three distinct tasks, to be
allocated as follows:



- 43 -                                      Annex 3
Description of Sector Partnership Fund and Operating Procedures
12.    First, in addition to providing oversight of the SPF, the Governing Committee will also adjudicate
all applications to participate in the SPF. The Governing Committee would be assisted in its adjudication
by outside extra-Committeeexpertise as it deemed necessary and appropriate.
13.    Second, given the lack of experience of South African organizations with successful networking, it
is likely that many qualifying partnerships which aspire to participate in the SPF will lack the skills to
develop a qualifying proposal. For this reason, the SPF will make available the services of a "network
facilitatoe' to work with partnerships which so request in the development of their proposals. This network
facilitator can be chosen by the partnership from a roster of eligible facilitators approved by the Governing
Committee. Included in the roster should be facilitators who have experience reaching micro- and very
small enterprises. The SPF will covercosts of proposaldevelopmentup to a maximum of R1O,000.
14.    Third, administration of the SPF will be contracted to: up to 2 full-time equivalent dedicated
contract administrative staff located in DTI with the following functional responsibilities: accounting of the
fund, overall co-ordination, and secretarial support. The duties and the obligations of the contract staff will
be restricted to administration of the Sector Partnership Fund exclusively, as detailed in their terms of
reference. The SPF Secretariat shall be responsible for preparing annual work plans for approval by the
SPF Governing Committee which will specify inter alia, the activities to be carried out to launch, mange
and disseminate information about the SPF matching grant scheme. The Secretariat shall prepare for the
Governing Committee, quarterly reports that detail progress on carrying out the annual work program. As
appropriate, the SPF secretariat will keep informed and share information with both the cluster secretariat of
the DTI and management team of the CompetitivenessFund.
C.    QUALIFYING CRITERIA FOR SPF PARTICIPATION
15.   This section defines what partnerships qualify for support; what is meant by an eligible partnership-
level plan within which support can be given; defines what is meant by an eligible program; and within such
a program, what eligible expenditures can be supported.
C1    Eligible Partnerships
16.   Requirements of participating partnerships are based on three sets of criteria, the rand contribution,
the number of organizations participating, and the partnership's inclusiveness. More specifically, the
partnershipswould be required to:
* First, cover 35% of the costs of the proposed program (while the partnership is free to decide among
itself as to the relative allocation of its 35% share among participants, all participants should commit
to at least some positive financial contribution);
* Second, have a critical mass of members, defined as equal to or greater than five and where members
are defined as firms, sectoral trade unions, sectoral business associations or NGOs;
* Third, prepare a written statement (see para. 17 below for eligible statements).
C2.   Eligible Statements
17.   The written statement should:



- 44 -                                      Annex 3
Description of Sector Partnership Fund and Operating Procedures
*  Describe the relation of the proposed partnership to the relevant universe of firms (e.g. geographic,
sectoral, size of the partnership relative to the relevant universe) engaged in similar activities.
*  Ordinarily the written statement would also require that the partnership formally commit itself to
work co-operatively on the provision of business services and information with any other
partnerships/organizations that might operate (or emerge) in a similar sphere of business activity;
and that the partnership commit to outreach initiatives to broaden participation, and actively market
its programs to non-members of the partnership.
18.   Under exceptional circumstances, the partnership could propose that it not proceed along the
inclusive lines outlined above, but be restricted only to a pre-determined set of participants.  A
partnership which proposed to proceed in this way would need to provide in its written statement (in
addition to a description of the relevant universe) a compelling rationale for its proposed, closed mode of
operation.
19.   Additionally, all applications for program support will need to be accompanied by a statement
which gives consideration to ways in which the proposed program to be supported by the SPF might
benefit SMMEs (unless specific exception is requested) It is expected that through the bumble-bee
program (which will be administered under the Competitiveness Fund), there will be additional outreach
and increased demand for smaller-scalepartnerships.
C3.   Eligible Programs
20.   In addition to meeting the criteria of an eligible partnership, program proposals should also be
consistent with the objectives of the SPF. Two key principles are relevant:
*  First, that the proposed program  must aid the efforts of firms to improve productivity and
competitiveness.
-  Second, that the proposed program must be most effectively planned and executed collaboratively by
the partnership members (i.e. that it be a shared initiative). All program information must be available
to all members of the partnership. Information cannot be exclusive to an individual firm but may be
proprietaryto the group as a whole. This latterprovisionappliesto the developmentof services as well.
21.    Partnerships need to provide a program statement motivating their request for support for SPF
funds. This program statementmust include:
(i) a statement (based on background analysis) of potential new market opportunities, and associated
options for restructuring, in an increasingly competitive international environment;
(ii) the ways in which the proposed program will enable partnership participants to more effectively meet
their challenge of restructuring; and
(iii) details of the collaborative nature through which the program will be executed.
22.    The required level of detail of the program proposal (as well as the absolute size, and the details of
composition, of the participants in the relevant partnership) would vary according to the magnitude of the
request for SPF funds. Thus a request to support a modest agenda of training courses might require only a
relatively short statement By contrast, a request for financial support for more sustained institutional



-45-                                         Annex 3
Description of Sector Partnership Fund and Operating Procedures
development would require substantially stronger motivation and signals of commitment and a more
detailed proposaL
23.    Consistent with the principle that eligible programs aid the efforts of firms to improve productivity
and competitiveness, eligible programs should not be general purpose in character (i.e. they should not
focus on general management and financing issues that are generic to organizations across multiple
activities). Rather, they should be tailored to the specific requirements of organizations in particular
activities.
24.    One objective of subsector partnerships is as a mechanism to elicit demand from partnerships of
organizations as to what kinds of services they find useful. So, subject to the general principles delineated
above, eligible programs would be "specialized and tailored" and aimed at enhancing the technical and
marketing capabilities of organizations. For example, but not restricted to:
*  Technical programs aim to enhance the productivity with which organizations pursue their specialized
business activities. Such programs likely include initiatives to: improve organization of the workplace;
to upgrade the quality of equipment; to strengthen design capability; plus other initiatives to enhance
product quality. They might also include targeted, short-duration initiatives to enhance the skills of
specific categories of workers.
*  Marketing programs aim to enhance the ability of organizations to jointly pursue initiatives to penetrate
new domestic or export markets. The SPF will support programs to promote the dissemination of
subsector-specific,but not organization-specific,information.
25.    Programs could be either short-term in their design, or could aim for more sustained institutional
development. Based on experience elsewhere, time-bound programs in areas such as the above would often
be mounted in the form of short "courses"' (ranging from, a two-hour presentation to a two day program).
Other examples could include: a collaborative exploration of export opportunities in specific target markets;
a collaborative initiative (which might include both labor and business organizations) to strengthen
workplace skills or workplace organization practices industry-wide in areas of identified weakness.
26.    Programs which aim for more sustained network and organizational development would need to be
motivated by a strategic business plan of the proposed network and organization The SPF could in
principle support some of the initial start-up costs (including a portion of rent and staff salaries for an initial
twelve month period) -- but only if the business plan included a plan for the sustainable financing of the
network and organization, and subject to the cost-competitiveness requirements outlined in para. 32.
Examples of qualifying sustained initiatives might include joint procurement, technology clubs, design
centers, or product testing centers, export consortia, training centers and supply-chain logistics.
27.   In principle, subject to a cumulative ceiling of RI million per partnership, a partnership could
submit more than one program for SPF support, with the results of the initial program providing a
foundation for a more intensive follow-up effort.
C5.   Qualifying Activities
28.    Any use of external support or network services, demonstrably contributing to any step within an
eligible partnership program proposal, would be supported. Examples of qualifying activities are presented
in paras. 24-26 above.



- 46 -                                      Annex 3
Description of Sector Partnership Fund and Operating Procedures
29.   Defined deliverables. Except where so agreed with the SPF secretariat (as directed by the
Governing Committee), for each qualifying activity for which grant support was being sought, the
partnershipwould be expectedto define at least one "deliverableoutput" the sight of which would allow the
administratorsof the scheme to verify that the activity had indeed taken place.
C6.   Eligible Expenditures
30.   Other than the exception noted below, in principle all expenditures incurred wholly and exclusively
on a qualifying activity would be considered for SPF support (including rent, staff, hardware, consultant
services etc.) -- so long as these expenditures are adequately motivated by the partnership program
statement. The following expenditures would not be eligible: rent and staff expenditures beyond an initial
twelve month start-up period.
31.   Grant support for expenditures would be on a reimbursement basis. That is to say that recipient
firms would be expected initially to fund the costs of supported activities, later claiming back 65 percent
reimbursements. The documentation requirements for reimbursement are outlined in the disbursements
section of the Staff Appraisal Report (paras. 4.16-4.20).
32.    Cost competitiveness When SPF supported programs procure services using matching funds, the
choice of service supplier would be made by the recipient partnership and would not be restricted to
suppliers on any central register, or in any other way. However, the administrators of the scheme would
seek to satisfy themselves as to the supplier's competence for the task intended, and that there was a
genuine arms-length commercial relationship between supplier and user. The administrators would also
seek to satisfy themselves that all costs (in particular fee rates being charged for services) were in line with
market realities. Competitive bids could be required at the discretion of the administrators.
C7.   Restrictions on Service Providers
33.   To avoid conflicts of interest, no consulting firm associated with any member of the Governing
Committee would be eligible for payment with SPF matching grants. Similarly, firms and consultants paid
from "roster" funds to work in preparing programs for partnerships could not subsequently receive SPF
funds for implementing the specific programs which they helped to design.
D.  MONITORING AND EVALUATION PLAN
Dl.   Monitoring Compliance by Grant Recipients
34.   Letter of agreement. On receiving approval for grant support, all members of each partnership
will be required to sign a Letter of Agreement, which will define the contractual obligations and rights of
both parties. As agreed, the Letter will bind the recipients to present defined deliverables. The Letter of
Agreement will also confirm the recipient's acceptance that, in cases of grant abuse or fraud, the Governing
Committee will have the right to authorize publication of full details, including names.
35.   Supporting documentation. The Letter of Agreement will also bind the recipient to back up all
claims for grant reimbursementfor eligible expenditureswith receipted invoices/vouchersfor all fees and to
verify that the expenditures has indeed been made. (This documentation must be retained for possible
inspection by auditors until a date determined by the Company's Act and in consultation with the



-47-                                        Annex 3
Description of Sector Partnership Fund and Operating Procedures
Department of Trade and Industry's Financial Officers). The Letter of Agreement will also bind the
recipient to insist, within his contract agreement with his supplier, that the supplier in turn must allow
scheme auditors access to his records. Recipients of SPF funds would need to agree to submit quarterly
progress reports during the period of program implementation. They would also need to agree to participate
in an independent assessment of the impact of the program, including the provision of whatever data may be
required. The Director-General of the Department of Trade and Industry may at any time conduct a full-
scale investigation to verify any information furnished by applicants to the SPF. If the Director-General is
satisfied that a grant received was based on false information, or that the applicants furnished misleading
information, he may disallow the grant and recover the full amount paid to the applicants. Interest on grant
payments not due to applicants shall be levied at the rate prescribed in terms of section 1 (2) of Act No. 55
of 1975 as from the date that the grant was received.
36.   An accompanying note to the Letter of Agreement must specify how the partnership intends to
organize itself, who the leader of the partnership is (if appropriate), define their responsibilities in relation to
each other and establish accountability on the different aspects of the Letter of Agreement. In this context,
the term "partnership" is not used as a legal requirement.
Monitoring Program Performance and Impact
37.   Impact Assessments. Given the pilot nature of the Sector Partnership Fund, it is proposed that
after funds for the first 3 applications have been disbursed or six months after the first three have been
approved , whichever comes first, a reputable and widely recognized specialist service provider in
networking services be contracted to review the program and refine the performance and monitoring
indicators of the Fund through a Preliminary Impact Assessment. In addition, there will be mid-term
(interim) and final evaluations of the SPF. The program shall be evaluated in relation to its objectives and
impacts on networks and organizations. The evaluations should identify successes and failures of the
program and recommend improvements which could be made to enhance the success of the established and
future similar programs. With the exception of the final impact survey, these evaluation studies will be
funded by the Project.
38.   Public Reporting. The results of annual operational audits and the interim and final surveys will
be publicized by the SPF Governing Committee. While no propriety information on individual firms,
consultants, or on specific projects, will be divulged to the press without the express permission of the firm,
the names of SPF beneficiaries and the amounts they received may be publicized at the discretion of the
Governing Committee.
E.  ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT PROCEDURES
39.    The SPF secretariat will have the authority to facilitate processing of payment from government
on behalf of the various service providers. Upon approval of documentation by the Secretariat, and upon
receipt of a requisition jointly signed by one member of the Governing Committee and the Secretariat co-
ordinator, DTI's Chief Financial Officer shall be authorized to reimburse the service providers for the
services provided.
40.   Annual statements (including disbursements, administrative costs and monitorable indicators) for
the SPF will be prepared through the Secretariat and audited by the Auditor-General. Auditors' reports
will be submitted to the Bank at the end date of the period to which the documents relate.



-48 -                                       Annex 3
Description of Sector Partnership Fund and Operating Procedures
F.   NETWORK SERVICES SUPPLIERS ON ROSTER: TERMS OF REFERENCE AND
CONDITIONS OF SERVICE
Responsibilities
41.   The network services providers, or consultants wishing to operate under the Sector Partnership
Fund must first register with the SPF Secretariat. Registration will involve a pre-qualification process.
Network service providers may be free-lance consultants, employees of a consultancy firm, a
consultancy firm, a non-profit foundation, publicly-sponsored organizations such as universities,
technikons, and technical colleges, or NGOs and science councils. Both local and foreign service
providers may operate under the scheme.
42.   Network service providers must act within the terms and spirit of the SPF or they will be
removed from the register. Registration does not guarantee contracts under the SPF.



- 49 -                      Appendix A [of Annex 3]
Sector Partnership Fund: Organizational Chart
Sector Partnership Fund
Organizational Chart
SPF
Governing Board
SPF
[ -Secretariat
.....................    .................  .     . .... .....   .........   .....................  . . ....
Groups of Firmsl          Service Provider        Network Facilitators
Organizations                                      (Pre-Qualified)
________________________ I _______________________ ______________________._........._.



- 50 -                                   Annex 4
Short-Term Export Finance Guarantee Component
REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA
INDUSTRIAL COMPETITIVENESS AND JOB CREATION PROJECT
SHORT-TERM EXPORT FINANCE GUARANTEE COMPONENT
1.    Introduction and Objective. The objective of the Short-Term Export Finance Guarantee
Facility is to encourage financial institutions to lend to Small-, Micro- and Medium-sized Enterprises
(SMMEs) with viable export contracts and good prospects of success but whose perceived risk is greater
than their actual risk because the borrowers are unable to provide adequate collateral or do not have a
suitable credit history to prove that they are creditworthy. This is accomplished by mitigating most of
the exporters' non-performance risk that financial institutions must bear in the process. The facility
therefore aims to act as a catalyst for the development of sustainable financing by formal financial
institutions of SMME exporters. The scheme's design is intended to be simple enough so that
participation does not add materially to a financial institution's transaction costs, create uncertainty
through the reimbursement mechanism, nor create too large a burden to the SMME through the
commission charged.
2.     Exporters with access difficulties for pre-shipment finance often face similar difficulties in
getting post-shipment financing, even when the post-shipment period is backed by a confirmed letter of
credit. Those exporters that do have access generally are handled through bankers' acceptance or
completed export bill discounting (backed by the export credit insurance) at local banks and
rediscounting based on off-shore credit lines. This facility would provide for risk coverage of pre- and
post-shipment financing in order to mitigate the transport, payment and other related risks the financial
institution would bear and thus create an incentive for additional financing for the target group.
3.    Recent History. With trade liberalization beginning in the late 1980s, South African firms have
faced increasing import competition as well as export opportunities. Yet the process whereby financial
institutions provide working capital based on export orders (as opposed to overdraft facilities based on
underlying collateral cover) had, until recently, been largely restricted to very large firms that could also
draw upon existing assets for collateral. As such, financial institutions have been reticent to investment
in the training and systems necessary in order to be able to adequately review and appraise export and
production documentation characteristic of trade finance transactions. Further, the focus of commercial
financial intermediation has, until recently, been on collateralized lines of credit which firms used at
their discretion. Pre-shipment export financing generally cannot provide the same level of collateral
cover yet is financing directed at a particular transaction and not subject to the borrower's discretion.
Further, trade financing involves mitigating risk through verification and security of confirmed export
orders. The results of these limitations in the capacity of financial institutions has meant that the
financing necessary for many creditworthy export projects has not been provided. Although this process
is changing slowly in so much as some institutions have developed trade finance departments, the aim of
this project is to accelerate such a change.
4.     An earlier facility had been put in place in 1989 by the Department of Trade and Industry
(working through the Credit Insurance Guarantee Corporation - CGIC) offering a short-term export
finance guarantee. This facility had limited results (less than 50 guarantees supported) owing to a long
turnaround time required for investment approval, as well as the mix between the risk covered and the
spread financial institutions could charge under the facility. Further, until 1994, the facility received no



- 51 -                                   Annex 4
Short-Term Export Finance Guarantee Component
additional earmarked funds to backstop potential losses (other than the reserves backing CGIC's total
portfolio, including insurance products).
5.     The revised export finance guarantee facility became operational in October, 1996, with a
budgetary allocation of R100 million to backstop the facility. At of mid-February 1997, six financial
institutions have been certified to participate (including the five major banks).
6.     Component Summary.   This component would finance a reserve fund established by
Government to backstop potential losses of a facility established to guarantee financial institution PFI
loans to SMME exporters. Such a guarantee facility is operable and is administered by the Credit
Guarantee Insurance Corporation (CGIC) on behalf of the Government. As with other facilities offered
by CGIC, this facility is administered under the terms of the 1957 Reinsurance Act, which provides that
the Department of Trade and Industry will account for disbursements through the Minister to the Cabinet
and Parliament, subject to audit by the Auditor General. Facility oversight is exerted through the
Reinsurance Committee, in place. The facility would guarantee 90% of the non-performance risk of
SMME exporters born by participating financial institutions. Such exporters would be defined satisfying
the following two criteria: (i) having up to R5.0 million in total assets (US$1.1 million); (ii) having no
more than 200 employees. Coverage is offered for a period of up to 180 days (pre-shipment) and up to
180 days (post-shipment). Covered PFI loans would be not less than R50,000 (US$11,100) nor greater
than Rl.0 million (US$220,000). A premium of approximately 3% per annum would be charged for
such guarantee coverage and covered PFI loans could only finance up to 90% of the value of export
proceeds (See Table I for further details). The level of this premium could be adjusted in the future by
agreement between DTI and CGIC. PFI loans would cover the input and working capital costs of
producers exporting their final products. The facility has been designed with a streamlined set of
approval mechanisms so as to overcome the difficulties experienced with a previous facility.
7.     CGIC. The Credit Insurance Guarantee Company (CGIC) is a private company operating in
South Africa, serving as the largest credit insurer in the country. CGIC was established in 1956 and is
owned by a consortium of leading banks and insurance companies. CGIC administers funds under terms
of the Re-Insurance Act of 1957. Its principal products are: (i) short-term domestic credit insurance
including policies covering pre-delivery risks and tenant default cover or protracted default; (ii) short-
term export credit insurance - providing cover against failure to receive payment of an insure debt in
South Africa due to political or commercial reasons; and (iii) long/medium term export projects
insurance underwriting risk exceeding two years including foreign exchange risk cover, foreign
investment and the unfair calling of performance bond guarantees.
8.    Projected Financing. The fund would be set at US$ 43.7 million.4  This would be the
maximum amount of total guaranteed PFI loans for the initial period of the program, likely the first 12
months. Following that period, the level of guarantees could double each year up to a total leverage of
contingent liabilities to total guarantees of 4:1, or a total fund of 800 million Rand. Under the
assumption that turnover is every four months, this amount could eventually support annual exports of
approximately 1.2 billion Rand or US$ 520 million at current exchange rates. Although this amount is
relatively small when compared to the total level of pre- and post-shipment financing currently done in
South Africa, it represents a significant increase for the SMME firms supported. Further, based on an
estimated annual PFI loan size of US$150,000 (R690,000), the project could support 1280 individual
firms once the full 4:1 ratio had been reached.
4 This excludes $0.03 million assigned for impact assessments and operational audits.



- 52 -                                   Annex 4
Short-Term Export Finance Guarantee Component
9.     Operational Guidelines. The Facility which was initially designed in late 1994, has been
carefully considered by CGIC and reviewed with potentially participating financial intermediaries.
Operational guidelines, including all legal forms and documents have been developed. Table I below
provides a summary of these operational guidelines5:
10.   Annual Review. The Reinsurance Committee and the Department of Trade and Industry would
review the principal design characteristics of the facility on an annual basis to determine if such
characteristics are consistent with the achievement of the facility's objectives. These characteristics
would include, inter alia, the risk coverage, the premia charged, the size characteristics of eligible PFI
loans and subborrowers, and the rate structure on guaranteed PFI loans.
Table 1: Short-Term Export Finance Guarantee Fund - Operational Guidelines
Variable        Guidelines
Eligible Firms/   . Firms must have a confirmed export Letter of Credit (L/C) or other export order
Documentary        backed by CGIC export credit insurance.
Requirements    . Firms can operate in any sector.
* The enterprise must be privately, and independently or cooperatively owned and
managed and must not form part of a larger enterprise, but may have more than
one branch.
The exporter must be a registered exporter or in the process of registering with
the Department of Trade and Industry.
* Borrowers with non-performing loans in any participating bank would be
inhibited by CGIC from having PFI loans guaranteed under the facility.
Maximum and    .  For a single turn-over of an export PFI -loan, the maximum PFI loan size
Minimum Size of     would be US$ 220,000 (1.0 million Rand); and
Guaranteed PFI  *  For a single turn-over of an export PFI -loan, the minimum size would be
loans               US$11,100 (50,000 Rand), subject to modification by the Reinsurance
Committee.
Guarantee Risk   The Facility would cover 90% of the value of the export loan (and up to 90 days
Coverage        associated interest) default risks stemming from exporters' nonperformance (See
Footnote 1).
Premium Rate    A premium rate would be charged to the financial institution (generally passed
along to the sub-borrower) according to the following schedule:
* 0.75% for a period of up to three months;
* 1.5% for a period of between 4 and 6 months;
* 2.25% for a period of between 7 and 9 months; and
* 3.0% for a period of between 10 and 12 months.
Detailed guidelines have been developed by CGIC and include: (i) Procedures for Approval of an Exporter to
the Short-Term Master Guarantee; (ii) Short-Term Export Master Guarantee; (iii) Guidelines for Short-Term
Export Finance Guarantees; (iv) Guidelines for Banks; (v); Application Form for a Master Guarantee; (vii)
Proposal of an Exporter; (viii) Proposal of the Bank; (ix) Demand under the Guarantee; (x) Declaration form;
(xi) Letter Facsimile Regarding Premium Structure; and (xii) Proposed Advertising.



- 53 -                                 Annex 4
Short-Term Export Finance Guarantee Component
. The level of this premium could be adjusted in the future by agreement
between DTI and CGIC.
Guarantee       * The maturity of the PFI -loan and the exporter's Promissory Note would be
Maturity          from the time of drawdown of the PFI -loan to the time of the sight export
L/C negotiation (or post-shipment export bill maturity);
# The guarantee maturity would match that of the covered PFI loan, up to 180
days (pre-shipment) and up to 180 days (post-shipment).
Maximum         Finns must satisfy the following two characteristics:
BorrowerFirm    . up to R5.0 million in total assets (US$1.1 million); and
Size            * maximum 200 employees.
Minimum         * Any loans made by the participating bank to an approved exporter may not
Borrower          exceed 90% of the export amount.
Contribution    . This implies a minimum contribution of the borrower of 10% of the subproject
amount.
Eligible        . All working capital expenditures related to the 100% export of goods or
Expenditures      services. These can include input and overhead costs.
* Refinancing existing PFI loans would not be eligible.
InterestRate    Maximum rate is equal to the Prime Lending Rate as determined by the Reserve
Participating   Bank.
banks to
Subborrowers
Fee Received by  25% of the premiums charged or 0.75% of the average annual balance of PFI
CGICfor        loans guaranteed, consistent with the reimbursement levels established under the
Facility        Reinsurance Act. This fee may be revisited from time to time as appropriate by
Administration   CGIC and DTI.
Reporting       * The participating bank's reporting requirements to the CGIC would include,
Requirement       inter alia: (i) the nature of the PFI loan; (ii) the guaranteed loan effective date;
(iii) export completion date; (iv) loan liquidation date; and (v) default date.
* Participating banks would be required to report quarterly to the CGIC on the
status of all loans made under the Facility. Special note would be given to
loans 30 days or more past due, and efforts to collect them in the normal
course of business would be detailed.
Safeguard       Under the Master Guarantee Agreement between participating financial
Provisions     institutions and CGIC, CGIC maintains the right to refuse to guarantee any PFI
loan that it believes to be unduly risky as well as can refuse to guarantee a PFI
loan because it believes that the financial institution has not "exercise[d]
reasonable care and prudence in making advances to an approved exporter."
Guarantee       . The participating bank should report arrears to CGIC within 30 days of
Execution -       default. Guarantee payment claims would be eligible after 3 months have



-54-                                    Annex 4
Short-Term Export Finance Guarantee Component
Procedures for     passed since the loan default occurred.
Processing      . A request to the CGIC for payment under the guarantee should be paid within
Claims            30 days of its receipt.
Responsibilities  The CGIC would be responsible for, inter alia, the following:
of the CGIC     * Review the information received for accuracy and check the consistency of
documentation provided. This would include a review of the export order, the
L/C and/or the export credit insurance (buyer's non-payment risk) coverage to
ensure coverage and to detect any possible falsification.
Verify the eligibility of the participating bank and sub-project.
Receive and review quarterly reports from participating banks.
* Inquire about efforts to collect or bring current past due loans.
* Review requests for claims against guarantees issued, verify the eligibility of
the request and assure that prudent banking practices have been followed in
disbursing, administering and attempting to collect the loan.
* Facilitate reimbursement for approved guarantee claims within 10 days of
receipt of a request for guarantee execution.
* Encourage participating banks to make every recovery effort possible for PFI
loan repayment.
* Check to ensure that exporters using the Guarantee are acting in good faith by
checking past criminal or default records and making brief factory visits.
Guaranteed      Each sub-project would be required to submit a summary containing, at a
PFILoan        minimum, the following information: (i) Name and address of borrower; (ii)
Documentation   sector of firm; (iii) number of employees; (iv) audited financial statements or
affidavit that total assets do not exceed the ceiling; (v) description of financing
and subproject; and (vi) a maturity and term of financing.
Audit           . Participating Banks would be required to submit audited annual reports to the
Requirements       CGIC.
* Annual audits would be conducted by the Auditor General on project
accounts, including the Export Finance Guarantee Fund. In this context, it is
expected that: (i) the CGIC would keep separate accounts for each sub-
borrower; and (ii) auditors would conduct select and random reviews of
subprojects to validate compliance with the terms and conditions of
subprojects.
* Expenditure invoices used for disbursement purposes would be subject to
random ex-post audits.
11.   Financing/Disbursement Mechanism.  The financing mechanism  for the Facility would
function as follows: (i) Premiums collected by the CGIC would be deposited into a CGIC project account
pertaining to the facility; (ii) CGIC would transfer accumulated amounts (less its agreed-upon
commission) on a quarterly basis into an account in the South African Reserve Bank on behalf of the
Reinsurance Committee and controlled by DTI; (iii) when balances of such account exceed RIOO
million, such balances would be transferred to a Corporate Public Deposits account at the Ministry of
Finance (Treasury); (iv) CGIC would make payments against claims approved by the Reinsurance
Committee from the CGIC project account pertaining to the facility. This is facilitated by debiting its
project account and crediting the participating financial institution's project account for the compensated



-55-                                            Annex 4
Short-Term Export Finance Guarantee Component
balance; (v) with a copy of a Statement of Expense form, CGIC can request reimbursement from the
Reinsurance Committee account in the Reserve Bank (operated by DTI); (vi) Net recoveries from seizure
and sale of collateral would be deposited into CGIC's project account, subject to the same monthly
transfer to the Reinsurance Committee account in the Reserve Bank as above; (vii) IBRD would
reimburse net losses from claims to the Reinsurance Committee Short-Term Export Credit Guarantee
account based on a withdrawal application to a special account established for this purpose; and (viii)
payments to IBRD of principal, interest and commitment fees prorated to the component amount (US$
21.5 million) would be made from the Treasury Executor Account.
Chart 1: Funds Flow for Proiect Accounts
Corporate Public Deposits                     Partic.
S Disburse-               Account (Ministry of Finance)                   Fin.   Guaranteed
. Disburse-                                                           Instit.  E.Axport Subloans
nternt agaimsi                   Balances above R100 million  interest
ofpecsc  Ministry SmteaDtnetmegunrtSO oefdeerpodsi°tene   CGIC    tid)   Partic.
Finance  Expense    ance   Quarterly Managed      /                Fin.
IBRD                      'against Committee Transfers  Project                     Instit.
Repayment Executor reimbursed  Account    +    Account  Cvbursennent (Rand -  #2
Repayment Executor re                    ~~~~~Covering Net Losses)Exotr
Interest and Acutby DTI and  ments   to Pre-                 nmu         
Placed in  against  Shipment .    c        _    Parfic.
ment Fees)                  Reserve   claims   Export     Not Recoveiies     Fin.
Bank)            Finance     (Collaterl)       Instit.
:                        t      3 ~~~~~~~~~~      ~       ~      ~~Guarantee t  3
Account                    _
12.            Facility  Solvency  - Financial Projections.   Detailed  financial projections and
sensitivity analysis for the facility are included in the project files. The tables project both the level of
PFI loans covered by guarantees as well as the revenues, costs and balances of the facility, including the
borrowing costs associated with IBRD financing. The projections point out some important conclusions
which will impact on the levels of default CGIC and the Reinsurance Committee should allow before
limiting additional coverage: (i) If the level of default is below approximately 2.3%, the facility will be
fully self financing and thus will not require that budgetary resources or IBRD funds be drawn upon; (ii)
If the level of new commitments and gearing accords with projections (reaching a 4:1 gearing within
years), IBRD funds would be exhausted with a sustained default rate of 7.1% over a 7 year period.
Continued coverage would require additional Government resources; and (iii) the projections indicate
that default levels can result in significant additional gearing above the 4:1 target. If the average level of
contingent liabilities was set to never exceed four times the level of covered PFI loans, then new
coverage would have to be restricted on PFI loans covered.
13.    Performance Guidelines and  Certification  Procedures for Participation  of Financial
Intermediaries. In principle, any licensed bank in South Africa is potentially eligible to intermediate funds
guaranteed under the facility. To date, CGIC has undertaken its own analysis of the solvency and financial
position of banks participating in the earlier short-term export finance facility (See para. 3) as well as other
CGIC facilities. Moreover, representation of the South African Reserve Bank on the Reinsurance
Committee has facilitated a coordination in the prudential review carried out by the Reserve Bank and
CGIC's own eligibility assessment. Because few institutions have to date been invited to participate nor



- 56 -                                   Annex 4
Short-Term Export Finance Guarantee Component
expressed interest, this process has meant that there has been little problem of banks that wish to participate
but are deemed ineligible.
14.   IBRD is satisfied with the quality of prudential assessment done by CGIC in determining initial
eligibility and reassessing continued eligibility for licensed financial institutions. Further, it is satisfied
as to the level of banking supervision by the Reserve Bank and the coordination between the Reserve
Bank and the CGIC through the Reinsurance Committee. It accepts Government's view that eligibility
should be determined in partnership with the regulatory authorities' own assessment. In the case of
financial institutions not supervised by the Reserve Bank (for example, development finance institutions
and shipping and confirming agents), separate eligibility criteria will need to be developed and applied,
as reviewed by CGIC and confirmed by the Reinsurance Committee.



- 57 -                             Annex S
Outline of Project Functions
REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA
INDUSTRIAL COMPETITIVENESS AND JOB CREATION PROJECT
Outline of Project Functions
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION STRUCTURE
roetCoordinator
__       l      =__ _____   ........ ....... ................... .................... .  . ........ .l
CF Goveming Board                 SPF              Reinsurance Coffvritteel
L_ _ _ _ _                  Gmovering Coniittee 1
I~~~~~~~~~ 
Managernent Consortium        SPF Secretariat                 CGIC
Subcontractorj
for Bumblebeel
Competitiveness Fund      Sector Partnership Fund     Export Finance Guarantee
Component                 Component                   Component
Note: Project Coordinator located in DTI



- 58 -                                   Annex 6
Project Implementation Schedule
REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA
INDUSTRIAL COMPETITIVENESS AND JOB CREATION PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
TIMETABLE FOR IBRD IN-COUNTRY IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT
APPROXIMATE DATE    ACTIVITY                            EXPECTED SKILLS (STAFF WEEKS)
September 1997           Project launch mission cum     Task Team Leader (2)
Implementation support mission  Matching Grant Schemes Expert (2)
Export Finance Expert (1)
Disbursement Officer (1)
November 1997            Implementation support mission  Task Team Leader (2)
March 1998               Implementation support mission  Task Team Leader (2)
September 1998           Implementation support         Task Team Leader (2)
mission and annual            Matching Grant Schemes Expert (2)
implementation review         Export Finance Expert (1)
November 1998            Implementation support mission  Task Team Leader (2)
March 1999               Mid-Term review cum            Task Team Leader (2)
implementation support mission  Matching Grant Schemes Expert (2)
Export Finance Expert (2)
Disbursements Officer (1)
Country Lawyer (2)
September 1999           Implementation support mission  Task Team Leader (2)
and annual implementation     Matching Grant Schemes Specialist (1)
review                        Export Finance Expert (1)
March 2000               Implementation support mission  Task Team Leader (2)
September 2000           Implementation support mission  Task Team Leader (2)
and annual implementation     Export Finance Expert (1)
review
March 2001               Implementation support mission  Task Team Leader (2)
September 2001           Implementation support mission  Task Team Leader (2)
September 30, 2001          PROJECTCOMPLETION
March 31, 2002                PROJECT CLOSING
August 2002              Final implementation support    Task Team Leader (2)
mission and ICR mission a/    Matching Grant Schemes Expert (2)
Export Finance Expert (2)
a/ ICR: Implementation Completion Report



- 59 -                                  Annex 7
Schedule of EstimatedDisbursements
REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA
INDUSTRIAL COMPETITIVENESS AND JOB CREATION PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS
(US$ MILLIONS)
IBRD Fiscal years ending June 30
Year          1998    1999    2000    2001    2002
Annual        1.6      9.0      13.1     2.4
Cumulative   1.6       10.6    23.7    26.1
% of Loan    3         23       50       57a/
a/ Please note that because of the short-termn export finance guarantee component, the project may not
disburse to zero.



- 60 -                                    Annex 8
The Benefits of CollectiveAction: Evidencefrom Other Countries
REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA
INDUSTRIAL COMPETITIVENESS AND JOB CREATION PROJECT
The Benefits of Collective Action: Evidence from Other Countries
1.    In both developed and developing countries, there is mounting evidence that clustering and
networking helps small and medium-sized enterprises to raise their competitiveness. Successful examples
range from the well-known footwear clusters in southern Italy, to the public sector supported PROFO in
Chile, to the Danish Networking Program. Among the advantages of the collective approach: specialization
can be increased; the leverage of public resources can be increased by working in groups; there are lower
transactions costs; it facilitates mutual learning; and can be used to upgrade existing clusters.
Fundamentally, networking helps small enterprises especially break into new markets, and such co-
operation can be facilitated through skilled external assistance.
2. The developing country experiences in particular suggest that dynamic networks tend to be buyer
driven. Public intervention and support is most effective when it is guided by customer orientation and
targets the collective, in order to maximize the cumulative improvement in competitiveness. There are
different ways of achieving these objectives. We focus on the example of the Danish network program and
its application in a non-OECD country such as Chile.
Danish NetworkingProgramme
3 . The programme was triggered by the need to increase the global competitiveness of Danish Small and
Medium-Sized Enterprises (SMEs). Networking, defined as co-operation between firms to raise
competitiveness, in particular to create new business opportunities, developing and marketing new products
using significant strengths within individual firms, establishing agents and distributors in new markets and
pooling individual products into complete product ranges.
4. A major problem in Denmark was that inter-firm co-operation of this nature was not a part of the
industrial culture. The network programme aimed to stimulate Danish companies in large numbers to
overcome their resistance to co-operation. The network broker was a key part of the process approach in:
creating an interest in networking, finding examples of initiatives which are relevant for firms, identifying a
viable network idea, convincing a group of firms to pursue the idea and take ownership and convincing
them of the necessity of a feasibility study before pushing ahead.
5. The Danish network initiative (as a government subsidized programme) ended in 1993. Overall, it
appears that the programme was successful on several counts:
*  It achieved scale over the five years of the programme's existence, 5000 enterprises became involved in
forming networks out of a target group of 10-12,000 enterprises.
*  The high uptake has helped to make networking part of the Danish business culture -- a natural option
to consider in the face of new business challenges.
*  An interim survey found that 75% of participating enterprises felt networking was raising their ability
to compete. 90% of respondents expected they would continue beyond the subsidy period.
*  The know-how has been exported to a number of other countries.



-61-                                     Annex 8
The Benefits of CollectiveAction: Evidencefrom Other Countries
Chile PROFO
6.  Proyectos de Fomento (Development Projects) or PROFOs, were introduced by the Chilean
government's SME promotion agency (SERCOTEC) in 1990. The PROFO programme is aimed at creating
small networks of firms to promote direct co-operation between firms, increase take-up of the other services
provided by SERCOTEC for SMEs, and to create focal points in local economies which will act as
stimulants for development.
7.  The early results from the PROFO initiative exceeded SERCOTEC's expectations. Of the sixteen
PROFOS operating in Chile in mid-1993, a number had expanded their market shares, gaining access to
regional markets, export markets and to large local companies. SERTOCEC decided to build on these
results to develop a new PROFO programme targeted at export markets.
Drawn from: Humphrey, J. and Schmitz, H. (1995), Principlesfor Promoting Clusters and Networks of SMEs, IDS
mimeo, Brighton. See also the World DevelopmentReport 1996, Chapter 9 and Box 9.1 for examples of effective
networking from the former Soviet Union and Canada.



- 62 -                                       Annex 9
Cost Sharing Schemes in Bank Projects
REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA
INDUSTRIAL COMPETITIVENESS AND JOB CREATION PROJECT
Cost Sharing Schemes in Bank Projects 6
I.   BACKGROUND
1.    The Competitiveness and Sector Partnership Fund components proposed in this project are the
latest in a growing series of initiatives - not only in World Bank-funded projects, but also some
sponsored by other donors or governments - which subsidize part of the cost of expert advice to the
private sector. In such approaches, private entrepreneurs are encouraged to take the initiative in utilizing
management and technology expertise to help them become more efficient and competitive, and thus
invest and grow. At first, these funds in less developed countries primarily targeted export-oriented
firms, as part of export development, and replaced the previous model of creating public sector
promotion agencies which, except for rare exceptions, have proven to be ineffective.7 More specialized
funds aimed at encouraging technology acquisition have also been adopted by the governments of more
advanced economies, including a number of industrialized countries.
2.     All of these programs - be they in Asia, South America, Africa or Europe, including those
reviewed below, or others sponsored by different donors or governments - recognize the importance of
the entrepreneurs' initiative as a key to success. Rather than offering a predetermined range of expertise,
they leave it to the entrepreneurs to define their needs. Moreover, all of these schemes rely on the
private sector to deliver the services, and insist that the recipients pay a significant portion of the costs.
A number of Bank-financed funds are reviewed below. The Competitiveness Fund has been designed
drawing on the lessons of their success and identified shortcomings. It should be noted, however, that its
focus on smaller firms is pioneering, and will require particularly extensive outreach mechanisms.
II.  SELECTED WORLD BANK EXPERIENCE
Case 1 - South Asia
Project 1
3.     One of the earliest schemes sponsored by the Bank was a 1985 industrial and export project
which contained two consultancy funds: the Export Marketing Fund and the Productivity Fund, each of
US$10 million. The Export Marketing Fund intended to support engineering products with a high export
potential. Such activities as market research, product adaptation, travel, training and travel to India by
potential buyers would be eligible for a subsidy of up to 50 percent of total costs. The Productivity Fund
targeted firms with export prospects and would finance up to 50 percent of the cost of consultancies in
6This Annex reproduces and extends the review from the Mauritius Technical Assistance to Enhance
Competitiveness Project Report, No. 12693
The failure of public sector agencies and the justification and conceptual framework for a private sector approach,
so as to ensure ownership by the targeted beneficiaries, are discussed in a report published by the Economic
Development Institute in 1991, by Hogan, Keesing and Singer, and entitled "The role of Support Services in
Expanding Manufactured Exports in Developing Countries ".



- 63 -                                  Annex 9
Cost Sharing Schemes in Bank Projects
productivity and quality improvement. Individual firms, groups of firms and engineering associations
could apply, and a single project could receive up to US$200,000 in subsidy.
4.    Both funds were managed by banks which maintained a roster of consultants and kept the
permanent staff managing the funds to a minimum. Each fund was supervised by a steering committee
composed of representatives from the Government and the private sector. Perhaps the biggest innovation
was that the approval procedures were kept as simple as possible with much of the authority left to the
management teams.  The respective steering committees retained the right to approve proposals
involving more than US$50,000 in the case of the Export Marketing Fund, and more than US$100,000
with the Productivity Fund.
5.    The project was completed in 1992, two and a half years later than foreseen. During the start-up
phase, the project ran into considerable delays, caused primarily by difficulties in designing appropriate
procedures, finding qualified staff, and government restrictions on obtaining foreign currency to fund
foreign consultants and travel abroad. Once the Government eased these restrictions in mid-1987, the
rate of grant commitment accelerated. In the course of the project both funds relaxed their eligibility
criteria somewhat, which further increased the interest in the project.
6.    By project completion the two funds had financed 359 grants to 292 firms, totaling US$16
million, which represented a disbursement rate of 80 percent. The project was nonetheless considered a
success. The recipients of the Export Marketing Fund and the Productivity Fund reported on average an
annual export growth of 68 percent and 48 percent, respectively. Both percentages far exceeded the
national average. Other positive effects that were noted among the recipient firms included an increase
in capacity utilization rates, and in general, a sharper focus on the need to improve efficiency and
become more responsible to the demands of foreign customers. The Project Completion Report
concluded that this change in thinking could well prove to be of critical importance to the long-term
competitiveness of the recipient firms.
Project 2
7.    The experience with the above project was incorporated in the design of the 1989 ongoing export
development project approved in 1989. This project includes four consultancy funds totaling US$20
million. A wide range of activities is eligible for support of up to 50 percent, provided they form part of
an approved export development plan. An export development plan is expected to cover three phases:
market exploration, product adaptation and sales promotion. Activities eligible for support include: desk
and field market research, product redesign, overseas travel, product inspection services, training,
consultancies and travel to the country by potential buyers. Not more than one export expansion plan per
firm can be financed, and the cumulative grant support cannot exceed US$500,000.
8.    Both banks originally administering the scheme continued to manage one fund, and the other two
funds are managed by two commercial banks. Again, the approval procedures are kept to a minimum,
and each bank is expected to set up a separate internal unit, staffed by a small number of export
development specialists to manage the program.
9.    Experience has shown that it is difficult to design objective criteria for success for this type of
assistance. Each fund is expected to generate incremental exports of at least ten times the total value of
the grant support. Experience with the first project would indicate that the recipient firms will safely
exceed this target, but these indicators are clearly affected by other factors such as government policies,
company management, and general economic conditions, all of which may contribute to improved



-64 -                                   Annex 9
Cost Sharing Schemes in Bank Projects
performance as well. Nevertheless, the beneficiaries' performance is expected to exceed that of its local
competitors.
Case 2 - East Asia
Project 1
10.   An export development project, started in 1986, provided on a trial basis US$7.9 million for an
export support fund. This fund was intended to promote non-oil exports by subsidizing four types of
activities: all aspects of export market and production management; firm specific training; technical
assistance to organizations servicing the export community; and small equipment purchases. Firms with
export potential and profit-making export organizations could qualify for a subsidy of up to 75 percent
and non profit organizations for a subsidy of up to 100 percent. Total support for a single proposal could
go as high as US$300,000.
I.   The fund was managed by the Export Support Board (ESB), an autonomous body whose
chairman and a majority of its members would be recruited from the private sector. The ESB was
assisted by a small secretariat, five project officers and two senior technical advisors. The entire staff
was recruited from the private sector and paid private sector-level salaries. The secretariat was to
maintain a list of eligible service suppliers and establish a range of acceptable fees. The intention was
that after three years the private sector would be encouraged to take over the management of the fund on
a self-financing basis.
12.   At project completion in 1991, ESB had signed 308 contracts, assisting 186 companies and 20
export support organizations. This project also experienced considerable delays which were caused by
an application approval process that proved much slower than expected. At project completion, only 68
percent of the funds originally committed had been disbursed. With simplified approval procedures and
more clearly defined responsibilities, it was reckoned that each project officer could have concluded an
average of four contracts per month compared to their actual monthly rate of 2.5 contracts.
13.   Otherwise, this project was considered to be a success. A sample of recipient firms reported that
the value of their exports had increased 14.3 times the total cost of the assistance. Consultancies on how
to increase productivity, improve product quality and install better accounting systems were found to be
particularly useful. Nevertheless, a majority of the firms interviewed objected to the idea of having to
pay full price for the services, and at project completion it was unclear whether the scheme could be
continued on a self-sustaining basis.
Proiect 2
14.    Experience with the above project was continued in 1989 with a small and medium industrial
enterprise project. This project was essentially a credit program but contained as one of its components a
US$13.6 million consultancy fund. The project targeted small and medium-scale manufacturing and
agro-processing enterprises, and the fund supported activities such as feasibility analyses, business plans,
loan applications, market research, production analyses and management audits. The project funded up
to 60 percent of the costs with a maximum of US$10,000 per assignment.
15.   The fund was managed by a newly created Technical Assistance Unit (TAU) which was lodged
in a banking development institute generally considered to be a strong, autonomous and neutral



-65 -                                   Annex 9
Cost Sharing Schemes in Bank Projects
institution. This unit maintained a roster of approved service suppliers which included government
institutes, universities, non-governmental organizations and private firms.
16.   This fund ran into considerable delays at the outset, and operations did not effectively commence
until almost one year after effectiveness. TAU was initially criticized for its low approval rate,
sometimes taking as much as 9 months to process an application. But procedures improved, and with an
accelerated approval rate (greater than 20 applications per month), it exceeded the target of 520
interventions by project completion in 1993.
17.   Perhaps not surprisingly, since the consultancy fund was an integral part of a credit project, most
of the consultancies initially involved feasibility studies. In mid-project, TAU started to emphasize
technical assistance on other subjects such as marketing, accounting and production management. There
were clear indications that the fund met pent-up demand since TAU continued to receive requests even
after the credit line was exhausted. At the request of the government and private sector, a follow-up
project pattemed after this project has been designed and is under implementation.
Case 3 - Latin America
Project I
18.    In 1990, US$4.8 million technical assistance fund was included as part of a private enterprise
development project. This fund is intended to provide assistance to groups of entrepreneurs or individual
firms and private sector institutions. Grants would finance consulting services, equipment purchase,
study trips, preparation of studies and training programs. Each beneficiary receives a non-reimbursable
contribution of up to 80 percent of the costs of the activity.
19.   Over the project life, the fund plans to assist 450 firms and prepare at least 30 investment
profiles. In addition, the fund would organize 80 technical assistance seminars reaching 1600
entrepreneurs; develop publications, training materials and market studies; organize study trips; provide
assistance to private sector institutions that intend to restructure themselves; and provide management
training, in particular to women entrepreneurs.
20.   The Central Bank finances US$1.4 million out of the total budget of US$4.8 million from the
fees it earns on a US$14 million IDA credit line. The balance is funded by a US$2 million loan from
IDA, contributions from beneficiaries totaling US$0.5 million, and the US$0.9 million proceeds from a
surcharge to the users of the credit line.
21.   As was the case with the consultancy funds reviewed above, this fund was designed to be
demand driven, and to avoid as much as possible the establishment of new bureaucratic structures. The
fund is there administered by an existing unit within the central bank. Two long-term international
consultants have been contracted to assess proposals, verify expenditures and administer the fund's
financial resources.
22.   Indications are, however, that the institutional location of the fund within the Central Bank has
not been conducive to an efficient operation of the scheme. Preliminary conclusions have also pointed
out the need for good accounting and auditing systems to combat the potential for fraud which this type
of assistance could entail. Although the impact of the assistance has not yet been assessed, the demand
for it is clearly exceeding the available funds, so much so that means are currently being explored for



- 66 -                                   Annex 9
Cost Sharing Schemes in Bank Projects
transferring some of the funds of the credit line, which is experiencing a disappointing demand, to the
technical assistance fund.
Proiect 2
23.   In 1995, a US$27 million matching grant fund was included as part of an export development
project. The fund is expected to support the export development of small and medium-sized firms. It
will finance technology-oriented services, and any functional aspect of the firm's business.
24.    The project objective is to reach 1800 firms over a period up to four years. The first US$2000 of
consultancy services purchased by firms will be eligible for cost-sharing at the rate of up to 80%.
Thereafter, there shall be a single grant rate for all activities, which shall not be more than 50%.
25.   The project is being implemented via a management service agreement (MSA) with one
contractor with through an internationally competitive process. A program administration unit has been
established in the relevant line ministry to administer the disbursement of Bank funds to the fund account
of the management service contractors and to provide administrative support related to the MSA
contracts.
26.    After a slow start initially, the fund scheme has taken off, with over US$4 million of grant funds
disbursed in the past twelve months across the country.



- 67 -                                    Annex 10
Environmental Analysis
REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA
INDUSTRIAL COMPETITIVENESS AND JOB CREATION PROJECT
Environmental Analysis
I.  BACKGROUND AND ENVIRONMENTAL CONTEXT
1.1    National Environmental Context: the Government is developing a National Environmental
Strategic Action Plan (NESAP) through a widely participatory process involving public institutions, as
well as private sector, labor organizations, universities, NGOs, and other members of civil society.
Through this process, a green paper on SA environmental policy was produced in December 1996 for
further public debate. It will lead to a white paper to be submitted to the Cabinet for approval and
publication by May 1997. The green paper highlights the need to incorporate the environment in all
economic activities in order to ensure their sustainable development. It recommends a pro-active
behavior through better policy and incentives, information, capacity building and promotion of green
technologies while aiming at establishing a cost-effective regulatory framework.
1.2   Environmental Policy of the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI). Within the national
environmental context, DTI wants to play a pro-active role by ensuring that industrial development does
incorporate environmental concerns systematically.  To that effect, DTI has established a new
Directorate  of  Standards  and  Environment  (DSE)  -  in  1996  aimed  at  promoting
environmentally-sustainable industrial development by focusing more and more on clean technologies
1.3   Liaison with the Department of Environmental Affairs and Tourism (DEAT). Before DSE's
creation, DTI maintained a close working relationship with DEAT to get advice and guidance in
environmental affairs. This relationship is now to expand as DSE is becoming DEAT's key interlocutor
and partner within DTI. This is in line with South Africa's environmental policy as highlighted in the
green paper which recommends a more integrated environmental management and planning among the
different public institutions at the national, provincial and local levels.
II.    THE DIRECTORATE OF STANDARDS AND ENVIRONMENT (DSE)
2.1   Strategy, objectives, and main functions.  DSE has been conceived as an environmental
promotion and advisory unit without any regulatory function. Its role is:
*  to develop DTI's environmental policy by involving DTI's various directorates and enhance the role
of DTI's Advisory Committee on the Environment;
*  to raise environmental awareness within DTI and develop environmental training and capacity for
entrepreneurs;
*  to promote cleaner technologies through the establishment of a National Center for Cleaner
Technologies; and
*  develop environmental partnerships and networking through information sharing and dissemination.
DSE, while not directly responsible for regulating waste management and pollution control linked to
industrial development, does liaise and cooperate with DEAT regarding, inter alia: the development of
NESAP; integrated pollution control and waste management; control of transboundary movement of
hazardous waste; convention on biological diversity; and Montreal Protocol on protecting the ozone



- 68 -                                Annex 10
Environmental Analysis
layer. DSE is also involved in international issues regarding trade and the environment within the
context of the World Trade Organization.
2.2   Staffing: DSE is made up of a team of 5 professionals including a Director; two Deputy
Directors in charge respectively of standards and environment; an Assistant Director for standards and a
technical advisor for the environment. This team focuses on promotion and advisory functions while
farming out specific activities to private consultants when the need arises. For example, DSE has just
hired a consultant to help develop DTl's environmental policy.
2.3    Current issues: DSE, since its 1996 creation, has been successful in defining its mandate, main
functions and key lines of business. However, it is still developing the means to fulfill its mandate. The
main issue is the lack of assistance and funding for: (a) establishing the National Center for Cleaner
Technologies; and (b) developing environmental training and capacity building; and (c) building an
integrated environmental information system.
III. DSE ACTIVITIES COMPLEMENTING THE PROJECT
3.1    During the project life, DSE will be engaged in the following activities (not financed by the
Bank) which will increase its capacity to assist entrepreneurs. It will help SMMEs: (a) access
economically- and environmentally sound technologies through the establishment of a Center for Clean
Technologies; (b) access relevant information through the development of an environmental information
system; (c) build their environmental awareness and capacity; (d) focus on fast-growing green industrial
sectors; and (e) develop partnerships and networking inside and outside South Africa. DSE, while not
having a regulatory function regarding environmental impact assessment, will review options for
developing its advisory capacity.
(a)    Access to economically- and environmentally-sound technologies.  DSE is developing a
partnership with CSIR and Danish assistance to establish a Center of Clean Technologies in South
Africa. While the location of this center has not yet been decided, CSIR campus could be a good
candidate because of its large existing facility, and CSIR's extensive technology and information
capacity.
(b)    Building an integrated environmental information systems (EIS).  DSE is considering the
development of an integrated EIS with a view to better inform entrepreneurs, particularly SMMEs,
monitor progress of green enterprises and stimulate synergies among institutions involved. This EIS, to
be developed by a specialized firm, will provide information on the following themes: (i) existing green
technologies and access to them; (ii) national and international legislation regarding the environment and
practical steps to be followed to abide with it; (iii) available technical assistance (universities and
consultants); (iv) information of fast-growing green sectors; and (v) roster of green entrepreneurs and
best practices. This EIS will be establish as an electronic network which will connect all the relevant
South African institutions and facilitate access by SMMEs nationwide.  The Center for Clean
Technologies would be an appropriate locus for managing the EIS hub.
(c)    Environmental awareness and capacity building. DSE, with support from consultants, will
organize environmental training workshops for SMMEs nationwide. It will also raise environmental
awareness and build capacity within DTI. Training for SMMEs will particularly focus on: clean
technologies, fast-growing green sectors, environmental impact assessment, existing national and
international legislation. Eight training workshops for SMMEs would be organized in main urban



-69 -                                 Annex 10
Environmental Analysis
centers, while five would focus on raising environmental awareness and capacity of DTI staff and
associated public and parastatal institutions.
(d)    Focusing on fast-growing green industrial sectors: DSE intends to pay particular attention to
the promotion of fast-growing green sectors with considerable potential for SMMEs building and
expansion. For example:
*  Protection and management of biodiversity: South Africa is embarked in a huge program for the
eradication of alien species which will last several decades with an overall investment of hundreds
million rands. Potential for SMMEs creation and development is excellent wit secondary activities
such as fuelwood sale and charcoal production, The rich South African biodiversity is also a unique
opportunity to enhance the national horticultural and floral industry with potential for exports.
*  Wine Production: the wine business particularly for export is currently booming but essentially
through well-developed estates. There is however room for SMMEs providing they are guided in
establishing and growing their business with solid environmental management as the "green card" is
more and more an asset in international markets.
*  Game Ranching: this sector is also developing fast in relation to the fast-growing tourism in SA.
However, game ranching has been essentially developed by large landowners. There is an
opportunity for SMMEs, through approaches such as CAMPFIRE in Zimbabwe.
(e)    Developing environmental partnerships and networking inside and outside South Africa: Inside,
DSE will reinforce its linkages with the various departments (DEAT, agriculture, energy), universities
involved in green technologies and associations of entrepreneurs, particularly those highly motivated for
promoting a better incorporation of the environment. Outside, DSE will keep contact through electronic
mode with key institutions involved in promoting green technologies and overall sustainable
development. They include, inter alia, western Environmental Protection Agencies, UNEP and UNIDO,
Business Council for Sustainable Development.
(f)    Developing DSE Advisory role in environmental impact assessment. DSE, while not directly
responsible for EIA, intends to develop its advisory capacity during project implementation.



- 70 -                                              Annex 11
Supporting Tables and Charts
REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA
INDUSTRIAL COMPETITIVENESS AND JOB CREATION PROJECT
Supporting Tables and Charts
Table 11.1: South Africa- Manufacturing Exports
R million
1990        1991         1992         1993         1994        1995
Manufacturing Total                      19,563       22,229      25,118       27,525       33,927       46,673
Food, Beverage, Tobacco                   2,576        2,915       2,825        2,918        3,678        4,600
Textile, Clothing, Leather                1,081        1,436        1,659       1,819        2,039        2,477
Paper, Printing, Publishing               1,324        1,423        1,636       1,821        2,654        4,615
Chemical, Rubber, And Plastics            2,312        2,871        3,979       4,119        5,769        7,724
Basic Metal Industries                    7,707        8,093       8,223        8,525       10,143       13,097
Machinery And Equipment                   1,161        1,361        1,718       2,172        2,638        4,565
Metal Excluding Machinery                  822         1,009         804          943        1,133        1,678
Motor Vehicles And Other Transport        1,439        1,898       2,909        3,538        3,715        5,041
Other Manufacturing                       1,140        1,221        1,364       1,671        2,159        2,876
Source: CSS
Table 11.2: Employment in the Non-Agricultural Sectors
Seasonally adjusted Indices, 1990 = 100
1990          1991          1992           1993        1994   1995
Public Authorities                          100         102.4          103.6         102.3        102.8  103.4
General Govemment'                       100          103.2          105.3         106.1       107.6  108.2
Business Enterprises2                    100           98.5           94.5          82.4        76.8   76.4
Private Sector3                            100           96.5           93.1          90.8        89.7   90.4
Mining                                    100          92.7           85.3           79.6          78    76.2
Manufacturing                             100          97.8           95.1           93.4        93.6   94.4
Construction                              100            94           89.4           88.8        87.3   85.6
Trade                                     100          99.1           97.9           96.5        93.2   95.4
Private Services4                         100          96.7           96.6           95.6        95.4  100.7
Total                                       100          98.3           96.3          94.3         93.7   94.4
Source: SARB
1. Nabonal departments, local authorites, pmvinces, and statutory bodies.
2. Transnet Sapos, Telcom.
3. Includes Electricity Supply commission.
4. Banking Institutions, building sociees, insurance companies, licenced bodies, transpou, and
laundries and dry-deaning services.



- 71-                                           Annex 11
Supporting Tables and Charts
Table 11.3: South Africa - Manufacturing Production, Physical Volume
1990 = 100
1990   1991    1992   1993    1994  1995   1996
Manufacturing Producton           100.0   96.4   93.5   93.3    95.8  103.0  103.4
Food                              100.0   99.3  100.3   97.9    94.1  94.1   98.1
Beverages                         100.0   95.9   97.9   85.9    88.2  93.2   93.5
Tobacco                           100.0   96.9   92.6   91.1    87.6  85.6   83.1
Textiles                          100.0   96.6   92.4   94.7    99.6  101.5   97.3
Wearing, Apparel Excluding footwear    100.0   97.9   91.2   94.7    97.8  111.6  102.0
Leather Except Footwear           100.0   94.0   95.6   91.5   102.4  109.7  106.2
Footwear                          100.0   99.5   83.5   81.1       79.5  83.3   71.3
Wood And Cork Excluding Furniture  100.0   98.2   93.2   93.7    97.9  102.5  103.3
Furniture (Wood)                  100.0   98.0   92.1   90.8    95.3  103.4  104.3
Paper                             100.0   95.9   96.3   93.4   100.5  112.7  100.5
Printing And Publishing           100.0   99.9   96.1   103.2   103.2  99.1   98.7
Industrial Chemicals              100.0   97.0   91.0   92.2    96.3  103.1   108.7
Other Chemicals Excluding Petroleum    100.0   99.6  100.2   99.3   100.6  105.7  109.9
Petroleum                         100.0   98.6  103.0  118.0   125.0  140.2  141.9
Rubber                            100.0   87.8   87.7   87.7    88.4  96.0   89.9
Plastic NEC                       100.0   96.5   98.8   97.0   104.9  115.6  115.6
Pottery, China And Earthenware    100.0   86.3   72.0   72.4    77.6  84.1   76.8
Glass                             100.0   94.5   81.3   78.4    88.5  96.8   91.5
Other Non-Metallic Minerals       100.0   92.7   86.6   86.4    86.4  94.3   95.7
Basic Iron And Steel Industries   100.0   87.9   80.6   79.6    84.1   95.7   92.0
Basic Non-Ferrous Metal Industries  100.0   97.1   91.2   88.5    98.4  123.3  177.2
Fabricated Metals Excluding Machinery  100.0   96.4   96.7   92.0    92.7  97.7   99.4
MachineryAAnd Equipment           100.0   94.6   91.4   90.7    86.6  97.3  104.0
Electrical Machinery, Apparatus And  100.0   94.3   86.6   84.5    93.2  98.0   91.8
Appliances
Motor Vehicles, Parts And Accessories   100.0   99.3   88.7   93.0    99.3  115.0  102.3
Transport Equipment Excluding Motor    100.0   96.7   88.1   67.6    61.4  51.5   64.0
Vehicles And Parts
Professional Scientific, Controlling And   100.0  106.9  119.1   119.4   118.5  114.9  109.3
Optical Goods
Other Manufacturing Industries    100.0   83.5   77.1   90.9    87.4  78.6   83.2
Source: CSS



- 72 -                             Annex 12
Documents Available in the Project File
REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA
INDUSTRIAL COMPETITIVENESS AND JOB CREATION PROJECT
Documents available in the Project File
Detailed Project Cost Tables.
Enhancing Pre-Shipment Export Finance for Small and Medium Enterprises, Report prepared
for the expert counterpart group of the National Economic Forum/DTI Subcommittee
responsible for the PHRD Fund.
E. Folkerts-Landau (ed.), South Africa: Selected Financial Issues (1996).
Financial Projections for the Short-Term Export Finance Guarantee Facility.
GATT, South Africa: Review of Trade Policy (1993).
Industrial Strategy Project (I 995), Improving Manufacturing Performance in South Africa.
Levy, B. (1996), The Business Environment for South Africa's Small and Medium-Sized Firms.
Monitor Company (1995), Global AdVantage of South Africa.
NEDLAC (1995), Enhancing technical and marketing support for small, micro and medium-
sized enterprises.
SMME White Paper (February 1995).
Terms of Reference for the Management Consultants for the Competitiveness Fund.
Terms of Reference for the Sector Partnership Fund Secretariat.



M
MAP SECTION






16'                                        20°                                          24'                                         280                                         32 
SOUTH AFRICA                                                                                                    5              ZIMBABWE
PROVINCES                                                                                                               Beitbridge  
°      SELECTED MAJOR CITIES                                 PROVINCE BOUNDARIES\
(      PROVISIONAL PROVINCE CAPITALS*                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
24'     ®      NATIONAL CAPITALS                               'The KWA-ZULU/NATAL provincal legislature has
not yet chosen its provincol capital.                                                                Phalaborwa              24,
Final province capitals are to be determined.                                        '                    0          \     ,
I        ~        *Pron-ce boundaries are subject to change under                                        PIETERSBURG
Ths o 05  poedb te  ,  provisions of the South African Constituton.
Th,s ..p WJS prepored by the Mop LnIM  k  
of the World 8ook.                                                                         Gaborone '               be
The boundr-es, colrs, denom-ohons                                        I -
ond o-y other-forost-o sheen o
toni sop do ot,, oly, - onthe prt of         ,                       (                                .'      "t'                                            NELSPRUIT  Komatipoort
The World Bosh Gr-p, our oudgment                  OS V N                  5 
y nd-e.reybnokt   o.pt- ofI -h                   BOTSWAN                                                            PRETORIA                   Middelburg (
ony endorsement or occeptooce of such  !                                                                                      
boondories.                                                                                                                                   j ,Pir MMABATtO Witbonk
NAMI BI                     J                                                      fkekdr                                   oScud (Mabne                               D JMb
/ i  ;  _   ~     /Kleksdrp     JOHANNESBURG                             /,SWAILA
NAMIBIA                                                  !,                                                                          - \ sts ° oSecunda Sewcale
Sasolburg              Newcastle
280  1                                                                                        /                            0Kroonstad                             1                         28-
I/      Upington            /              ,                                                  Harrismith        ULUND15
oran  ,_,ge</ R                       I           I       KIMBE,LEY. .                                                       Ladysmith
i-,, .>                                        ./  \,              $2x'stt'A--tIJL' o0
BLOEMFONTEIN             MZaseru                           hLLt           arcl's
Okiep                                                        01i'MsrRM,"  Bay
LESOTHO -1                    IETE ITZBURG
\  t   HE'FiDrkl5K'I4} CAPE Kp,t             ,.                                     AliwaI                                      IDurban
B         .  )tow '           'Edenburg   ° North             J                        /  /
Britstown '       DeAa           
0 De Aar
Calvinia                                                                        A                                /
'  '           °                                                                             S~0  -AST-E  !;,Nl
Graaf-Reineto                            CAPFE           Umtata
0                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
32'          ~          anrhynsclorp                                                                                                                                                        32'-
Beaufort West                                               °Queenstown
ATLANTIC
BISHO
OCEAN   o Saldanha                                      WESTERN                      Willowmore                                                               INDIAN
SojldurlhcS Buy                                          CAPE                                .ast
o Worcester                                        i                                       London                            OCEAN
CAPE TOWNi                                              0 °Oudtshoorn                                     Port Alfred
Swellendam      Q                                   °'Port
>                                                                     Mossel Bay                            Elizabeth           KILOMETERS 0         100       200        300       400        500
MILES 0               1OO              200              300       J
16°                                       20'                                      24'                                        28'                                      32'                      (0
"1     IIIII                                                                                                                                                                       









IMAGING
Report No.:         16225   SA
Type:      SR



