Page  1
CONFORMED COPY  
LOAN NUMBER 4173 SA
Project Agreement
(Industrial Competitiveness and Job Creation  Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
CREDIT GUARANTEE INSURANCE CORPORATION OF AFRICA LIMITED
Dated March 2, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4173 SA 
PROJECT AGREEMENT
Agreement, dated March 2, 1998, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and CREDIT GUARANTEE INSURANCE CORPORATION OF AFRICA 
LIMITED (CGIC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Republic of 
South Africa (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-six million dollars 
($46,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only 
on condition that CGIC agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set 
forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
CGIC, part of the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be 
made available to CGIC on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS CGIC, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to the Loan Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) CGIC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
Part C of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative and financial practices.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower, Bank and CGIC shall otherwise agree, CGIC shall carry out 
Part C of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in the 
Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section, CGIC, shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Borrower and the 
Bank and furnish to the Borrower and the Bank not later than six (6) months after the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the 
Borrower, Bank and CGIC, a plan for the continued achievement of the objectives of 
Part C of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Borrower and the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with CGIC on said plan.
Section 2.03. CGIC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Agreement.  Except as the Borrower and Bank shall otherwise agree, CGIC shall not take 
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning 
or waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.04. (a) CGIC shall, at the request of the Borrower and Bank, exchange 
views with the Borrower and the Bank with regard to the progress of Part C of the 
Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the 
Subsidiary Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
CGIC shall promptly inform the Borrower and Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part C of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by CGIC of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of CGIC
Section 3.01. CGIC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative and financial, practices under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) CGIC shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) CGIC 
shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
Page  3
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited and (B) 
the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof, as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of CGIC 
hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms; and the Bank shall promptly notify CGIC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
  AND DEVELOPMENT
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For CGIC:
Credit Guarantee Insurance Corporation
  of Africa Ltd
Credit Guarantee House
31 Dover Street,
Randburg
South Africa
Cable address: 
Telex:
credinsur
4 20508 SA
Johannesburg
Page  4
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of CGIC may be 
taken or executed by the Senior General Manager and Chief Operating Officer or such 
other person or persons as CGIC shall designate in writing, and CGIC shall furnish to 
the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature 
of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
 AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
CREDIT GUARANTEE INSURANCE
 CORPORATION OF AFRICA LIMITED
By /s/ Franklin A. Sonn
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Implementation Program
Eligibility Criteria for PFIs under Part C of the Project 
1.
CGIC, with the guidance of the Reinsurance Committee, shall be responsible for 
certifying PFIs on the basis criteria which shall, inter alia, include: (a) licensing 
in accordance with the Borrower’s laws; and (b) an evaluation in CGIC’s estimation of 
the solvency and financial position of said PFI. 
2.
Participation in Part C of the Project shall be open to any licensed financial 
intermediary which is supervised by the Reserve Bank of South Africa, and such other 
financial institutions, including development finance institutions and shipping and 
confirming agents, not supervised by the Reserve Bank, meeting the criteria referred 
to in paragraph 1 (b) above.
Terms and Conditions Relating to the Short-Term Export Finance
Guarantee Facility under Part C of the Project 
3.
Exporters that meet the following criteria, shall be eligible for coverage under 
this Facility; (a) up to R5,000,000 in total assets; and (b) no more than 200 
employees.
4.
Exporters to be covered shall: (a) furnish a confirmed export Letter of Credit 
or other export order backed by CGIC export credit insurance; (b) be owned and managed 
by the private sector; (c) be registered or be in the process of registering as an 
exporter with DTI; (d) not be in default in any of its PFI Loan agreements with any of 
the PFIs; (e) provide evidence that the proceeds of the PFI Loan are to be used only 
Page  5
for inputs and working capital costs; (f) provide evidence (a legally binding 
statement) to show that its products are not intended for a military or paramilitary 
purpose or are not included in the following SITC groups or subgroups, or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower and CGIC;
Group
Sub-group
Description of Items
121
-
Tobacco, unmanufactured, 
tobacco refuse
122
-
Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525
-
Radioactive and associated
materials
718
   718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof, fuel elements
(cartridges), non-irradiated
for nuclear reactors; and 
(g)
obtain an assurance that the Exporter’s activities comply with 
environmental standards in accordance with the laws of the Borrower. 
5.
Except as the Reinsurance Committee may from time to time agree in consultation 
with the Bank, the maximum and minimum size of a PFI Loan to be guaranteed under Part 
C of the Project shall be R.1,000,000 and R.50,000, respectively. 
6.
The guarantee provided by CGIC shall cover 90% of the amount of the PFI Loan 
(and associated interest up to 90 days) against risks arising from default by 
exporters. 
7.
CGIC shall consult with the Borrower and the Reinsurance Committee, from time to 
time, on the premium rate to be charged to the PFIs. 
8.
The guarantee maturity shall match that of the PFI Loan, and shall not in any 
case exceed 180 days.
9.
CGIC shall enter into a Master Guarantee Agreement, acceptable to the Bank, with 
each PFI, whereby CGIC shall obtain rights adequate to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank including, inter alia, the requirement that:
(a)
PFIs shall furnish to CGIC information as to:
(i)
the purpose of the PFI Loan,
(ii)
the guaranteed PFI Loan’s effective date,
(iii)
export completion date,
(iv)
scheduled final maturity, and
(v)
default date,  
(b)
PFIs shall report arrears to CGIC within 30 days of the occurrence of a 
default under the PFI Loan Agreement; 
(c)
guarantee payment claims made by PFIs shall be eligible after 90 days 
have elapsed from the date of the occurrence of the default;
(d)
PFI requests to CGIC for payment under the guarantee shall be paid within 
30 days of receipt of such request by CGIC; and
(e)
PFIs shall furnish audited annual reports to CGIC.
Page  6
