                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 32786


                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                               (TF-22577 SCL-41730)

                                      ON A

                                      LOAN

                        IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 69.45 Million
                          (US$46 MILLION EQUIVALENT)


                                     TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF SOUTH AFRICA

                                    FOR THE

                        INDUSTRIAL COMPETIVENESS AND
                             JOB CREATION PROJECT




                                   June 29, 2005




Private Sector Unit
AFRICA REGION

                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective July 2002)

                   Currency Unit = South African Rands
                              R1 = US$ .14695077
                             US$ = R6.188

                         FISCAL YEAR
                       April 1 - March 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFTPS        Africa Technical Private Sector
ANC          African National Congress
BBSDP        Black Business Supplier Development Program
BDS          Business Development Services
BEE          Black Economic Empowerment
CCFF         Compensatory and Contingency Financing Facility
CGIC         Credit Guarantee Insurance Corporation
DECRG        Development Economic Research Group
DTI          Department of Trade and Industry
ESW          Economic and Sector Work
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction Development
ISO          International Standard Organization
MAC          Manufacturing Advisory Centers
MIGA         Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency
NGOs         Non-Governmental Organizations
NT           National Treasury
PFI          Private Financial Institutions
PHRD         Population Human Resource Development
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SMEs         Small and Medium-sized Enterprises
SMMEs        Small Micro and Medium-sized Enterprises
SPF          Sector Partnership Fund
STB          State Tender Board
TDS          Technology Diffusion Scheme
TEO          The Enterprise Organizations
TORs         Terms of References
TTL          Task Team Leader
UNDP         United Nations Development Program




                 Vice President:      Gobind T. Nankani (AFRVP)
               Country Director       Ritva S. Reinikka (AFC01)
                Sector Manager        Demba Ba (AFTPS)
        Task Team Leader/Task:        Michaela Weber (AFTPS)

                                       SOUTH AFRICA
                             INDUSTRIAL COMPETIVENESS
                             AND JOB CREATION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               18
9. Partner Comments                                                              19
10. Additional Information                                                       20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             36
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                37
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            38
Annex 8. Borrowers' Comments                                                     39

Project ID: P048606                                                  Project Name: IND.COMPET&JOB CREAT
Team Leader: Michaela Weber                                          TL Unit: AFTPS
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 30, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: IND.COMPET&JOB CREAT                                     L/C/TF Number: TF-22577; SCL-41730
   Country/Department: SOUTH AFRICA                                                        Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Other industry (53%); Other domestic and international trade (47%)
                  Theme: Small and medium enterprise support (P); Export development and
                            competitiveness (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/01/1996                                     Effective: 07/01/1998                10/29/1998
     Appraisal: 02/03/1997                                         MTR: 02/01/2001                  02/01/2001
      Approval: 05/29/1997                                      Closing: 03/31/2002                 09/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT/Department of Trade and Industry
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:               Ritva S. Reinikka                              Pamela Cox
Sector Manager:                 Demba Ba                                       M. Ataman Aksoy
Team Leader at ICR:             Michaela Weber                                 Yvonne Tsikata
ICR Primary Author:             Michaela Weber


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The project, the first in South Africa in 31 years, was the result of a lengthy dialogue with the new
democratic Government and the World Bank on trade and industrial policy issues. The primary objective of
the project was to support sustainable economic growth and job creation in an open economy by enhancing
the industrial competitiveness of South African firms, particularly of small, medium, and micro enterprises
(SMMEs). The project's strategy to accomplish these objectives was to: catalyze the use of technological,
marketing, and productivity-enhancing business development services; support a process of
information-sharing and foster networking among partnerships within sub-sectors; reduce bottlenecks
associated with short-term trade financing for SMMEs; and expand the role of SMMEs in the industrial
sector. This project was an integral part of the array of supply-side measures to enhance industrial
competitiveness that the Government had formulated in consultation with potential beneficiaries, such as
the Productivity Improvement Program.

The project initiatives were complementary and supportive of the evolving strategy for industrial support
and contributed to the first pillar "promoting growth and employment" of the 1999 World Bank Country
Assistance Strategy for South Africa, and this objective continues to be at the forefront of the ongoing
dialogue today. The project focused on three specific programs and a Guarantee Facility. Implementation
arrangements were clear, with overall project coordination responsibility by the Department of Trade and
Industry (DTI) and a private contractor operating the Competitiveness Fund (CF).

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objective of the project was not changed, although one of the components was cancelled, as discussed
in section 3.4.

3.3 Original Components:
3.3. Original Components

The project had three components: a Competitiveness Fund; a Sector Partnership Fund (SPF); and a
Short-Term Export Finance Guarantee Facility. All components were directly related to the project
objectives and are described in the paragraphs below. The project drew from lessons learned on matching
grants programs and sector and cluster approaches in other countries, including the importance of
programs being demand driven and beneficiaries undertaking cost-sharing features to increase the prospects
of ownership of the activities.

The Competitiveness Fund (project cost US$37.64 million, of which IBRD would finance US$20.64
million)

The Competitiveness Fund was intended to support the introduction of business development know-how
and expertise that would facilitate and stimulate innovation, growth, and improved productivity for South
African firms through four instruments:

(i)     A cost-sharing grant scheme, in which firms were reimbursed for 50 percent of the costs of a broad
        range of approved business support services, including marketing, production, and general business
        strategy, provided the services were identified in a competitiveness-enhancing plan.
(ii)    Free "hand-holding" to firms preparing proposals, and consultants' selection and management by a
        contracted management team. This complemented the first instrument and was intended to build
        confidence in the new activity of buying business development services.



                                                     - 2 -

(iii)   The provision of grants to cover half of the costs for business services providers to encourage a
        market in business development services, especially for SMME clients.
(iv)    An outreach initiative ("Bumble-Bee") to micro enterprises and very small enterprises (identified as
        SMMEs with 20 or fewer employees). The Bumble-Bee program was to provide free technical
        assistance on business planning and development. It was designed to use the technical skills
        available, particularly in academic institutions, to provide specialized consulting services to this
        segment of the SMME sector by offering a preliminary diagnosis of the firms' leading constraints,
        producing and disseminating an information package detailing the range of available services, and
        funding the initial exploratory visits by these technical consultants. One consequence of South
        Africa's apartheid past was that resources and information flowed within narrow networks of large,
        established firms and their suppliers. Consequently, smaller SMMEs were often unaware of what
        skills and services were potentially available to them and generally lacked "reputation and
        information capital."

Day-to-day operations of the Competitiveness Fund was assigned to a consortium of internationally
recruited firms with international and local specialists. The Bumble-Bee program was to be managed by
the contractor who was held to subcontract the program to a local consultant specializing in SMME
outreach. At least 60 percent of grants by number were reserved for SMMEs, defined as firms with 200 or
fewer employees, turnover of R40 million or less, and total assets of R15 million or less. It was planned
that among the SMME gruop would be firms owned by previously disadvantaged groups.

The Sector Partnership Fund (project cost US$5.73 million, of which IBRD would finance US$3.83
million)

The Sector Partnership Fund (SPF) supported sub-sector partnerships in the preparation and provision of
programs that aimed to improve the competitiveness and productivity of member organizations through
matching funds (35 percent paid by participating organizations and 65 percent covered by Government).
The SPF was intended as a pilot vehicle to "kick-start" a variety of partnerships and as a catalyst to induce
organizations to cooperatively devise partnerships initiatives and eventually reinforce a renewed
commitment of business associations to productivity oriented activities.

The programs were expected to improve the organization of the workplace by upgrading production
processes or product design and quality. Other initiatives would focus on enhancing product quality,
targeted, short-duration initiatives to upgrade the skills of specific categories of workers, or marketing
programs aimed at enhancing the ability of organizations to penetrate new markets. The SPF also
supported programs to promote the dissemination of sub-sector-specific information and networking.

Programs could be either short term in their design or could aim for more sustained institutional
development. Given the relative lack of experience of South African organizations with these partnership
schemes, the SPF made available the services of a "network facilitator" to work with the partnerships in
developing their proposals. Due to the pilot nature of the component, agreement was reached on
performing an early review and revision of monitoring indicators by a specialist consultant contracted for
that purpose. A Governing Committee consisting of DTI representatives with a small secretariat within the
DTI managed the SPF.




                                                      - 3 -

Short-Term Export Finance Guarantee Facility (project cost US$43.73 million, of which IBRD would
finance US$21.53 million).

The objective of this component was to support Government measures to strengthen financial
intermediation for emerging SMME exporters by reducing the level of exporter risk financial institutions
bear. Specifically, the component was to finance a reserve fund established by Government to backstop
potential losses of a facility established to guarantee financial institution loans to SMME exporters. Such a
guarantee facility was already operating, administered by the Credit Guarantee Insurance Corporation
(CGIC) on behalf of the Government. The World Bank­financed facility would guarantee 90 percent of
the non-performance risk of SMME exporters borne by participating financial institutions; eligible
exporters were those that had (i) less than R5.0 million in total assets; or (ii) no more than 200 employees.
Coverage was to be offered for a period of up to 180 days pre-shipment and up to 180 days post-shipment.
Covered private financial institutions (PFI) loans were to be no less than R50,000 (US$11,100) and no
greater than R1 million (US$220,000). A premium of approximately 3 percent per year would be charged
for such guarantee coverage, and covered PFI loans were to finance up to 90 percent of the value of export
proceeds. PFI loans covered the input and working capital costs of producers exporting their final products.
The facility was designed with a streamlined set of approval mechanisms so as to overcome the difficulties
experienced with a previous facility. The scheme was consistent with World Trade Organization (WTO)
guidelines. The Export Financing Guarantee Facility was to be managed by a Reinsurance Committee
within DTI and the CGIC.

3.4 Revised Components:
In April 1998, shortly after loan signing, the Government requested that the Short-Term Export Finance
Guarantee Facility Component be cancelled. The possibility of excluding the Export Guarantee was
discussed during appraisal and negotiations. The Government was assured that it could cancel the
component without penalty. The reasons for the cancellation were twofold: (i) the resistance of the CGIC
to operate with new rules, and (ii) the argument that the Government did not want to borrow from the Bank
and pay commitment fees for guarantees that might not be called. The Executive Directors of the World
Bank Board approved the cancellation of this component (US$21.53 million) in August 1998 before loan
effectiveness.

Following the mid-term review in early 2001, the Government proposed to transform the Bumble-Bee
program that had not yet taken off into a matching grants program to increase access to business
development services (BDS) of SMMEs owned and managed by previously disadvantaged individuals.
Problems that the resulting Black Business Supplier Development Program (BBSDP) had to bridge
included the disappointing experience with affirmative procurement, the very large skills gap in the black
SMME sector, the inability of black suppliers to finance their own training costs, the inexperience with
consulting services, and the under-representation of black firms in the CF program. The project objective
was in line with the original project objectives and design, and after discussion between the Bank and the
Borrower, it was agreed that it did not require an amendment to the Loan Agreement. The program was to
support black enterprises of up to 20 employees with up to a maximum of R100,000 (US$17,000) per
eligible firm over the life of the BBSDP to procure consulting services. Network facilitators would be paid
up to R5,000 (US$833) to help prepare the application. The program would finance 80 percent of costs
with the beneficiary firm contributing 20 percent and would pay the service provider directly to avoid any
prepayment by the beneficiaries, as it was the case in the CF fund. The program began operation in June
2003. (For the BBSDP an average exchange rate of R6 to US$1 is used.)


                                                      - 4 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality of entry is rated satisfactory. Quality at entry was not assessed by the Quality Assurance Group
(QAG). The project was designed in close cooperation with the Government and after extensive analytical
work and policy dialogue on trade, industrial, and SMME policy, which is reflected in the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR). The project was consistent with South Africa's economic development strategy at the time,
namely to assist manufacturing companies to adjust to the liberalized economy. It was also in line with the
first pillar of the World Bank Country Assistance Strategy for South Africa from 1999 "Promoting Growth
and Employment." Because of South Africa's history, SMMEs accounted for a smaller share of industrial
output and employment relative to other middle income countries, and the analytical work carried out
during preparation supported the premise that the SMME share of industrial output had to expand if
industrial growth was to increase and create employment. Restructuring and skills upgrading were seen as
necessary for firms to be able to compete successfully in the open economy and to support the country's
remarkable political transformation with sustained economic success. The development of SMMEs was
intended to be a vehicle for the upward mobility of South Africa's historically disadvantaged community.

The project appraisal document included a logical framework and gave indicators to measure outcome and
output, although it did not include specific measures except for the Bumble-Bee Program and for output
growth for the CF. While Annex 1 includes indicators, such as productivity increase, employment, and
total factor productivity growth, the risk assessment of the SAR points out that employment growth might
not be achievable in the short run if there were productivity increases. Assessment of the indicators was
included in the contractual arrangements with the private contractor. Other project risks were also
assessed, including the risk of delays in project start-up due to the unfamiliarity with Bank's procedures,
the risk of grant abuse and fraud, and the risk of sub-optimal demand and unwillingness to pay for BDS
due to the novelty of the scheme. Many of the risks identified occurred. The implementation arrangements
and operational manuals enabled the discovery of cases of fraud and the procedures to deal with them.

The matching grants for the CF design were in keeping with good practice at the time. The SPF was an
innovative mechanism and introduced a new way of creating synergies within a group of companies in the
same sector to upgrade processes and products or to access markets jointly. The implementation
arrangement for the CF and SPF, however, did not foresee training of DTI staff to manage and assess the
new partnership approach and CF and SPF outcomes. The Government suggested that at the project
initiation stage, more research could have been done on why firms were not using BDS for marketing and
productivity improvement. The cancellation of the guarantee facility after project approval was a reflection
of the Government's preference; the Government concluded that the benefits of the guarantees, which were
not likely to be called, did not justify the cost of the program. The uncertainties with the guarantee
program were not reflected in the appraisal document. The Government did not discuss the possibility of
adding the guarantee component at a later stage. Because of the reasons listed above and in spite of the
very solid and innovative work done during preparation, the quality at entry is rated as satisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Taking into account the ratings for the CF as marginally satisfactory, the BBSDP as satisfactory, and the
SPF as moderately unsatisfactory, as well as the policy context, the overall rating is viewed as
moderately satisfactory. The primary objective of the project was to support sustainable economic growth
and job creation by enhancing competitiveness in South African firms, particularly SMMEs. The
performance indicators were (i) increased firm competitiveness; (ii) increased firm ability to take advantage



                                                        - 5 -

of market opportunities; (iii) accelerated job creation; (iv) increased awareness, interest, and knowledge in
exporting; and (iv) strengthening business services. The share of SMME in the CF should be maintained at
least at 60 percent as per SAR. This share was changed to 40 percent during the mission in November
2002 following a request from the Government, which was confirmed by the World Bank lawyer and the
task team leader in March 2003. The subcontracted CF management unit measured the outcome indicators
in a qualitative study. The quantitative and qualitative impact studies were carried out starting in November
2003.

In general, the studies point to marginally satisfactory performance by the Competitiveness Fund, a good
performance of the Black Business Supplier Development Program, but a moderately unsatisfactory
performance by the Sector Partnership Fund.

4.1.1. Context and Policy

The assessed impact has to be seen in the economic and policy context of the project period. The
manufacturing sector in South Africa has grown relatively slowly over the past few years, with real output
growth since 1989 averaging only about 1 percent per year accompanied by a steady decline in
manufacturing employment (17 percent decline between 1989 and 2003). By contrast, the financial and
business services sector has grown relatively steadily since 1989, and real output in this sector has risen by
about 3.6 percent per year while employment has increased by 7.4 percent since 1989. Capital intensity in
manufacturing has been rising, contributing to the decline in employment. Labor productivity has been
rising steadily and is reflected in real wages, which rose by 21 percent between 1990 and 2002. The
SMME sector in South Africa contributes about 35 percent to GDP, and 54 percent to formal private
sector employment. However, the survival rate of small enterprises in South Africa remains comparatively
low by international standards, and a critical mass of small enterprises has yet to be integrated into
economic activity in a number of sub-sectors. Exports are highly concentrated to Europe and the United
States.

It is within the context of the slow growth of the manufacturing sector, the high failure rate of SMMEs, and
the increasing pressure on South African companies to be competitive in the global economy that the
Government put in place support programs for manufacturing, three of which were financed by the World
Bank--the Competitiveness Fund Program, the BBSDP, and the Sector Partnership Fund.

4.1.2. Outcome/Achievement of Competitiveness Fund and the Black Business Supplier Development
Program

         The Competitiveness Fund ­ Project costs of US$35.72 million, of which IBRD financed
US$17.85 million (70 percent of total project costs)

The overall rating of the outcome of the Competitiveness Fund is marginally satisfactory. Studies carried
out in 2004-2005 are the basis for the assessment of the outcome of the CF. In the quantitative study, a
group of 83 beneficiaries and a control group of 39 similar firms that had not benefited from the project
were surveyed. A qualitative analysis is based on a larger sample of 144 beneficiaries and 78 control
group companies of which the group assessed quantitatively is a part. The results of the study show that
the project achieved a positive outcome for the beneficiary companies over the timeframe of 1999 to 2004.
In the case of net results, where beneficiary and non-beneficiary (control group) firms are compared, the
results are positive for labor productivity, exports as a share of turnover and capital productivity. Because
the sample of non-beneficiary firms of 39 is very small compared with the sample of 83 beneficiary firms,
results caveats apply. On the whole, the target SMME beneficiary companies performed better than
companies in the sample that did not benefit from the program.


                                                      - 6 -

The net outcome for SMMEs is rated satisfactory. The CF met the target set at appraisal of 60 percent of
CF grants going to SMMEs (firms with less than 200 workers, less than turnover of US$5.4 million, or
R40 million, and less than US$2 million, or R15 million, in assets). Taking employment and turnover as
criteria, 66 percent of CF beneficiaries are SMMEs by number of grants. 15% of all approvals were BEE
companies in the value of R26.3 million. Women owned companies represent 12 percent of the CF
beneficiaries, with an approved amount of R17.1 million. The net growth in employment is 7 percent; net
labor productivity growth is 9.1 percent; and export share growth as part of turnover is 9.9 percent.
Capacity utilization growth was 1.3 percent. SMMEs in the evaluation study are companies with up to 60
employees. The definition used for the evaluation is far stricter and much below the threshold of the SAR's
requirement of 200 or fewer employees.


For all CF beneficiaries, the following net results prevailed:

1. Labor productivity for SMME and non-SMMEs as well as manufacturing beneficiary firms was 6.7
    percent higher than for control group companies.
2. With respect to share of export growth in revenue, manufacturing beneficiaries and SMMEs in
    particular performed better than the manufacturing companies and the SMMEs in the control group.
3. Capital productivity in manufacturing and SMME firms grew 13.5 percent more than the control
    group.
4. Employment growth in the SMME sector was 7 percent higher than the control group.
5. Overall capital productivity of the beneficiaries was 13.5 percent higher than the control group.
6. Average turnover growth among the beneficiaries was lower than in the control group.

Looking at the sample from a sector perspective, manufacturing companies were performing especially well
on labor productivity, which is in line with the broader trends within the manufacturing sector (see 4.1.1.)
The CF project called for both the increase of employment and the increase in labor productivity, indicators
that may be inversely related at least in the short run. In the long run, labor productivity should be the key
objective since it is a determinant of competitiveness and long-term employment (see also 3.5.). In terms of
additionality the results are mixed. The survey of beneficiary companies showed that almost two-thirds of
CF beneficiaries would have initiated the CF-funded activity without the support of the CF program. Four
out of five, however, would have not undertaken the CF-funded activity at the same level without the
support of the CF program (that is, same timeframe, same quality, and same scale). The spillover effects
of assistance to beneficiary firms were rated as good. Fifty-seven percent of firms considered that their
upgrading activities had generated spillover effects within the same sector. Three out of four beneficiaries,
especially the smaller firms, reported that the CF led to vertical spillovers.

In measuring the objective of catalyzing the use of business development services that enhance
productivity, marketing, and innovation, the surveys indicate that over 86 percent of beneficiaries stated
they would make use of a BDS provider again in the future. Also 86 percent of BDS providers perceive
that the CF program has stimulated increased growth for BDS providers in South Africa. Most BDS
companies would participate in the CF again if given the opportunity and would like to see the program
continue. The management costs of the CF, which include expenses for both international and DTI
prorated management, as a proportion of projects approved and disbursements made, were assessed to be
within reasonable limits compared with international experience. Grants to services providers as it was
envisaged in the CF were not used, and DTI did not provide free technical advice to CF beneficiaries,
which possibly affected project outcomes for a fourth of grant approvals. Overall, on the basis of the
qualitative and quantitative data provided from the surveys and discussed in the preceding paragraphs, the


                                                      - 7 -

   project generated benefits that justified both the private costs of the beneficiary firms and the public
   investments, especially for SMMEs. In summary, the achievement of the CF is rated moderately
   satisfactory, with the majority of indicators for the SMME sector (firms with up to 60 employees)
   averaging high growth.

            Black Business Supplier Development Program ­ Project costs of US$1.87 million, of which
IBRD financed US$1.34 million (3.5 percent of total project costs)

   The overall rating of the outcome of the BBSDP is satisfactory. The Black Business Supplier
   Development Program, which was funded under the project as part of the CF, was developed in response to
   limitations of the existing programs in supporting national objectives for development of private SMMEs,
   particularly those owned by previously disadvantaged individuals. The Concept Note indicates that "the
   amount of training and coaching required by the black suppliers had been hugely underestimated, and there
   was no finance available to close this gap." The BBSDP was to address: "(a) the need for a systematic
   enterprise-specific diagnostic check to determine what is required; (b) the organization of the training and
   other support services that are found to be required; and (c) the funding of this training and support." The
   BBSDP also addresses the increasingly relevant policy areas of Black Economic Empowerment, job
   creation, and skills development.

   The BBSDP has clearly increased the Enterprise Organization's (TEO) ability to enable smaller and
   black-owned enterprises to access business development services. TEO is the department in DTI
   responsible for most non-tax incentives schemes, and it implemented all project components. In a short
   period of time, it has increased outreach to small firms: 86 percent of the firms reached had 20 or fewer
   employees and 61 percent had 10 or fewer. 14 percent of all approvals were women owned companies, 67
   percent of which are located in the Gauteng area. A qualitative evaluation was performed and was based
   on an evaluation study of 44 recipients and a control group of 25 firms similar to the beneficiaries who had
   received support. The qualitative assessment points to a very positive feedback from beneficiaries.
   Ninety-one percent of the recipients indicated that they would re-apply and 88 percent would advise others
   to apply; most of the funding recipients who were dissatisfied appeared interested in applying for the
   program again. 40 precent of the sampled beneficiaries said they increased their participation in public and
   private tenders. Quantitative survey work carried out in connection with this Completion Report points to
   the outcomes below (median values offer more reliable comparisons because the average growth rates are
   heavily influenced by outliers).

  l The median firm that received BBSDP funding had employment growth of 20 percent and 47 percent in
       2003 and 2004, respectively. The median firm in the control group experienced no           employment
       growth.
  l Analysis taking into account firm age and profitability indicates that participant status is associated
       with a 21 percent higher annual employment growth in the surveyed firms.
  l The median recipient of BBSDP funding had 33 percent sales growth in 2003 and 34 percent in 2004.
       The median firm in the control group had 23 percent sales growth in 2003, but only 6 percent in 2004.
       BBSDP firms seem to have been able to maintain their sales growth rates better than control firms.
  l Recipients of BBSDP funding also undertook more investment in machinery and equipment than firms
       in the control group and had an overall better investment per worker rate.

   With the caveat that firms have received consultant services only since 2003 and that an assessment of the
   program's full impact is not yet possible, the key indicators and the program's efficiency showed
   satisfactory outcome results.




                                                         - 8 -

4.1.3. Sector Partnership Fund Outcome ­ Project costs of US$7.62 million, of which IBRD financed
US$5 million (14 percent of total project costs)

The overall rating for the SPF is moderately unsatisfactory. The assessment of the SPF draws on an
evaluation study that sampled 10 out of 96 partnerships, and 11 out of 100 partnership programs. The
study measured the outcome of the SPF in terms of both partnership network efficacy and firm productivity
change. It measured the net economic impact in terms of sustainable network growth, firm productivity
change compared with a counterfactual, spillovers generated within and outside partnerships, and general
externalities. It also assessed project management cost and performance. The overall assessment pointed to
a satisfactory outcome but a marginally unsatisfactory economic impact for the program.

Out of the ten partnerships in the study, seven completed their programs before the end of 2003, allowing
over 12 months for their impact to become observable. The assessed productivity benefits to partnership
firms were superior for five of the partnerships, less than satisfactory for four of the partnerships, and one
has yet to produce measurable benefits but shows promise. The rating of how well the partnerships
functioned, which was based on both qualitative and quantitative indicators, was generally satisfactory
(rated at 3.4 at a scale of 1-5). Those that did not rate well did not do so mainly because of their limited
size, relatively weak content, or lower importance to their members. The three strongest partnerships
gained particularly from their relatively high importance to their members (usually because they played a
strong catalytic role), and the frequency and content of meetings, or because they were large, open, and
well organized.

The five out of ten partnerships that had satisfactory or better outcomes included two information and
communication technology (ICT) programs, ISO accreditation, timber loading regulation, and a wine
producers' partnership. Of the remaining five, two were cancelled, two others were rated less than
satisfactory, and one, the fruit export partnership, has yet to generate an outcome but may well be
successful. Measured by the sample's evaluation, this project outcome was overall satisfactory, increasing
the overall average private rate of return.

While the achieved productivity outcome was satisfactory (five partnerships performed above average and
four below), the economic impact was less favorable because there was little sustainable new network
increase. The study noted that new networks did not necessarily stay together beyond the program
intervention, and that SPF activities were not always catalytic; some established partnerships would have
performed the activity without SPF and/or the partnerships were driven by service firms rather than being
self-starting. In some cases, activities could have been carried out by individual firms, and the benefits of
bringing smaller firms into association with larger firms were not clearly observable. There seemed to be a
lack of situations providing a clear collective investment opportunity that could not have been undertaken
without the SPF, and where a significant external effect (spillover or market growth in BDS) was likely.
Some programs proposed impact rationales up front, but often these turned out to be non-achievable.

Both vertical and horizontal spillover effects within and outside partnerships were relatively weak. The
main reason for this weak performance is that the partner firms operated largely as independent users of the
upgrading services. Overall, the sample evaluation shows that benefits that go beyond the firm level, such
as spillovers outside the network and sustainability of partnerships, appear to be lower than would be
required to justify the costs of the program. With this likely overall negative public net impact, the private
sector has achieved more-than-marginal profitability gains. The Bank's fund was used 130 percent and 100
partnerships were formed, which indicates a level of success that could be assessed more fully. This
economic result could however be improved by design, targeting, and operational changes. Annex 3 gives a
detailed cost-benefit analysis of the fund. On balance, the project's programs were in line with its


                                                      - 9 -

objectives, and effective incentives to the SMME sector remain highly relevant within the existing economic
policies.

4.2 Outputs by components:
4.2.1. Competitiveness Fund

Over the life of the project, a total of 1,247 CF grants were approved (an average of just over 200 per
year). A total of 984 CF grants were paid out fully, and 82 were paid out partially. The majority (77
percent) were approved during the 1999-2001 period and the balance between 2002 and project closing in
2004. Disbursements lagged somewhat with 43 percent over the same period. Total CF disbursements by
the World Bank amount to US$17,85 million, equivalent to the amount DTI paid out minus improper
claims of the amount of US$263,188 that were reimbursed to the Bank. The program did not have specific
output targets, although achievements in terms of firms served compare favorably with other programs in
the region. A large number of grants (166) were cancelled in 2003 in an effort by the Government to
account for CF commitments, compared with 34 in 2002 and 63 in 2004. Information on cancellations is
only available from 2002 on. About 21 percent (263) of the CF grants were cancelled or funds were only
partially claimed.

In total, 261 BDS providers participated in the program and 13 percent of these service providers benefited
from the program more than once. In addition, 12 percent of BDS providers involved with the CF program
were international firms. The services provided included production systems development (23.2 percent),
in-house activity (11.6 percent), financial/project management (11.6 percent), marketing and intelligence
(9.5 percent), human resources and training (5.3 percent), website development (5.3 percent), information
technology (IT) system development (5.3 percent), specialist consulting (2.1 percent), and (26.1 percent)
for other activities.

When analyzing the outreach of the program, beneficiaries stated that they heard about the CF primarily
through BDS service providers and through generic DTI marketing drives. It is likely that the target market
was not effectively penetrated by such generic approaches.

4.2.2. Black Business Supplier Development Program

Since the launch in March 2003 through February 2005, 672 applications to BBSDP were approved. Some
86 percent of the firms applying for the program had 20 employees or fewer. The average amount
disbursed per firm was US$3,166 (R19,000) relative to US$13,300-US$14,673 (R98-108,000) under the
SPF and CF, reflecting the much smaller size of firms reached. Of the 1,542 total applications to date, 44
percent have been approved, 46 percent were returned for additional information, 4 percent were rejected,
and 6 percent are pending.

About half (52 percent) of the firms are in the services sector and a third (33 percent) in the manufacturing
and construction sector, with the rest (15 percent) in retail trade. About 70 percent of beneficiaries are
located in the Gauteng Province. For the remainder of firms, the smaller firms are evenly distributed across
other provinces, while firms with over 20 workers are concentrated in Cape Province (20 percent). Some
47 percent of beneficiaries used the grants for promotional materials, 24 percent for training, 20 percent for
quality improvements, and 9 percent for business plans, market research, and policies. The rand value of
grants was 53 percent for promotional material, 17 percent for training, 23 percent for quality
improvement, and 7 percent for business plans, market research, and policies.

The quantitative survey of 44 BBSDP beneficiaries and 25 control group firms showed the following



                                                     - 10 -

results:

   l Forty-two percent of sales by beneficiaries are to government agencies.
   l The most commonly cited activity was improved marketing strategy (63 percent).
   l About half of the participants reported that they had upgraded an existing product line.
   l One-third had introduced a new product line with BBSDP funding, while 19 percent had obtained
        an internationally recognized quality certification.
   l A pattern emerged indicating that those firms that received funding were more likely to engage in
        new business activities.
   l Thirty-four percent of BBSDP beneficiaries are women business owners relative to only 28 in the
        control group.
   l Sixty-three percent reported a business expansion in the timeframe after having received the grants.



4.2.3. Sector Partnership Fund

As of December 31, 2004, the SPF had provided funds to 100 programs in 96 partnerships (including some
that had two-phase programs), a high number considering the pilot character of the program. The programs
of 82 partnerships were completed, those of 2 partnerships are awaiting final payments, and 18 were
cancelled before any payment was made. Some 870 enterprises received assistance through the program.
Assistance also went to representative bodies such as associations, to be passed on indirectly to enterprises.
In these cases, it is not possible to give the total number of enterprises because the associations comprised
often thousands of companies (for example, the WC deciduous fruit partnership was formed by three
associations representing 3,000 members).

The total value of grants approved was US$8.9 million (R65.5 million); grant payments to date are US$6.1
million (R42.21 million). The average disbursement per completed SP program was US$61,300 (R0.51
million), and the average grant approved per enterprise was US$10,000 (R0.075 million). The co-payments
of the partner firms were intended to be at least 35 percent of the total program cost, but in some cases they
were lower (such as for the Manufacturing Advisory Centers (MAC) programs where they were about 18
percent because other public funds were also used). In some cases the individual firms contributed
considerably more for complementary investments, so that the proportion of public funds was lower than
65 percent.

The distribution of approved projects by sub-sector and location is summarized below:
   l Agro-food, ICT, metals and minerals, and automotive were the most important sub-sectors of
        assistance, accounting for 60 percent of partnerships. Chemical products, jewelry, aquaculture, and
        footwear created few partnerships, just 6 percent of the total.
   l Of all the sub-sectors, food and beverage products (including especially fruit and wine in Western
        Cape) had the largest number of partnerships (21), and these were mainly small to medium sized
        enterprises.
   l The most intensive clustering (number of SPs per region) was in automotive products,
        agro-processing, ICT, and metals/minerals.
   l Within geographical areas, the most notable clustering was in Western Cape wine and fruit
        industries and in Gauteng automotive and ICT industries.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Benefits from this type of project are difficult to quantify. A cost-benefit analysis is given in Annex 3.




                                                       - 11 -

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact is rated as substantial. Despite DTI's loss of personnel to the
private sector over the past ten years and a weakened capacity for policy making and economic evaluations,
the project was able to effectively strengthen DTI's staff in project management and impact evaluations.
Initial outsourcing of the CF management enabled the program to become operational relatively quickly
after effectiveness. When DTI took over the CF, it brought in international expertise through local
consultants who had worked for the contractor. The staff implementing the program has acquired
knowledge on the characteristics of this type of programs, and should be in a position to supervise its
redesign and future implementation with some specialized technical assistance. Especially through the
BBSDP and site visits conducted before approval of grants to black companies, DTI officers gained
know-how about the business environment and experience on interacting with black-owned companies.
This know-how was useful in adjusting the BBSDP program at several stages in its two years of operation.

In the case of the CF, an initial instrument was free technical assistance, including business diagnostics,
drafting of the terms of reference for service providers, and some guidance in selecting them. DTI did not
provide this service. The impact of this missing service was not as important as it could have been because
two-thirds of the CF grants had been already approved by the time DTI took over. IT systems and
databases were transferred from the private contractor to DTI and are continuously used. The IT systems,
however, had not been upgraded and therefore provided only limited management information. Evaluation
skills were developed in the last two years of the project, because neither the private contractor--despite a
clear mandate in their action plan--nor DTI initially developed them.         In 2003, DTI developed the
assessment framework jointly with the Bank and implemented the evaluations successfully, though with
delays. The evaluations were completed in mid-May 2005.

It can now be expected that DTI will continue to adapt the matching grants and the economic and
cost-benefit evaluation methodology used in the impact studies. TEO's recent strategic thinking on
incentives has been nurtured by the lessons of the programs' economic evaluations. TEO, in conjunction
with DTI's leadership, is currently reviewing a number of incentives and intends to launch and consolidate
incentives with a clear economic rationale that targets specific segments of private sector and can be
measured by a defined and monitored impact on growth. This project can thus be regarded as a first phase
of national programs to support SMMEs through business development services.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The Board of the Bank approved the loan in May 1997. Loan signing only took place in March 1998 due
to delays in Parliamentary approval of the loan. This delay was not entirely within Government control.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The process of selection of the consultants who were to implement the CF component was slow, reflecting
the Government's lack of familiarity with Bank procurement procedures. This resulted in delayed
implementation of that component, and therefore the first grants were only approved in June 1999. Also,
the decision in early 2002 not to extend the contract of the consultants implementing the CF component
resulted in a slowdown in project implementation. DTI took over the CF program management after
discussions with and approval by the Bank.

The stable macroeconomic framework and a good business environment helped to stimulate demand for the



                                                     - 12 -

programs funded under the project. The Government's decision to cancel a component did affect project
outcome in so far as exporting SMMEs were not supported by Bank's guarantees but continued to be
supported by CGIC's export guarantees. Two project extensions--one for two years, the other for six
months--resulted in a longer implementation period and enabled the launch of the black empowerment
component in the project.

Legal agreements with CF consultants were not sufficiently clear on which information would be handed
over to DTI once the contract was ended. The consultants delayed the handover of firm files for several
months reasoning that legal agreements of confidentiality prevented them from releasing the data.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
With a quick start-up phase--77 percent of grant approvals took place in the first three
years--implementation arrangements had been generally sound. Despite tight original controls for the CF
program, some improper practices were nevertheless identified in 2000 and the contracted implementing
firm tightened its procedures immediately. With the Auditor General at the main office following up on the
cases, some forensic audits were performed, half of which were found faultless and four which were handed
over to the South African police for investigations. The handover from the contractor to the DTI was
delayed (see above). The contracted firm as well as DTI later had difficulties setting up a monitoring and
evaluation system that was integrated with the approval system and that would inform management
appropriately about outcomes as designed in the SAR. IT management for management reporting was used
as important tool for forecasting project commitments and disbursements. The management contractor
established a decentralized structure that allowed him to cooperate with regional governments as well as
with the local Chambers of Commerce. This setup worked well at the outset of the project for marketing
and initial firm visits. DTI set up the same structure for offices in Durban and Cape Town in July 2003
after a year of only central management.

At appraisal, the total cost of the project was US$88.6 million equivalent, of which the Bank was to
finance some 52 percent. Final project costs were US$52 million, of which the Bank financed US$24.47
million (47 percent). The reduction in costs reflects the cancellation of US$21.5 million equivalent for the
Guarantee Fund component prior to loan effectiveness, reducing project costs after cancellation by
US$43.7 to US$44.9. Revised costs are given in Annex 2.

5.4 Costs and financing:
At appraisal, the total cost of the project was US$88.6 million equivalent of which the Bank was to finance
some 52 percent. Final project costs were US$52 million of which the bank financed US$24.47 million.
The reduction in costs reflects the cancellation of US$21.5 million equivalent for the Guarantee Fund
component prior to loan effectiveness, reducing project costs after cancellation by US$43.7 million to
US$44.9 million. Annex 2 gives the revised costs.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the Project is rated likely. DTI has continued the BBSDP and indicated that it intends to
continue the matching grants program or incentives for SMMEs. DTI's Executive Committee has in
principle approved the extension of the CF and SPF matching grants by seven years. A program of this
nature is expected to be neither self-financing nor necessarily permanent, in that it attempts to meet specific
needs of small enterprises within specific policy parameters at a specific time. In the future, the program is
expected to focus on smaller enterprises, especially Black Economic Empowerment companies, which have
demonstrated the need for support services. Because outcome-oriented and employment programs are a
priority for the current Government, the new incentives will focus on beneficiaries reached and impact


                                                     - 13 -

achieved. Also, the Government's willingness to involve other partners in the SMME and enterprise
development, such as in DTI's review of incentives, to which World Bank economic and sector work is
contributing a module, speaks for sustainability over the long-run.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The program has been mainstreamed into DTI, with the BBSDP continuing operation and CF and SPF
under review.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance during preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. The project was consistent with
the Government's development strategy and the Bank's assistance strategy. Preparation teams included
senior Bank staff, economists, and matching grants experts. Considerable analytical work was done in
preparation for the project. The Japanese Policy and Human Resources Development Fund (PHRD) of
US$2 million funded some of the studies, while the Bank funded others.

Preparation actively involved both the Government and stakeholders in the private sector and civil society,
as well as high-level Bank management. The Staff Appraisal Report is comprehensive and includes
considerable detail on the macroeconomic framework, SMME policy, and the programs, including the
operating procedures for the three programs. The minutes of loan negotiations do not record any special
disagreement on the project, although they do note that the South African delegation requested changes in
the presentation of some aspects of the Board documents. These changes were incorporated. The Loan was
signed in March 1998. After it received the required approval from the South African Parliament and
became effective in October 1998. The effectiveness delays were associated with the time it took to select
the consultants to manage the competitiveness fund, which had to be in place prior to effectiveness. The
time elapsed between Board approval and effectiveness is not surprising given that the relationship between
South Africa and the Bank was new. As noted in the section on Quality at Entry, the cancellation of the
Guarantee Facility reflected the decision of the Government not to use external financing for the program.

7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance in supervision is rated satisfactory. The project had a slow start, as the Government
and the Bank became familiar with each other's policies and procedures. The Task Team Leader carried
out two supervision missions in the six months between loan signing and credit effectiveness to monitor
actions relating to recruitment of consultants and project staff. Following effectiveness, supervision
missions were done about twice a year. Supervision teams, including procurement advisors and lead
financial management specialists, followed project progress through a system of output indicators in the
CF, quarterly reports, regular contacts, video conferences, missions, and financial management audits,
among others. Since the outset of the project, Bank missions emphasized the importance of setting up a
monitoring and evaluation system that would provide outcome indicators for the project. In January 2001,
the World Bank contracted with a South African firm to perform a statistical study, in which it reviewed
output results as well as approval ratios for black- and women-owned firms, SMMEs, and business
development activities and found satisfactory results.

There were four task team leaders (TTLs) from preparation to closing (one for preparation and three for
supervision). In most cases, handovers between the TTLs were well organized (also noted in the QAG
report below). The Government has indicated that it would want to be "appropriately informed" of changes
in TTLs and greater involvement in the programming of mission. In some instances the mission were not
announced with sufficient lead time. The TTLs led all supervision missions with the exception of one



                                                     - 14 -

mission in February 2000 and two financial management missions in February 2004 and August 2004.
Bank staff responded quickly to Government requests, including in the case of the component cancellation
that involved Board approval. Furthermore, capacity building through the different mission members
throughout the duration of the project was acknowledged and appreciated by the client, increasing its
management and analytical capacity. The changes in procurement rules in the Government of South Africa
were not followed up by respective procurement arrangements and led to a delay in procuring the
consultants for the evaluation studies.

The QAG made an assessment of quality of supervision in 2004 for the period covering June 2002 to July
2004. The comments also reflect performance during implementation, assessed in this Implementation
Completion Report (ICR). The panel rated the overall quality of supervision "satisfactory" (2, using the
six point scale rating), noting effective supervision and flexibility to adjust project components. The
assessment report noted that , "The transition to a new TTL was well managed, by maintaining continuity
in staff communication, and following through on major understandings with the borrower....Monitoring
and evaluation received close attention.... In the end, the team's help in changing corporate culture on
impact evaluation of SME grant schemes was acknowledged by the Borrower. This is a credible example
of capacity building in support of private sector development and likely to be sustainable."

In interviews performed for the ICR with former and current DTI managers involved in the project, the
performance of the World Bank team as perceived by the interviewees was perceived to be satisfactory in
terms of project preparation and supervision. Those interviewed uniformly appreciated the quality of the
advice given and the responsiveness and flexibility of the Bank staff. The implementation plan and the
follow-up actions specified in aide-memoires were clear and useful. Supervision missions were adequate in
frequency, duration, and staffing. The Bank team was considered to have been particularly helpful in the
development of the concept and implementation plan for the BBSDP. The Bank team persistently raised
issues of measuring development impact, although the Bank's recommendations were not fully appreciated
or taken on board until addressed more directly through the evaluation studies at project closing. The
principal area of dissatisfaction, expressed primarily in the National Treasury, was with Bank procedures
and bureaucratic requirements, which were perceived as making the process of negotiation and claiming
withdrawals unduly cumbersome. In at least one instance, the change of TTL was seen as rather
peremptory, without adequate prior consultation at the management level. At the technical level, however,
the continuity of Bank supervision was satisfactory, and new Task Team Leaders were "always well
informed and up to speed". The supervision missions in the past three years focused primarily on the main
counterpart being DTI and despite requests for meetings was not able to establish strong ties with National
Treasury.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government was actively involved in project design. The Ministry of Trade and Industry was the lead
agency in preparation with the mandate and competencies to carry out the task. The Ministry ensured that
the dialogue with the stakeholders, which was especially important given that this was the first Bank
operation in post-apartheid South Africa. In the appraisal phase and first supervision phase, the National
Treasury and the DTI established a close relationship with the Bank. DTI's high-level attention to the
project in its appraisal phase resulted in open discussions and the rapid design once the components were
decided.




                                                      - 15 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government fully integrated the project's programs into Government programs. Sector policies
underpinning the project (trade liberalization, customized sector policies, respective Government programs,
and Broad Black Economic Empowerment) were deepened and extended during the implementation period.
The Broad Economic Empowerment (BEE) Act for example has given the SMME sector even higher
prominence. To meet the goals set out in the BEE act and its related strategy, DTI developed an overall
BEE scorecard and oversees the process of private-public industry charters, which are supporting the
policy's implementation process. The BBSDP was and is an important instrument in assisting black
companies to participate in tendering and integrating themselves into supply-chains. The Government
provided the required support for the project, including the financing of staff in the ministry. It
expeditiously appointed key managers in the ministry, although there were some delays in the selection of
the consultants to manage the Competitiveness Fund, mostly linked to the lack of familiarity with Bank
procurement procedures and the international recruitment procedures.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The DTI had the overall responsibility of project implementation. Day-to-day management of the CF
program was initially assigned to a consortium of South African and international specialists recruited for
this purpose. The Sector Partnership Fund was supervised by a committee of DTI directors and
administered by a secretariat housed in DTI.

DTI also appointed a project coordinator, who acted as a link between component managers and Bank
technical staff and reported to the DTI Director General. The project coordinators carried out their
coordination functions in a satisfactory manner. Staff rotations took place, especially when the CF moved
to DTI, and the program was strengthened by the arrival of former contractor staff and a full-time manager
for the CF, SPF, and BBSDP. The initial project coordinator for the SPF is now responsible for all
non-tax SMME incentive programs in DTI, among other areas, which helps to ensure program continuity.
Lessons from the initial design and dialogue during supervision can be effectively integrated into DTI
policy making.

Project accounts were maintained following internationally recognized accounting practices and were
audited annually. In 2000, some irregularities were found and reported to the Bank. The South African
Auditor General got involved, reviewing each case, in some instances commissioning forensic audits. Four
cases in which fraud was found were handed over to the South African police for further investigation.
Supervision missions followed up on the monitoring of the actions on financial management taken. The
audits gave clean opinions but drew attention to these irregularities. The Government reimbursed the Bank
for the cases in which investigations were ongoing. Subsequent to the discovery of the improper practices,
steps were taken to tighten internal controls first at the contracted CF firm and then at DTI. The incidence
of improper claims has been reduced to zero percent. In terms of reporting, first the consultants through
DTI and later DTI assembled and sent to the Bank quarterly implementation reports of adequate quality in
terms of reporting on outputs.

Impact assessment studies were contracted once the programs were operating from within DTI. Staff
involved has now understood the importance of these assessments, and it can be expected that this function
will be carried out effectively in the future. The project teams benefited from the Bank's technical
assistance in several areas of project management, which helped develop their skills including database
management, monitoring, survey techniques, and impact evaluation. Training for the Project
Implementation Unit staff that had been discussed and agreed upon with the Bank during 2002 and early
2003 was never implemented.




                                                      - 16 -

The consultants charged with management of the Competitiveness Fund until August 2002 performed their
duties in accordance with their main contractual obligations, which is indicated by the approval and
processing rates in the contract period. The consultants, however, did not perform the monitoring of key
indicators. DTI had concerns about the subcontracting arrangements and its costing and did not renew the
contract with the consultants. Problems of temporary discontinuity of staffing in the three offices and two
improper grant approval cases in the Durban office arose, which resulted in tighter controls and the release
of one project officer in the contractor consortium. DTI was diligent in following up on improper claims
(see above).

The action plan requested that the contractor must perform an evaluation after the first year of operation.
With a delay, the contractor performed a qualitative impact study in 2000. Since August 2002, the DTI
team has been managing the Competitiveness Fund and has acquired experience in evaluating proposals
and interacting with a large number of beneficiaries. DTI managed the Sector Partnership Fund in a
satisfactory manner, with regular monitoring and adjustments of staffing and market outreach. It compiled
a roster of network facilitators, promoted the fund, and oversaw the implementation of the activities.

In terms of impact indicators and evaluation, DTI's project monitoring indicators related more to
implementation progress, in line with DTI's operational orientation; the implementing contractor's and
Government's Monitoring and Evaluation system was not adequate to provide information on outcome. As
the SPF study also measured cost-effectiveness, it found that the management costs in relation to
disbursement were about average by international standards. Although management costs were not high
compared with some other similar projects, DTI's performance in implementing the program comes out
marginally below satisfactory, mainly because of problems with applications and claims processing (partly
resulting from rules imposed by the National Treasury). Partnerships that were interviewed complained
about long claim processes, which they regarded as disincentives.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

·        Strong leadership in the Government and the World Bank is key to rapid preparation and
resolution of issues in client countries like South Africa. The Minister of Trade and Industry, the World
Bank Country Director, and senior technical staff of the Ministry and the Bank were actively involved in
the project's preparation and made a rapid appraisal and negotiation process possible. Furthermore Bank
management and the South Africa Auditor's General staff were visiting expeditiously the project to clear
emerging financial management issues during project supervision.

·        Stocktaking of procedures and practices of both Government and Bank may pay-off during
implementation, especially in new client relationship.

·        Open and regular dialogue, especially in challenging situations, resulted in a fully satisfactory
outcome. The evaluations studies were an example at point. They had been discussed over an extended
period of time, were finally conducted close to project completion and resulted in a very valuable
knowledge base on program outcome and impact. The results and the methodology now serve as model in
a further evaluation of of SMME incentives undertaken jointly by World Bank and DTI.

·        Implementation support missions should be discussed with the Government well in advance.
Implementation support missions were occasionaly scheduled without longterm planning with the clients.



                                                     - 17 -

·        The definition of a general framework of capacity building could be built in at the design of such
type of projects, as well as procedures to react flexibly to arising needs. Designing and readjusting the
planning of such activities would make implementation more effective.

·        Performance targets were not clearly established. To take greater control of the programs, the
Government transferred the CF from the private contractor to the Government, which was not the
implementation arrangement set out at project design. In this operation clear targets and periodic
feedback to implementing agencies or contractors could have helped prevent that transfer.

·        Flexibility in procurement arrangements in a future activity would make them fit better with the
larger country context. With BEE a priority policy in South Africa, it is advisable to keep the procurement
arrangements constantly under review. In this operation, new Government procurement rules around
project midterm and its incompatibility with Bank's procurement procedures delayed the process of hiring
the consultants for the evaluation study for about six months.

·        In an operation with this set of objectives to reach SMMEs and previously disadvantaged
individuals, it is essential that attention is to be maintained on that goal. Targeted communication, good
client oriented procedures and processes and continued focus on this objective would keep the results
aligned with that project goal. For BBSDP and SMME firms the impact was rated high.

·        Standardization of processes facilitates information and knowledge management for Program
Managers and Senior Managers. In the case of this operation data starting from approval was not always
well captured. A system to capture data at approval in future similar programs should be simple,
non-intrusive and include a base-line study.

·        Impact studies show that in retrospect the project could have given out a lower level of subsidies.
The lesson can be drawn that where Government transfers are used as support mechanism, an impact
review upstream including a control groupwould help to make adjustments at mid-term review. The
results of the studies showed that assistance that is higher than 50 percent of the total cost of an activity
would only be justified in cases where there are important gains expected in skill development and
employment creation.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
(Please see full Borrower's contribution in Annex 8)

Project Objective and Policy Context

The Industrial Competitiveness and Job Creation Project (ICJCP) aimed at contributing to economic
growth and job creation through promoting the competitiveness of South African firms. It supported the
Government's move toward a more export-focused growth strategy that focused on re-organizing and
upgrading of the manufacturing sector.

Project Design




                                                      - 18 -

The project was demand-led in nature, with the Government facilitating a market for service provision
rather than becoming a service provider. The matching grant nature of the project was to reduce cost of
business development services while increasing the market for these services. In the case of ICJCP, the
impact study was not able to signal an increase in the market for business services. However, there was an
increase in consultancy services that are focused on giving support services to firms wanting to access
ICJCP matching grants.

Project Implementation

The DTI managed the project satisfactorily, with implementation support from the World Bank. The
responsive nature in which the program was managed allowed the introduction of the Black Business
Supplier Development Program to address needs of black-owned SMMEs. As a result of lessons learned
from the Competitiveness Fund and the Sector Partnership Fund, flexibility was built into the program to
allow changes and modifications. Good financial systems were maintained, allowing management of risk
and maintenance of financial control to internationally acceptable standards. The DTI ensured that the
project was adequately staffed to deliver on contractual agreements. Furthermore, the nature of the project
enhanced skills and capacity of the DTI by developing its skills and experience on managing matching
grants and its knowledge and understanding of specific interventions that enable competitiveness of firms
such as acquisition of quality standards.

Conducting impact studies on the project was also invaluable in developing capacity within the department
on drawing up terms of reference for impact assessments, procuring service providers and carrying out
impact assessments on grant programs. Although the DTI does conduct impact studies on a number of its
programs, the outstanding aspect of the ICJCP was that the requirement for the impact study was
incorporated into the program design. As such, it was automatically triggered at a preset point in the
implementation of the project.

Future Implementation

The DTI intends to continue offering matching grant programs modeled on the ICJCP. These grants will be
informed by the recommendations arising from the impact assessment of the program and evolving policies
and strategies on incentives, Black Economic Empowerment, and SMMEs.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
See outcome assessment.

10. Additional Information

The Bank's ICR team consisted of the following members:
    Michaela Weber (Private Sector Development Specialist, AFTPS, and TTL for ICR)
    William Steel (Senior Advisor, AFTPS)
    George Clarke (Senior Economist, APTPS, DECRG)
    Robert Cull (Senior Economist, DECRG)
    Herminia Martinez (Independent Consultant)
    Georgette Johnson (Team Assistant)

B.      The Borrower's impact evaluation and ICR team consisted of the following members:



                                                   - 19 -

    Tumelo Chipfupa (Chief Director, Enterprise Support)
    Tumelo Nkoane (Director, Competitiveness Promotion)
    Godfrey Mashamba (Director, Product and Systems Development)
    David Phillips (Independent Consultant)
    Siyaphambili Development Consulting, South Africa

Project Timeline

Pre-Appraisal                          Oct. 1996
Appraisal                              Feb. 1997
Negotiations                          March 1997
Board Approval                         May 1997
Signature                             March 1998
Cancellation of Guarantee Facility    March 1998
Amendment to Loan Agreement          April 1998
Original Effectiveness Date            July 1998
Effectiveness Date                     Oct. 1998
Contract sign. with consulting firm    Feb. 1999
First Governing Board meeting         March 1999
National launch for CF                 June 1999
Re-Launch of SPF                       July 2000
Midterm review                         Feb. 2001
Two year extension                     Feb. 2002
Re-Launch for CF                       June 2003
Launch of BBSDP                        June 2003
Second Extension                       Dec. 2003
Project Closing                        Sept. 2004
Last Disbursements                     Jan. 2005




Task Team Leaders

Ms. Ivonne Ttsikata
Mr. Simon Gray
Ms. Mohua Mukherjee
Ms. Michaela Weber




                                                - 20 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                           1
                Indicator/Matrix                       Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
(1) Higher productivity as measured by total
factor productivity growth.                                                     (1)
                                                                                CF:
                                                                                Labor productivity growth: 5.7 percent
                                                                                (1999-2004)
                                                                                Capital productivity growth: 9.5 percent
                                                                                (1999-2004)

                                                                                SPF:
                                                                                Output growth: 7 percent (2000-2004)

                                                                                BBSDP:
                                                                                33 percent average sales growth
                                                                                (2003-2004)
                                                                                Higher investment in machinery and
                                                                                equipment per worker (2003-2004)

(2) Larger supply response; higher growth in                                    (2)
output (domestic, exports) by R8 for every                                      CF:
rand of grant funds.                                                            52 times output growth per one rand of
                                                                                grants funds (1999-2003)

(3) Increased employment in participating                                       (3)
firms or less contraction relative to                                           CF:
non-assisted firms and sector. Need to                                          Employment growth: 0.1 percent (1999-2004)
collect information on non-assisted firms as
well.                                                                           SPF:
                                                                                14 percent (2000-2004)

                                                                                BBSDP:
                                                                                20 percent employment growth 2003
                                                                                47 percent employment growth in 2004
(4) Higher export orientation (measure                                          (4)
qualitatively and through export/sales ratios);                                 CF:
increase in number of new exports.                                              Export as share of turnover: 3.3 percent
                                                                                (1999-2004)



(5) Number of service providers showing                                         (5)
gains in activity and range of services.                                        CF: 86 percent of beneficiaries stated they
                                                                                would make use of a BDS provider again in
                                                                                the future. Also 86 percent of BDS service
                                                                                providers perceive that the CF program has
                                                                                stimulated growth for BDS service providers
                                                                                in South Africa.
                                               component cancelled.
(6) Majority of PFIs indicate willingness to
provide future trade financing in the absence
of a guarantee.


Project outcome indicators were not reported on.




                                                               - 21 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                        1
               Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of firms and service providers                                        CF: 1,066 grants paid out, 261 BDS
assisted                                                                     participated
                                                                             SPF: 870 enterprises for SPF plus
                                                                             associations' members
                                                                             BBSDP: 241 firms
Market penetration ratios (no of firms of                                    Target of 60 percent was overachieved: 66
target group)                                                                percent of recipients measured by
                                                                             employment and assets were SMMEs as per
                                                                             statutory definition for SMMEs in Staff
                                                                             Appraisal Report

                                                                             BBSDP: all were SMMEs below 20
                                                                             employees


No. of firms receiving PFI loans; value of  Component cancelled.
export orders supported through PFI loans.
US$46 million (IBRD); US$23.7 million, US$ Component cancelled.
18.9 million (private)


1End of project




                                                           - 22 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                              Appraisal      Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                                               Estimate         Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                             US$ million       US$ million
Competitiveness Fund                                             37.74             37.20               100

Sector Partnership Fund                                           5.73               7.62              133
Export Finance Guarantee                                         43.73               0.00                0
Project Administration                                            1.50               6.16              444

Total Baseline Cost                                              88.70             50.98
                         Total Project Costs                     88.70             50.98
                            Interest during construction
                                          Front-end fee
                  Total Financing Required                       88.70             50.98
Project Administration costs were factored into the programs with US$3.64 for the CF and US$0.33 for the
SPF.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                        1
                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB              NCB                 2          N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                                    Other
1. Works                             0.00              0.00          0.00             0.00           0.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00              0.00          0.00             0.00           0.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)
3. Services                          0.00              0.00         88.70             0.00          88.70
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)        (46.00)          (0.00)        (46.00)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00              0.00          0.00             0.00           0.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                     0.00              0.00          0.00             0.00           0.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                     0.00              0.00          0.00             0.00           0.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)
   Total                             0.00              0.00         88.70             0.00          88.70
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)        (46.00)          (0.00)        (46.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                       1
                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB              NCB                2          N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                                    Other
1. Works                             0.00             0.00           0.00            0.00          0.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00             0.00           0.00            0.00          0.00
                                    (0.00)            (0.00)        (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)



                                                   - 23 -

   3. Services                             0.00               0.00             51.00             0.00             51.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)           (24.47)            (0.00)           (24.47)
   4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                               0.00               0.00             51.00             0.00             51.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)           (24.47)            (0.00)           (24.47)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Competitiveness Fund          20.64         0.00        17.00       19.46         0.54      17.20       94.3      0.0     101.2


Sector Partnership Fund        3.83         0.00         1.90        5.00         0.02       2.60       130.5     0.0     136.8
Export Finance Guarantee      21.50        22.20         0.00        0.00         0.00       0.00        0.0      0.0       0.0
Administrative                 0.00         1.50         0.00        0.00         6.16       0.00        0.0     410.7      0.0
TOTAL                         46.00        23.70        18.90       24.47         6.72      19.80       53.2      28.4    104.8

  Competitiveness Fund Latest Estimate includes the BBSDP portion with US$1.34 million (Bank) as well as
  US$1.61 in management fees (Bank), US$0.17 million (Government) and US$0.36 million (private sector).




                                                          - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The CF and SPF grants were justified on the expected (i) improvement in competitiveness indicators, (ii)
additionality of the funded activities, (ii) creation of networks and (iii) information sharing among
beneficiaries firms. The overall project objective was increased competitiveness of firms, especially of
SMMEs. The mechanisms put in place were to assist companies to access these funds, disburse them, and
monitor the activities' outcome. The distinction between private and public benefits and private and public
costs will give the basis for a qualitative cost-benefit analysis. The following analysis is represents the
results of the two evaluation studies. Public benefits are based on spillovers, additionality, and positive
direct benefits. Additionality occurs by "...inducing companies to make investments sooner than they
might have," and/or inducing firms to make "better, or higher quality investments" through business
development services.

CF Cost-Benefit Analysis

The CF shows satisfactory results in its cost-benefit analysis. The results of the evaluation study show that
the project achieved a positive outcome for the beneficiary companies. The difficulties in arriving at
adequate usable samples possibly resulted in biases and limited representativeness. It was also often
difficult for firms to precisely identify impacts of assistance, especially where the assistance was part of a
larger investment program or financed by more than one source. The study has tried to adjust for such
factors but the results have to be read in the light of these caveats. The indicators set out in the project
appraisal improved in the following way: (i) a significant positive growth in capital productivity; (ii) fairly
constant levels of capacity utilization at between 69.8 percent and 77 percent over the period, with
non-SMMEs maintaining a higher rate; (iii) positive growth in turnover (just under the national average of
3.1 percent), (iv) significant improvements in labor productivity; and (v) significant positive growth in
terms of export as a share of turnover.

The changes that beneficiary companies achieved from 1999 to 2004 were consistent with perceptions of
good performance derived from the qualitative study. Turnover growth was moderate, while capacity
utilization showed a tendency to increase at a steady pace, which suggested that capital assets were being
used efficiently, supporting the high rate of growth of reported capital productivity. The one exception was
employment, which remained about level. However, this is explained by labor productivity growth. The CF
project called for both the increase of employment and the increase in labor productivity, indicators that
may be inversely related at least in the short run. In the long run, labor productivity should be the key
objective since it is a determinant of competitiveness and long-term employment. The outcome for SMMEs
are overall very good, especially in terms of growth in employment (11 percent), turnover (9 percent),
export share as part of turnover (7 percent) and capacity utilization of 74 percent in 2004.

Average turnover in the manufacturing firms grew by 2 percent: employment in the manufacturing sector
was about flat. Looking at the sample from a sector perspective, manufacturing companies were
performing especially well on labor productivity, which is in line with the broader trends within the
manufacturing sector.




                                                       - 25 -

        Table A.3.1. Change in Productivity of Beneficiaries


            Productivity Indicators                 Growth Rate '99 ­ `04


 Capital Productivity                              9.5 percent


 Capacity Utilization                              1.2 percent


 Labor Productivity                                5.7 percent


 Turnover                                          2.9 percent


 Employment                                        0.1 percent


 Export                                            3.3 percent



The quantitative data are strengthened by the qualitative perceptions of beneficiary companies which are
generally positive about changes in business performance since 1999, particularly with respect to
competitiveness and productivity. Control group companies are also positive about business performance,
but not to the degree of the beneficiaries. Further, the quantitative data gathered for control group
companies show evidence of mixed performance.


The BDS provider beneficiaries were also positive about business performance since 1999 and most of
them note an increase in employment, turnover, sales, demand for their services, and increased client base.
However, BDS do not perceive the CF program to have benefited their operational performance to a
significant degree. These perceptions become important when considering the indirect benefits of the CF
program below.



Indirect and Spillover Benefits


Based on beneficiary perceptions, the CF program performed relatively well in creating horizontal, and
especially vertical, spillover effects, although the selection criteria did not explicitly aim for this result.
Sixty percent of beneficiaries believe that the CF program has had vertical spillovers, while only 41 percent
believe that the CF program had horizontal spillover impact. In total, 57.5 percent of CF beneficiaries
believe that the CF program has served to strengthen and create networks.

Over 86 percent of beneficiaries stated that they would make use of a BDS provider again in the future.
Also 86 percent of BDS providers perceive that the CF program has stimulated an increased growth for
BDS providers in South Africa. It therefore appears as if the CF program has performed well in terms of
extended spillover benefits. Interestingly, institutional respondents perceived the creation and growth of a



                                                      - 26 -

BDS provider market as a key area of success that has contributed toward the achievement of the CF's
strategic objectives. This appears to be substantiated by the research findings.

The number of beneficiaries willing to pay market value for BDS services only grew by one percentage
point (from 60 to 61 percent) before and after their involvement in the CF program. This performance is
similar to that of the Business Uganda Development Scheme (BUDS), which noted that only 58 percent
indicated a willingness to pay the full costs of these services.

A World Bank study suggests that the speed of implementation (that is, the disbursement lag) of matching
grant programs is an indicator of a momentum effect that is important to developing fledgling BDS
markets. The rationale is that if programs are implemented at a steady, reasonably rapid, rate throughout
their life, this is more likely to have a positive impact on market development of BDS. The analysis
conducted illustrates that the CF program experienced a growing and significant lag in disbursements
during its implementation and in fact experienced a suspension of services for six months during
management changes in 2002.



Management Costs and Disbursements


The CF program successfully disbursed its allocated funds, but only after the World Bank granted a
three-year extension. This lag in the disbursement of funds is an indication of inefficiencies in the
implementation of the CF and could be in part due to the temporary halt to the program when management
of the CF was turned over to the DTI in August 2002. The CF program faced the high initial management
cost of the external consultants (but corresponding high output with 77 percent of approvals in the first
three years) and then a decline in management costs accompanied by a decline in output when the DTI took
over the management of the program. Management costs per project approved declined when the DTI took
over, but it is difficult to conclude that this was a sign of improved management efficiency because
matching grants programs tend to have a steep learning curve at the start that external consultants must
overcome. By way of comparison, the Sector Partnership Fund, which was run by the DTI from the
beginning had a slow start, with about 26 percent of approvals in the first three years (against 77 percent
for the external manager of the CF). In the CF program, DTI management took over when the learning
stage had ended.



Cost-Benefit Calculations




a) Public Costs

The US$ equivalent in CF grants paid was US$17.4 million (undiscounted and calculated at prevailing
average exchange rate over project life.) The total (external and DTI) management costs were US$3.6
million, which accounts for about US$3,000 per approval and 18 percent of grants disbursed. Other public
costs also apply, including the costs incurred by other Government departments, but these have not been
estimated.




                                                        - 27 -

b) Public Benefits

For the CF program to be justified, the value of the public benefits generated (socio-economic impact of
direct effects, spillovers, market creation effects, and other external effects) should be equal to or greater
than US$21.0 million total project cost. This implies a needed public benefit of about US$17,000 per
approved project. It can also be argued that the output growth per Rand on the grants spent--an indicator
established in the first Project Status Report--can serve as an indicator for public benefits. In the case of
the CF, output growth was about 52 times the Rand spent for the grants (see Annex 1).


The analysis showed good spillover effects (57 percent of firms reported spillover benefits) and network
effects (60 percent), and 86 percent of BDS providers (16 were interviewed) perceived the CF to have
positive BDS market effects. Two-thirds of the beneficiary firms stated that they would have undertaken
their project without CF funding. However, a majority would have undertaken their projects at a smaller
scale, in a longer timeframe, and a lesser percentage to a lower quality, thus probably reducing their net
present worth. This points to positive additionality of the funds provided.



c) Private costs


Private costs are the partner firms' co-payments and the firm's costs of accessing the program (staff time
and so on). Co-payments (matching the amount of public funds) amounted to approximately US$19.2
million. The access costs of firms were moderate considering that the average number of days from
application to approval was 30, and the average number of days from receipt of claim to disbursement was
45.



d) Private benefits

Private benefits are the net direct effects, that is, the value of increased productivity of the assisted firms
actually gained (the before-after effect). As stated above, beneficiary performance was better than that of
control group companies in respect to labor productivity and export growth, but poorer in respect to
employment and turnover growth. The productivity measure indicates profitability. Thus there was
probably a significant private profit gain to beneficiary firms, and especially the sizeable proportion (over
60 percent) who stated that they would in any event have gone ahead with their project, albeit at a smaller
scale and later. For this group, the CF probably provided an element of windfall profits. The fairly good
aggregate private profitability impact also suggests that the CF could have gone ahead effectively with a
lower subsidy than the 50 percent available.




Cost-benefit analysis

The approximate costs and benefits of the program can be summarized as follows:


                                                        - 28 -

Table A. 3. 2. Summary of Costs and Benefits for CF
                                      Analysis
               Benefits
 Public:                              BDS providers improved quality of services, high impact on
 Business Development Services BDS providers' growth; significant impact on the quality of
 market development, spillovers, BDS service providers; program stipulated start-up of BDS
 Socio-economic impact                providers;
                                      Solid benefits in terms of five productivity indicators.
 Private:                             Satisfactory `before-after' firm productivity outcome compared
                                      with the counterfactual. Quantitative estimates indicate mixed,
 firm productivity impact             partly positive impact. The qualitative assessment is positive.

                                      Analysis
                 Costs
                                      Project management and grant costs of about US$ 21 million
 Public: grants plus project          for 1,247 approved projects (US$ 16,800 per project) and about
 management costs                     11 percent of approved value (18 percent of disbursed value)
                                      were at the low end of the range by international standards.
                                      Co-payments (50 percent) were average by the standards of
 Private: co-payments + access        similar projects. Access costs were also about average despite
 costs                                the employment of an external fund manager for the first three
                                      years.



In summary, the project was characterized by reasonably good private benefits. Private costs were about
average with a 50 percent subsidy, and public costs were correspondingly within the likely normal range
for such projects. The result, however, could be further improved by design and operational changes.

SPF Cost ­ Benefit Analysis

To estimate the project's net economic impact, the total economic benefits of the project should be set
against the project's economic costs. In the SPF, the cost-benefit analysis is based on a balance of public
and private benefits generated and the public (grants and management costs) and private costs (the
co-payments and access costs). Another way of putting this is that the "externalities" of the project
(employment generation, spillovers, market creation, and other external effects) should be enough to justify
the public and private costs. In this project, it is argued that part of the private (direct) benefits to assisted
firms were actually public because the SPF explicitly targeted clusters of private firms to create public
externalities through linkages between those firms that would not otherwise have occurred. The value of the
linkages is captured by the direct private firm beneficiaries. If the benefits are not quantifiable, then it is
necessary to balance an assessed impact against the costs--in the form of a cost-effectiveness analysis. In
this study both approaches are attempted, based on the ten partnerships (11 programs). The overall costs
and benefits of the project should be measured as present economic values, and may be represented as
follows: Social/economic cost-benefit analysis may also use shadow prices if the prevailing market prices
are distorted by controls. While such distortion might occur in South Africa, the main element of the
social/economic impact seems more likely to be in the form of external effects, which we are focusing on.

                 {[direct and spillover benefits to member firms] + [net other external benefits]}



                                                       - 29 -

                 must be greater than or equal to:

[firm co-payments + other payments + access costs]+[SPF grants]+[SPF management cost].

                 The overall cost and benefits can be split into public and private elements:

                          Public benefits + Private benefits

                          must be greater than or equal to

                          Public costs + Private Costs




Cost-effectiveness

i) Public Costs

The US$ equivalent in grants paid to the ten partnerships (11 programs) sampled in the evaluation was
US$0.95 million. The exchange rate is calculated at average rate over project life of US$1.0 = R7.0). In
principle, these values would also be discounted in a fully quantified cost-benefit analysis. (Table A.3.2).
The pro-rated DTI management costs of the 11 programs was US$0.14 million. The prorated total cost
was US$1.09 million.

Other public costs also apply, including the costs incurred by other Government departments, but these
may be reasonably assumed to be contained within the DTI cost estimates.

ii) Public Benefits

For the 11 programs to be justified, the value of the public benefits, or externalities, generated as a result of
the SPF (all spillovers, market creation effects, and other external effects) should be equal to or greater
than US$1.09 million. This implies a benefit of about US$6,400 per 170 directly assisted partner members,
or somewhat less if association members (in the Deciduous Fruits Partnership) are included.

The qualitative analysis shows an aggregate impact of 2.5, or 2.8 excluding the two cancelled partnerships.
This suggests that the impact of such effects was not very significant and that the economic impact was not
enough to justify the public costs (that is, the Economic Rate of Return to public expenditure was less than
the social/economic cost of the Government's expenditure).

Only in three partnerships was there an apparently adequate combination of vertical or horizontal spillovers
and/or significant general external effects. These were KZNMAC ISO, Timber Loading Accreditation, and
Wine-of-the-Month Club, which achieved satisfactory or higher economic impact. It is likely the Deciduous
Fruits Partnership would also achieve a satisfactory impact in the longer run. If so then the overall rating
would move closer to a satisfactory level.

The partnerships themselves were not highly productive. While in some cases they did act as catalysts to
productivity increase, in only two cases out of ten did they receive high ratings as new and sustainable
networks. In most cases they were part of existing networks and their sustainability is not good; DTI


                                                     - 30 -

estimates that about half are not currently active.

iii) Private costs

Private costs are the partner firms' co-payments and the firm's costs of accessing the program (staff time
and so on). Co-payments (undiscounted) totaled US$ 0.51 million equivalent on the basis of 35 percent
average share of the program costs. On the one hand, this amount may be on the high side since in the
MAC partnerships the co-payment was further subsidized. On the other hand, complementary costs were
incurred by many of the partner firms. (For example, the ISO diagnostic and accreditation program were
covered by the SPF, but the re-organization, actual certification, and ongoing revalidation costs of the ISO
programs were not.)

The firm's access costs were partly paid for through network facilitators fees, amounting to R180,000 or
about US$26,000, for the 11 programs. But additional access costs (management time of individual firms
or associations) were also incurred. In some cases these were substantial and would be at least equal to the
facilitators' overall fees. Total private costs were therefore about US$0.6 million.

iv) Private benefits

Private benefits are the net direct effects, that is, the value of increased productivity that the assisted firms
gained. Productivity outcome in the sample partnerships was satisfactory, rating about 3.0 overall, and
about 3.4 if the two cancelled programs are excluded. In five partnerships (BandWidthBarn, KZNMAC
ISO, Network Relationship Management, Timber Loading Accreditation, and Wine-of-the Month Club), it
seems that the private returns to the firms' investment were on average above the threshold rate of
return--that is, they were relatively highly profitable. In four of the other partnerships, which include the
two cancellations, they were below the threshold rate. In one case (deciduous fruits), the outcome is not yet
known but prospects seem relatively good.

The fairly good aggregate private profitability impact also suggests that the SPF could have gone ahead
effectively with a lower subsidy than the 65 percent available, and this would have improved the public
benefit-cost ratio.




                                                        - 31 -

Cost-benefit analysis:

The approximate costs and benefits of the SPF program can be summarized as follows:

Table A.3.3: Summary of Costs and Benefits

 Benefits             Analysis
                      Limited horizontal and vertical spillover effects outside of partnerships and
 Public: spillovers/  small market effect, based on qualitative ratings.
 market effect etc
                      Satisfactory productivity outcome; weak net impact compared to
 Private:             counterfactual. Rating method is likely to be more reliable than quantitative
                      analysis.
 firm productivity
 impact

 Costs                Analysis
                      Grant value of US$0.95 million for 11 programs. Project management costs of
 Public: Grants plus US$0.14 million equivalent for 11 programs. Total US$1.09 million-- about
 project management average level as percent of grants disbursed.
 costs
                      Co-payments (35 percent) were relatively low by standards of similar projects,
 Private:             amounting to about US$0.51 million. Access costs were fairly high due to
 co-payments +        complex procedures and learning process for both project authorities and
 access costs         beneficiary partnerships. The total private cost was about US$0.6 million



In summary, the project was characterized by reasonably good private benefits and somewhat limited
public benefits. On the cost side, private costs were low because of the relatively high 65 percent subsidy
and public costs were correspondingly relatively high because of the high subsidy combined with about
average management costs. Public net benefits in the sample were lower than would be required to justify
the program.

Overall the public net impact was probably negative, while the private sector is likely to have achieved
more-than-marginal profitability gains. This result could however be improved by design, targeting, and
operational changes.




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              Pre-Appraisal             9    Task Team Leader (1), Senior
              Mission (11/ 8/                Economists (2), SME Specialist
              1996                           (1), Sector Specialists (2),
                                             Procurement Specialist (1),
                                             Disbursement Specialist (1),
                                             Senior Counsel (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              Appraisal on              3    Task Team Leader (1)
              (02/03/1997)
              Negotiations on                Task Team Leader (1), Principal
              (03/15/1997)                   Counsel (1), Principal Operations
                                             Officer (1)


 Supervision
              05/01/1998                2    Task Team Leader (1); Team             S               S
                                             Member (1)
                                                                                    S               S
              06/26/1998                1    Task Team Leader (1)                   S               S
              09/29/1998                1    Task Team Leader (1)                   S               S
              02/17/1999                1    Task Team Leader (1)                   S               S
              06/17/1999                4    Task Team Leader (1); SME              S               S
                                             Consulltant (1); Country Director
                                             (1), Senior Disbursment Officer
                                             (1)
              10/31/1999                3    Task Team Leader (1);                  S               S
                                             Operations Officer (1), SMME
                                             Consultant (1)
              06/23/2000                2    Task Team Leader (1); PSD              S               S
                                             Specialist (1)
              02/28/2001                4    Task Team Leader (1), Senior           S               S
              (Mid-Term                      Economist (1), Senior PSD
              Review)                        Specialist (1), Lead Specialist
                                             Quality Department (1)
              08/07/2001                1    Task Team Leader (1)                   U               U
              11/08/2002                3    Task Team Leader (1), Lead             S               U
                                             Procurement Specialist (1), Lead
                                             Financial Management Specialist
                                             (1)
              03/18/2003                6    Country Director (1), Sector           S               S
                                             Manager (1), Task Team Leader
                                             (1), SME matching grant
                                             consultant (1), PSD consultant
                                             (1), Junior Professional Associate


                                              - 33 -

                                                 (1)
               12/03/2003                   4    Task Team Leader (1),                S    S
                                                 Consultant (1), PSD Specialist
                                                 (1)
               02/15/2004                   2    Lead Financial Management
                                                 Specialist (1), Senior Financial
                                                 Management Specialist (1)
               08/20/2004                   3    Task Team Leader (1), Private
                                                 Sector Development Specialist,
                                                 /Economist (1), Financial
                                                 Management Specialist (1)


 ICR
               04/30/ 2005                 5      Task Team Leader (1); Lead
                                                  Private Sector Development
                                                  Specialist (1); Senior
                                                  Economist (1); Senior
                                                  Advisor, Private Sector
                                                  Development(1); Consultant
                                                  (1)
               06/20/2005                  1      Task Team Leader (1)




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
                                      No. Staff weeks                    US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                     29.41                       197,216.00
  Supervision                                94.4                       524,075.00
  ICR                                          8.4                        52,000.00
  Total                                   164.88                        773.291.00
Preparation and Lending costs before FY 1997 were not available.




                                                 - 34 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


Biggs, T., A Microeconometric Evaluation of the Mauritius Technology Diffusion Scheme (TDS).
Regional Program on Enterprise Development, November 1999.

Cull, Robert, BMR, Clarke, George, Weber, Michaela: "Preliminary Evaluation, Black Business Supplier
Development Program (BBSDP)", Washington DC, May 2005.

Phillips, David, PMA Consulting: "Evaluation of the Sector Partnership Fund", Washington DC, April 30,
2005.

QAG: "Quality of supervision assessment (QSA6) Summary Assessment Sheet", South Africa ­
Competitiveness Project, Washington DC, 2005, October 6, 2005,

Siyaphambili Development Consulting, African Response, PMA Consulting, David Phillips: "Evaluation of
the Competitiveness Fund", Pretoria, May 2005.

Steel, William: Back to office report, May 2005, and "Assessment of World Bank as an institutional
development partner in the context of preparation, supervision and implementation of the South African
Industrial Competitiveness Project, and Impact on the Department of Trade and Industry", Pretoria, April
22-29, 2005.

Steel, William: "Assessment of Black Business Supplier Development Program", Pretoria, April 2005.

Project Documents:

·        Project Appraisal Document, 1997
·        Memorandum and Recommendation of the President ­ April 18, 1997
·        Supervision Mission Aide Memoires
·        Report of the Mid Term Review, 2001




                                                 - 37 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrowers' Contribution

Borrowers' comments in full text


      This report forms part of the ICJCP Implementation Completion Report and focuses on the
      Department of Trade and Industry's (DTI) reflections on the design and implementation of the
      project. Issues regarding the firm-level impact of the program are discussed in the main
      Implementation Completion Report.

      A) INTRODUCTION

      The Industrial Competitiveness and Job Creation Project (ICJCP) was mooted at the time when
      trade barriers in South Africa were being lifted and the challenge for South African companies was
      competing more effectively in global markets in the face of trade liberalization. The shift in policy
      was away from the import-substitution bias that characterized the pre-1994 industrial strategy, to a
      more export-focused growth strategy, that encouraged job creation and the reorganization and
      upgrading of the manufacturing sector. Support Measures for the Enhancement of the International
      Competitiveness of South Africa's Industrial Sector: Submission by Government to the Trade and Industry
      Chamber of Nedlac, 16 November 1995 The project aimed to support sustainable economic growth
      and job creation by improving firm's ability to develop new products; assess export markets;
      increase sales; increase productivity and decrease waste. SMMEs were to improve their
      competitiveness by using business development services, which would stimulate a sustainable
      market for business development service provision. The project was part of Government's
      supply-side support measures to incentives firms to invest in products and processes that will make
      them more internationally competitive.

      This report forms part of the ICJCP Implementation Completion Report and focuses on The
      Department of Trade and Industry's (the dti) reflections on the design and implementation of the
      project. Issues regarding the firm level impact of the programme are discussed in the main
      Implementation Completion Report.

      B) PROJECT OBJECTIVE

      The main objective of the project was to support sustainable economic growth and job creation
      needs by enhancing the competitiveness of South African firms, particularly SMMEs. The project
      aimed to achieve this by:


      ·       catalyzing the use of technological, marketing, and productivity-enhancing business
      development services,
      ·       supporting information sharing and fostering of networks among partnerships at sectoral
      level,
      ·       reducing bottlenecks associated with short-term funding for SMMEs, and
      ·       expanding the role of SMMEs in the industrial sector. Industrial Competitiveness and Job
      Creation Project Staff Appraisal Report, 8 May 1997


      The project objectives were in line with South Africa's strategy to revitalize the manufacturing
      sector as a way of promoting sustainable economic growth and job creation.



                                                   - 38 -

C) PROJECT DESIGN

Demand-Led Intervention

The ICJCP allowed the Government to supply support to local firms by facilitating the market for
services that would help firms be more competitive, rather than the Government replacing the
market and providing the services itself. The firms defined the interventions, depending on their
assessment of their own needs and priorities. Firms were able to choose their own service
providers, determine how much they were willing to pay for particular services, and define delivery
times for services and the quality. Thus, the control of the delivery of the service was with the
private sector. Furthermore, the private sector service providers had the opportunity to adapt and
repackage services in response to market demand, without the state dictating how the service
should be provided. This approach was much more conducive to a more sustainable form of
service provision.

Matching Grant Funding

The matching grant nature of the project allowed the Government to reduce the cost of business
services for local firms, under the theory that this would in turn increase demand for these services.
The impact assessment of the project has suggested that even though the project subsidized costs of
business services, there is no significant evidence that this resulted in an increase in the market for
these services, although perceptions of some of the service providers were that the fund did have
some impact on their businesses. Evaluation of the Competitiveness Fund ( Urban Econ, David Phillips,
African Response, PMA Consulting ; April 2005) Perhaps at the project initiation stage, more
research should have been done on why firms were not using business development services (BDS)
for marketing and productivity improvement. Is it an issue of information asymmetry, with firms
having limited information about services available and potential benefits or service providers not
packaging their services appropriately Market Development Approach to Assisting Small Enterprise:
Paper for the Economic Research Forum Newsletter; Special Issue on `Enabling Environment for Private
Sector SMEs' William Steel and David Phillips, 2003 or the issue of cost of services? The majority of
the firms supported under the Competitiveness Fund (CF) and Sector Partnership Fund (SPF)
indicated that they would have carried out the services with or without the fund, with one in five
suggesting that they would have done this at full cost, which suggests that:

·       the project was not sufficiently discerning (discriminating) in selecting beneficiaries (not
well targeted) or
·       cost was not the reason for insufficient use of BDS.

Other authors have argued that matching grants interfere with the market and that less
interventionist ways of making markets work should be adopted. Making Service Markets Work for
Enterprise Competitiveness, The Springfield Centre Course; offered at GIBS South Africa, January 2005
For instance, although matching grants are often used for stimulating use of BDS, if information
asymmetry was indeed the reason for low use of BDS, perhaps the grant could have been used to
fund information provision as opposed to service provision.

The cost-sharing nature of the fund is thought more likely to generate a sustainable market for
service provision than a free service. It also ensured commitment on the part of the enterprises to
the proposed intervention. However, in the ICJCP, there was some suggestion that in some



                                            - 39 -

instances (for example, where services resulted in more qualitative deliverables, such as a
marketing strategy) the project may have distorted prices for certain services. Service providers
inflated the costs of services, knowing that the project would subsidize them. This was particularly
evident with the Black Business Supplier Development Programme (BBSDP), where the fund's
contribution to activities was 80 percent of the costs, and the fund paid service providers directly
for service provision. This shifted the responsibility for demanding good value for money for
services away from the beneficiary firm to the fund manager. Furthermore, although the 80 percent
subsidy lowered the market entry barrier to obtaining BDS for black firms, in some instances, the
interventions have become supply-driven, with service providers using the fund to make their
services more attractive and selling micro enterprises services they do not always require.

For BBSDP, perhaps a voucher approach could have been used for some of the more standardized
services, such as training and marketing materials, to limit distortion of prices in the market for
certain services, while ensuring that BDS services are accessible to black enterprises. It may also
improve the cost effectiveness of administering the program, because it would eliminate the need to
adjudicate each individual applications for certain standardized basic services.

Focus on BDS

Although the impact studies on CF and SPF cannot point to a quantitative increase in the supply
and demand for BDS, there has been a growth in consultancy services focused on giving support
and advice to enterprises on accessing the ICJCP matching grants. Small consultancy firms have
identified a gap in the market in promoting access to these grants through:

·        advertising and marketing the matching grants,
·        providing information and advisory services on the grants, and
·        and assisting clients with the application and claim process.

The BBSDP subsidized the provision of these consultancy services, to make the program more
accessible. This enabled some black consultancy firms to extend the range of services they offer to
SMMEs and in some instances allowed individuals in the black community with some business
experience to look at BDS as an option for generating income.

Target on Specific Markets

The CF was targeted specifically at manufacturing and business services, with particular focus on
SMMEs. This was in keeping with Government's objectives of wanting to upgrade and reorganize
the manufacturing sector. To maintain the focus on SMMEs, the project design could have perhaps
looked at ways of making it less attractive to large firms. The non-discretionary nature of the
project allowed all firms that fulfill certain eligibility criteria to access funding.

D) PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION

1.       PERFORMANCE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF SOUTH AFRICA

I.       Management Effectiveness

The DTI satisfactorily managed the project in accordance to the Loan Agreement. A consortium of
international consultants was appointed until August 2002 to manage the CF. The DTI managed



                                              - 40 -

the performance of the consultants and was successfully able to transfer the administration of this
program to the department in 2002. This allowed the DTI to develop it capacity on administering
matching grants. The SPF was also managed satisfactorily by the DTI.

The introduction of BBSDP shows how effective the management has been in trying to reduce
some of the limitations of the project. First, it was identified that the Bumble-Bee was not effective
in offering technical assistance to SMMEs. This was largely because its structure underestimated
the level and nature of intervention that was required to make a meaningful impact on small firms.
Second, that black- and women-owned manufacturing SMMEs were only 10.9 percent and 5.9
percent of firms assisted by the CF, respectively. The reasons for this was that there were fewer
women- and black-owned firms in manufacturing relative to sectors such as retail and services.
Furthermore, the CF disbursed funds through reimbursing firms for agreed expenditures incurred,
which presented an entry barrier for small firms with cash-flow constraints. (The Department of
Trade and Industry Submission to the Director General Requesting Authorisation to Pilot BBSDP.
5 February 2002 (Ref G4/2/2/46)). In the design of the BBSDP, these limitations were addressed.
The program was also modified during implementation to take into account the lessons learned
during the internal implementation reviews.

II.     Financial Management

The ICJCP was a complex project to manage financially, due to the large number of transactions
the project generated. A fairly complex management tool was developed that allowed the
Government to monitor, forecast, report, and control all expenditures. The system allowed for
extraction of data to suit various stakeholder requirements, ranging from the DTI divisional
requirements, the central finance unit, the Treasury, the World Bank, and the Auditor General.

Regular audits were carried out per loan agreement requirements, and recommendations by the
auditors on limiting any risk identified were implemented. When fraudulent claims were
discovered, additional controls were implemented to reduce the risk of fraud. These controls
significantly reduced the number of potential fraudulent claims that are investigated and the
incidence of fraudulent claims that are reimbursed was reduced to zero percent.

A significant proportion of approved projects did not result in disbursement, due to planned
projects not being carried out or approved applicants not meeting the requirements as stipulated in
the contract with the fund. Closer monitoring of the projects allowed identification of the projects
that were to be cancelled, thus facilitating more accurate forecasting of expenditure.

The high cancellation rate was also anticipated by over-committing on the available budget to try
and increase the level disbursements on the project. An analysis of cancellation patterns allowed
the project team to develop a benchmark for over-commitments, to ensure full utilization of the
available budget.

III.    Staffing and Skills Development

The Governing Committee of provided oversight of the CF, SPF, and BBSDP and adjudicated all
applications. To aid the adjudication process, external expertise was used as necessary to provide
insight on certain issues. For instance, the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR)
was procured to assist in evaluating some of the more technical IT related applications. The CSIR
was also required to transfer some skills to the DTI secretariat in evaluating these applications.


                                             - 41 -

This was done by running information sessions for the DTI on certain issues, developing various
tools that could be used in assessing certain types of applications, and conducting site inspections
with the DTI. Other experts were also invited to present on issues such as standards, quality, and
intellectual property.

A more structured skills development program for the staff had been planned but was not carried
out. The program focused on equipping staff with skills for enterprise diagnosis to raise the level of
assessments conducted when evaluating applications and the quality of advice given to enterprises
(particularly BEEs) during site inspections. This would ensure that grant funds are used for
interventions that will have the greatest impact for the enterprise.

The DTI ensured that the ICJCP was sufficiently staffed to deliver on its objectives. In some
instances, this included the procurement of consultants to assist with the administration of CF and
BBSDP. Training manuals were developed on the grants to facilitate efficient and effective
induction of new staff on the grant schemes.

The DTI Business Development Services Unit was also used to facilitate access to these grants.
This was particularly important in provinces outside the main centers of Johannesburg, Cape
Town, and Durban. A series of workshops were conducted in all the provinces on these grants; in
most instances this was done in partnership with the economic representatives of local or provincial
government.

IV.      Implementation Delays

The transfer of CF to the DTI caused significant lags in the implementation process. This was
anticipated to some extent by incorporating some of the contractor's staff into the DTI, to
administer the scheme and to transfer skills on the CF to other members of the secretariat.

Despite prior notice to the clients on the transfer of the project implementation of the fund to the
DTI, there was some confusion in the market about whether the scheme still existed or was
terminated. Hence, at the beginning of 2003, a CF marketing campaign and road-show were
conducted to publicize the fund and inform the market of any changes in the program. This was
successful as it increased the inflow of applications more than threefold. It stimulated enough
interest in the program to fully commit the remaining funds.

The SPF on the other hand, was managed by the DTI for the entire implementation period. It
gained momentum with each implementation year, as more information was filtered in the market
about it. To complement this, staff capacity was also increased. In terms of disbursements, there
was a steady increase in the amount of disbursements, although this significantly accelerated in the
last two years of the fund.

It is now obvious with hindsight that three years for the implementation of CF and SPF was too
short a period and that a longer duration should have been provided for in the loan agreement.

As with the SPF, the BBSDP accelerated with each year of implementation. Extensive marketing
was done to launch the program, and various media was continuously used to keep information
about the fund in the public domain. The use of network facilitators also assisted in increasing the
number of applications received, and the ratio of unsuccessful to successful applications also
improved as network facilitators were trained on the requirements of the scheme.


                                            - 42 -

V.       Monitoring and Evaluation

The monitoring focused on project implementation in relation to procurement, disbursement of
funds, and delivery of firms on agreed objectives. Statistical data were collected on various
indicators to measure outputs and in the long-term outcomes. The major weakness of the project
was that at the outset, there was not a clear identification of the expected outcome of this project in
quantitative terms, how the outcome was to be measured, and the quantitative outputs to be
delivered that would lead to this outcome and specific targets that were to be reached in terms of
specific outcomes. The focus was on identifying indicators, but not defining how, in measurable
terms, one would know if the project had met its objectives. Consequently, the tools used to
monitor the project were not adequate to assist in measuring its impact. As identified in the impact
study, a consistent set of indicators that were tracked throughout the life of the ICJCP was not
used. (Evaluation of the Competitiveness Fund ( Urban Econ, David Phillips, African Response,
PMA Consulting ; April 2005)

Furthermore, as there was no clarity on the key indicators that would be used to assess the project,
there was no scheduling of intervals at which data should be collected from firms. Data were
collected at application stage and at payment of the claims stage; however, the data did not
correlate with the key data that were required to assess the impact of the project. The lack of
identification of key data required and scheduling of intervals when such data should be collected
over the life of the project affected the usefulness of information that was generated from the
monitoring tools, as they did not collect information on change over time.

A mid-term review of the projects was conducted in partnership with the World Bank. The focus of
this was to assess the effectiveness of the management arrangements that were in place to
administer the fund. Interviews with firms were also conducted to assess their feedback on the
project. A number of key recommendations came out of this review, and the most significant was
the replacement of the Bumble Bee with the Black Business Supplier Development Program.

An interim impact assessment was not conducted, due to the transfer of the administration of the
CF to the DTI. A final impact assessment was conducted from the end of 2003 to May 2005.

The delivery of the impact study has been a challenging and valuable learning experience for the
DTI. First, it has been challenging from the perspective of trying to marry the procurement
requirements of the Loan Agreement with the procurement requirements of the Government.
Compliance with the Government's procurement procedures is a legal requirement. It was also
more practical from a project management perspective to follow government procedures, as
support systems such as tender committees and others are in place. In many instances, the
Government had similar if not stricter procedures than the World Bank. Second, obtaining
consultants in the local market who have experience in conducting impact studies of matching
grant schemes was difficult. Third managing the communication breakdown between the Bank and
the DTI resulted in the impact studies having to be re-done. However, the experience has been
worthwhile, as in the process of conducting the impact studies, a lot of skill and knowledge has
been transferred from the international consultant and the Bank to the DTI and the local consultant.

2.       PERFORMANCE OF THE WORLD BANK

The World Bank supported the project through a number of implementation support missions, and


                                             - 43 -

the range of experts that have formed part of these missions. The performance of the Bank in terms
of support and supervision was satisfactory. The key lessons learned through the partnership with
the Bank on this project are briefly discussed below.


I.      Project Coordination

Changing project management arrangements a number of times in the life of a program often
causes some implementation delays.         It is important that when there are changes in task
managers/project coordinators, that the borrower is appropriately informed and that a proper
handover is done. The handover process should include a joint discussion among the previous
coordinator, the new coordinator, and the borrower.

II.     Implementation Support

For greater effectiveness of implementation support missions, it is important that they are planned
with the borrower, in terms of the nature of the assistance required and the type of technical
expertise the Bank should make available during these missions. The Bank and the borrower
should jointly own the objectives of the support mission.

There should also be an agreed schedule on when support missions will take place during the life of
the project. This would facilitate better planning for the borrower and consequently optimize the
resources the Bank makes available during the support mission.

The Bank has a wealth of experience on matching grant programs and is able to share some of this
experience through making various studies on matching grants available. Perhaps developing a
matching grant project management toolkit, which draws together best practice from other grant
programs funded by the Bank, can facilitate a more practical sharing of lessons between different
programs.

III.    Institutional Capacity Building

At the outset of the project, the borrower and the Bank should agree on the key areas that the Bank
can assist in enhancing the capacity of the borrower. There should also be agreement on how this
capacity will be developed to       ensure that the there is clarity between the two parties on
expectations of the benefits that will be derived by the borrower institution from the relationships
with the Bank. This was more important in the case of the ICJCP because the Government
borrowed funds with the express objective of accessing or promoting skills transfer. Funding the
budget deficit was not a consideration in the Government's decision to borrow.

A better understanding of the Bank by the borrower, in terms of how it is structured and resources
available, empowers the borrower to be able to define how some of its needs around capacity
building could be met.

E) FUTURE PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION




                                            - 44 -

The DTI intends to continue offering matching grants to assist firms to become more competitive in
the domestic and international markets. The process of redefining and redesigning these incentives
has started. Key to this process is aligning evolving policy priorities SMMEs with the definition of
the market failures that the grants will address. Furthermore, the DTI will analyze the results of
the impact studies, focusing specifically on lessons learned in order to inform the design,
implementation, and management of future programs.

The DTI has continued to offer BBSDP, as the demand for the program in the market seems to be
quite high. It is the only grant assistance the DTI offers for small black businesses. And it has only
been fully operational for two years, which is deemed too soon to take it off the market, especially
as its impact was not yet fully understood. However, the BBSDP will also be included in the DTI's
review and redesign of its competitiveness incentives.

The skills and knowledge of the Bank would be invaluable in redefining and redesigning these
matching grants.




                                              - 45 -

- 46 -

