Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15886
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2804-HO)
June 28, 1996
Central America Department
Human and Social Capital Development Group
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Lempira (L)
Average Exchange Rates
1990 L.5.3504 = US$1.00
1991 L.5.4001 = US$1.00
1992 L.5.5401 = US$1.00
1993 L.6.4067 = US$1.00
1994 L.8.5528 = US$1.00
1995 1.9.1445 = US$1.00
1995 SDR 1.00 = US$1.50
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January I - December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ADEPRIR   Rural Primary Education Management Project (Proyecto Administracidn
de la Educaci6n Primaria Rural)
FHIS   Honduran Social Investment Fund (Fondo Hondureno de Infversi6n Social)
GDP   Gross Domestic Product
ICR   Implementation Completion Report
IDA   International Development Association
IDB   Inter-American Development Bank
RIM    Regional Implementation Mission (Central America)
SAR   Staff Appraisal Report
SEP   State Secretariat of Public Education (Secrelaria de Educacion Publica)
UCCE   External Assistance Coordinating Unit (Unidad de Coordinaci6n de
Asistencia Fxterna)
UCP   Project Coordination Unit (tUnidad de Coordinaciol del Proyecto)
UNDP   United Nations Development Program
UNESCO    United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
USAID   United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Contents
PREFACE .......................................................... iii
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...........................................................                                iV
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ............................................................         1
PROJECr BACKGROUND .1
PROJECT OJECTIVES .1
IMPLEMENTATION RECORD.                                                                                         3
ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIvEs.                                                                             4
Instutional Strengthening ........................................................                          4
Regional Planning and Management ........................................................                   5
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT.                                                                           8
Factors not subject to Government control ........................................................ 8
Factors subject to Government control ........................................................ 8
Factors subject to Implementing Agency control ........................................................     8
PRoJEcT SUSTAINABILITY .                                                                                       8
BANKR PERFORMANCE.                                                                                             9
BoRRowERPERFORMANCE ........................................................................................1.................... .. 10
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .10
KEY LESSONS LEARNED.                                                                                          I 
FrrURE OPERATIONS.                                                                                            1 2
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES ...........................                                                      14
Appendixes:  A.             Mission's aide memoire
B        Government's Contribution to the ICR
C.    Government's Comments on the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






iii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2804-HO)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Rural Primary Education
Management Project (ADEPRIR) in Honduras, for which Loan 2804-HO in the amount of
US$4.4 rnillion was approved on May 5, 1987. The Loan was closed on December 31, 1995,
one and a half years beyond the original schedule. The last disbursement was made on May 13,
1996.
The ICR was prepared by John F. Heiwig of the Bank's Regional Implementation Field
Office for Central America (RIM) and reviewed by the Counlry Department for Central
America of the Latin America and Caribbean Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary,
Parts I and III) and the Borrower (Part II, with contributions to Part III).
Preparation of the ICR was started during the Bank's final supervision mission of the
project in December 1995, and is based, inter alia, on the SAR; the Loan Agreement;
supervision reports; evaluation studies prepared by the Borrower; correspondence between the
Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda. The Borrower contributed to the
preparation of the ICR through a review of project performance and comnmented on the draft
ICR.






iv
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2804-HO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Rural Primary Education Management Project (ADEPRIR) was the third
education sector project financed by the Bank in Honduras. The Bank Group has provided
financial assistance to Honduras for two previous education projects. Credit 452-HO for
US$3.0 million and Loan 954-HO for US$3.0 million (1974) were used to upgrade a selected
number of primary and secondary teacher training schools and improve agricultural vocational
training. The Second Education Project, Credit 777-HO for US$5.0 million (1978), partially
financed improvement of rural primary education, the National Agricultural School and the
National Forestry School.
2.    The ADEPRIR project was prepared by the Secretariat for Education (SEP), with
assistance from the Bank and the United Nations Education Science and Culture Organization
(UNESCO) from May 1985 through August 1986. Preparation was completed in December
1986. Negotiations took place in Washington, D.C., from March 23-24, 1987. The Project
was appraised in December 1986, approved by the Board on May 5, 1987, signed on August
27, 1987, and became effective on April 5, 1988. At appraisal, total costs were estimated at
US$6.9 million, of which US$4.4 million would be financed by a Bank loan. After the project
was restructured in 1993, the total costs were reduced to US$5.3 rmillion, the Bank's share in
financing rose from 64% to 83%.
Project Objectives and Description
3.    The specific objectives were to (a) enhance the institutional capacity of SEP in the
areas of inter-ministerial coordination, sector policy formulation, planning of education
development, allocation of expenditures (including coordination of development assistance),
and internal administration; and (b) assist the Govemment to prepare and test an effective
system for administering rural primary schools, which would economize on recurrent
expenditures, improve cost-effectiveness, and establish the basis for raising student
achievement. These goals were to be accomplished through studies and technical assistance.
Pre-project steps taken by the Government (formation of a Social Cabinet, activation of SEP's
Executive Council, and creation of an Extemal Assistance Coordinating Unit) were designed to
support these objectives and set the stage for implementation.



v
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    During the period from December 1988 to June 1990, when Honduras fell into arrears,
the World Bank disbursements to ADEPRIR ceased. Work under the project continued while
funds lasted until late 1989; it was not reactivated until mid-1991. To allow time to complete
the procurement program the original closing date for the loan, June 30, 1994, was extended in
three times by a total of 1.5 years (to December 31, 1995).
5.    After the project was reactivated in 1991, constraints on availability of government
funds and implementation capacity (a number of other projects including those funded by
USAID, the Japanese government, UNESCO/Holland and German government had begun)
made it impossible to complete the project as originally planned. It was then agreed with the
Government that the Regional Planning and Management component would be scaled down
and limited in scope to two of the twelve school districts originally proposed for the project,
and costs were adjusted accordingly.
6.    Project resources were also shifted in response to changing needs of the country, and
to support preparation of a new basic education project. All procurement was completed
satisfactorily. The testing of the rural primary school management network scheme was
initiated successfully; however, for maximum usefulness, a cost study of the network model
and operational plans for subsequent expansion of this system should have been undertaken.
Major factors affecting the Project
7.    ADEPRIR's lifetime spanned three political administrations; when a new, opposition
government took over, almost all Project staff were immediately replaced. The new staff
tended to overlook work performed or initiated by former Project staff In some cases,
outgoing staff took valuable documents with them, thus depriving new staff of information
important for maintaining continuity and progress. The Project had six coordinators and an
almost equal number of administrators/finance managers during it's lifetime. All were political
appointees and most had little or no project management experience.
8.    The project was delayed by: (a) late payments by government to suppliers and
contractors; (b) cumbersome official procedures for staff salary and counterpart fund paymnents,
inadequate budgetary provisions and cash liquidity shortages; (c) the closing of Bank
operations with Honduras due to arrears during 1.5 years, and (d) poor management of the
project. The project was also affected by the change in objectives and subsequent separation of
management of the two major components.
Summary of Findings
9.    The review of project implementation revealed that objectives, as appraised, were only
partially achieved and the outcome was partially satisfactory. The objective to assist the
government to prepare and test an effective system for administering rural primary schools was
not fulfilled as originally planned; while preparation was completed the testing was only begun



vi
as the project closed, and no studies were undertaken to ascertain whether the system would
improve cost-effectiveness, or establish the basis for raising student achievement. Further, a
comprehensive operational plan for establishing an effective management system for rural
primary education in the Project Area (six departments) was not prepared. After a 1.5 year
stoppage between 1989 and 1991, during which the government changed, the Loan Agreement
was amended to redistribute loan proceeds among categories, to reduce the pilot sub-projects
from 12 to 2 school districts, and to increase the disbursement percentage for school furniture
from 72 to 100 percent. ADEPRIR was able to complete all procurement and initiate the
school network system in the two school districts. However, the project succeeded in
strengthening the institutional capacity of SEP, in particular, in the areas of sector policy
formulation, priority setting, educational investment planning and expenditure allocation. As
such, during the last leg of project implementation, SEP was able to prepare a new basic
education project to be financed by the Bank to put into effect some innovative features
developed under the project.
10.   Bank supervision was satisfactory, however, as periodic reports and implementation
plans were not required of the borrower, it was difficult to assess progress and provide
pertinent observations during the implementation period. The only formal amendment, which
changed the cost-sharing percentages, did not include an explicit modification of objectives.
Borrower performance was deficient in project management, due to frequent staff tumover and
weaknesses in managerial capability. SEP interest and oversight also diminished through three
political administrations; while government priorities shifted and newer and bigger projects
financed by other donor agencies received priority.
Key Lessons Learned
11.   Govenmment policy changes and original project objectives do not coincide. Jfproject
objectives are found to be out of sync with new development policy, then inappropriate
components should be eliminatea, and any changes or modifications should carefully define
the expected results vis a vis new policy, and exactly how they are to be institutionalized
12.   Project success and ultimate sustainability require that during implementation top-level
ministerial authorities closely monitor and provide support, and coordinate with other sector
development projects. There is a need to build into project agreements and implementation
manuals clear andprecise lines of communication and reporting. When a project
implementation unit is established outside the ministry, regular ministry units may miss the
opportunity to acquire technical expertise and may be reluctant to "buy-in " to, or support the
institutionalization ofproject initiatives.
13.   The innovative rural primary school management network scheme appears to viable,
worth strengthening and expanding. The final evaluation report extols the virtues of this
incipient network system as a meansfor the SEP to deliver a variety of goods and services to
schools in an efficient and effective manner, while at the same time the system encourages
teachers, administrators andparentsfrom a group of schools tojoin together to upgrade their
schools, increase cross-fertilization andfortify school-based management. Every effort should



vii
be made to assess and provide support for strengthening and expansion of the school network
initiative under the next education project, as warranted
14.   Close coordination among donor agencies is needed in part to ensure that project
management capacity not be overloaded. The Bank should play a major role in encouraging
coordination and assessing project management capabilities of the executing agency at
appraisal and during implementation.
15.   The SAR pointed out that the major risk was SEP's limited managerial capacity. If not
improved, this weakness could delay project execution and fail to give proper thrust to policies
and strategies being formulated. Management by the implementation agency was weak
throughout the life of the project and technical assistance was not used as efficiently or
effectively as it could have been. Excellence in management and project success depend on
competency and continuity of staff and technical assistance. If it is determined that there is a
risk that managerial competency will be lacking or deficient, then provisionsfor training and
close monitoring should be built into project budgets, and task managers should assure that
project manzagers receive training anid intenisive guidance from the Bank team if needed
Future Operations
16.   The Government and the Bank have included a component on Institutional
Strengthening in the new Basic Education Project (Credit 2694-HO) which aims to continue
and expand the work begun in the ADEPRIR Project. The new project will assist the
implementation of reforms and development activities including organizational restructuring,
decentralization, and development of management capacity and information systems for SEP.
However, there are no clear understandings or plans to fully evaluate and expand the pilot
school network system. Although the new project plans to expand several key activities, such
as the teacher training program (CADs), student achievement testing, and provision of
textbooks and didactic materials, these activities are not integrated at the school level (i.e., are
not to be delivered and used as a package to a "unified" or "networked" group of schools).
The school network system is a potentially viable, efficient and effective means for
consolidating, coordinating, managing and delivering various educational development inputs
at the school level, and for SEP to receive timely and precise information from the over 7,500
schools in the country. If, after review, the government decides to support and expand the
school networks program, it could prove useful for educational development in Honduras.



Part I: Project Implementation Assessment
Project Background
1.    Honduras made considerable progress during the decade preceding the inception of the
ADEPRIR project in extending educational services at all levels to its citizens. Between 1975
and 1985, total enrollment in the formal system increased from 534,000 (18% of the total
population) to 1,008,800 (23%). In 1985 education absorbed 17.5% of the national public
budget; an amount equivalent to 4.8% of the GNP. However, enrollments had risen faster than
resources, resulting in a serious erosion in the quality of education at all levels. Enrollment in
primary education was about equal for males and females; female enrollment in secondary
education was slightly higher than enrollment of males. Honduras still had the lowest literacy
rate and the highest student/teacher ratio in primary education among Central American
countnes.
2.    The Government gave high priority to expansion and improvement of primary
education, but deficiencies in its management severely restricted the effectiveness of its efforts.
First, comprehensive planning for the rational development of the subsector was lacking.
Extension of primary school coverage was based not on a comprehensive plan, but on the
known fact that maximum coverage had yet to be achieved. Second, SEP's Directorate of
Primary Education, responsible for managing the primary subsector, lacked the organizational
structure and resources to provide effective administrative and supervisory services to schools
commensurate with their rapidly growing enrollments and needs. Consequently, linkages
between the schools and SEP were tenuous. This was most detrimental to the rural schools
which had a greater need of SEP's formal support services. Third, although there were
compelling reasons to believe that the subsector operated ineffectively, there were no means to
detect specific instructional weaknesses, diagnose possible causes, and make the necessary
corrective adjustments. The project was meant to address these deficiencies.
Project Objectives
3.    The nain project objectives were to (a) enhance the institutional capacity of SEP in
the areas of inter-ministerial coordination, sector policy formulation, planning of education
development, allocation of expenditures (including coordination of development assistance),
and internal administration; and (b) assist the Govemment to prepare and test an effective
system for administrating rural primary schools, which would economize on recurrent
expenditures, improve cost-effectiveness, and establish the basis for raising student
achievement.
4.    Institutional Strengthening. was to be achieved by supporting recent initiatives
undertaken by the Government to strengthen education management at the central level.
Consultant services were provided to assist in the establishment of the Council for Social
Development and SEP's Executive Council. More specifically, consultant services were to (a)
strengthen the capacity of the External Assistance Coordinating Unit (IJCCE) in the areas of
planning, policy formulation, budget development and management, and financial analysis; (b)



2
cany out an evaluation of SEP's current intemal administrative organization, and develop
recommendations for bringing about improvements in operational efficiency, coordination and
communication within SEP and with the regional offices, and SEP capacity to respond to the
needs of schools (SEP was to inform the Bank by December 31, 1989 of its plan to implement
the recommendations); and (c) prepare two studies to evaluate current decentralization policies
and include recommendations as to the future use of those policies.
5.    The Regional Planning and Management Component. was to be undertaken in a
project area comprising six departments in the northern region.' The project was to undertake
a process of micro-planning in 12 districts of these Departments, during the first 8 months of
project execution. The micro-planning process consisted of four phases: (a) a survey to
determine the condition of basic resources in rural primary and lower secondary schools, (b)
formulation of projections of the likely demographic and economic growth of the primary
school communities, (c) forecasts of primary student enrollments over a ten-year period, and
(d) a plan to reorganize primary schools into cohesive management networks (redes) which
would link each school to a delivery system for administrative and supervisory services at the
school district, departmental, regional and central levels. Based on the results of the micro-
planning process action plans were to be developed to identify requirements for physical
facilities, teacher training, school management and supervision, and a student testing system, all
with the aim of making the reorganized school management model operational. The action
plans were to be prepared by the corresponding SEP Directorates and Units (Directorate of
School Construction, Directorate of Primary Education, Unit for Teacher Training, etc.) in
coordination with Regional Units, and coordinated by the UCP. The micro-planning and
action planning process was to culminate in the preparation of operational plans for each
department, and the consolidation of all six plans into a comprehensive operational plan for the
project area.
6.    Micro-Planning Pilot Sub-Project. Before the departmental and comprehensive
operational plans were prepared, however, a pilot sub-project was to be implemented in two
districts, to test the results of the micro-planning and action planning processes. The districts
of Choloma and Olanchito were selected and the pilot was initiated. The pilot included
construction, repair, and furnishing of classrooms; equipment and teaching materials for
schools; additional staff, teacher, school director and supervisor training, and the establishment
of school management networks. The networks were conceived as 6 - 12 contiguous schools
linked for administrative purposes. The Directorate of Primary Education was to monitor the
implementation of action plans and organization of school management networks in the two
pilot districts, to assess the operational efficiency of the new management model and make
adjustments when necessary.
7.    The component was designed so as to create a system for efficient and effective
management of schools, through initial planning at both the top (SEP) and "bottom" (school
districts). Is was to lead to a system through which planning and management would be
Departments of Atlantida, Col6n, Cortes,Yoro, Gracias a Dios, Islas de la Bahia. A 1993 Amendment
substituted the Department of Santa Barbara for Islas de la Bahia.



3
initiated at an even lower level (school networks) wherein parents, teachers and supervisors
would plan and work together to solve as many issues as possible at this level and, through
supervisors, communicate requests for assistance (replacement or additional textbooks,
materials, teachers, facilities, furniture and equipment) from higher levels. Such a system was
expected to make the SEP a proactive institution, able to project expenditure needs and inputs
based on solid information from the school networks.
Implementation Record
8.    The implementation capacity of the SEP was consistently been stretched to the
maximum. At the time that the ADEPRIR Project was prepared, several other important
education sector projects were under preparation or ready to be implemented. Included were
USAID, Japanese government and UNESCO/Holland grant projects aimed mainly at
strengthening primary education in complementary areas. At the time ADEPRIR was closed
these three projects were still being implemented, and other projects, including a German
government project were under implementation.
9.    ADEPRIR was interrupted for a period of about 1.5 years as a result of a disbursement
stoppage by the Bank when Honduras fell into arrears between December 1988 and June 1990.
The project was able to continue work, while funds lasted, until late 1989, when work totally
stopped; the project was not reactivated until mid-1991.
10.   Owing to this and other delays, the loan was extended three times by a total of 1.5
years. Causes included: a) late payments; b) cumbersome official procedures, inadequate
budgetary provisions and cash liquidity shortages; and c) poor management.
11.   ADEPRIR's lifetime spanned three administrations. With each new government,
almost all Project staff were immediately replaced. As a result, the Project had six executive
directors and an almost equal number of sub-administrators during its lifetime.
12.   Following the disbursements suspension period in 1989-90, resources remained
constrained and project goals and activities were reduced. In an aide-memoire of an October
1991 mission, it was agreed with the educational authorities to carry out diagnostic studies in
12 districts, but to implement action plans only in Olanchito and Choloma and to postpone the
elaboration of comprehensive operational plans until the end of the project (1993 or 1994),
when the Government could request a follow-up Bank loan. An amendment to the loan
agreement was approved on June 18, 1993. In a June 1, 1993 memo with regards to the
amendment, it is stated that "The Project is focused on the rural areas with high incidence of
poverty, and is designed to test an experimental approach to reform management and
supervision of basic education. Investments are planned on a pilot scale and wil assist the
government's current effort to modernize the education sector reform project (FY95) for
which this project serves as a pre-investment..." The letter also states, "It was therefore agreed
with the Government that staff expansion would be scaled down and limited in scope to two of
the twelve school districts in the Project. This reduction in the project scope paved the way for
project funds to be used for preparation of the next project.



4
13.   Data for the diagnostic studies was subsequently gathered in the ten remaining districts,
but, because of poor management of the data and problems with computer analysis, these
microplans were not finalized. Only the microplans for Olanchito and Choloma were finished,
although that of Olanchito was subsequently lost. The two pilot sub-projects were begun in
1993, using the Choloma microplan as the model for both districts.
14.   There is always much resistance to change, especially if it effects the top-level central
offices of entrenched bureaucracies. Three important documents were prepared in the initial
phase of the project2: These were lost or misplaced, and not available to project staff in the
final phase. Only one pilot sub-project microplan (Choloma), developed in an earlier phase,
was available to the staff that began to implement the pilot sub-projects in the regions of
Choloma and Olanchito in 1994. As was mentioned above, the project became inactive in late
1989, and when it was reactivated in mid- 1991, a new political administration was governing
the country, a new project staff was in charge and several other grant projects were being
implemented simultaneously. Very little was accomplished during the interim phase, from mid-
1991 to early 1993. Only during the last two years of the project was any real progress made
in institutional strengthening, in response to new Government policies aimed at reform
(downsizing and streamlining) and decentralization, and concomitant request to the Bank for a
new loan.
15.   In mid- 1993 the Bank and the Honduran Government agreed to begin preparation of a
new basic education project. Shortly thereafter, project management was effectively divided in
two parts, one part implementing the Regional Planning and Management component, and the
other, a completely separate management team (Programa de Mejoramiento de la Calidad de
la Educaci6n), preparing the new project. An October 1991 aide-memoire proposed
postponement of work on a comprehensive operational rural primary education management
plan (see paragraph 5 above), until the Government could request a new loan. This plan was
not completed under the project, and the subsequent request for a new project did not mention
interest in pursuing this activity.
Achievement of Project Objectives
16.   Institutional Strengthening. The overall success of this component could be
considered substantial as a result of its metamorphosis into the new basic education project.
This can be seen in each of its original subcomponents, as discussed below.
a) Inter-Ministerial Coordination and Sector Policy Formulation. A number of studies
were undertaken for the purpose of policy formulation during the first phase of the
project (1988-89). Much later, during the final phases (1993-95), several more studies
2MA'anual de Microplaneaci6n Educativa ('Manual for Educational Microplanning' - with respective
microplans for the two pilot sub-projects in Choloma and Olanchito-January 1989), Diagn6stico
Oreanizacional de la Secretaria de Educaci6n Puiblica ("Organizational Assessment of the SEP" -
February 1989) and Las Experienciav del Gobierno de Hondurav en la Desconcentracion Educativa
("Experiences of the Honduran Government in Educational Decentralization" - June 1989).



5
were undertaken as part of the preparation of the new basic education project. No
evidence was found that the efforts and products of the initial phase were utilized
directly in the work undertaken in later phases. However, the formulation of new
sector policies, expressed in the "Escuela Morazdnica" educational policy
proclamation of October 1994, are based in part on ADEPRIR initiatives, which will
also be furthered through the new basic education project.
b) Planning of Educational Development. There is evidence that much planning for
educational development was undertaken during the lifetime of the ADEPRIR project.
At the macro level, much of this work was carried out through other projects, in
particular, through the Primary Education Efficiency Project, financed by USAID,
which made significant progress in textbook development, in-service teacher training,
extemal evaluation and computerized information of education statistics. At the
"micro" or pilot sub-project level, ADEPRIR focused on school organization and
management, teacher training, use of more and better classroom learning materials and
new methods for "internal" student evaluation. The results of the micro level initiatives
were to be contained in macro level comprehensive action plans. This did not happen
as the project was so delayed, priorities changed, and project objectives were modified.
However, some of the ADEPRIR educational development initiatives are separately
contained in the new basic education project: teacher training, organization of student
governments, use of three-person student desks, organization of parent support
committees, and bilingual education.
c) Allocation of Expenditures (including coordination of development
assistance) and Internal Administration. A specific objective of the SAR called for the
strengthening of the UCCE. The UCCE was set up as an Executive Committee with
three units: operations, programming, and finances and coordination. A study
completed in February of 19893 stated that UCCE is the technical office responsible for
general coordination of externally funded projects, the means through which the top-
level SEP authorities should be kept informed about and take a role in making
decisions regarding the various project activities. The study concluded that UCCE
should monitor and coordinate all externally funded projects, but was inefficient and
ineffective. It lacked adequate staff, facilities and equipment and project
implementators were reluctant to have UCCE monitor and coordinate their operations.
In 1993 the government began an administrative reform program, and in 1995 the
UCCE executive committee, with support from ADEPRIR/Programa de
Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educacion, produced a plan for downsizing,
streamlining and decentralizing the educational management system.
17.   Regional Planning and Management. The project did not fully achieve the
objectives of this component. This component was to result in a comprehensive operational
plan for school management which encompasses more efficient and effective supervision,
3 Boquin, Armando R., Diagn6stico Organizacional de la Secretaria de Educaci6n Publica, ADEPRIR.
Tegucigalpa, Honduras, February 1989.



6
teaching and school level management; better utilization of materials; more efficient use of
time; good care and longer use of textbooks, furnishings and equipment; lower attrition,
absenteeism and repetition; increased parent involvement in school management and increased
student achievement, in the entire project area (six Departments). The school network program
aimed at fostering school-based management and active community participation in school
management. Microplans were to be developed for primary and secondary schools in each
school district of the Project Area. This activity was not completed. A Pilot Sub-project was
to be carried out in two districts. This activity was initiated and did achieve some of the
expected results. Implied requirements for a thorough economic evaluation and subsequent
expansion were not pursued, in part because the pilot was completed very late in project
implementation. In the final evaluation study, undertaken by a consultant for the government,
the authors state that, "Any pilot project will engender certain operational costs that are
specific to the experimentation. If the action is successful at the micro level, some of these
costs should not have to be repeated at the macro level." 4 However, the study raises the
question whether increased parent-community involvement will generate increased
expectations, and, therefore, potentially higher costs.5 Other objectives of this component are
discussed below:
a) Student Achievement. At the time of the final evaluation early in the 1995 school
year, not enough information was available to judge whether student achievement had
improved as a consequence of this project. Achievement testing was not initiated until
the middle of the 1994 school year in 20 pilot sub-project schools.
b) School Network Manual. A manual for the operation of school networks was
produced by ADEPRIR. It contains guidelines for organization of teacher training
centers (Centros de Actualizaci6n Docente or CAD), school governments, parent
support committees and school operation.
c) School Construction and Repair. Results were substantial. Seventy-five classrooms
were to be constructed and another 75 repaired; 89 were actually constructed and 169
were repaired, and 43 kitchens and storerooms were built. However, the process was
extremely difficult. ADEPRIR excelled in civil works supervision; savings were
achieved which permitted additional work to be performed by the contractor, including
extra classrooms, addition of sidewalks and delivery of a set of maintenance tools to
each school. A maintenance manual was also prepared and community support groups
were given training. The civil works projects were not begun until 1993 and
completion was delayed because of failure of contractors to perform and deliver
4 Lemke, Donald A., et. al., Evaluaci6n Final Provecto Administraci6n de la Educaci6n Primaria Rural
(ADEPRIR), Tegucigalpa, Honduras, June 1995, p. 76.
5op. cit. 'ADEPRIR has operated in two pilot regions with many needs and, in the degree to which
teachers, school directors, students and members of the community increase their participation, their
expectations also increase. The evidence indicates that the project has achieved some success at the
local level, with a minimum of financial and human resources and with reasonably low operational
costs."



7
according to contractual terms, and because of delays in payments by the government.
The Bank first recommended handing over the second round of civil works packages
to the Honduran Social Investment Fund Project (FES), which had developed a
reputation for effective and efficient project management. In the end, because of legal
requirements, the SEP awarded all packages to one contractor, whose company
proved to be very poorly managed.6 After two three-month extensions of the project,
all classroom construction and repairs were completed satisfactorily in November
1995.
d) School furnishings. Substantial amounts of school furnishings were supplied, but
again, only after similar delays due to contractor mismanagement. The government
awarded a contract to one firm for manufacture of student and teacher desks and chairs
and metal bookshelves in September 1994 and advanced 100% of the payment.
Delivery was expected in March 1995. However, there was a delay, and it was
necessary for the SEP to invoke legal threats and for a Bank consultant to visit the
contractor to encourage him to comply. All furnishings were finally delivered in
November 1995.
e) Teaching materials. This subcomponent was implemented well. Fifty different
items for schools, teachers and students were acquired and delivered in a timely
manner. However, estimates of needs were made in 1992, bids were let out in 1993
and materials were delivered in 1995, by which time needs had grown and supplies
were inadequate in number. Training was undertaken so that teachers could
satisfactorily utilize the materials.
f) Training initiatives. These were partially successful. Although there is evidence that
training activities were carried out during the entire project lifetime--from 1988-1989
with teachers in the 12 districts targeted by the project, and after 1993 in the two
districts involved in the pilot sub-project--there is no evidence that any comprehensive
training plan was utilized, nor were the activities and subsequent impact evaluated. In
1994 an ADEPRIR consultant wrote a proposal for "training, upgrading and
specialized courses for Honduran primary teachers," which was never utilized.7 There
was a lack of sequence, continuity and monitoring of impact among the many training
activities. In general, participants were satisfied with training received, which focused
on methodological and not cognitive issues. Recipients of training in the pilot sub-
project areas expressed satisfaction with training. The recent organization of the CADs
is a step in the direction of the development of a comprehensive long-term teacher
training program, and this initiative will be developed and supported through the new
basic education project.
The owner-manager was not even present during most of this period, first because he fled the country
after being accused of fraud by the government, and later, after returning, because he was jailed.
7 Lemke, et. al., op. cit., p. 30.



8
Major Factors Affecting the Project
18.   Factors not subject to Government control. There were delays in completion of civil
works and delivery of school furniture because of failure of contractors to perform according
to contractual terms. In both cases, contractors proved to be poor managers and unreliable.
19.    Factors subject to Government control. There are four major factors subject to
government control which affected the project: (a) the stoppage for 1.5 years caused by the
repayment arrears, (b) the interruptions in project operations caused by changes in political
administrations and the concomitant turnover of key staff and subtraction or loss of project
documents and records, (c) delays in payments to civil works contractor because of
cumbersome official procedures and inadequate budgetary provisions, and (d) the concomitant
administration of other larger projects to which higher priority and a great proportion of SEP
resources were directed.8
20.    Factors subject to Implementing Agency control. Five factors which affected the
project were subject to the control of the implementing agency: (a) the decision to
concentrate on a sub-project pilot activity in two remote rural areas, with an agreement with
the Bank (Aide-Memoire of October 1991 - see paragraph 12 above) to leave expansion and
institutionalization for a follow-on project, (b) poor communication between the project and
SEP staff at all levels, and among the various educational development projects, and low level
of involvement of SEP staff in project activities, (c) poor management of international
consultants and resultant poor utilization of their reports and recommendations, (d)
underutilized classrooms constructed in communities where enrollments had declined due to
population migration (Olanchito regions where banana cultivation was discontinued), or
classrooms not constructed in places where enrollments have grown (Choloma regions where
maquila industries were recently installed)9, and (e) the lack of a system for follow-up and
monitoring of activities, regular reporting, and good record keeping.
Project Sustainability
21.   It is likely that the institutional strengthening initiatives undertaken along with the
preparation of the new basic education project will indeed be sustained, as many of them are
already satisfied preconditions for the new project, which became effective before ADEPRIR
was closed. The current government, which will be in power for two more years, is committed
to providing continued support for basic education.
The Technical Vice-Minister (1990-94 government) and subsequently, the Director of Planning (1994+
government) were both in charge of preparation of the USAID grant project in late 1980s.
9This can be attributed to i) the length of time between carrying out needs surveys and actual awvarding of
construction and repair contracts, ii) the fact that projections of demographic and economic growth of the
school communities and school enrollment for a ten-year period were not included in the microplanning
process and, iii) political pressures.



9
22.   The project also succeeded in initiating what is reported in the final evaluation report as
a worthwhile school networking pilot program, which includes active parent involvement in
school management, a teacher training program, student government organization, new
materials, furniture and equipment, as well as newly constructed or repaired classrooms.
However, there is no clear indication that the program will be supported or continued, much
less expanded and operationalized at a regional or national level. The important contribution of
the school network system is the opportunity for the SEP to integrate or package the various
educational inputs (teacher training support, materials distribution, student government
organization, establishment of community support groups, data gathering, etc.) and deliver
them to a networked or linked group of schools. Supervisors can deal with a group of schools
through one designated person or committee. The pilot of the school network system has not
been well integrated into the new project. The new basic education project contemplates
expansion of several of the activities included in the school network package, as separate
activities directed at individual schools, but not as a set of activities packaged for delivery at the
school level to a group of schools. However, the staff of the new basic education project has
indicated interest in providing support for and promoting expansion of the school network
system. Studies should be undertaken to determine costs, availability and quality of human
resources required to undertake expansion, and financial capacity of the government to support
a school network system. It is essential that top-level SEP authorities be committed, and that
SEP units, especially the new Department and District offices, become involved and committed
to promoting, supporting and sustaining this initiative if adopted.
Bank Performance
23.   Project identification, preparation and appraisal were satisfactory in so much as they
responded to the demands of the time. In retrospect one must question the assessment made of
the implementation capacity of the SEP. This was a relatively small project from the financial
standpoint, but a very complex project given the logistics required (i.e., to operate mostly in
very remote rural areas) and the quality and quantity of human resources needed. Given that
other complementary projects were being prepared at almost the same time, a great deal of
coordination among SEP, USAID, UNESCO/Holland, and Japanese and German government
agencies and the Bank should have occurred at preparation, and should have continued
through the years, as these projects were implemented simultaneously.
24.   Supervision from Bank headquarters helped guide the project through difficult periods
associated with the disbursement stoppage, delays in availability of counterpart funds, and the
many turnovers in staff. However, once the government requested assistance to prepare a new
project, supervision and interest in the ADEPRIR program was somewhat weakened.
25.   During the final period from April to December 1995 (there were two extensions after
the June 30, 1995 closing date), Bank supervision was complemented by the Regional
Implementation Mission (RIM) and much guidance was provided to the ADEPRIR executive
director and staff, enabling them to complete civil works and other procurement activities of
the project as well as a final evaluation, which was undertaken just prior to the June 30, 1995
closing date. As a result of the final evaluation, which identified the potential for the school



10
networks, ADEPRIR was able to respond to recommendations and continue technical support
for pilot sub-project activities, especially the consolidation of the school network program.
Borrower perfonnance
26.   The high level of staff turnover during the lifetime of the Project impeded progress.
Furthermore, many of the directors and administrators lacked management skills, and in some
cases, the technical competencies to perform efficiently and effectively. In changing from one
political administration to another, documents were carried away, lost, misplaced or ignored.
27.   The UCP functioned mostly in quarters outside of the SEP. Support from and
communications with the central offices were irregular and scanty. Annual workplans were not
prepared. No bulletins or newsletters were published. Information was exchanged with
Ministers or Vice-Ministers but there is little evidence that information was communicated
down to department heads and SEP technicians. In the same vain, SEP departments were not
regularly included or involved in project decision making, planning and actions. Separation of
the management of the project accounts, one for the Regional Planning and Management,
another for the Institutional Strengthening, since early 1994 caused problems in reconciling
project expenditures and accounts. No well-laid-out action plan was developed for the
completion of the activities of ADEPRIR and subsequent inclusion of the school network
system into the new project. The management teams of the two units responsible for the
implementation of the ADEPRIR program and the preparation of the new basic education
project did not coordinate well the incorporation of the ADEPRIR micro-planning pilot sub-
project initiatives (i.e., school network system) into the new basic education project.
Assessment of Outcome
28.   The outcome of the project was partially satisfactory. The outcome of the Institutional
Strengthening component was a success. SEP's policy formulation, priority setting, allocation
of expenditures, and planning of educational development were substantially strengthened with
concrete outcomes, such as studies completed, new policy (Escuela Morazanica), preparation
and implementation of several investment projects including the new Basic Education Project
financed by the Bank in 1995. However, another purpose of the project was to prepare for
major changes in the educational system: a decentralized system, with rural school management
networks established and operating in six Departments. The original objectives of this
component were only partially met. Micro-plans were developed not for the 12 districts as
originally envisaged, but for two districts only. The plans have never been applied on a larger
scale, though room for application still remains in the follow-up Basic Education Project.
29.   Project activities in the two rural pilot areas, located far from the capital city, were not
accorded top priority by the SEP central office after project reactivation in 1991. Only in the
last 1.5 years did top-level SEP officials make visits to the pilot regions. Results of the pilot
initiatives are stili quite unknown among SEP technicians and those working in other
development projects that support SEP, as dissemination of information has been weak, and
little attempt has been made to involve them in project activities.



I1
30.   The result of the rural school management component has been satisfactory if one
looks at the quantitative results only: materials, civil works and school furnishings exceeded the
original indicators. However, important pilot sub-project activities such as teacher, school
director, supervisor and community support committee training; student evaluation, and school
government organization were all just initiated when the project was closed. The final
evaluation assessed the progress of the pilot sub-project activities and concluded that the
incipient school network scheme is a valid process for rural primary school management, and
recommended ways and means for continuing and strengthening the program. A manual was
prepared and, if disseminated, utilized and supported by SEP, can be a valuable tool for guiding
other groups of schools to form and operate networks.
Key Lessons Learned
31.   The objectives of the second component (Schedule 2, Parts B and C) were not fully
achieved. A decision was made to pass on completion of these objectives to a future project.
If at any time project objectives are found to be out of sync with new government
development policy, or it is decided that there is not enough time to complete project
activities, then inappropriate component activities should be eliminated, and the loan
agreement amended accordingly.
32.   A project without close coordination with, and support from, the top-level authorities
and SEP technicians and other SEP development projects, has little possibility of being
sustained, even in the short run. Both at the central as well as the two regional levels
ADEPRIR offices were located outside SEP offices, and there was less than satisfactory
communication and coordination.
The advantage of operating apartfrom the regular, cumbersome bureaucracy is that
the job can be completed in a more expeditious manner. However, when project
implementation units are created separatelyfrom the existing organizational units, these units
often miss the opportunity to acquire technical expertise during the process ofproject
implementation and they may be very reluctant to "buy into ", or support the
institutionalization of project initiatives.
33.   The innovative rural primary school management network initiative seems to be a very
valuable one, worth strengthening and expanding. There are over 7,500 schools in Honduras,
and many schools are scattered in remote rural areas, deprived of trained human resources,
administrative and technical support by the central and regional offices, and general
transportation and communication amenities. If groups of 6-12 schools are networked,
supervision, management, and communications can be more efficient and effective.
Every effort should be made to provide supportfor assessing strengthening and
expanding the school network initiative through the next education project.



12
34.   At the time the ADEPRIR project was under implementation, several other major
projects (e.g., USAID, Japanese government, German goverrmnent, and UNESCO/ Holland)
were also being implemented by the SEP. Close coordination with other donor agencies is
needed as the real implementation capacity of the SEP must be critically assessed in order to
not overload the system.
The Bank shouldplay a major role in coordination, or encouraging coordination,
among donors and should assess care.fully implementation agency management capabilities.
35.   The SAR states that the main risk for the project was the weak managerial capacity of
SEP. If not improved as rapidly as envisaged, this weakness would delay project execution
and fail to give the proper thrust to policies and strategies being formulated. The project's
technical assistance component was intended to strengthen this capacity and together with
close supervision by the Bank, minimize the risk. However, the risk was greater than
envisaged: project management was weak throughout, and technical assistance was not
efficiently nor effectively utilized.
Excellence in project management, and ultimate project success, depend largely on
the competence and continuity of coordinators and technicians during the life of the project.
Good management entails timely delivery ofproducts, establishment of a system for
monitoring results, regular reporting and good record keeping.' A project that looses its
history also looses its orientation and continuity. Coordinators and technicians should be
able to assure continuity that permits the project to proceed and prosper, in spite of political
changes, and be able to achieve institutionalization ofproject activities. The Bank should
support this continuity, especiallyfor basic socialprograms andprojects. The Bank should
make sure that project directors know what is to be done. This entails knowing and
understanding the SAR, legal agreement and any amendments, as well as having a working
knawledge of all other important documents produced by the project, and preparing annual
workplans. Preparation of an operational manualfor the UCP would have been a useful tool
to alleviate risks of frequent change of project staff and weak managerial capacity.
Future Operations
36.   The Government and the Bank have included a component on Institutional
Strengthening in the new Basic Education Project (Credit 2694-HO) which aims to continue
and expand the work begun in the ADEPRIR Project. The new project will assist the
implementation of reforms and development activities including organizational restructufing,
decentralization, and development of management capacity and information systems for SEP.
Eighteen departmental and 400 district supervision offices will be established. The district
supervisors are to be responsible for supervision and inspection, management of teachers and
administrative personnel and liaison with local communities.
' The implementing institution (SEP) should take steps to assure that copies of all project documents are
stored where they can be accessed in the wake of a catastrophe, theft or negligence.



13
37.   There are no clear understandings or plans for the work undertaken in the Regional
Planning and Management component to be completed and continued. The new project plans
to individually expand some key activities such as the teacher training program (CADs),
student achievement testing, provision of textbooks and didactic materials. The school
network system is a potentially viable, efficient and effective means for consolidating,
coordinating and managing the various activities. Such a system should benefit both the SEP
(at all levels) as well as the schools and communities participating in the networks. There are
more than 7,500 schools in the nation which could be organized into networks of 6-12 schools.
If the government decides to support and expand the school networks program, key SEP units,
especially district supervisors, must be fully involved in the process.
38.   There are indications that the new Basic Education Project leadership is interested in
incorporating the school network system into the new project. Several of the ADEPRIR staff
have been hired into the new project to work on this linkage. Top-level SEP staff should visit
the Olanchito and Choloma districts to assess the impact of the pilot experience, so that they
may be more willing to support the initiative.






14
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
HONDURAS
RURAL EDUCATION MANAGEMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2804-HO)
PART Il:    STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Credits
Table 3      Project Timetable
Table 4:     Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
Table 5:     Key Monitoring Indicators
Table 6:     Studies included in Project
Table 7A:    Project Costs
Table 7B:    Project Financing
Table 8:     Status of Legal Covenants
Table 9:     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 10:    Bank Resources: Missions






15
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
Macro policies                                                  V/
Sector policies
Financial objectives                       /
Institutional development
Physical objectives                        /
Poverty reduction                          /
Gender issues                                                                                                /
Other social objectives"                   /
Environmental objectives
Public sector management                                        /
Private sector development                                                                                   /
Other (specify)
' .,' B.~~~Satisfact"'ory
. .   . .   . .   . .   . ..   . .   . . .   -:. -   . . . .   .. . . .   . . -     . . ..   . . .-. . . . . . . - . . .. - . . . . .
Identification                                                  /4
Preparation assistance                                          /
Appraisal                                                       /
Supervision                                                    /
--- Broer- pefomac                        Highly-          Satifaor              Deiil
~~~~~~~~~~~~.               :     . . . . ..   . .                                        . .   , .   . i.   i.   i -.. .. .   . j  - . . ..
Preparation                                                     /
Implementation                                                                      /
Covenant compliance                                                                 /
Operation (f applicable)
K       . AsWse.ss.m.en.t    o                          ..h..h..              .... ' a'i'f'c':r:'D . . t  H.
--:~~~~~~~~~. ......    . .. :.   --     - :6 r   ..i-   - - - :-                                   ...... .. . .....
IdentifSCatons fatorn                                                                                   s
PrComuitpprtciation           insshootnetork



16
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
0-NameNme                ;ups                Apn=           ttsCmet
Second Social  Help the government sustain its  1992      Under      This project
Investment Fund poverty alleviation efforts and       implementation  builds upon the
project        maintain social cohesion during          Extended to   achievements of
(CR. 2401-HO) the period of economic                   June 30, 1996  FHIS-I and
adjustment until line ministries                      expands the
strengthen their institutional                        program using
capacities and complete policy                        the basically the
reform programs.                                      same project
design.
Nutrition and    Protect groups vulnerable to the  1993   Under      The concept of
Health Project  economic adjustment process by        implementation  this project,
(Cr. 2452-HO)  channeling nutrition assistance                       particularly its
to children, pregnant and                             nutrition
nursing women among the                               assistance
poorest groups of the                                 component, was
population; support the                               tested on a pilot
establishment of a longer-term                        scale under the
nutrition assistance strategy;                        FHIS-I project
reduce maternal, infant and child                     and lessons
mortality and morbidity rates by                      learned were
improving quality and access to                       incorporated in
basic health services and water                       project design
supply and sanitation;
strengthen the institutional
capacity of the Ministry of
health, the Family Assistance
Program and the Social Cabinet
Executive Secretariat; and
control the spread of AIDS.
Basic Education Improve the quality of learning  1995     Under      This project
Project        and student performance, inspire         supervision   carries out
(Cr. 2694)     better teaching, increase school                      several activities
attendance, and create more                           planned under
effective learning conditions,                        Ln.2804-HO,
thereby reducing student                              notably, descen-
dropout and repetition rates,                         tralization and
and raising student's academic                        institutional
achievements at the primary                           strengthening
level.                                                activities.



17
Table 3: Project Timetable
..........~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . .. . ........ . . . .. . .   . .......... I. ............ .  ' f  t m &
I .Preparation                                                         09/85
2. Appraisal                                                           04/86                 12/01/86
3. Negotiations                                                        01/87                 03/23/87
4. Board presentation                                                   03/87                05/05/87
5. Signing                                                           08/27/87                08/27/87
6. Effectiveness                                                      11/27/87               04/05/88
7. Project completion                                                 12/31/93               12/31/95
8. Loan closing                                                      06/30/94                04/30/96
-c  +   Planned
Project Timetable                Lt  Actual
Jul-98
Oct-95-
Jan-93
Dates            -- -.:;./
May-90 - -
.--..  :.  -.  .,, ....   ....   .. , :. ..:.-.-.  --. :.  ..
Aug-87              :                 --
Nov-84            i
1     2      3      4      5     6      7      8
Processing Steps



18
Table 4: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(Millions of US$)
...   . .   ....  ..   .. . . .  .0 :  .'' ......' .....ll   ,l','g''  .. '.'.. '.l'-   ',.',  ,.     ;'' "              ..'g .     ..     ..'g' ..'":. ' .. . . . . . . .   .   . .g .. . .. . .. . .. .   ..     .. ..   ..     ...................  . .- 
IBJR.RI) FY                                                  FY88  FY9F9    Y1F9   Y3F9   Y5F96
Appraisal estimates              0 5         20          29           3.6        4.1         4.3        4.4
Actual                           0.7         0.8         0.8          0.9         1.2        17         2.1        4m2         4.31!
Disbursements                                                                                                                        2!
Actual as % of                140          40          27.6    25              29.3    39.5    47.7   95.5    97.7
Estimate
Date of last                  05/13/96 2'
Disbursement
l/ As of May 13, 1996 there is an undirsbursed balance of USS 74,058.85.
2/There is a balance to recover underthe Special Account of US$43,482.55. The Borrowerwill retum US$9,000.00. The total amountto be
canceled will be approximately US$83,000.00.
Disbursements
4.5
4
35
3
2.5
~-~ 2
CD,
1.5
0.5                          .            4-praisal
0 TEstimates
00     0)      N              (0
00     o)      o)     o)      o        3  Actual
Li 3 -         LL;    Li.     L .           Disbursements
Bank Fiscal Year



Table 5: Key Monitoring Indicators
ACtivity                     SAR target            Revised          Achieved   c% omments
-___________________________________________________ target
Microplan for Pilot Area                           12                 2                        2    100
Civil Works
Classrooms Coisinicted                            75                n/a                      89    119
Classrooms Repairs                                75                n/a                     169    225
Kitchen & Storerooms                                                                         43
School Furniture                                                                                           Instead of purchasing individual student desks, three-
Desks/Chairs for students                       1000               11,520          4,128/12,384    413    person desks were manufactured according to
Desks/Chairs for teachers                        150                 240                554/554    231    consultant recommendations.
Metal Shelves                                      0                 240                    366    153
Supply Teaching Materials for                50 difftypes                                     50    100
# Schools                                        36                                          75    208
# Teachers                                       150                                       833    555
# Students                                       -                                       34,024
Assign & Organize District & School Staflt
Train Supervisors & Teachers              4 workshops                                                85    Records are incomplete. It is difficult to ascertain
number of workshops or actual
[Irain Supervisors & School Directors     6 workshops                                               85    participation of supervisors or school directors
Evaluation Pilot Phase                     I report                                            1    100    This report evaluated the second component.
Field Work/Data Collection                6 Dept data                                          6    100
portfolio
Establish School Maniagement Network      6 Dept. Networks        2 District                   2    100
Networks
I'roduce Regional Microplan                I report-seminar        2 district                  2    50
microplans
no seminar
Comprehensive Operational Plan             I plan                     0                        -           -
Diagnose Basic Secondary Educ.             I report                                           .5                                    0
Sector Policy Measures                     15-20% reduced                                                  Adeprir documents indicate that the national average
attrition rates                                                 attrition rate in 1988 was 5 4% and in 1993 was 3.2%.



20
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
1. Organizational Assessment of Evaluate current           OK    Documents were
the Secretariat of Public    decentralization policies and         not utilized by
Education (Feb. 1989)        include recommendations as            subsequent project
to the future use of the policy      teams
2. Experiences of the Honduran  same as above              OK      same as above
Government in Educational
Decentralization



21
Table 7A: Project Costs
''.,'..'....'.  ''.'.'.  '''  '  "   '..      . . .
-: ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ ..::  ... .. .: ---  ..  ,-: ....:
School Construction repair         0.4          0.1     0.5    1.00         0.00            1.00
Equipment, Supplies, Spare         0.1          0.7     0.8   0.39          0.72            1.11
Pants, 20 vehicles
Incremental Staff Salaries         1.6          0.0     1.6   0.00         0.00            0 00
Salaries and Travel of SEP
(Staff devoted full time       1.9          0.0     1.9   1.84          0.00            1.84
project)
Technical Assistance              0.1           0.4     0.5   0.00          0.59           0.59
GFurniture and Supplies            0.2          0.0     0.2   0.46          0.00           0.46
. T W   (ge1,--.-.--'.,..'--.-.-,,.,.,.',,  -    .    $~~~..  .. ......   .. - .-   ..;..    ..   .......
Total Baseline. .. Co. ...... ...             :254 36913                                50
Physical Contingencies             0.2          0 1    0 3   0 00           0 00           0 00
Price Contingencies                1.0          0.1      1.1   0.01         0.00           0.01
(OTALfdvoe PROJEC    COST        1.9          1.4      1.9   3.70         110             1.01:
Table 7B: Project Financing (USS Millions)
Technicl AsApsracesal Estmat  (185milion                           ACTUA   (          015$9iin
Souree           Local        Forig          Toa              toaFregTtl
BANK                  3 00        1 40           4 40            3 00           1 31         4.31
GOVERNMENT  2 50                  0 00           250             0 70    0.00                0.70
-T.0  s /                                               . .................
.. .. .... ..                       .C.a  .    M



Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
1Secon          D  escription ofCovenat              Coven  Prowt  OrideDl  Revised                                   Com ents
..... ........ts:::l:-t  :: ::  :   :  ::  :::  :::  :::   Iype:  Status  fulfill  :: llill   :
date       date
3.01(a)    Borrowcr agrces to fulfill project                                               Borrower has complied with the first objective "enhance the
objectives                                                                      institutional capacity of SEP in areas of intemal administration sector
5       CPl    12/31/93   12/31/95   policy formulation, and coordination of education investment planning
and budgeting' but has not complied in full w%ith the second objective:
"assist SEIP in the preparation of a comprehenisive operational plan for
establishing an efliective management system for rural pinmarn
education in the Project Area." The comprehensive operational plan
was not prepared.
3.01(b)    Borrower agrees to maintain Executive      5        C      08/27/87      n/a
Cotncil and Technical Unit within SEP
3.02(a)    Borrower agrees to establish and maintain  5        C      08/27/87      n/a     Project Executive Director participated in preparation of ICR
tJCP through completion report
3.02(b)    Borrow er agrees to appoint Director of'   5        C      08/27/87              Six different Directors were consecutivcly appointed during the
UjCP                                                                             lifetime of the Project                                                    to
3.02(c)    Borrower agrees to provide flunds,                                               Counterpart funds were ofilimes delayed, but were finally made
facilities, services and other resources  4         C      08/27/87              available.
required for operation of IJCP
3.03     'I'wo regional microplanning units          5       C       12/15/89    03/93    Units were established in the Choloma and Olanchito Pilot Sub-
established                                                                      Project Districts
3 03(a)    Two regional coordinators appointed        5        C      12/15/89    03/93
3.03(b)    Funds, iacilities and services provided    4        C      12/15/89    03/93
3.04     Procurement govemned by provisions of      3        C       08/27/87     n/a
Schedule 4
3.05     (a) program to strengthen capacity of                                            T his work was carried out in the first phase of the project. Studies
Technical Unit of SEP, (b) evaluation of                   (a) 12/89    12/89    undertaken and reports produced were not utilized after reactivation of
current internal administrative            5        C      (b) 12/89    12/89    project in mid-1991
organization of SEP, and (c) studies to                   (c) 12/89    12/89
evaluate current decentralization policies
Preparation of comprehensive operational                                         A manual for micro-planning was developed and pilot sub-projects
plan for eacti department in Project Arca  5       Cl'    12/31/93               were undertaken. The comprehensive operational plan for six
Departments was not prepared.



4.01       Borrower shall maintain separate records/                                               During final two years of project, the UCP was able to establish a
accounts to reflect somnd accounting practices  I        C       12/31/87      n/a      sound accounting sy stem
4 0()(a)    Annial audit of accouints                      I         C       12/31/93   04/30/96   There were delays in audits duruig 1991, 92, and 94. Final audit
(1995) should be delivered on time
4.01(b)     For all expenditures borruo%er shall
maintain (i) separate records and
accounts, (ni) retain records at least one
year, (iii) facilitate records to 13ank        I         C       12/31/93   04/30/96
examiners, (iv) audits contain opinion in
respect of attesting that expenditures were
used for purposes for which provided
5.01      Borrower shall provide project schools                                                   Project funds were utilized to hire and pay teachers dunng a portion of
with necessary fully-qualified and trained                                              the project lifetime  It is estimated that SEP was abie to assimilate
teachers and administrative staff.             5        CP       12/31/93               about 40% of those teachers into its regular budget. nie others were
not able to contintie, or are paid by municipal governments. No clear
records exist.
5 02(a)     BorTower shall operate schools in
accordance with appropriate                    S        C       08/27/87       n/a
administrative and educational policies
and practices
5 02(b)     Borrower shall cause buildinigs,                                                        UCP supervision of civil works, school furnishings and school
equipment and furniture to be adequately       5        C        12/31/93    12/31/90   maintenance produced excellent results.
inspected and maintained
7 0l(c)     Borrower shall have entered into                                                        Contracts w%ere made with IJND)P
administrative services contract with fiiti    3        C       08/27/87       n/a
or organization to assist in selection and
hiring of consultants
Schedule I   Withdrawal of Proceeds of l.oan                 3        C        12/31/93   12/31/95   Changes were made in Amendment of June 18, 1993.
Schedule 2   Instituitional Strengthening I Using lA,                                                 I (a) Technical Unit was strengthened anld produced reorganization
Part A     complete (a) strengthening SEP Technical                                                 plan for SEP (h) evaluation was completed, (c) studies of
Unit (b) evaluation of current internal                                                 decentralization policies wvere completed 2 Training and technical
admittistrative organviation (c) studies to    5        C        12/31/93    12/31/95   support to project stafTengaged in Part B vAas carried out
evaluate current decentralization policies
2 Training and provision of support to
SE P staff in carrming out IPart B



Schedule 2   Regional Planning and Management: I.                                                  I (a) diagnostic survey was undertaken in 12 districts, final reports
Part B     Can-v oul micro-planniiig process in cach                                            skere prepared for 2 districts, (b) demographic and economic
School l)istrict ot Project Area, (a)                                                projections for a ten-year period were not prepared, (c) master plans
diagnostic survey in Project Area, (b)                                               were prepared to cover two districts, (d) specific action plans were
demographic and economic projections of      5        CP      12/31/93               prepared for two districts. 2. student testing system was initiated as in
school communities Ior ten-year period,                                              pilot fomi in tvo districts. 3. the secondary school diagnostic survey
(c) development of master plan for school                                            was undertaken but a final report was never prepared. 4. A
reorganization into cohesive network, (d)                                            comprehensive operational plan for each of the six Departments in the
development of specific action plans. 2                                              Project Area was not prepared.
Development of student testing system  3
diagnostic suivey of secondarv schools in
Project Area 4 Preparation of
comprehensive operational pla folor each
Department in Project Area integrating
plans referred to in l(c) and (d)
Schedule 2   Micro-Planning lPilot Sub-project Carry                                               I. (a) exceeded the requiremeiits, (b) complied with requirements, (c)
Part C     out micro-planning pilot in two school                                                in-service training was provided,but lacked systematic plan and
districts of the Project Area consisting of:                                         evaluation of impact, (d) networks s\ere established and implemented.
I. Implementation of action plans referred                                           2. no specific plan was developed. 3. Student testing system was
to in Part B. I(d) by means of (a)                                                   initiated in 20 pilot schools, 4. Process was evaluated and results            t
constructing, rehabilitating and repairing   5        C 1     12/31/93               showed good progress but that network system should be fortified. No
school facilities, (b) acquisition amid                                              action plans were implemented other than the in the two pilot sub-
utilization of furniture, equipment and                                              project districts.
supplies, (c) carrying out inservice teacher
traininig, anid (d) establishing and
implementing a network for school
management and supervisioti. 2.
Development of a specific action plan for
provision of lteaching materials and
guiides 3. Implementation of student
testing system referred to in lart B.2. 4.
Evaluation of the micro-planning process
and implementation of all other action
planis referred to in Parl B
Covenant types:                                                                                Present Status:
I = Accouits/audits                           4 = Counterpart funding                          C  = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/review              5 = Management aspects of the project            CD = complied with after delay
gcneration from beneficiaries                  or executing agency                          CP = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds     9 = Monitoring, review, reporning



25
Table 9: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Sta ge o Pojmcrdt Cyclei00 W:k                          US(OOO
Preparation to Appraisal                  56.9                  90 1
Appraisal                                   u6                  10a5
Negotiations through Board Approval        3.7                   7.7
Supervision                               99.7                246.6
Completion                                10.0                   2.9
Total                                    l76!. ......



Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
:                                                                 l    i. i 0200 0 :f: : ?it:EED:  : tE :: iAi000::: : - :ii:f:iE::: T: T-: .......................... :: :Xf !iCi040 ;: :::7: .   .   .   . .   . . .   . . .   . . .   .   .   . . .   .   . . . . .  .   .   .:: ::.   .   ..   .......   .. .C
Stage of Project  ycle  IMonthf   Number    Person-    :Specialized    Implenietation    Dev mep t:e t Types of Problems it
Year         of         Day in      Staff Skills           Siatus      :   Objectises:             . .... .
Persons       Field     !teprented                                           . . ... .. .....
Through Appraisal
Idcntification           04/85           1           5       A                        n/a                  n/a                   n/a
Idcntf./Prcparation      09/85          2           20       A(2)                     n/a                  n/a                   n/a
Preparation               12/85         3           23       A,B,E                     n/a                 n/a                   n/a
Prcparation              02/86          4            14      A(2),B,D                  n/a                 n/a                   n/a
Prcparation              04/86          2            10      A(2)                      n/a                 n/a                   n/a
Preparalion/Pre-App    07/86            2            15      A,B                       n/a                 n/a                   n/a
Pre-Appraisal             10/86         4           40       A,B,C,F                   n/a                 n/a                   n/a
Appraisal                 12/86         2            10      A,D                      n/a                  n/a                   n/a
Appraisal Through            03/87          2            8       A,B                      n/a                 n/a                    n/a
Board Approval
Supervision
Supervision I             11/87         2            10      A,B                        2                   1                     M
Supen ision 2            06/88           1           3       A                          2                   1                     M
Supervision 3            07/88          2            10      A,B                        I                   I                    n/a
Supervision 4            08/89           1           5       A                          3                   2                     F
Supervision 5            04/90          2            5       B                          3                   2                     IP
Supervision 6             11/9(         2            10      A,B                        3                   2                     IP
Supervision 7            01/91          3            15      A(2), B                    2                   2                     R
Supenrision 8            04/91          4            12      A,B,G,I                    2                   2                     R
Supervision 9            07/91          2            2       B,G                        3                   2                     R
Supervision 10           09/91          1            1       C                          3                   2                    M,F
Supervision 11            10/91         3            14      A,G,H                      3                   2                     F
Supervision 12           01/92          2           20       A,G                        3                   2                     F
Supervision 13           08/92          1            5       A                          2                   2
Supervision 14            10/92         1            5       A                          2                   2                     M
Supervision 15           03/93          1            10      A                          2                   2                     M



Supervision 16       07/93        1          5      J                     2                2                 M
Supenrision 17        11/93       2         10      A,J                   2                2                 M
Supervision 18 d     02/94        1         10      C                     2                2                 M
Supervision 19 e'    04/94        3         15      A(2),C                2                2
Supervision 20 f     08/94        1          2      C                     S                S                 n/a
Supenrision 21       04/95        2         10      A.C                   S                S                 n/a
Supenrision 22       05/95        1          7      A                     S                S                 n/a
Supenrision 23       06/95        1          2      A                     S                S                 n/a
Supenrision 24       08/95        1          3      A                     S                S                 n/a
Supervision 25       09/95        3         15      A,C,E                U                S                  P
Supervision 26        11/95       1          5      A                    S                 S                 n/a
Supervision 27        12/95       1         5       A                    S                 S                 a/a
Completion              01/96        1         3      A                     n/a              n/a                n/a
A=Educator; B=Economist; C=HR Specialist; D=Div.Chief; E=Auditor; F=Sociologist, G=Operations Assistant; H=Disbursement Analyst;
I=Arquitect; J=Operations Analyst
bi l=Problem Free; 2=Moderate Problems; 3=Major Problems; S=Satisfactory; U=Unsatisfactory
c/ M=Managcmcnt; F=Financial; IP=Inactive Project; R=Reactivation in progress; P=Procurement
d/ Joint mission with Honduras Basic Education Projcct (Preparation)
e/ Joint mission with Honduras Basic Education Project (Preparation)
p/ Joint mission with Honduras Basic Education Project (Appraisal)



28
APPENDIXES



APPENDIX A
AYUDA MIEiMlORJA
PROXECTO DE ADNIINISTRACION DE LA
EDUCACION PRIMARIA RURAL (ADEPRIR)
Prestamo 2804-H1O
1.    INTRODLtCCION
1.    Del 12 al 16 de diciembre de 1995, Jolhn F. Helwie , de la Oficina Regional del
Banico iklundiail en Centr-o Am6rica, realiz6 una mision de supervisi6n eni Honduras,
con el objetivo de revisar el estado del Provecto de Administracion de la Educaci6n
Priniiria Rural (A\DEPRIlR) y seguir las conversaciones coII las autoridades del
gobierno sobr-e los procesos de cierre del provecto.
2.     La misi6n desca agradecer a las autoridades y funcioniarios del gobierno por
las atenciones v colaboraci6n recibida. Durante Ia misi6n se sostuvieron reuniones
cont la Secretaria de Educaci6n, Licda. Zenobia Rodas de Le6n G6mez: el Director
Ejecutivo de ADEPRIR, Lic. Carlos Humberto C1iivez; el Coordinador del Proyecto
de iNlejoramiento de la Educaci6n Bisica. Lic. Julio Navarro; Ia oficial del PNUD,
Lic. Gisella Canmoriano. v funcionarios de ADEPRIR v de la Secretaria de
Educacion P6blica (SEP).
3.     La misi6n revis6 las principales actividades del provecto y presenta sus
coniclusiones y recomendaciones. asi como los acuerdos lo2rados con las autoridades
.esponisables del provecto. Seis anexos contienen documentos que respaldan las
aicciones tomadas.
II.    REVISION DE LAS ACTI'1DADES PRJNC PALES
4.     Auditoria 1995: La UCP recibi6 la no objeci6n para los terninos de
referencia. la lista de firmas a invitar y los criterios de evaluaci6n., a f,inales de
noviembre de 1995. procedi6 a la invitaci6n de cinco firmas. Dos firmas presentaron
ofertas, v el 14 de diciembre se procedi6 a la apertura v revisi6n de ofertas. Segu6n
los criterios de evaluaci6n, la firma Miaradiaga, Fortin Lagos y Asociados obtuvo
niaor puntaje por lo que se enviari al Banco la solicitud de no 6bjeci6n para su
contrataci6n. Esta firma debe presentar los resultados de la auditoria a los 45 dias
(le la firma del contrato. El proyecto ADEPRIR no efectuara gastos despues del 22
de dicienibre v liquidari todos los gastos antes del 31 de diciembre de 1995.
5.    Obrns Civiles: La misi6n confirm6 la terminaci6n de Ins obras civiles por
parte de la Compaiiia Construcciones MN1ultiples. Se obtuvo copias de las Actas de
Recepcion de todas las obras civiles eii las regiones de Cliolomna N Olanciiito.
Asimismo se verific6 que la Companiia Construcciones .ultiples recibi6 la
autorizaci6n para retirar el ultimo pago por el contrato de obras civiles. el dia 8 v
retir6 el cheque el 14 de diciembre de 1995.



APPENDIX A
6.    Mobiliario Escolar: La mision confirmo Ia entrega de todo el mobiliario--
ptupiti es, catedras, libreros--a las 47 escuelas donde se realizaron construcciones o
r eparaci6nes, en las regiones de Clioloma v Olanchito. Se rev'isaron -Is Actas de
Recepcil6n v se constat6 que todas las escuelas recibieron el mobililrio adecuado con
relacio'n a hi matricula provectada para el afio escolar 1996. Debido a la
r1cestimaci6n del valor de los libreros producidos por la empresa Comercial Arbez, v
cii vista de que se liabia contratado v cancelado 240 libreros con la mencionada
Firma. se negocio la entrega de 120 libreros mas de la cantidad contratada. En vista
de que se lmbia cubierto las necesidades requeridas en las re-giories de Clholoma v
Olanichito, distribuveron los libreros sobrantes en otras escuelas rurales * urbanias
mrrzin a;d:as.
Nlanual de MNantenimienito (le Escuelas. La mision recibiC' Copials del
M a[inual. y copils de los inforimes constatando la realizaci6n de la capacitacio'n de
representantes de las 47 escuelas beneficiarias del provecto. La coordin:lcil6n de
ADEPRIR hara entrega de las lierranientas a todas las escuelas antes del viernes 22
Lie diciembre. y enviari copias de las Actas de Recepci6n al Banco antes del 31 de
(iicienibre de 1995.
8.     Reaiierimienitos nara el cierre del Provecto: Se aicord6 que despues de la
feclia de cierre, el 31 de diciembre de 1995, ningun gasto sera elegible para
r eembolso. N, cualquier balance ser.i cancelado al Banco INTundial. Asimismo se
-icord6 que la SEP notificari al Ministerio de Hacienda v Cr6dito Publico de que
debe enviar al Banco una solicitud para la concesi6n de tin per-iodo informal de
desembolso, de cuatro meses, a partir de la fecha de cierre, para permitir el
reembolso de gastos elegibles, realizados antes del 31 de diciembre de 1995.
9).    Retenci6ri de Documentaci6n: La SEP tiene la obliacion contr:actual de
retener todos los documentos (contratos. ordenes, facturas, recibos * otros
docunmentos) que proporcionen evidencias de gastos del provecto, para por lo menos
un afio despues de la recepci6n de la auditoria del afio fiscal 1995. (ver Secci6n 4.01-
c-i del Coniveniio de Prestamo). Se acord6 que la documentaci6n sera depositada en
el Departamento de Cooperaci6ii Externa, dependienite de la Secretarial General de
la SEP. bajo la responsabilidad del Secretario General, durante el periodo fijado.
10.   PNUD-HON/94/005/A/01/99: El PNUD envi6 una carta a la SEP solicitando
la revisioin presupuestaria. En cuanto la SEP responda. ei P.NUD/Honiduras
solicitari el cierre del provecto OPS-0104-EP-88. v la cancelaci6n de cualquier
balance al Baiico Nlundial. Se acord6 que a mas tardar el miercoles 20 de diciembre
(Ie 1995. Ia SEP entregari la re%isi6n presupuestarir  al PNNUD.
H1.   Informe de Terminaci6n del Provecto: El gobierno de Honduras debe
participar en la preparaci6n de este informe mediante la elaboraci6n de la "'Parte [1:
Rev isi6n del Provecto desde la Perspectiva del Prestatario". Se acord6 en principio,
la desi2naci6n del actual Director Ejecutivo de ADEPRIR como representante de la
SEP v responsable para la elaboralcion de este documento.



APPENDIX A
12.    Pr6xim, Mision: Se acord6 la realizaci6n de una pr6xima misi6n a
principios de febrero de 1996, para la revisi6n del primer borrador del informe de
terminaci6n del proyecto.
Tegucigalpa, NI.D.C., Honduras
15 de dicicinbre de 1995
':  ,:  ;-lic. Zenobia Ro            de Lc6n   omez                            Dr. .Jol n F. Heig
O r    cretaria de Educacion Publica                         Oficina Regionzi del Banco MNlun  ial
para Centro America
Lic.            ubr
Divcctor E ecu i         o Provecta ADEPRIR
ANEXOS:
I.      1ctas de Recepcaon de Obms Cis des
2.      Autonri=2n de ultinmo piago a Conipania Cuisurucciones Mfdtipl"s
3.      lifurnime sobre Entregs de Niobilisano
4.      Manual de Nlantenmiiento de EcueLzs
5.      liafornic sobre C2pacitacion de Conute de Aron!
6.      Cupia c2rta enviada al MUinsteno de Eicaenda %. Crcdito PubLicn
honaiade.dc



APPENDIX B
SECRETARIAT OF PUBLIC EDUCATION
ADMINISTRATION OF RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
ADEPRIR-BIRF-2804-HO
FINAL REPORT
WORLD BANK'S PERFORMANCE
1.    The World Bank's excellent cooperation, particularly in terms of technical
supervision especially since 1994, has enabled the project to make a significant
contribution to the Secretariat of Public Education's (SEP's) institutional improvement
and to the planning of primary education.
2.    In order to follow up on the objectives stated in the agreement, and in mutual
accord with the SEP, the Bank contributed toward streamlining financial execution by
making quicker disbursements during the final stage of the project (1994-1995).
3.    The Bank's excellent supervision of civil works gave rise to the construction of
well-finished schools and school furniture, using designs that facilitated group work.
4.    By not objecting to the use of ADEPRIR funds to finance the preparatory
assistance of the Basic Education Quality Improvement Project, the Bank made it possible
to establish the bases for strengthening basic education; administrative de-concentration;
bilingual intercultural education; and improvement of the academic curriculum. All of
these are important elements for the successful development of the Eiscuela Morazanica
(Basic Education Project) under the framework of state educational modernization.
5.    We must not overlook the fact that, throughout the project, the Bank's strong
interest in the training and development of technical and administrative staff allowed the
project to culminate in an acceptable manner.
BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
6.    During the initial stage, studies and administrative strengthening manuals were
prepared for the SEP. These were not utilized due to the lack of continuity of both the
project and staff, as well as to improper management under the circumstances prevailing at
that time.
7.    One of the project's most significant contributions was the preparation of 12
micro-plans. Although in principle these were not totally implemented, they set the stage
for their later use nationwide.



APPENDIX B
8.    Between 1988 and 1993, field studies were carried out in the project's area of
influence in order to determine needs and begin the bidding processes for the construction
and repair of school buildings, and for school furniture and supplies.
9.    In light of the project's start-up date, its achievements and the financial resources
invested as of December 1993, it may certainly be stated that the project's development
until that date was too slow due to incompetent management.
10.   During the final stage of the project, the organization of educational administration
networks was consolidated as a response to the limitations presented by the organization
of educational modules, a more complex and less versatile system in contrast to the
network system which allows its components to participate more actively: Central School,
Branch School, Community Support Committees, Teachers' Learning Centers (CAD),
School Administration, Evaluation Committees, and the Network Coordination Group.
11.   Training was focused on two important aspects: first, the assessment of the
primary education learning process, aimed at making school principals and teachers aware
of the importance of this assessment as a fundamental learning tool, and second, training
on the organization of Educational Administration Networks to allow network
components to carry out educational activities in a more organized manner, laying the
foundation for schools and communities to share a sense of identity.
12.   One of the major incentives generated during the final stage of the project is the
purchase of learning materials, school furniture, school construction and repair, together
with legalizing and obtaining deeds for the property on which they are located. The
implementation and dissemination of the manual dealing with the upkeep, maintenance and
administration of school buildings, furniture, learning materials, equipment and tools, are
also significant.
13.   The responses from  the community and other entities involved through the
research performed, as well as the opinions of local and international consultants by means
of the works presented, indicated that this project's greatest achievements will continue
over the coming years if project efforts are continued in a sustainable manner.
14.   The activities financed by ADEPRIR for assistance in preparing the Educational
Quality Improvement Project were carried out for the purpose of achieving the major
objectives, i.e., Improvement of the Quality of Basic Education, and Institutional
Strengthening. Thus, in order to fulfill the first objective, the project provided educational
materials under this component, promoted the skills development and training of teachers,
introduced Bilingual Intercultural Education in areas of the country inhabited by ethnic
groups to enable them to learn in their own language, expanded the coverage of pre-
school education, and provided equal learning opportunities.
* Training of Teachers
* Textbooks and Learning Materials



APPENDIX B
* Educational Assessment
* Pre-School
* Skills Development for Teachers
* Bilingual Intercultural Education
15.   The Institutional Strengthening of the Secretariat of Public Education was carried
out in order to increase its efficiency, optimize its resources and improve the quality of the
administrative services it provides.
One highly relevant activity that favored the fulfillment of this objective was the
Census taken in order to make an inventory of the SEP's human, physical and material
resources. This Census, which covered pre-primary, primary, high school and adult
education, will be useful for decision-making leading to better use of the SEP's resources.



APPENDIX C
Comayaguela, M.D.C.
June 12, 1996
Doctor
John Helwig
Regional Advisor for Central America
World Bank
Dear Doctor Helwig:
We have reviewed the document "Implementation Completion Report, Republic of
Honduras, Rural Education Management Project (Loan 2804-HO)" with which we agree
as a description of the project development.
We would like to emphasize that during the last phase of the project, which was our
responsibility, the goals established for construction and equipment were fully met; the
academic component for micro-planning and educational networks were also
implemented. Finally, we used the available funds to design and implement part of the
Basic Education Project. We consider that the above conclusions were not presented
clearly enough in the report.
With best sentiments.
Sincerely,
Dr. Armando Euceda
Viceminister of Education
for Technical Affairs
(original letter in Spanish sent to LAC Files)



Bibliography
1.    The World Bank, StaffAppraisal Report. Honduras Rural Primarv Education
Management Project, Report No. 6609-HO, Washington, D.C., April 6, 1987.
2.    The World Bank, Loan Agreement (Rural Primary Education Management Project).
between Republic of Honduras and International Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
Loan Agreement 2804-HO, Washington, D.C., August 27, 1987.
3.    Secretaria de Educaci6n Publica, Diagn6stico Orzanizacional de la Secretaria de
Educaci6n Publica, Te,ucigalpa, Honduras, February 1989.
4.    Boquin, Armando R., Diagn6stico de la Secretaria de Educaci6n Publica, ADEPRIR,
Secretaria de Educacion Puiblica, Tegucigalpa, Honduras, February 1989.
5.    Prawda, Juan and Figueroa, Luis David, Microplanes educativos de primaria para los
distritos de Choloma. departamento de Cortes y Olanchito. departamento de Yoro, Secretaria de
Educaci6n Puiblica, Tegucigalpa, Honduras, April 1989
6.    Secretaria de Educaci6n Puiblica, Las Experiencias del Gobierno de Honduras en la
Desconcentracion Educativa, Tegucigalpa, Honduras, June 1989.
7.    Prawda, Juan and Figueroa, Luis David, Manual de Microplaneaci6n Educativa, Secretaria
de Educaci6n Publica, Tegucigalpa, Honduras, August 1989.
8.    Lemke, Donald A, et. al., Evaluaci6n Final Provecto Administraci6n de la Educaci6n
Primaria Rural (ADEPRIW, Secretaria de Educaci6n Publica, Tegucigalpa, Honduras, June 1995.
9     Secretaria de Educaci6n Publica, Manual de Conservaci6n. Mantenimiento
Administraci6n de edificios. mobiliario. material didactico. equipo y herramientas escolares,
Tegucigalpa, Honduras, November 1995.



MAP SECTION
',






I B RD 20363
SO                                               _           _              M E X IMCO E  r
BELIZE  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                         __~~~~~~~~~~~~~BLZ
IB E L IZ E                                                                                                                                                                                              l,-~ PL
'GUATEMALA 1
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' 'ROATAN  X_  p.
|1 _   -  w_M___ EL SALVADOR    ' NICARAGUA
TRUEJILLO                                                                                             OSTA
RICA
G U A T F AtlA L A le f<orll;OwL_ 
0   N ~ ~ ~ 0t
C 0 R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-0,
(ore ':ab7, / / SAN-E DRO  SULAQ                                                                           S  Slo.......... o '-' --o^ 
*  GRACIAS   A   D~IOS          "RTAO LEFMPAO
k bi. VI- -o- ~4 X _<Lw @oIovEz i                       G   R A C  I AS  A  D   I  O  S t/Erru LEMr-R
0                                -0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
DE CO-                                                                             ......I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R,.
0                    P.-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0-
vPE'.                                    c             A N                                     C I  C                                                      HONDURAS
_    RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION
M AN AGEM ENT P ROJ ECT
DeparEments co/ered by Project                            iA*.
S ^ _J ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                                                                                                       Pae Roads  ,       a:, 17 o   t    C0   Ev,\.Apwl 
Grovel Roods
Ea,rth Roads
R--i-..Rilroads
Rive,
+     Main Airpont
All   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~@                                           Nato,,al Capital
A. p. -- LDepartment Boundaies
-    -  EB;OZ_ Internotional Boundories
~~~' _                  \         f        0      J           f  5af Moreos  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d. C.16n
KILOMETERS 0     25       50       75      100
S                                                                          R- ---   C-.4 O L  5 EAMILES E0  2  50
aa'                                                                        8'                                                                                             DECEMBER 1986









cc,
U.)
DSC
4-A
Ii-()  X<
Z I
Z-1               :    .
,~l          C,1 q >
-<                C-.



