Document Of
The World Bank
FOR 3FFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6609-HO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HONDURAS
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION MANAGEMENT PROJECT
April 6, 1987
Projects Department
Latin Amevica and Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Lempira (L)
US$1.0 - L2.0
L1.O = US$0.5
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
IDB               Inter-American Development Bank
INFOP             Vocational Training Institute
(Instituto de Formacion Profesional)
PCU                Project Coordinating Unit
SEP               Minlstry of Public Education
(SecretarUa de Educacion Publica)
UCCE               External Assistance Coordinating Unit
UNAH               The National Autonomous University of Honduras
UNESCO            United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization
USAID             United States Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT OF HONDURAS
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
February 15 to November 30



FOR OFFICIAL UE ONLY
HONDURAS
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION MANAGDEMNT PROJECT
STAFF APPRUISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  . .................. .                                  i
I.  THE EDUCATION SECTOR .................................                             1
Overview. . * 0 * * 0 0 . # 0 a # 0 * 6 0 4 . ....* * ..... ............... 4 0 41
The Sector's Managing Institutions
and Management Issues   ............................ .                          3
Management and Efficiency Issues
in Primary Education3........ ...... ........ .                                 3
The Government's Strategy  ......................... .                           4
Bank Strategy in the Sector...........................                           6
II.   THE PROJECT  .......*.....*****            *..    ......................          7
Project Origin  ... ..... . *..... .... .. ..... ...7
Project Objectives and Content  .*              ....................             7
Institutional Strengthening  .........................                           8
Regional Planning and  Management             ...... ...........                . 8
Pilot Subproject ..................................... . .......... 10
Implementation Arrangements  ......,                 ...................        10
Project Costs and Financing                  .........................          11
Procurement Procedures  ....,....................                               12
Disbursements  .................................................                12
Accounting and Auditing and Reporting                     ...............       12
Benefits and Risks  .... *              .......    ......... ...... .           13
III.    RECOMMENDATIONS  .......................................                        14
This report is based on the finding of Appraisal Missions which visited Honduras. The first
mission took place during October 1988 and was comprised of: Messrs. Robert Ruiz-Esparza
(General Educator), Mission Leader; Bornardo Kuglor (Economist), Rodolfo Heredia
(Demographer/Planner, Consultant), Alvaro Toledo (Micro-Planning Specialist, Consultant). The
second mission took place In Decombor 1988 and was carried out by Messrs. Doug las H. Keare
(Division Chief) and Robort Ruiz-Esparza (General Educator). Mr. Angel Oonzdi oz-Malaxechoverfa
(Senior Financial Management Specialist) contributed to the auditing and accounting section of
this report.
This document has a restricted distributic and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
ANNEX No.                                                        Pate No.,
1  Initial Student Enrollment for 1985..... .......,....         16
2 Comparative Education Indicators for Central American
Countries (1986) ...      ^^XXvv****v*                      17
3  MOE Organizational Chart,...........................,         18
4  Student Enrollment in Project Area - 1985............         19
5  Districts Chosen for Initiation of Micro-Planning....         20
6 Description of Rural Primary Education
Managsement Network ............................ ....       21
7  Consultants for Technical Assistance ................*. 23
8  Timetable for Contracting Technical Assistance.......         29
9  Implemenzation Schedule ..............................       30
10  Monitoring Indicators.............................. ..        31
11  SummAry of Project Costs (Net of Taxes and Duties) ...        32
12 Financing of Project Costs and
Disbursement Schedule.....               ....... ....       33
13  Procurement Arrangements.............................         34
map



HONDURAS
RURAL PRIARY EDUCATION MAONAGEtM PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:     Republic of Honduras
EXECUTING
AGENCY:       Ministry of Public Education (SEP)
AMOUNT:       US$4.4 million equivalent
TERMS:        20 years with five years of grace, at the standard variable
rate.
PROJECT
DESCRIPTION:  The project objectives are:
(1) to enhance the institutional capacity of SEP through
technical assistance to: (a) strengthen the capacity of SEP's
Executive Council and External Assistance Coordinating Unit
(UCCE) in the areas of inter-ministerial coordination,
sectoral policy formulation, planning of education
development, allocation of expenditures (including
coordination of development assistance), budget management,
financial analysis, and internal administration; (b) evaluate
SEP's organization and develop recommendations for its
improvement for sut sequent implementation by SEP; and
(c) prepare an evaluation of current decentralization
policies.
(2) to assist SEP in developing and testing an effective
management and development planning system for rural primary
education, designed to economize on recurrent expenditures,
improve cost-effectiveness, and establish the basis for
raising student achievement. This would entail: 'a) carrying
out a micro-planning exercise for the primary schools in the
project area, including a diagnostic survey of needs,
projections of growth, and reorganization of the schools into
a cohesive administrative network linking all schools to a
system for administrative and supervisory services; (b)
preparing, as part of the micro-planning exercise, action
plans for construction or repair of physical facilities,
teacher training, management and supervision, and a student
testing system; (c) testing the results of the micro-planning
effort by implementing the action plans in two school
districts under a pilot subproject; and (d) preparing a
comprehensive operational plan for all schools in the project
area by consolidating all micro-plans and action plans,
taking into account the results of the pilot subproject. A
diagnostic survey would also be carried out to assess the
needs of first cycle (grades 7-9) secondary schools located
in the project area.



- Li -
RISKS:        The main risk is that SEP's weak managerial capacity might,
if not improved as rapidly as onvisaged, delay project
execution and fail to give the proper thrust to policies and
strategies being formulated. The project's technical
assistance component is designed to strengthen this capacity;
together with close supervision by the Bank, this would help
to minimize the risk.
ESTIMATED COST:                                 Local   Foreign    Total
-------(US$ Million)-----
School Construction/Repair              0.4       0.1        0.5
Equipment, Suppliesg Spare
Parts, 20 Vehicles                    0.1       0.7        0.8
Incremental Staff Salaries              1.6       0.0        1.6
Salaries and Travel of SEP
Staff Devoted Full Time to Project   1.9        0.0        1.9
Technical Assistance                    0.1       0.4        0.5
Furniture & Supplies                    0.2       0.0        0.2
Total Baseline Costs                    4.3       1.2        5.5
Physical Contingencies                  0.2       0.1        0.3
Price Contingencies                     1.0       0.1        1.1
TOTAL PROJECT COST                      5.5       1.4        6.9
FINANCING PLAN:                                 Local    Foreign    Total
------(US$ Million)------
Bank                                    3.0       1.4       4.4
Government                              2.5       0.0       2.5
Total                             5.5       1.4       6.9
ESTIMATED BANK
DISBURSEMENTS: (Based on Average Profile for Bank Technical Assistance Loancj
FY: 1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
---------------…(US$ Million)--------------
Annual              0.5    1.5    0.9    0.7    0.5    0.2    0.1
Cumulative          0.5    2.0    2.9    3.6    4.1    4.3    4.4
RATE OF R2TURN: Does not apply.



RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION MANAGEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISQL REPORT
I. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Overview
1.01     Responsibility for the education sector in Honduras is
concentrated in two institutions: the Ministry of Public Education (SEP)
and the Autonomous National University of Honduras (UNAH). SEP is
responsible for pre-school, primary, and secondary education and one post-
secondary institution, which trains secondary school teachers. All
university level education is under the jurisdiction of UNAH, which is
autonomous under provisions of the national constitution.
1.02     Honduras made considerable progress during the past decade in
extending educational services at all levels to its citizens.  Between 1975
and 1985, for example, total enrollment in the formal system increased from
534,000 (18% of the population) to 1,008,800 (232 of the population).  In
1985 education absorbed 17.5% of the national public budget, an amount
equivalent to 4.8% of the GNP, which is in line with educational
allocations in other countries in Latin America.  However, enrollments have
risen faster than resources, resulting in a serious erosion in the quality
of education at all levels. Enrollment in primary education is about equal
for males and females; female enrollment in secondary education is slightly
higher than enrollment of males. However, males account for about 60% of
total enrollment at post-secondary level (see Annex 1). Honduras still has
the lowest literacy rate and the highest student/teacher ratio in primary
education among Central American countries, though other common education
sector indicators put Honduras about at the median (ses Annex 2).
1.03     Pre-school education is appropriately still at an embryonic stage
of .'*velopment, with a total enrollment of about 48,600, which represents
10% of the age group it is supposed to serve (4-6 years of age). Most of
this enrollment is concertrated in urban areas (84%).   This subsector is
characterized by inadequately trained teachers (70%), inadequate programs,
a lack of teaching materials, poor nutritional programs and inadequate
physical facilities. Faced with higher priorities in primary and secondary
education, SEP lacks the resources to accelerate the development of this
subsector.



- 2 -
1.04     Primary education consists of the first six grades.  Attendance is
obligatory for children in the 7-13 age group, but there is little
enforcement. This subsector has a total enrollment of 774,078 students
representing 80% (net) of the age group. They attend 6,549 primary schools
staffed by 20,328 teachers. This enrollment represents 74.3% of the total
enrollment in the sector. A major segment of the enrollment (62%) is found
in rural schools, 362 of which have three grades or less (i.e., they are
incomplete schools). About 80% of the primary teachers meet the
qualification standards of SEP. However, rural teachers in particular are
deficient in the use of multi-grade teaching techniques, individualized
learning, lesson planning and student evaluation. Moreover, their task is
further complicated by the scarcity of textbooks and basic instructional
materials. The cost of primary education represents about 50% of the
education budget. As in other Latin American countries, most of the budget
allocated to the subsector (93%) is absorbed by personnel salaries,
resulting in a scarcity of funds to cover other essential items such as
textbooks, teaching materials md maintenance. The number of teachers
hired is based on a reasonable pupil/teacher ratio of 40/1, and annual
costs per pupil are about US$85 equivalent.
1.05     Secondary education in 1985 enrolled 158,789 students representing
27% of the 14-19 age group. The subsector includes 6,496 teachers and is
divided into a common cycle (grades 7-9) offering a general academic
curriculum, and a diversified cycle (grades 10-12) that offers academic and
vocational programs. Private secondary schools account for 50X of the
subsector's enrollment. Some programs are of limited relevance; and the
quality of instruction is uniformly poor in both public and private
secondary schools owing to an array of problems, such as: teachers whose
own education is below the qualification standard (64%), poor physical
facilities, inadequate supervision, a scarce supply of textbooks and
instructional mate.;ials and seriously overcrowded conditions in most of the
schools. Unit costs do not appear excessive.
1.06     Higher education enrollments in 1985 totaled 36,620 students
distributed among four public and two private institutions. University
programs are offered by UNAH and the private institutions. The other
three public institutions offer specialized programs in secondary teacher
training, agriculture, and forestry, respectively. UNAH, with its main
campus in Tegucigalpa and two branches, accounts for 80% (29,477) of the
total enrollment in higher education. University admission is open to all
students who complete secondary school, and annual tuition is around US$50
equivalent, while per-student cost is US$1,050 equivalent. UNAH is
addressing a series of problems that confront the subsector: university
programs for professional training are not linked to national needs, open
admission policies have contributed to quality deterioration, completion
rates in the undergraduate programs are around 20%, the quality of the
faculty is weak, and physical facilities are strained.
1.07     Technical education is shared by various levels of the system
including: university professional preparation programs, diversified
secondary education technical programs, pre-vocational programs offered in
the common cycle of secondary education, and specialized in-service
training pzograms for working adulto offered by the Vocational Training
Institute (INFOP). In addition, there are the specialized programs



- 3 -
offered by the National School of Agriculture and the National Forestry
School. INFOP's technical training programs which serve about 30,000
workers annually in a wide variety of occupations in agriculture, industry,
commerce, services and public administration are considered the most
effective. In addition to its main focus on improving the skill level of
employed skilled workers, INFOP also offers basic skills training courses
to unskilled workers so that they may be employed.
1.08     Adult education is mainly handled by SEP, through accelerated
primary education for adults (23,362 in 1985) and literacv programs (27,400
ndults in 1985), and INFOP through its basic skills program.
The Sector's Managing Institutions and Management Issues
1.09     SEP and UNAH have presided over the rapid growth of the sector
during the past decade, but neither has performed at a high level of
efficiency. The SEP, where management functions for most of the sector are
concentrated, has an outdated organizational structure (see Annex 3) and
cumbersome procedures. These limit its capacity to discharge its
responsibilities.   Inter-ministerial coordinationt, policy formulation,
planning, and allocation of resources, are not carried out effectively.
Coordination of SEP's activities with those of other relevant ministries is
weak, leading to uncertain government support for SEP programs and
policies, and making it difficult to define clearly how education is
supposed to support and complement other sectors in addressing national
development issues. Policy formulation processes in SEP are haphazard and
tend to depend more on political considerations than on technical criteria.
Data collection on the sector has improved in SEP with the establishment of
a management information system, but data are not yet being used in the
policy formulation process because the institution lacks sufficient
analytical capacity. Moreover, SEP has relled on international donors for
the preparation of projects they are financing. The projects have helped
Honduras to raise its edtication sector performance, but they have been
poorly coordinated and have so far done little to enhance the planning
capacity of SEP. SEP's analytical and training capacity needs to be
developed, and comprehensive medium- and long-term planning for sectoral
development based on improved analysis needs to be strengthened.
1.10     By constitutional mandate, UNAH is empowered to "organize, direct
and develop higher education" carried out by both public and private
institutions. Its principal source of funding (84%), also prescribed by
the constitution, is 6% of fiscal revenues. This funding process was first
enacted in 1957, when the allocation was set at 2%. The percentage was
increased to 6% in a constitutional revision in 1982. This level of
government funding results in a share of the total education budget of less
than 20% (it has been projected at approximately 17% in the 1985-89 plan),
which is not out of line with other Latin American countries. The
Government will need to ensure that political prescures ii the future do
not increase these percentages.   Unfortunately, the deficiencies in this
subsector (para. 1.06) attest to the fact that effective utilization of
these resources is not yet being made. Management capacity has improved
gradually during the past decade, after a chaotic period of student
political activism which almost paralyzed the institution.



- 4 -
Management and Efficiency Issues in Primary Education
1.11     The Government has given high priority to expanding and improving
primary education, but deficiencies in its management have severely
restricted the effectiveness of its efforts. First. comprehensive planning
for the rational development of the subsector is lacking. Extension of
primary school coverage is based, not on a comprehensive plan, but only on
the known fact th&t maximum coverage has yet to be achisved. Second, SEP's
Ditectorate of Primary Education, responsible for managing the primary
subsector, lacks the organizational structure and resources to provide
effective administrative and supervisory services to schools commensurate
with their rapidly growing enrollments and needs. Consequently, linkages
between the schools and SEP are tenuous. This is most detrimental to the
rural schools, which, due to their geographic isolation, have a greater
need of SEP's formal support services.   Third, there is no systematic
evaluation of student achievement at the classroom level to monitor
instructional effectiveness. Thus, although there are compelling reasons
to believe that the subsector operates very ineffectively, there are no
means to detect specific instructional weaknesses, diagnose possible
causes, and make the necessary corrective adjustments.
1.12     The ineffective management of primary education has led to low
levels of internal efficiency. Gross enrollment rates for primary
education are about average for the region (Annex 2), but completion rates
for the six primary grades are estimated to be below average. On a
national basis, only about 50% of those who enter the first grade will
eventually complete the cycle, and the problem is even more acute in the
rural areas, where only 40% will eventually complete primary schooling.
The problem involves more than high rates of attrition, for it includes an
excessive number of students who have to repeat one or more grades before
eventually dropping out or completing the six-year cycle as overage
students. Repetition is particularly high in grades one and two (29% and
18% respectively), as shown by SEP reports for 1983, but it affects all
grades. The combination of dropouts and repeaters represents an annual
waste of resources equivalent to about US$17 million, or approximately 21%
of the budget allocated to primary education.
1.13     The causes for these excessive repetition and dropout rates are to
be found in a combination of interrelated factors. The general socio-
economic background of the Honduran child: poverty, malnutrition, adult
illiteracy, and family requirements for farm work in rural areas, all have
a bearing on the problem. School-related causes include: (a) teachers
inadequately trained to cope with difficult, multi-grade teaching
situations, especially in rural areas; (b) a lack of textbooks, library
books, and teaching materials, which results in teacher-centered
instruction and students who are forced to learn by rote, thus weakening
the quality of learning; (c) a lack of community support for the
educational process; (d) a lack of administrative services and controls,
which results in unreported teacher absenteeism in rural areas; and (e) a
lack of proper teacher supervision aimed at helping teachers to improve
their teaching skills. Low achievement, low morale, and frequent absence
and repetition are thus locked in a mutually reinforcing (negative) cycle,
of which low learning and excessive dropout are the chief ultimate results.



The Government's Strategy
1.14     The Government is committed to improving management if the
education sector and to developing improved policies, plans, and programs
for the sector in order to enhance the quality and efficiency of education.
To these ends, recent initiatives have been undertaken to strengthen
management at the central level; (a) a Cabinet for Social Development was
created, including the Ministers of Finance, Planning, Health, Social
Welfare, Justice, and Education, and has begun to adopt policies stressing
the improvement of planning for sectoral development, budget
preparation/management, and inter-ministerial zoordination for purposes of
development planning and the rational allocation of resources; (b) SEP's
Executive Council, comprising the Minister, Vice Ministers, and Directors,
was activated, with responsibility for formulation of policy and program
proposals for consideration by relevant entities, including the Social
Cabinet; (c) o technical unit (External Assistance Coordinating Unit
(UCCE)) was created in SEP to provide technical support for the Executive
Council on a broad range of topics, and to coordinate all educational
projects and programs that receive external financial assistance; and (d) a
sCudy is being planned that will provide the basis for the reorganization
of SEP with the aim of improving its efficiency.
1.15     The Government has, in addition, recently updated its policy
framework (Politicas Educativas del Gobierno de Honduras, January 1987)
covering all areas under the purview of SEP, with emphasis on primary and
secondary levels. Within this framework, it continues to accord highest
priority to primary education. The Government has adopted policies to
improve the quality and efficiency of primary education, as a result of
wh_ch repetition and dropout rates would be reduced by 30% and 20%,
respectively, by 1991 (cf. para. 1.12). These policies emphasizes (a)
initial concentration on grades one through three; (b) extension of
coverage in poorly served, mainly rural and urban marginal areas; and (c)
the introduction of systematic planning. These improvements would be
pursued through implementation of appropriate actions in the following
areass improving subsector management; enhancing school administration and
supervision; providing appropriate in-service training and to support to
teachers; increasing the supply of teaching and library materials to
adequate levels; adding capacity to incomplete schools; introducing
classroom maintenance and repair with community participation; improving
school lunch services, also with community participation; and utilizing
appropriate micro-planning technologies to enhance the efficiency of all
the above actions. Alplication of micro-planning techniques would be
phased, beginning with the proposed project.
1.16     The policies of SEP with respect to secondary education and of the
UNAH are less refined, but in general sensible. At the secondary level,
the Government is interested in improving quality and efficiency as an
extension of the inprovements being introduced at the primary level. With
respect to the "ciclo diversificado" (second cycle), it is concerned with
strengthening technical education generally. With specific reference to
technical education, the concern is to develop technical programs leading
directly to employment. Like all other Latin American countries, Honduras
has yet to fully work out policies for secondary education which are
consistent with available resources. The difficulty lies in the



- 6 -
Government's inability to cope with two major aspects of the problemt (i)
finding the appropriate means to improve the quality of secondary education
for those sttudents already in the system; and (ii) developing a long-range
strategy for addressing the growing demand for admission to this subsector.
The strengthened SEP management structure will place it in a better
position to formulate alternate plans, assess them, and turn these
assessments into action. UNAH has issued and is following a reasonable and
detailed development plan for 1985-89, which includes policies fort
improving institutional management; limiting the admission of new students;
improving the quality of the faculty and of academic programs and research,
through better use of human, physical and financial resources; tailoring
professional training programs, and hence their graduates, to national
needs; expanding revenues from sources ot1ar than the federal budget; and
controlling expenditures in acccrdance with the plan.
1.17     The Government has turned to external financial assistance in
order to fund ite investments in the education sector. In addition to the
World Bank, the principal current and prospective donors are the U.S.
Agency for International Development (USAID) and the Inter-American
Development Bank (IEB). A recently approved USAID project is directed at
the improvement of primary aducation by establishing a national textbook
system, ernhancing educational research, expanding the management
information system and developing educational media. The Government and
1DB are currently discussing a possible new project that would focus on
secondary, vocational, and adult education. The Bank has taken the lead in
assisting the Government to develop a comprehensive strategy for aid
coordination in the education sector.
Bank Strategy in the Sactor
1.18     Previous Bank Experience.  The Bank Group has provided financial
assistance to Honduras for two education projects. A first Education
Project was partially financed with a combination loan and credit for
US$6.0 million (Credit 452-HO for US$3.0 million and Loan 954-HO for US$3.0
million, January 1974) for the purpose of upgrading a selected number of
primary and secondary teacher training schools and improving agricultural
vocational treining. The project was completed satisfactorily three years
after the originally estimated completion date. The Second Education
Project, partially financed by an IDA credit for TJS$5.0 million (Credit
777-HO, March 1978), focussed on improving rural primary education, but
also included small components to improve the National Agricultural School
and the National Forestry School. Implementation problems were mainly due
to poor management and a shortage of national counterpart funds. The
project was completed three years later than originally planned, with all
major quantitative objectives having been achieved. The principal lessons
from these projects, which should guide future support, are, first, that
the management structure and capacity in the sector were inadequate.
Second, projects with multiple objectives, which were not always closely
related, easily overstrained this capacity. Third, and more positively,
well-planned and conscientiously executed efforts to decentralize
activities (such as construction in the second project) are viable and
promising. Fourth, the systematic evaluation of the nuclear school
experience and the search for ways to reduce unit costs under the second



- 7 -
project were seen as essential foil w-up activities to be pursued in future
projects, in particular in the proposed Rural Primary Education Management
Project.
1.19     Bank Strate=y.  The Bank Group seeks to help the Government
achieve its objectives (paras. 1.14-1.16), through a phased program of
assistance. The focus will be on strengthening management, with special
emphasis on planning, to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of
expenditures. The approach would be ohased, taking into account the
Government's presently limited absorptive capacity and the participation of
other donors in the sector (para. 1.17). The objective would be to achieve
essential management improvements at the ministerial level and with respect
to primary education, which absorbs half the sector budget. At the level
of SEP, the proposed project would focus on institutional reorganization
and the streamlining of cumbersome procedures (para. 1.09). It would seek
to bolster SEP's capacity for inter-ministerial coordination, policy
formulation, planning, and resource allocation. Consistent with the
Government's assignment of the highest priority to primary education, and
the Bank's overall strategy to support the Government in its efforts to
control the growth of public expenditures and increase the efficiency of
thoir use, the proposed project would focus on improving the cost-
effectiveness of expenditures for primary education. Moreover, such
improvements would not only help to control the growth of expenditures in
the largest single subsector, but they would be replicable at the seccndary
level. The proposed project would complement the recently approved USAID
assistance for primary education and place SEP in a better position to
efficiently absorb the possible IDB assistance for secondary education.
Through its presence in the sector and dialogue with the Government and
other donors, the Bank would support continued rational allocation of
resources among the different levels of education, to ensure their
harmonious development. The proposed project would thus establish the
basis for future assistance to further strengthen SEP's management
capacity.
II. THE PROJECT
Proiect Origin
2.01     The proposed project was prepared by SEP, with assistance from the
Bank and UNESCO from May 1985 through August 1986. Appraisal was completed
in December 1986. Negotiations took place in Washington, D.C. from
March 23-24 23-24, 1987. The Government's delegation was led by Elisa
Valle de Martinez Pavetti, Minister of Public Education.
Project Objectives and Content
2.02     The proposed project would: (a) enhance the institutional capacity
of SEP in the areas of inter-ministerial coordination, sectoral policy
formulation, planning of education development, allocation of expenditures
(including coordination of development assistance), and internal



- 8 -
administration; and (b) assist the Government to prepare afid test an
effective system for administering rural primary schools, which would
economize on recurrent expenditures, improve cost-effectiveness, and
establish the basis for raising student achievement. The recent steps
taken by the Government (formation of a Sociai Cabinet, activation of SEP's
Executive Council, and creation of UCCE (para. 1.14)) support these
objectives and set the stage for this project.
2.03     Inputs for the project would include:  87 staff months of
consultant services, of which at least 51 would be expatriate; and
incremental SEP staff for the project (about 75 professional staff-years
and 38 support staff-years).  SEP staff would devote a total of 225 staff
years.  Travel expenses would include tickets for some 200 field trips
(other trips would be carried out using SEP vehicles), 1,300 weeks of per
diem expenses, and four study trips in the hemisphere for high-level
project staff. Office furniture would be supplied for incremental staff,
office equipment and supplies for all project staff, as well as 20
vehicles. Of a total of about 200 classrooms in which the pilot subproject
would be carried out, the majority would be newly built (75) or repaired
(75). All schools in the two pilot districts would be supplied with
furniture and educational materials. Provision has been made for rental of
office facilities for the Regional Unit.
Institutional Strengthening
2.04     The project would support recent initiatives undertaken by the
Government to strengthen education management at the central level.  The
Cabinet for Social Development and SEP's Executive Council would benefit
from consultant services to assist the Government and SEP to establish
these new entities on a sound footing and achieve both objectives of the
project. Consultants contracted by SEP to serve in UCCE supporting the
Executive Council would: (a) strengthen the capacity of UCCE in the areas
of planning, policy formulation, budget development and management, and
financial analysis (para. 1.14); (b) carry out an evaluation of SEP's
current internal administrative organization, and develop recommendations
for bringing about improvements in operational efficiency, closer
coordination and better communication within SEP and with the regional
network, and improved capacity to respond to the needs of schools,(SEP
would inform the Bank by December 31, 1989 of its plan to implement the
recomme.dations); and (c) prepare two studies to evaluate current
decentralization policies and include recommendations as to the future use
of those policies. The Executive Council and UCCE are considered critical
to the achievement of the objective of general institutional strengthening;
therefore agreement was reached with the government that they would be
maintained in operation. In addition, technical assistance would be
provided to the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), and SEP's Auditing
Department (see para. 2.18, below).
Regional Planning and Management
2.05     The second objective, concerning operational planning of rural
primary education, would be pursued in a project area comprising six
departments in the northern region: Atlantida, Col6n, Cortes, Gracias a
Dios, Islas de la Bahia and Yoro (see map). These departments constitute a



- 9 -
good cross section of the country, and they have a combined primary school
enrollment of 271,578 students, or about a third of the total national
enrollments in the subsector (774,000) (Annex 4). The process of micro-
planning would be introduced in 12 districts during the first 8 months of
project exe-ution, -when staff would be trained in micro-planning techniques
,Annex 5). Technical assistance would be utilized to train and provide
support for SEP staff engaged in carrying cit the micro-planning process.
2.06     Micro-Planning.  The micro-planning process would consist of four
phases. In the first phase, a diagnostic survey would be carried out to
determine the condition of basic resources in the rural schools in the
project area, such as: adequacy of physical facilities, number and
qualifications of teachers, and availability of textbooks and other
teaching materials. The survey would also ascertain the riumber of eligible
students enrolled and not enrolled in each school community, assess socio-
economic conditions, record topographical characteristics, and assess the
efficiency of the administrative and superviscry services that the schools
receive. In the second phase, projections woulC be made of the likely
demographic and economic growth of the school communities. This would
establish the basis for forecasting student enrollments over a ten-year
period. In the final phase, a plan would be developed to reorganize
primary schools into a cohesive administrative network which would link
each school to a delivery system for administrative and supervisory
services at the school district, departmental, regional, and central (SEP)
level (Annex 6).
2.07     Although the micro-planning process would focus on the primary
level of the system, it would also include a small operation involving the
common cycle of the secondary schools (grades 7-9) located in the project
area. For these common cycle schools, SEP would carry out only the first
(diagnostic) phase of the micro-planning process, which would provide
sufficient data for SEP to develop strategies for addressing identified
deficiencies and problem areas. A total of 155 schools with about 40,000
students would be included in this diagnostic work (Annex 4).
2.08     Action Plans.  Based on the results of the micro-planning process
for each school district, action plans would be developed to identify
requirements for: physical facilities, teacher training, school management
and supervision, and a student testing system, all with the aim of making
the reorganized school management model operational. Each of the action
plans would be developed by the corresponding SEP Directorate, under the
general supervision of the Regional Unit, and coordinated by the PCU. Each
group responsible for developing action plans would receive initial
training and additional support as necessary from consultants. The action
plan for physical facilities would be prepared by SEP's Directorate of
School Construction and would include detailed cost estimates, construction
methods, work schedules, types of materials, and provisions for community
contributions to the construction and/or maintenance of schools. It would
also specify the procedures for procuring and distributing basic equipment
and furniture to schools in need of such items. The teacher in-service
training action plan would be prepared by the Teacher Training Unit of the
Directc-ate of Primary Education. It would include objectives, content,
resources needed, training locations, training schedules, and evaluation
instruments. Training content would include modules in such areas as:



- 10 -
multi-grade teaching methods, instructional planning, developing community
involvement in the school program, adapting the curriculum to local needs,
and using local materials for instruction. The school management and
supervision action plan would be developed by a group of supervisors from
the Directorate of Primary Education and supervisors representing each of
the six departments of the project area. The plan would include a manual
for supervision and administration to serve the schools in the reorganized
administrative network (para. 2.04), which would define functions at each
level for supervisors and administrators. The Directorate of Primary
Education would develop an action plan for establishing a student
achievement testing system for primary schools to monitor the progress of
students and detect weaknesses in the teaching/learning process. The
system would not be used to determine the promotion of students from one
grade to the next. The plan would call for the development and validation
of achievement tests in the four core areas of the curriculum for grades 3
and 6. These would be administered to a random sample of students e2ch
year, and the results would be analyzed to formulate recommendations for
possible adjustments. The project does not include an overall action plan
for textbooks, because textbooks will be provided to all primary school
students by 1991 through a recently approved national textbook project
financed by USAID (para. 1.17).
2.09     Comprehensive Plan.  The micro-planning and action planning
processes would culminate with the preparation of operational plans for
each of the six departments, and then the consolidation of all six plans
into a comprehensive operational plan for the project area, taking into
account the results of the evaluation of the process, including the pilot
subproject (see para. 2.10, below). SEP would then present and discuss the
plan, including a timetable for its implementation, with relevant
government entities, for the purpose of adopting it for implementation. A
copy of the plan as adopted would be submitted to the Bank by October 31,
1990.
Pilot Subproject
2.10     Upon completion of the micro-planning and action-planning process
for the first 12 districts, 2 of those districts would be selected for a
pilot subproject under which all action plans for the 2 districts would be
implemented, to test the results of the micro-planning and action planning
processes. (The micro-planning process would continue for all other rural
school districts in the project area concurrently with the pilot
subproject). The two districts to be chosen for the pilot subproject would
be located in two different departments, would have a combined enrollment
of about 8,000 students and about 200 teachers, and would be representative
of the common problems that appear in the country. It would be a condition
of disbursement for the pilot subproject that two districts had been chosen
according to these criteria, and that the corresponding micro-plans and
action plans had been completed in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. This
pilot operation would require about two years. The Directorate of Pr,mary
Education would monitor implementation of all action plans and the
reorganized network for school management in the two districts to assess
the operational efficiency of the new management model and make adjustments
when necessary. A special action plan would be developed for the two pilot
districts to provide the rural schools with teaching guides and basic
teaching materials.



Implementation Arrangements
2.11     SEP would have overall responsibility for project implementation.
Various SEP Directorates and units would be assigned responsibility for
specific tasks, and overall coordination would be provided by a Project
Coordinating Unit (PCU) under UCCE in the Vice Ministry for Technical
Affairs, to ensure an integrated approach. The PCU, to be located in SEP
(Tegucigalpa) would consist of a Director, an administrator, an accountant,
and secretarial support staff. The PCU would manage all technical
assistance under the project and would program and coordinate the
activities of all SEP units participating in the projects a Regional Unit
for micro-planning (see para. 2.12, below); the Directorate of Primary
Education for micro-planning and the pilot subproject; the Directorate of
Planning and Educational Reform for micro-planning action plans; the
Directorate of School Construction for micro-planning for construction and
repairs and for the civil works under the pilot subproject; and the
Directorate of Secondary Education for the survey of needs of the first
cycle secondary schools (paras. 2.04-2.10). Appointment of the PCU
Director would be a condition of effectiveness. The PCU would be staffed
according to a timetable acceptable to the Bank and theraafter remain
staffed during project implementation.
2.12     A Regional Unit, consisting of a Director, who would report to the
PCU Director, a planner, an economist, a demographer, a statistician, and a
sociologist, would be responsible for planning and directing the
implementation of micro-planning operations in the project area. The unit
would be based in the city of Li ' ,ba, (Department of Atlantida), which is
centrally located in the project region and has good means of com^nication
with the rest of the project area and with 7egucigalpa. Each department
would have a smAll micro-planning unit composed of one director, who would
report to the Regional Director, two social workers, and two primary school
supervisors. In large departments, such as Cortes and Yoro, it may be
necessary to add two or more staff members to these units. Appointment of
the Regional Unit Director would be a condition of effectiveness. The unit
would be staffed according to a timetable acceptable to the Bank and
thereafter remain staffed during project implementation.
2.13     Technical assistance would be provided to achieve the objective of
strengthening SEP's management (para. 2.04), to enhance the management
capacity of the PCU and Regional Units, and for specific project
activities. Terms of reference for all consultants, along with a schedule
for contracting them, are included in Annexes 7 and 8, respectively. SEP
would receive assistance from a specialized agency for contracting
consultants; the cost of these services would be financed under the loan
through an administrative services contract. It would be a condition of
effectiveness that such an agency had been employed. Because of the
relatively simple structure of the project, its pre-investment nature and
the advanced stage of preparation of implementation arrangements, and
provision of technical assistance backstopping, it is expected that all
essential aspects of project implementation will be completed in about 3-
1/2 years, that is, by December 31, 1990 (Annex 9). Monitoring indicators
(Annex 10) are consistent with this goal.



- 12 -
Project Costs and Financing
2.14     The total cost of the project is estimated at US$6.9 million (net
of import duties) of which about 20% represents foreign exchange. Project
costs are presented in Annex 11. Base costs (US$5.5 million) were
calculated using December 1986 prices. Physical and time contingencies
represent 5% of total base cost. Price contingencies represent 21% of
baseline costs, and are based on a seven year implementation period,
consistent with the disbursement plan. International inflation rates used
are 3% for 1987, 1% for 1988-90 and 3.5% for 1991-94. Domestic inflation
rates are assumed at 52 per year. The proposed Bank loan of US$4.4 million
represents 64% of total costs and would finance all foreign exchange
requiretzents and incremental local costs (Annex 12). Financing of some
local costs is proposed because of: the low income level of the country,
the targeting of project benefits to the poorest segment of the population,
and the present difficulty of financing non-salary expenditures under the
budget.
Procurement Procedures
2.15     About US$0.7 million worth of vehicles and office equipment would
be subject to International Competitive Bidding (ICB) (See Annex 13). Of
the remaining goods, e timated at US$0.8 million, an equivalent of US$0.5
would be procured through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB), and US$0.3
through local shopping. Both ICB and LCB procedures used by the Government
have been reviewed and found to be consistent with Bank guidelines. All
consulting services would be open to international recruitment, which would
be conducted by a specialized agency, in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Disbursements
2.16     The closing date for disbursements would be June 30, 1994, in
accordance with the average profile for technical assistance loans in Latin
America.   However, faster disbursement is possible, and the implementation
schedule is designed to achieve this (para. 2.13). The Bank would
disburse: 100% of foreign expenditures and 50% of local expenditures for
equipment, supplies, spare parts and vehicles; 100% for incremental staff
salaries, school construction and repair, and technical assistance; and 72%
for school supplies, furniture and rentals. Disbursements would be made
against full documentation, except for contracts valued at US$20,000 or
less, against which disbursements would be made on the basis of statements
of expenditure, for which supporting documentation would be retained by the
PCU and made available to the Bank during project supervision and for audit
inspection.
2.17     To expedite disbursements under the proposed loan, a Special
Account would be established by the Government and managed by the Central
Bank.' The Bank would make an initial deposit to this account US$500,000,
representing about four months of disbursement requirements under the
implementation plan.
Accounting, Auditing. and Reporting
2.18     The PCU would maintain separate accounts for the project.  It
would maintain a flexible chart of accounts that would tie project



- 13 -
operations into the computerized accounting/budgetary control system
maintained by SEP's General Administration Unit. Experience under the two
previous education projects with respect to auditing was not satisfactory,
owing to the inability of SEP's Auditing Department to maintain proper
accounts, and of the General Accounting Office to carry out auditing
according to Bank standards. To address these problems, a qualified
accountant/auditor would be hired under the proposed project to assist
SEP's Auditing Department in providing the internal accounting and auditing
services for the project. An external audit would be performed each year
by a firm of independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and these
auditing costs would be charged to the administration of the project. The
scope of the external audit would include: (a) financial and budgetary
compliance with regulations and comments on the efficiency of procedures;
(b) an opinion on the proper utilization of expenditures; (c) an opinion on
compliance with relevant financial covenants in the Loan Agreement; (d) a
description of the principal, audit procedures used; and (e) an opinion on
the adequacy of statements of expenditure. Each annual audit report would
be submitted to the Bank no later than April 1 each year (three months
after tIe close of each fiscal year). An annual audit of the project's
Special Account would be made by the General Accounting Office which would
include an examination of all transactions, account balances, internal
controls, and administrative procedures. The Central Bank would submit to
the Bank monthly statements of transactions related to the Special Account.
Progress on project implementation would be reported to the Bank semi-
annually by the PCU.
Benefits and Risks
2.19     The proposed project would assist the Government to strengthen its
management of the educational system at the central, regional, and local
levels. At the central level, key units in SEP's permanent organizational
structure would be strengthened. This would enable the Government to deal
more effectively with broader sector issues related to: establishing a more
effective process for allocating resources; improving the cost-
effectiveness of educational expenditures; developing stronger inter-
ministerial coordination for planning, budgeting, and policy formulation;
enhancing SEP's managerial capacity; and developing a more efficient
management system for primary education that could eventually be applied
countrywide.
2.20     Through this prcject, the Government would also be able to break
the pattern wherein poor management begets low quality and low efficiency
in primary education. The primary school management network to be
developed by the project would aim at improving the flow of students
through the system by reducing retention and dropout rates. It would also
improve the quality of instruction in the classrooms and monitor student
achievement levels through application of a new testing system.
2.21     The project would have important social impacts.  Since its main
focus is on the improvement of rural primary education, it would benefit
children whose parents are mainly landless and illiterate. Educating these
children properly at the primary level would: keep them out of the ranks of
the illiterate, enhance their chances of becoming more productive citizens,
and improve the likelihood that they will become more responsible parents
and practice better health habits.



- 14 -
2.22     The main project risks center on the initial weak managerial
capacity of SEP. If this cannot be increased as rapidly as envisaged,
delays would occur, and this could also impinge on how effectively SEP
formulates, and then adheres to, its policies and strategies. The project
includes technical assistance to offset such risks, and preparations for
its execution are well advanced. In addition, the Bank would carry out
close supervision of the project, and become an even more active
participant in the country/donor dialogue on education sector issues.
III. RECOMMENDATIONS
3.01    During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on:
(a) the project's objectives and description (psras. 2.02-2.10);
(b) the loan amount and financing plan, including counterpart
funding (para. 2.14);
(c)  implementation arrangements, including maintenance of SEP
units essential to achievement of project and institutional
objectives and a schedule for completion of all key project
activities (paras. 2.04, 2.11-2.13);
(d) procurement and disbursement procedures (paras. 2.15-2.17);
(a) accounting, auditing, and reporting arrangements (para 2.18);
(f) formulation by SEP of a plan for implementation of the
recommendations of the study on SEP's administrative
organization, by December 31, 1989; and
(g) presentation to the Bank of a comprehensive operational plan
for implementing the newly developed primary education
management model in the project area by October 31, 1990.
3.02     Conditions of loan effectiveness are that:
(a) the PCU and the Regional Unit had been duly established and
their respective directors had been appointed (paras. 2.11-
2.12); and
(b) that an agency, with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Bank, had been employed to assist SEP in
selecting and contracting consultants employed for the
project (para. 2.13).



- 15 -
3.03     It would be a condition of disbursement for the pilot subproject
that two districts had been selected according to criteria satisfactory to
the Bak and that the respective micro-plans and action plans had been
completed in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (para. 2.10).
3.04     Subject to the above conditions, the proposed project constitutes
a suitable basis for a Bank loan to the Government of the Republic of
Honduras in the amount of US$4.4 million equivalent.



- 16 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 1
HONDURAS
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION MANAGEMENT PROJECT
INITIAL STUDENT ENROLLMENT FOR 1985
Level              Total       Male         Pamale         Urban        Rural
Primary           774,078    390,220        383,858       291,656       482,422
Secondary         158,789     74,135         84,654       148,698        10,091
-Common Cycle    102,573      49,890         52,683        95,941         6,632
-Diversified
Cycle           56,216      24,245         31,971        52,757         3,459
Higher a/          36,600     22,700         13,900        36,600           -
/A Mission estimate.
Source: 1986 Statistical Report, Ministry of Education



HONDURAS
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION MANAGEMENT PROJECT
COMPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS FOR CENTRAL AMERICAN COUNTRIES (1986)
Costa Rica     El Salvador    Guatemala    Honduras cl  Nicaraaua          Panama
Percent GNP Devoted
to Education                           8.4            3.4 b/y/        1.7 alyt    4.8            3.0 bIvi   5.5 biwiyj
Central Government Expenditure
on Education as Percent
of Total Central.Government
Expenditure                           31.1           23.1 bWV        12.6 nI      17.5          14.0 bl    21.8 bhy
Percent Education Recurrent
Expenditure Allocated to:
Primary                              40           64               -          50              -         42 a/
Secondary                            27            8               -          23              _         13 al
Higher                               33           27               -           17             -         13
Adult Literacy Rate (1976)
Percent                                 93           62               -           60             90 bl     82 bI
Gross Enrollment Ratios (1983) d/
Primary                            102          69               73          101           100         104
Secondary                           44          24               16           33            43          59
Higher                              26           12               7            10           13          22
Primary Students Per Teacher             33           39              35 bIyJ       41 bl/t       37  I(      25 blty
Recurrent Unit Cost in Primary
Education as Percent of GNP/Capita   5.5              -               -           12.8 a/        -           11.6 bJ/v
Secondary Students Per Teacher           27           27 b/yl         19 blyl      29            30 bl        27 bl YI
(-) Datum unavai I ble.
3/ Datum prior to base year.
Datum more recent than base year.
Most data baod on UNESCO's Sector Report.
Oats basoe on World Doveloomsnt Renort, 1982
J  Public expenditure only.                                                                                          fl  Z
v'  UNESCO sources.
Source: World Bank Education Sector missions; Government sources and/or UNESCO Statistical Yearbook.                     N)



0
-~~
eGo                      l.                       F 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fw _.AC"I 
-:1v-a 4--r r r
I   ,              ~I  , a e  L -      
~~~~~mo.      WM           11 _Wm
IOCZZMMOw I  I
IIPL1      1IIHw 1!P                    L
so AHM   .  *o    .*R
r  w arn



- 19 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 1
HONDURAS
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION MANAGEMENT PROJECT
STUDENT ENROLLMENT IN PROJECT AREA - 1985
Primary Level (Grade 1 - 6)
Department                      Total            Urban          Rural
1. Atlantida                       46,671          17 300         29,371
2. Colon                            33,226          6,578         26,648
3. Cortez                          112,530         55,925         56,605
4. Gracias a DiOs                    9,255            898          8,357
5. Islas de la Bahia                 3,895           1,811         2,084
6. YorO                            66,001          20.506         45,495
271,578        103,018        168,560
Common Cycle (Grades 7 - 9) Secondary Level
DePartment                      Total           Urban            Rural
1. Atlantida                        6,751           6,197            554
2. Colon                            2,895           2,O9O            805
3. COrtez                          21,865          20,302          1,563
4. Gracias a Dios                      429            429              0
5. Islas de la Bahia                   321            285             36
6. Yoro                              7,388          6,716            672
39,649         36,019          3,630



- 20 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 1
HONDURAS
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION MANAGEMENT PROJECT
DISTRICTS CHOSEN TO INITIATF4 THE MICROPLANNING
Department   Municipality   District No.   Enrollment        No. of Classrooms
Cortes         Choloma             6            8,534              121
Cortes         Potrerillos        10            1,281               48
Cortes         Puerto Cortes      12            9,788              187
Atlantida      La Ceiba            1           10,606              142
Atlantida      Tela                2            6,970              167
Yoro           El Progreso        11           10,687              200
Yoro           Olanchito           2            7,251              169
Yoro           Santa Rita          3            4,318               80
Col n          Trujillo            1           10,164              174
Colon          Tocoa               4            7,616              103
Islas de
la Bahia      Roatan              1            1,888               52
Gracias a
Dios          Puerto Lempira      1            2,200               41



- 21
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 2
HONDURAS
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION MANAGEMENT PROJECT
DESCRIPTION OF RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION MANAGEMENT NETWORK
1.       Utilizing the micro-planning process in the proposed project, the
SEP would develop a plan for the more effective management of rural primary
schools of the project target region. The expected general outcomes vould
bet
(a) a well-linked organizational network spanning all levels of the
subsector for a more effective delivery of its administrative and
supervisory service;
(b) improvement in the quality of education by providing better
supervisory services for teachers, strengthening inservice
training, making the distribution of educational resources more
equitable, and enhancing the quality control processes;
(c) improvement of cost-effectiveness by consolidating fragmented
services into cohesive administrative packages that contribute to
greater economies while gaining efficiency; and
(d) improvement of local community participation in some aspects of
the educational process by placing administrative control centers
closer to the communities being served.
2.     Micro-planning at the local level would organize the rural primary
schools in each department into administrative clusters consisting of 10 to
15 schools, depending on factors such as geographic location and population
density. Each of these schools would be linked to a central school, which
would serve as the administrative and supervisory center for the entire
cluster. In special cases it might become necessary to establish one or
two sub-central schools within a cluster. The central schools would offer
all six grades, and their directors would be responsible for providing
certain administrative and supervisory services needed by the cluster
schools. Each central school would have a few designated staff members,
who would be available to give specialized services to the cluster schools.
In addition, each central school would act as the center for dissemination
and collection of information for the cluster.



- 22 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
3.      School clusters would be divided into school districts (5-10
clusters to a district) with each district director having a wide range of
functions in the areas of planning, budgeting, supervision, inservice
training, curriculum adaptation and administration. The districts in each
department would be linked to the office of the departmental supervisor,
whose functions would include coordination, data collection, budgeting,
planning and administration. The final linkage would be from the
department to the SEP through the Directorate of Primary Education.



- 23 -                            ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 6
HONDURAS
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Technical assistance consists of consultant services of both
expatriate and national professionals. A total of 87 staff-months has been
programmed of which at least 51 are expected to be provided by expatriates.
All consultants must be fluent in Spanish and willing to travel throughout
the country. Consultants will assist in: (a) management of the project
and microplanning; (b) in institutional development of SEP; and (c) in
specific tasks related with the Pilot subproject. They will be assigned to
the PCU and the Regional Unit, to the UCCE, or to the respective SEP's
executing agencies. Terms of reference are the following:
1.   Project Preparation and.Management
Characteristics:        Expatriate with at least a graduate degree in
Education, Administration, Planning or
Economics. Experience in education related
areas of at least five years. Experience in
managing educational or other social programs
and interaction with international agencies.
General Functions:      To assist the Director of the PCU in his main
tasks for project implementation, and the
chief of the UCCE in developing management
systems for education sector project.
Length of Assistance:   12 months.
Specific Functions:      (a)  To assist in organizing the Units.
(b) To help to manage the relationships
between the Units and all SEP's relevant
offices.
(c) To collaborate in the interaction with
the Bank
(d) To help to set-up the regional and
departmental working teams.



- 24 -                           ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 6
(e) To contribute to the proper
implementation of the project.
(f) To collaborate in the preparation of
project reports.
(g) To contribute in the coordination of
Technical Assistance.
(h) To introduce methods for improving
project management, particularly a
management information system.
2.   Hieroplanning
Characteristics:        Expatriate with at least a graduate degree in
Education, Economics, Statistics, Demography
or Geography. Five years of experience in
Administration of Educational programs and
three years of experience in introduction
and/or implementation of microplanning
systems. Full conmand of Spanish and
willingness to undertake field work.
General Functions:      To advise the Director of the Regional Unit on
implementation of microplanning in the
selected region.
Length of Assistance:   27 months.
Specific Functions:     (a)  To train the relevant local staff in
microplanning methodologies.
(b) To provide technical assistance in data
collection and analysis.
(c) To help prepare and implement all
workshops.
(d) To contribute in preparing manuals and
reports for microplanning and the
comprehensive plan.
(e) To control the quality of the data
collected and the reports delivered
within the project.
(f) To evaluate the accomplishments of the
project.
(g) To present reports on this tasks.



- 25 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 6
3.   Studies of the Sectoral Administrative Structure
Characteristics:        Professional with graduate studies in
Administration. Five years of experience in
Public Administrationg some of it in the
Social Sector.
General Functions:      To carry out, in collaboration with SEP's
technical Vice-Ministry, a full analysis of
the present administrative structure of the
sector, and propose changes to improve it.
Length of Assistances   Twelve months.
Specific Functions:      (a)  To analyze the organizational structure
of SEP.
(b) To analyze the interaction among
different sectoral institutions.
(c) To propose changes for improving sectoral
management.
{d) To assist the Minister in implementing
these change.
4.   Education Sector Planning
Characteristics:        Professional with graduate studies in
Economics or Education Planning. Five years
of viorking experience and two years of
experience in the draft and implementation of
Development Plans for the Education or other
Social Sectors.
General Functions:      To assist the Executive Councjl of SEP in
preparation of Sectoral Plans and improving
its coordination with other Ministries.
Length of Assistance:   Twelve months.
Specific Functionst      (a)  To identify areas for joint decision
making with other Ministries.
(b) To develop budget programming at SEP.
(c) To collaborate in drafting and revising
sectoral plans.
(d) To contribute in the analysis of the
economic and financial restrictions
imposed on the sector.
(e) To prepare an evaluation of current
decentralization policies.



- 26 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 6
5.   Consultant for Supervision and Administration
Qualifications:         (a)  NUtionality:  National or expatriate, but
national preferred.
(b) Professional Preparations A master's
degree in primary school administration
or supervision.
(c) Experience: At least five years of
professional experience in supervision
and/or administration in rural primary
education, and at least one year in
implementing an education project.
General Functions       Provide technical support to the SEP group
responsible for preparing the action plan for
supervision and administration of the rural
schools.
Contract Period:        Twelve months (need not be consecutive).
Specific Functions:     (a)  Assist in the preparation and
implementation of an orientation program
for the SEP working group charged with
the task of preparing the action plan.
Other Consultantsl
Teacher Training
Qualifications:         (a)  Nationalitys  National or
ex atriate,national preferred.
(b) Professional Preparation: Master's
degree in education.
(c) Experience: At least five years of
professional experience in primary
education teacher training.
General Function:       Provide technical assistance to the SEP group
responsible for the sub-component of teacher
training.
Contract Periodt        Six months (need not be consecutive).
Specific Functions:     (a)  Assist in developing and implementing an
orientation plan for he SEP group
responsible for preparing the action plan
for teacher training.
I/ May be financed wholly or in part from alternative sources of funds.



-27 -                              ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 6
(b) Assist in developing and implementing a
teacher training plan for the teachers in
the two school districts designated for
the pilot phase of the project.
(c) Assist the SEP group to develop an action
plan for the training of teachers in the
six departments of the project.
(d) The action plan must includes
- a general structure composed of
modules which can be used collectively
or individually depending on the
training needs of teachers;
- modules covering special teaching
techniques with a special emphasis on
multi-grade teaching;
- techniques for stimulating rural
couminity support for schools;
- techniques for effective assessment of
classroom learning.
Student Test in System
Qualifications:          (a)  Nationalitys  Expatriate.
(b) Professional Preparation: At least a
master's degree, but a PhD is preferred,
with specialization in psychometrics or
related field in student testing.
(c) Experience: A minimum of five years of
professional experience in educ&tional
evaluation which includes developing
tests and test item analysis.
General Functions:      Provide technical assistance to the SEP group
responsible for the sub-component on
evaluation student achievement, using testing
experience gained by the SEP in a previous
experimental project.
Contract Period:        Six months (need not be consecutive).
Specific Functions:      (a)  Develop a plan to tamn the SEP group
which will prepare the evaluation plan.
(b) Implement the training plan for the SEP
group.



- 28 -
ANNE 7
Page 6 of 6
(c) Lead the SEP group in the development of
the testing system which wili include the
following processess
-   identification of the minimn
cognitive competencies for each of
the four area of the program of
studies (Spanish, mathematics,
sciance, social science) in two
designated grades.
-  development of a bank of test items.
-   development of tests.
-   development of a plan to administer
the tests through a sample.
-   develop a plan to analyze test
results and recomend remedies.



- 29 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 1
HONDURAS
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION MANAGEMENT PROJECT
TIMETABLE FOR CONTRACTING TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Months for Completion of Activities (in 1987, Except when Stated Otherwise)
Activity           Get CVs of Potential          Examination
Candidatea and Announce       of Candidates
Consultant          Openina of Positions             CV8        Selection  C.ontracting
Project Preparation
and Management                April                    June         July         August
Microplanning                    April                    June          July        August
Studies on Sectoral
Administration                 July                     September    October      January
1988
Education Sector Planning        September                November     December    March
1988
Supervision/Management           September                November     December    March
1988
Others                           January, 1988            May, 1988    June 1998   July
1988



HONDURAS
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION MANAGEMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
(Cumulative Progress In %)
CY1987   CYA S       CYI9S9      CY199W
Phase                             Actilvity                                       S_ml Sm2 Smi S2  Smi $m2
1. Preparatlon                                     1.1 Appoint PCU                          i12
1.2 Appoint Resional Unit                 too
1.8 Contract Technical Assistance          40      80  ill
1.4 Set up and Train Working Team          99     10
1.6 Microplans for 12 Districts            20    196
1.6 Select 2 Pilot Districts                B     16
2. Experimentation In the Pilot Area               2.1 School Building and Repair              0      40  1iO                          0
2.2 School Furniture                        O       0   so  IS
2.8 Supply Teaching Material                S       0   a   100
2.4 Assign and Organize District
and School Staff                        0       0  iN
2.5 Train Supervisors and Teachers          O       a   50  iBs
2.6 Clasoroce Instruction                   0       0   0   s0  106
2.7 Student Evaluation                      0       0   g    *   1.e
2.8 Evaluate Pilot Phase Results            0       0   *   so   es  Ise
8. Microplan and Invoctment Plan of the Region     8.1 Train Supervisors and School Directors  0     i.e
8.2 Field Work/Data Collection              a     i$
8.8 Establish a School Manageant Network   a        a  lee
8.4 Produce the Regional Microplan          0       0   so   70  ISO
3.5 Produce Comprohonsive Operational Plan  O       a   0    is   40   70 i.e
3.8 Diagnoz Basic Secondary Education       0       0   O           so  I.e
8.7 Sectoral Policy Measures                0      f2  40   es   88   .ee
m  M
0
CD 
t-.



HONDURAS
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION MANAGEMENT PROJECT
MONITORIN INDICATORS
CY1987   CY9i86    CYIOSO       CYlOS9
Activity                                  Performance Indicators                            S8mG Scm2  Sem   Som2 Seml Ses2
Appoint PCU                                 No. of Appointments                                 4
Appoint Regional Unit                       No: of Appolatmonto                                  4
Contrat Technical Assistance a/             No. of Contracts                                     8     8  1-8
Set up and Train Working Team.              No. of Workshops                                     8      1
Microplan for a Pilot Area                  District Plans                                             12
Choice of District for Pilot. Subproject    Name of District.                                           2
School Building and Repair                  No. of Cleesroose           -BulIt                         20   SS
-Ropeirod                     8S  40
School Furniture                            No. of Deekq and Chairs    -for Teacher.                              16.
-for Studento                    i      low
Supply Teaching Materials                   Materials Supplied to       -Schools                            18     18
-Teachers                                IS6
-Students                                4W
Acsign and Organize District
and School Staff                           No. of Staff                -District Directors                  2
-Supervisors                        4
-School Directors                   4
-Teacher.                         is$
Train Supervisors and Teacher.              No. of Workshops                                                 2      2
Classroom Instruction                       No. of Student.                                                      ewe.  e
Student Evaluation                          Students Tested                                                            gggg
Evaluation Pilot Phaso                      Report
Train Supervisor and School Directors       No. of Workshops                                            8
Field Work/Data Collection                  Department Data Portfolio                                  6
Establish a School Management Network       Department Networks                                              6
Produce the Regional Microplan              Report - Seminar                                                              I
Comprelhensve Operational Plan              Issue a Plan                                                                          I
Dlanose Basic Secondary Education          Report                                                                            I
Sectoral Pollcy Measuroe                    Reduced Attrition Rates                                                            By 16-208
pj  All activities support objective 1 of the project, except technical asSistance, which supports Objective 2 as well.
I -



HONDURAS
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION MANAGEMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS (NET OF TAXES AND DUTIES)
Percentage
L 1000                   US$ 000           Foreign       Total
Item                           Local  Foreitn  Total   Local   Foreign   Total Exchante   Base Costs
School Construction and Repair         780     200       980     390       100      490       20           9
Equipment, Supplies, Spare Parts
and 20 Vehicles                       160   1,460    1,620       80      730       810       90          15
Incremental Staff Salaries           3,260      30    3,290   1,630         15    1,645        1          30
Salaries and Travel of SEP Staff
Devoted Full Time to P4roject      3,730       0    31,730   1,865        0    19865         0          34
Technical Assistance                   270      720      990     135      360       495       73           9
Furniture, School Supplies and
Rentals                              320      30       350     160        15      175        9           3
Total Baseline Costs                 8,520   2,440   10,960   4,260    1,220    5,480         22         100
Physical Contingencies                430     120       550     215       60       275       22           5
Price Contingencies                 2,040     250    2,290   1,020        125    1,145       11          21
Total Project Costs       10,990   2,810   13,800   5,495    1,405    6,900         20        126  |x
o
o -
Mb



- 33 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 1
HONDURAS
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION MANAGEMENT PROJECT
FINANCING OF PROJECT COSTS AND DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(in US$'000)
I B R D        Honduras
Amount      I    Amount    %    Total Cost
School Construction and Repair   615    100.0         0    0         615
Equipment, Supplies, Spare       900      94.7       50    5.3       950
Parts and 20 vehicles
Incremental Staff Salaries     2,150    100.0         0    0       2,150
Salaries and Travel of SEP
Staff Devoted Full Time
to Prolect                       0         0    2,390  100.0     2,390
Technical Assistance             580    100.0         0    0         580
Furniture, School Supplies
and Rentals                    155     72.1        60   27.9       215
Total:              4,400     63.8    2S500   36.2      6,900
ESTIMATED BANK DISBURSEMENTS
(Based on Average Profile for Technical Assistance
Loans Bank)
US$ Million
FY  1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
Annual        0.5    1.5    0.9    0.7    0.5    0.2    0.1
Cumulative    0.5    2.0-   2.9    3.6    4.1    4.3    4.4



- 34 -
ANNEX 13
Page 1 of i
HONDURAS
RURAL PRIMARY EDUCATION MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ Million)
Procurement Outload            Total Base
ICB   LCB   Other   NA              Cost
School Construction and Repair          0.4    0.1                    0.5
Equipment, Supplies, Spare
Parts and 20 Vehicles            0.7          0.1                    0.8
Incremental Staff Salaries                            1.6             1.6
SEP Staff Salaries Fulltime
in Project                                           1.9             1.9
Technical Assistance                           0.5                    0.5
Furniture, School Supplies              0.1    0.1                    0.2
Total                             0.7   0.5    0.8    3.5             5.5
LIMITS ON TYPE OF PROCUREMENT AND PRIOR REVIEW THRESHOLDS
(US$'000)
Review  Contract      Aggregate        Type of
Type of Contract           Limit      Value         Limit        Procurement
School Construction and             Greater than
Repair, and Furniture        50    or equal to 2.5  200      LCB
and Supplies
Less than 2.5     60     Price quotation from
at least three
bidders
Equipment                     40    Greater than
or equal to 5    280     ICB
Less than 5       40     LCB
Technical Assistance          40                              Open to interna-
tional recruitment
examining at least
three candidates for
each position.



B E LIZE
0ROATAN
,16'
*  -' *                                        Puero Cortes                                            E
GUATEMALA                                   Tegvciacli J
0                            . ifLMatco                                               .     ,
.'  SAN 1SD                ROO S*L 6tlor;d                                                             OIaor nchs
S*D/   IUIA   1   >                *                     > 0      J    /°iu                          \         ;lorida
ChoeecnSo Lorenso * 
Progreso                     .0~~~/                            ueloVi
g~~~~~~ 93 IA  li  f~                         C  hindo  'xf Yorito  ,                                                      Monguliloa
El ParaTto ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~raa
i Et ~~Prxrso,I potecc6n                      *' --_-iiI7"                 . .        1          /] z--
ato Ri ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~at
ElKDOn(/ pars             6otos   gr6     A      JARA:            So ncCudeYojoa            *       or'^
.C O  PAhN           \ DE OPAON        S        /                                                    8Prei j    >            S  .uyp   /~r-Slmt
N-colas ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~Cnod
) 0 -_                      a fdo .  G CAS  t.                          SiPouaony,\p&tuope / 
r J dSr ntRaNTo                                                       so*  outob  4   ;Y 0 a  O    ica 9 JT
RARRARA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~v~nc
At Labor    t   J                                                     _a-nto _                                                   l\
.-   O P U        So Juorcalo  OGuoliqu,ro an  rotPclia                                                                            EljoMorr
14' \     SMotulca '        iCr,ncpo l 6r I,Tobago                                         ff.
so *    ife           SaA;oidliob4      !                                             cofoc    |JU ) E Poo       tI
~~~~ACI           quateneit                                             C~~~~~~~~~~~~J onc
ASE_                                                                           d FlueeC                  L( Ce b
Santaqt6  L,C   S\   MarC)
Campo ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~abeiu
Son Antonio  Cuolon.~                               Igjnutrqe~P                                                 R     .      Vio
i-..   NACAOME                 Orocu.na    <) 
,Sa bn lorenso   Jn Marcose Coog
AnZapla               CAH L
Concepciorde Mals'o      KILOMETERS 0
CedeX~o                   . i ' ,X f                            MILES 0
I  Ba-
-   |  .~~~~~~~~~~~EG CG



IBRD 20363
ms IMap has bean preparet by    M E XI O       /O
The Worlda 8ank's staff exclusvely  rF
for the convermnce ot theBEI
readera nd is exck*iv*y tfor ma m\           |SELItE
hnternas wse of The WAbrld Bank
end the Internal Fjnsnce         t            .
Corporabwn The denomhatons     ./GUATEMALA  e
ussed SW the tane"s sho*n  
on                                           (H aw dJ rt hpty an t  e'HONDURAS.
pert of The lborld Bank and the            f           gcig8
bltemnathonal Fnantce Corporaton.        ( t.            ,.
ery Axmgre ona the tegat statu5 
of any terntory                  EL SL N
endorsement or acceptanceo        EL SALVADOR oJ NICARAGUA
such boUndants
Puerto Coastilla
i   SontoaRoso deAguon _
TRUJILLO            PI ,                                               ;                                                              COSTA
-       V  Co           o~~~~~~~Lm6                                                                                                   RICA ~
LoBe   WSc i nt                  ,'                                ''°Orusj.oguno^  '- 
-.o ;               NBoito ori|ntat
-S          I//             X            -.}.No t.
-.4,                           .                        1                                                8 '4 '
~~   To~o  0   L    ON.,,
Viejo                                                               r . j    R A  C  l,AS    A    D  I O S      PU -! PUEI  LEMPIRA
oSnEstebon  ,,oLaColonio      \               oooi>               
\- > , > ~~~~~~Dulce Nombre de Culmi  --"'/
I~~~~~~~
uoloo                                                                       Moco.6fr
norncisode lo Poz
>L  A  MC% O.,g^r
0NCetoomoac                                                                 HO D     RAS
El~~~~~~~~~~Crio BiloAuol                                      bil,
\+_tcue             to
i..---''                                               RU RAL PR IMARY EDUCATION
p,' --   .r                                              MANAGEMENT PROJECT
<-sLsTro1es           S 
,_    r!.   _-S                                       ~~~~~~~~~Departments Covered by Project                                       14*
, , i  a                                                           Paved Roads
Bees           s.                                                   Gravel Roads
"-.4                                      ~~~~~~~~~~Earth Roads
l  I+I-I-I Railroads
R ivers
3        Main Airports
NICARAGUA                                                                    H MainPorts
®h      National Capital
-.   Department Boundaries
*_  International Boundaries
)        25          S0          7S        100
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gae Roads 
0                25                50
86                                                                                                84
DECEMBER 198



