Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2804 HO
           (Rural Primary Education Management Project)
                              between
                       REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                       Dated August 27, 1987
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2804 HO
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  August  27,   1987,  between  REPUBLIC  OF
HONDURAS (the Borrower) and  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
Page  2
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (b)  "SEP" means  the  Ministry  of  Public  Education of the
Borrower;
     (c)  "Project Area" means the  area  in  the territory of the
Borrower comprising the  Departments  of Atlantida, Colon, Cortes,
Gracias a Dios, Islas de la Bahia and Yoro;
     (d)  "School District" means any geographical area determined
by  SEP  according  to  appropriate  technical  and administrative
criteria;
     (e)  "Executive  Council"  means   the  Consejo  Nacional  de
Educacion of SEP, created by  Decree  No. 79, of November 14, 1966
(Ley Organica de Educacion), which sets policy for SEP; and
     (f)  "Technical Unit"  means  the  Unidad  Coordinadora de la
Cooperacion Externa of SEP, created  by Acuerdo No. 6712-EP-86, of
December 9, 1986,  and  regulated  by  Acuerdo  No. 0209-EP-87, of
January 21, 1987.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in this Agreement,
an amount in various  currencies  equivalent  to four million four
hundred thousand dollars ($4,400,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement  between  the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank  shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule  2  to  this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special account in its Central Bank
on terms and conditions  satisfactory  to the Bank. Deposits into,
and  payments  out  of,  the  Special  Account  shall  be  made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1994 or such
later date as the  Bank  shall  establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of  three-fourths  of  one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal  amount  of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum  for each Interest Period equal to one
half per cent per annum above the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for
the  last  Semester  ending  prior  to  the  commencement  of such
Interest Period.
Page  3
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
       (i)    "Interest Period"  means  the  six-month period com-
              mencing on each  date  specified  in Section 2.06 of
              this Agreement,  including  the  Interest  Period in
              which this Agreement is signed.
      (ii)    "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the
              outstanding borrowings of the  Bank drawn down after
              June 30, 1982, expressed  as a percentage per annum,
              as reasonably determined by the Bank.
     (iii)    "Semester" means the first  six months or the second
              six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end,  shall  carry out the Project through
SEP with  due  diligence  and  efficiency  and  in conformity with
appropriate administrative,  financial,  architectural  and educa-
tional practices,  and  shall  provide,  promptly  as  needed, the
funds, facilities, services and  other  resources required for the
Project.
     (b)  Without limitation to  the  provisions  of paragraph (a)
above, the Borrower shall maintain in SEP an Executive Council and
a Technical  Unit,  both  with  staff,  organization and functions
satisfactory to the Bank.
     Section 3.02. For purposes  of  carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall:  (a)  establish  and  maintain  in  SEP, until the
completion report referred to in  Section  9.07 (c) of the General
Conditions has been furnished to  the Bank, a Project coordinating
unit with staff (to  be  appointed  in accordance with a timetable
acceptable to the  Bank),  organization and functions satisfactory
to the Bank;
     (b)  appoint in such unit,  and  thereafter maintain in it, a
Director with qualifications  and  experience  satisfactory to the
Bank; and
     (c)  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the  funds, facilities,
services and other resources  required  for  the operation of such
unit.
     Section 3.03. For  purposes  of  carrying  out  Part C of the
Project, the Borrower shall: (a) establish and maintain, until the
completion report referred to in  Section  9.07 (c) of the General
Conditions has  been  furnished  to  the  Bank,  a regional micro-
planning unit, based in the  city  of  La Ceiba, with staff (to be
appointed in accordance with a  timetable acceptable to the Bank),
organization and functions satisfactory to the Bank;
     (b)  appoint in such unit,  and  thereafter maintain in it, a
Director with qualifications  and  experience  satisfactory to the
Bank; and
Page  4
     (c)  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the  funds, facilities,
services and other resources  required  for  the operation of such
unit.
     Section 3.04. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the  goods,  works  and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4  to this
Agreement.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
        (i)   not later than  December  31,  1989,  present to the
              Bank  for  its  review   and  comments  a  plan  for
              implementing the  recommendations  of the evaluation
              referred to in Part A 1.(b) of the Project;
       (ii)   promptly  revise  such   plan   to  incorporate  any
              comments of the Bank thereon; and
      (iii)   promptly thereafter, put such  plan into effect in a
              manner   and   in   accordance   with   a  timetable
              satisfactory to the Bank.
     Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
          (i) not later than October  31, 1990, prepare and submit
              to the Bank for  its  review  and comments a program
              for implementing the plan referred to in Part B.4 of
              the Project;
         (ii) promptly  revise  such  program  to  incorporate any
              comments of the Bank thereon; and
        (iii) promptly thereafter, put such program into effect in
              a  manner  and   in   accordance  with  a  timetable
              satisfactory to the Bank.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records  and  accounts  adequate to reflect in
accordance  with  sound   accounting   practices  the  operations,
resources and  expenditures  in  respect  of  the  Project  of the
departments or agencies of  the  Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
       (i)    have the accounts  referred  to  in paragraph (a) of
              this Section including the  Special Account for each
              fiscal year audited,  in accordance with appropriate
              auditing   principles   consistently   applied,   by
              independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
      (ii)    furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
              case not later  than  four  months  after the end of
              each such year, a  certified  copy  of the report of
              such audit by said  auditors,  of  such scope and in
              such  detail  as  the  Bank  shall  have  reasonably
              requested; and
     (iii)    furnish to  the  Bank  such  other  information con-
              cerning said accounts and the audit thereof and said
              records  as  the  Bank   shall  from  time  to  time
              reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
Page  5
       (i)    maintain or cause  to  be  maintained, in accordance
              with paragraph (a) of this Section, separate records
              and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
      (ii)    retain, until at least  one  year after the Bank has
              received the audit  report  for  the  fiscal year in
              which the last withdrawal  from the Loan Account was
              made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders,  invoices,
              bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
              expenditures;
     (iii)    enable the  Bank's  representatives  to examine such
              records; and
      (iv)    ensure that such  separate  accounts are included in
              the annual audit  referred  to  in  paragraph (b) of
              this Section and  that  the report thereof contains,
              in respect  of  such  separate  accounts, a separate
              opinion by said auditors  as to whether the proceeds
              of  the   Loan   withdrawn   in   respect   of  such
              expenditures were used  for  the  purposes for which
              they were provided.
                             ARTICLE V
                          Other Covenants
     Section 5.01. The Borrower shall provide the schools included
in the Project with  the  necessary  number of fully-qualified and
trained teachers and administrative  staff,  who  shall serve on a
full-time basis, and  only  when  such fully-qualified and trained
teachers are  not  available  on  a  full-time  basis, employ such
teachers, temporarily, on a part-time basis.
     Section 5.02.  (a)  The  Borrower  shall  operate the schools
included in, or related to, the Project, in accordance with appro-
priate administrative and  educational  policies and practices and
with due regard to  economy,  so  as  to  promote the training and
other educational objectives  of  the  Borrower,  and shall appro-
priate,  or  cause  to  be  appropriated,  specific  annual budget
allocations for each such  educational institution in such amounts
as shall be necessary for such operation.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  cause  the  buildings, equipment and
furniture of the schools included  in the Project to be adequately
inspected and  maintained  and  cause  all  necessary  repairs and
renewals thereof to be made,  all  in accordance with sound admin-
istrative and technical standards.
                            ARTICLE VI
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 6.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that any provision of the contract referred to in Section 7.01 (c)
of this Agreement shall  have  been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as  to,  in  the opinion of the Bank, affect
materially and adversely the carrying out of the Project.
     Section 6.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following  additional  event is specified, namely,
that the event specified in  Section  6.01 of this Agreement shall
occur and shall continue  for  a  period  of  60 days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE VII
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  7.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
Page  6
additional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  that the unit referred  to  in  Section 3.02 (a) of this
Agreement  shall  have  been  established  and  that  the Director
referred to in Section 3.02 (b)  of this Agreement shall have been
appointed;
     (b)  that the unit referred  to  in  Section 3.03 (a) of this
Agreement  shall  have  been  established  and  that  the Director
referred to in Section 3.03 (b)  of this Agreement shall have been
appointed; and
     (c)  that the Borrower shall have entered into an administra-
tive services contract, satisfactory to  the  Bank, with a firm or
organization with  qualifications  and  experience satisfactory to
the Bank, that shall be  responsible for assisting the Borrower in
the selection  and  hiring  of  the  consultants  employed for the
Project.
     Section 7.02. The  following  is  specified  as an additional
matter, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02  (c) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Bank,  namely,  that  the contract referred to in
Section 7.01 (c) of this Agreement shall have been duly authorized
or ratified by,  and  executed  and  delivered  on  behalf of, the
respective  parties  thereto  and  is  legally  binding  upon such
parties in accordance with its terms.
     Section 7.03. The date November  27, 1987 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                           ARTICLE VIII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 8.01. The  Secretaria  de  Estado  en  el Despacho de
Hacienda y Credito Publico of the Borrower is designated as repre-
sentative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
     Section  8.02.  The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Secretaria de Estado en el
            Despacho de Hacienda y Credito Publico
          Tegucigalpa, D.C.
          Honduras
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               HACIENDA                         1308 HACIENDA
               Tegucigalpa, Honduras
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                     Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                        440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
Page  7
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
                   By /s/ Roberto Martinez Ordonez
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Consultants'                  600,000      100%
     services (in-
     cluding services
     under the
     administrative
     services con-
     tract referred
     to in Section
     7.01 (c) of this
     Agreement)
(2)  Salaries and                2,200,000      100%
     travel expenses
     for eligible
     staff
(3)  Equipment,                    900,000      100% of foreign
     materials and                              expenditures and
about 20 vehicles                               50% of local
     under Part B                               expenditures
     of the Project
(4)  Civil works                   600,000      100%
     under Part C
     of the Project
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
Page  8
(5)  Furniture and                 100,000      72%
     school supplies
     under Part C of
     the Project
                                 _________
          TOTAL                  4,400,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the term  "eligible  staff"  means incremental full-time
staff assigned to the Project by SEP.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made  in  respect  of  payments made for expendi-
tures: (i) prior to the date  of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate  amount  not  exceeding the equivalent of
$25,000, may be made on account  of payments made before that date
but after April 1,  1987;  and  (ii)  under Categories (4) and (5)
unless the Bank  receives  evidence  satisfactory  to  it that the
Borrower has selected the two  districts  referred to in Part C of
the Project in accordance  with  criteria satisfactory to the Bank
and that the plans referred  to  in  Part  B.1  (c) and (d) of the
Project shall have been  carried  out  in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to:
     (a)  enhance the institutional capacity  of  SEP in the areas
of  internal  administration,  sectoral  policy  formulation,  and
coordination of education investment planning and budgeting; and
     (b)  assist SEP in the  preparation of a comprehensive opera-
tional plan for  establishing  an  effective management system for
rural primary education in the Project Area.
     The Project  consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Institutional Strengthening
1.   Carrying out, by means of technical assistance, of:
     (a)  a program to  strengthen  the  capacity of the Technical
Unit of SEP in the  areas  of planning, policy formulation, budget
development and management, financial analysis and auditing;
     (b)  an evaluation  of  the  current  internal administrative
organization of SEP; and
     (c)  studies to  evaluate  current  decentralization policies
and  make  recommendations  related  to  the  future  use  of such
policies.
2.   Training and provision of technical  support to the SEP staff
engaged in the carrying out of Part B of the Project.
Page  9
Part B:   Regional Planning and Management
1.   Carrying out  of  a  micro-planning  process  in  each School
District of the Project Area, consisting of:
     (a)  a diagnostic  survey  to  determine  the availability of
resources in  rural  primary  schools,  student enrollment levels,
socio-economic conditions,  topographical  characteristics and the
efficiency of the administrative and supervisory services;
     (b)  projections of demographic  and  economic  growth of the
school communities and school enrollment for a ten-year period;
     (c)  the development of a  master  plan to reorganize schools
into a cohesive administrative network; and
     (d)  the development of  specific  action  plans to implement
the plan referred to  in  (c)  above.  Such  action plans shall be
developed  to  identify  requirements  for:  physical  facilities,
teacher training, and school management and supervision.
2.   Development of a student testing system for primary grades.
3.   Carrying out of  activities  referred  to  in 1.(a) above for
secondary schools in the Project Area.
4.   Preparation of  a  comprehensive  operational  plan  for each
department in the Project  Area,  consisting of the integration of
all plans referred to in 1.(c) and (d) above.
Part C:   Micro-Planning Pilot Sub-project
     Carrying out of  a  micro-planning  pilot  sub-project in two
School Districts of the Project Area, consisting of:
1.   Implementation of the action  plans  referred  to in Part B.1
(d) of the Project by means of:
     (a)  constructing,   rehabilitating   and   repairing  school
facilities;
     (b)  acquisition and utilization  of furniture, equipment and
school supplies;
     (c)  carrying out of in-service teacher training; and
     (d)  establishing and putting  into  operation  a network for
school management and supervision.
2.   Development  of  a  specific  action  plan  for  provision of
teaching materials and guides.
3.   Implementation of the student  testing  system referred to in
Part B.2 of the Project.
4.   Evaluation   of   the    micro-planning   process   and   the
implementation of all other action plans  referred to in Part B of
the Project.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
     Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
Page  10
     beginning September 15, 1992
     through   September 15, 2006                          145,000
On March 15, 2007                                          195,000
________________________
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     The following  premiums  are  specified  for  the purposes of
     Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the  balance  outstanding
                                         on the Loan on the day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                         0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                         0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                          1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works, furniture and  school  supplies  under Part C of
the Project may be procured  under  contracts awarded on the basis
of competitive  bidding,  advertised  locally,  in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.   Furniture and school supplies estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $2,500 per contract,  up  to an aggregate amount not
to  exceed  the  equivalent  of  $60,000,  may  be  procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis  of comparison of price quotations
Page  11
solicited from a list of  at  least three suppliers eligible under
the Guidelines, in  accordance  with  procedures acceptable to the
Bank.
Part C:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  for:  (i) civil works,
furniture and supplies estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000
or more; and (ii)  equipment  and  materials estimated to cost the
equivalent  of  $40,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph  2  (d)  shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of  the  first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, said
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 10% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall  employ  or  cause  to  be employed consultants
whose  qualifications,  experience  and  terms  and  conditions of
employment shall be  satisfactory  to  the  Bank. Such consultants
shall be selected  in  accordance  with  principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank on  the  basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories"  means the Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time  to the eligible Categories in accord-
ance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to  $500,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  Loan  Account and
deposited in the Special  Account  pursuant  to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the
Page  12
Special Account shall  be  made  exclusively for eligible expendi-
tures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  On the basis of  a  request  or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which  add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized  Allocation,  the  Bank  shall,  on  behalf  of the
Borrower, withdraw  from  the  Loan  Account  and  deposit  in the
Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have
requested.
     (b)  The Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
replenishment of the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank
shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the Bank shall with-
draw from the Loan  Account  and  deposit into the Special Account
such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount  of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall
be  withdrawn  by  the  Bank  from  the  Loan  Account  under  the
respective eligible Categories,  and  in the respective equivalent
amounts, as shall have  been  justified by the evidence supporting
the request for such deposit  furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
this Schedule.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account for which the  Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of  this  Schedule,  the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, prior to or at  the time of such request, such documents
and other evidence as  the  Bank shall reasonably request, showing
that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)   Notwithstanding  the  provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further  deposit  into  the  Special Account shall be
made by the Bank  when  either  of  the following situations first
arises:
        (i)    the Bank  shall  have  determined  that all further
               withdrawals should be made directly by the Borrower
               from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the
               provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
               Agreement; or
       (ii)    the total unwithdrawn amount  of the Loan allocated
               to the eligible Categories, minus the amount of any
               outstanding special commitment  entered into by the
               Bank  pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the  General
               Conditions with respect  to  the  Project, shall be
               equal to the equivalent of  twice the amount of the
               Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after  and  to  the  extent  that  the  Bank  shall have been
satisfied that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice have been or will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment  out  of  the  Special   Account  (i)  was  made  for  any
expenditure or in any amount  not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule,  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph  4  of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly  upon  notice  from  the  Bank,  deposit  into the
Special Account (or, if the  Bank  shall so request, refund to the
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible  or  justified.  No further deposit by the
Page  13
Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
made such deposit or refund.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account and immediate
cancellation.
