Report No. 1685a-SE
Appraisal of the                                                                 FILE COPY
Debi-Lampsar Irrigation Project
Senegal
February 21, 1978
Agriculture Projects Department
West Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        -        CFAF
US$1                 -        CFAF 245
CFAF 100             -        US$0.408
CFAF 1,000,000       -        US$4,080
'WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)      -         2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)    -         0.62 mile
1 ion               -         2,204 pougds
hm                   -        million m
ABBREVIATIONS
ADF                  -  African Development Fund
BFA.O                -  Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
BNDS                 -  Banque Nationale de Developpement du Senegal
BOM                  -  Bureau d'Organisation et Methodes
CCCE                 -  Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (France)
CPSP                 - Caisse de Perequation et de Stabilisation des Prix
CEP                  -  Centre des Etablissements Publics
COF                  -  Controle des Operations Financieres
CUMA                 -  Cooperative d'Utilisation du Materiel Agricole
FAC                  -  Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
IDA                  -  International Development Association
IBRD                 -  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
INSRA/ISRA           -  Institut (National) Senegalais de Recherches Agricoles
KF                   -  Kuwait Fund
MDRH                 - Ministere du Developpement Rural et des Ressources
Hydrauliques
ONCAD                -  Office National de Cooperation et d'Assistance pour le
Developpement
OMVS                 -  Organisation pour la Mise en Valeur du Fleuve Senegal
jAED                 -  Societe d'Amenagement et d'Exploitation du Delta
-SCET                 -  Societe Centrale pour l'Equipement du Territoire -
INTERNATIONAL           International
SOCAS                -  Societe de Conserves Alimentaires au Senegal
SODEFITEX            -  Societe pour le Developpement des Fibres Textiles
SODEVA               -  Societe de Developpement et de Vulgarisation Agricole
SOMIVAC              -  Societe Mise en Valeur de la Casamance
USAID                -  United States Agency for International Development (U.S.A.)
CONVERSION RATES
Paddy to Milled Rice           -  65%
Fresh Tomato to Tomato Paste - 18%
FISCAL YEAR
SAED         July 1 - June 30
GOVERNMENT   July 1 - June 30



rUE Urr.l-IAL ULt UrIL!
SENEGAL
APPRAISAL OF THE DEBI LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ......            ........................    i-iii
I.    INTRODUCTION ........          .................................            1
Il.    BACKGROUND ........           ...................................           2
General   ..................................... .                     2
J The Agricultural Sector .....             ....................        2 w'
Institutions  .......        ..........................              3
Development of the Senegal River Basin ....              ....         4
The Senegal River Polders Project (Credit 350-SE)
and Debi-Lampsar Engineering Credit
(S-18-SE) ......................................                    6
The Senegal River Polders Project ...............                    6
Physical Development ......          ...................             6
Cost and Financing               .............................       6
Procurement and Disbursements              ...................        7
Accounts and Audit .......          ...................               7
Management,  Staffing and Training ...............                    7
Cost Recovery            ...................................         7
Yields and Production ...........................                    7
Economic Rate of Return .....             ....................        8
The Debi-Lampsar Engineering Credit ...8.........                     8
Procurement and Disbursements ................ ...                   8
III.    PROJECT AREA          .........................................              9
General .........................................                     9
Topography  .......       ....................... .                   9
Climate and Soils  ......         .................... .              9
Population ......................................                    9
Rural Income,  Farm Size and Land Tenure .........                    9
Communications  ......          ............................        10
Farming Systems  ..................................                 10
Water Rights ...l.................................                  i
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. lts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.,
IV.   THE PROJECT ..........................................              il
General ......... .....................................            il
Detailed Features .12
- The Debi Perimeter .12
-  The Lampsar Perimeter .............................             13
- Agricultural Development .13
Technical Assistance .14
Water Supply, Demand and Quality .14
Water Distribution and Management .15
Status of Engineering .15
- Engineering Design .15
-  Construction Schedule .................... .........            15
Environment and Health ...................... .........            16
V.   COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS ... .........             16
Cost Estimates ........................................            16
Proposed Financing; ...........................8........           18
Procure-ment ..................                     .              19
Disbursement ..................                                    19
Accounts and Audit ..................                              20
VI.  ORGANIZATION AND lKANAGEMENT .20
General ..............................................             20
Finance and Accounts .......................,.,.                   21
Staffing .22
Training ........ ...                                              22
Project Monitoring and Evaluation .23
Cost and Rent Recovery .23
- Water Charges .23
- Mechanical Services .24
-  Collection Ratio ..................... 24
VII.   YIELDS AND PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES, FARMERS'
BENEFITS, SAED FINANCES AND GOVERNMENT REVENUES                    24
Yields and Production ..........................                   24
Market Prospects .25
Prices .25
Farmers' Benefits .26
Subsidies ............................................             26
SAED Finances .................. .....................             26
Impact on Government Revenues ........................             27
VIII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTI'FICATION .27
Risks .29
IX.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .29



ANNEXES
Annex 1   Climatological Data
Table 1 - Climatological Data - Richard Toll
Table 2 - Climatological Data - St. Louis
Annex 2   Soils
Annex 3   Debi Irrigation Works
Attachment - Irrigation Works, Characteristics
Annex 4   Lampsar Irrigation Works
Attachment - Irrigation Works, Characteristics
Annex 5   Agriculture
Table 1 - Crop Rotation, Field Occupation and Labor Requirements
Table 2 - Hourly Costs of Mechanical Services
Table 3 - Costs per ha of Mechanical Services, Number of Working
Hours and Equipment Requirements
Table 4 - Production Costs per ha
Table 5 - Farm Budgets at Full Development and at Present
Annex 6   Applied Research
Annex 7   Water Supply and Water Requirements
Table 1 - Crops, Net Water Requirements
Annex 8   The Role of the Lampsar Channel in the Senegal Delta Water Supply
Annex 9   Project Costs
Table  1 - Total Project Cost
Table  2 - Debi:  Cost Estimate
Table  3 - Debi:  Expected Price Increases
Table  4 - Debi:  Costs of Irrigation Works
Table  5 - Lampsar:  Cost Estimate
Table  6 - Lampsar:  Expected Price Increases
Table  7 - Lampsar:  Cost of Irrigation Works
Table  8 - Costs of Buildings
Table  9 - Costs of Vehicles and Equipment
Table 10 - Operation and Maintenance Costs
Table 11 - Technical Assistance: Expected Price Increases
Table 12, page 1 - Applied Research - Agronomy and Livestock
Table 12, page 2 - Applied Research - Pedology and Drainage
Annex 10 Project Financing
Annex 11 Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
Annex 12 Monitoring and Evaluation
Annex 13 Financial Controller; Draft Terms of Reference
Annex 14 Cost and Rent Recovery Indices



ANNEXES
Annex 15  Market Prospects and Prices
Table 1 - Rice Price Structure (1978 and 1985)
Table 2 - Tomato Paste Price Structure (1978 and 1985)
Annex 16  SAED Cash Flow (Project)
Annex 17  Impact on Goverament Revenues
Annex 18  Economic Analysis
Table 1 - Increme,ntal Value of Production: Debi
Table 2 - Incremental Value of Production: Lampsar
Table 3 - Economic Costs and Returns
Annex 19  Farm Labor Analysis
Table 1 - Total Monthly Labor Requirements
Table 2 - Econoinic Cost of Farm Labor
Marginal Econom:ic Cost of Farm Labor (IBRD No. 17565)
CHARTS
Construction Schedule oi. Irrigation Works
Project Impact on SAED Organization
Typical Organization of a Perimeter
MAPS
Senegal River Basin, No. IBRD 3983R
Delta Region, No. IBRD '3984R3
Debi Perimeter: Irrigation and Drainage Networks, No. IBRD 12863
Lampsar Perimeter:  Irrigation and Drainage Networks, No, IBRD 12864



SENEGAL
DEBI-LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Senegal's economy depends heavily on agriculture:  but agricultural
production is subject, as in other Sahelian countries, to high risks due to
the erratic rainfall. Even in normal years, Senegal has to import substantial
quantities of foodstuffs, of which rice accounts for some 180,000 tons
annually. In order to reduce imports as well as the present reliance on
rainfed agriculture, government is making strenuous efforts to develop the
country's irrigation potential, primarily in the Senegal river basin.
ii.       The Senegal river basin is an international waterway, and "l'organi-
sation pour la Mise en Valeur du Fleuve Senegal" (OMVS) was set up in 1972 by
the three countries concerned, Senegal, Mali and Mauritania, to develop the
river resources. UNDP recently approved a project to be executed by the Bank
which would provide about 200 man-months of technical specialists to assist
OMVS in its development strategy, coordination of regional investments and
national projects, work schedules and training. The most important projects
under consideration are the two large dams at Diama and Manantali. Final
engineering for Diama, which would allow double cropping on 50,000 ha in the
delta, is due to be completed early in 1978. Studies of Manantali are less
advanced but it is expected that the dam would provide partial river regula-
tion for navigation, for irrigation of about 380,000 ha, and also power for
industry and mining. OMVS is carrying out a comprehensive review of the
findings of the Diama and Manantali studies and of the other proposals (i.e.,
mining and navigation channel) for development of the river basin, so as to
formulate a phased integrated program.
iii.      The proposed project would be the second to be undertaken in the
river basin with Bank Group assistance, and would play a vital part in the
development of this region. The first project, Senegal River Polders,
financed under Credit 350-SE, is nearing completion and has been carried out
satisfactorily. The Debi-Lampsar Engineering Credit S-18-SE, financed de-
tailed engineering of the Debi and Lampsar perimeters (as well as the Diagambal
perimeter which is under consideration for USAID financing).
iv.       The project would consist of (i) construction of irrigation works
on 1,100 ha at Debi for paddy cultivation and on 2,220 ha at Lampsar for
paddy (1,880 ha) and tomatoes (340 ha) under full water control including
the necessary infrastructure facilities; (ii) agricultural development
including allocation of 3 ha plots to some 1,100 farmers and provision to
them of mechanical services, inputs, credit and marketing facilities; (iii)
technical assistance to the Societe d'Amenagement et d'Equipement du Delta
(SAED), which is responsible for development of the Senegal river delta



- ii -
and valley, to strengthen its financial management, research and planning
capabilities, and consulting services to assist SAED in carrying out studies
for future development.
v.        Total project costs are estimated at US$35 million of which the
foreign exchange component would be US$28.5 million or 8]%. Project costs
exclude duties and taxes, from wiich the project is exempt. The cost
of irrigation works is based on bids received following international compe-
titive bidding, in accordance with IDA guidelines. The proposed IDA credit of
US$20 million would finance 70% of the foreign exchange costs and 57% of total
costs.  It would include US$1 million for the refinancing of the Debi-Lampsar
Engineering Credit, and US$19 million to finance the foreign exchange coats of
the Lampsar, studies and applied research components, eqtLivalent to 80% of the
total cost of these items. Senegal would receive further assistance in the
form of a loan from the Kuwait Fund (KF) (US$5.3 million), and a grant from
French Aid (FAC) (US$2.7 million).  The Banque Nationale de Developpement du
Senegal (BNDS) would finance agricultural inputs (US$1.2 million), and Govern--
ment would meet the remaining costs of the project (US$5.8 million).
vi.        Procurement for the Debi perimeter and for technical £pe.2ialîsts
would follow KF and FAC procedures. Agricultural inputs would be procured
locally under procedures acceptable to IDA. All other procurement would
be under IDA procedures. Bids have been received, following international
competitive bidding, for irrigation works (US$12,3 million) and buildings
(US$0.7 million) for the Lampsar perimeter. Apart from contracts of less
than US$100,000, equipment (US$2.0 million in total) would be procured through
international competitive bidding. Consulting services (US$3.7 million)
would be obtained under normal IDA procedures.  The rest of the IDA credit
would be for operating costs (US$0.3 million) and for refinancing the Debi-
Lampsar Engineering Credit (US$1.0 million).
vii.      The IDA credit would be disbursed against the Lampsar perimeter,
the studies and applied research component of the project, and the refinancing
of the Debi-Lampsar Engineering Credit (Credit S-18-SE).
viii.     The project would be carried out by SAED which has already satis-
factorily developed 10,000 ha in the delta and valley, and plans to acceler-
ate the pace of developme,nt to some 5,000 ha a year by 1980. The project
provides for: additional staff to carry out the project and to plan for
future development; it includes measures to give SAED's management greater
authority and it would expand and improve training. SAED is responsible for
cost recovery and charges a consolidated fee for water and mechanical services.
The collection rate is satisfactory, but the level of the fee would be increased
to achieve a higher recovery of perimeter construction costs and full recovery
of actual costs of mechanical services.
ix.       Yield assumptions are based on projects with similar conditions
and take into account salinity. Total production at maturity would be 10,400
tons of paddy (3,800 tons at Debi, and 6,600 tons at Lampsar) and 10,200 tons
of tomatoes. The value of production would amount to US$3.3 million, repre-
senting net foreign exchange savings of some US$2.8 million per year.



- iii -
x.        The project would increase substantially the incomes of some 9,000
people who are among the poorest in Senegal and whose present per capita
income would increase from US$80 a year to either US$127 or US$230 depending
on the type of farm.
xi.       The economie rate of return would be about 9% for Debi, 12% for
Lampsar, and 10% for the overall project, excluding the technical assistance
component which represents 23% of total costs. A reduction in benefits or an
increase in costs of 10% would reduce the rate of return by about one percen-
tage point. These rates of return are acceptable in view of the very low
income levels of project beneficiaries and the greater certainty of achieving
these returns compared to projects which depend on the uncertain rainfall in
the Sahel.
xii.      Project risks have been minimized as far as possible by obtaining
bids before approval of the Credit, by allowing for salinity in the yield
estimates, and by specific financial measures to ensure adequate and prompt
project funding. Tomato growing does present some particular risks, but these
will not significantly affect the economic rate of return.
xiii.     The project is suitable for an IDA Credit of US$20 million.






SENEGAL
DEBI-LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Senegal has requested IDA assistance in financing
the irrigation development of the Senegal River Basin. Under the.project
the main activities would be located in the delta area, and would consist
of construction of the Debi and Lampsar irrigation schemes for the production
of irrigated paddy on about 3,000 ha and tomatoes on 340 ha. This would raise
the incomes of some 9,000 people who are among the poorest in the rural areas
of Senegal. The project would also help to strengthen the national development
agency (Societe d'Amenagement et d'Exploitation des Terres du Delta - SAED)
which is charged with the construction and management of all the Senegalese
irrigation schemes within the framework of international development of the
Senegal River Basin. The proposed project would build on experience gained
during a previous irrigation project in the Senegal River Delta (Credit 350-SE
- US$4.5 million in 1973). Studies for the Debi-Lampsar project, including
the detailed final design for civil works, were prepared by SAED with the
assistance of consultants SCET International with financing provided under the
Debi-Lampsar Engineering Credit (S-18-SE, US$1 million in 1975). This report
is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission which visited Senegal in
February 1977 and was composed of Messrs. J.L. Ginnsz, J. Brown, S. Daher, C.
Gois, F.X. Leduc, J. Weijenberg (IDA) and Messrs. Dialinas and Dubois (con-
sultants).
1.02      In addition to the two projects mentioned above, the Bank Group
has provided ten credits and one loan totalling US$52.3 million for agri-
cultural development in Senegal: an agricultural credit program financed
by Loan 584-SE (US$3.5 million) and Credits 140-SE (US$6.0 million) in 1969
and 404-SE (US$8.2 million) in 1973, two projects for rice development in
Casamance financed by Credit 252-SE (US$3.7 million) in 1971, and Credit 647-
SE (US$6.3 million) in 1976; two resettlement programs in Eastern Senegal
Credit 254-SE (US$1.4 million) in 1971 and Credit 578-SE (US$2 million) in
1975; the Sine Saloum Development Project in 1975 (Loan 1113-SE, US$7 mil-
lion) and Credit 549-SE (US$7 million) which financed crop improvement and
diversification in the southern groundnut basin; a drought relief program
financed by Credit 446-SE (US$3 million) in 1973. An IDA credit of US$4.2
million was approved in 1976 for the Eastern Senegal Livestock Project.
Apart from technical assistance to ONCAD under the credit programs, which
ias proved of limited value, the above projects are being carried out sat-
isfactorily. Performance under Credits 350-SE and S-18-SE is discussed in
paras 2.13 to 2.27.



- 2 -
1.03      A Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) 1/ has been issued for
the first Agricultural Credit Project (Credit 140-SE) and a completion report
has been prepared for the Casamance Rice Project (Credit 252-SE). As the
objectives of both projects were primarily the improvement of rainfed crops
(groundnuts, millet and rice) through the provision of agricultural credit
and the construction of rural roads and processing facilities, the lessons
drawn from them are not generally relevant to the proposed irrigation proj-
ect. The particular shortcomings in input distribution and marketing which
were commented on in the Agricultural Credit PPAR would not affect the pro-
posed project as these activities would be handled amply by SAED, which has
demonstrated its capability in this respect.
I]. BACKGROUND
General
2.01      Senegal is located primarily in the Sudano-Sahelian zone of Africa,
and has a populatio  estimated at: about five million in 1975 with a land area
of about 196,760 km .  Per capita gross national product (GNP) was estimated
at about US$390 in 1976, after failing to grow during the, first decade after
independence (1960) due initially to the loss of Dakar's political and eco-
nomic influence as the capital of French West Africa. By 1972-73, followingR
the worst series of droughts in the century combined with a fall in the export
price for groundnuts, the economy became severely strained. Since then rain-
fall has been satisfactory. World prices for phosphate rock were at record
high levels during those years but fell in 1976 putting a serious strain on
the balance of payments. Groundnut prices were depressed for some years but
reattained the price of US$600 per ton in 1977.
2.02      The Government has taken several positive steps to accelerate devel-
opment, including increasing national investments from 11% of Gross Domestic
Product (GDP) in the mid-sixties to 17% in the early seventies, and shifting
the emphasis of investment and development toward the rural sector. In addi-
tion, in 1974 the Government sought to lessen the country's reliance on
imported foodstuffs (which absorb about 15-20% of export earnings) by devel-
oping irrigation and substantially reducing consumer subsidies on imported
rice and cereals, at the same time increasing domestic producer prices for
rice, millet, and groundnuts to stimulate domestic production. The Bank
Group expects that GDP will increase at about 4% annually through 1980.
The Agricultural Sector
2.03      Despite relatively poor soils and erratic rainfall, the agricultural
sector is central to Senegal's economy. It accounts for about 35% (US$650
1/   Report No. 1139, distributed to the Executive Directors on October 20,
1976.



million) of GDP, up to 70% (US$135 million) of Senegal's exports, and 70%
of all employment.  Moreover, as Senegal has few known alternatives, agricul-
ture will continue to be the largest source of employment.
2.04      The sector has several important characteristics:  small-scale farms
account for 95% of all production; groundnuts' represent almost 70%'of agricul- |'
tural exports; 60% of the rural pop`ù-1ation is concentrated within about 150 km
of Dakar in the Groundnut Basin; and large areas in the northern and eastern
parts of the country are suitable only for livestock production under exten-
sive grazing. The river basins (Senegal and Casamance) which offer an impor-
tant water resources potential for agriculture have only in recent years begun
to be developed.
2.05      Government's efforts to develop agriculture have been directed to: ,
(i) increasing groundnut'and'millet production through Programme Agricole,  r
especially in the Groundnut Basin; (ii) diversifying production by promoting'
livestock development in Eastern Senegal and encouraging migration of farmers
to this region from the heavily populated areas of the Groundnut Basin; and
(iii) seeking more secure drought relief by harnessing the country's water
resources, primarily the Senegal River Basin, but also in the Casamance region.
Projects by the Bank Group (Credit 350-SE) and other donors have demonstrated
the viability of large-scale irrigation on the Senegal River, and this type of
development has been given the highest priority by Government.
2.06      Irrigated agriculture would largely be devoted to rice production,|,
*hich after m.ilet is the most popular foodgrain in Senegal; but the gap
beétë'en domestic production and demand, which in recent years was about
180,000 tons, will remain high.  In addition, the Government imports food-
stuffs, of which 4,000 tons of tomato paste annually.
Institutions
2.07      The Ministry of Rural Development and Water Resources (MDRH) has
overall responsibility for agricultural development. Government policy is
to use semi-autonomous development agencies, organized regionally to pro-
mote and sustain rural development programs. These agencies (SODEVA in
the groundnut basin, SODEFITEX in Eastern Senegal, SOMIVAC in Casamance,
and SAED in the Senegal River Basin) work closely with BNDS and ONCAD, which
with SAED (see Chapter 6), are the principal agencies concerned in the proj-
ect.
2.08      BNDS was established in 1964 to assist development projects in
agriculture, livestock, fisheries, industry, handicrafts and housing, and
to provide funds for the inputs, which are delivered by ONCAD to the co-
operatives. With assistance under Credit 140-SE, the Bank reorganized and
improved BNDS' financial and accounting procedures, and it now carries out
its functions satisfactorily.
2.09      ONCAD was established in 1966 and is responsible for (a) assisting
cooperatives, (b) procuring and delivering farm inputs on credit provided
by BNDS and recovering such credit, (c) administering input subsidies, and
(d) organizing-nationally the marketing of groundnuts and cereals, including



-4-
imported rice. ONCAD's overall performance has been poor; it has not kept
proper accounts, and its financial situation has become critical. However,
ONCAD's financial problems have not affected the physical implementation of
agricultural projects supported by the Bank Group, as it has been provided
with short-term credit by the Central Bank through BNDS. Moreover, ONCAD's
functions are gradually being assumed by the regional development agencies.
The Para-Public Sector Technical Assistance Project provides for a review of
ONCAD's financial and accounting system and three years audit of its accounts.
Development of the Senegal River Basin
2.10      The Senegal River, with its headwaters in Mali and Guinea, runs some
1,800 km to the ocean, forming the border between Senegal and Mauritania over
some 800 km. The Senegal River Valley represents a large undeveloped area of
great potential for improved water use in a part of the world which has
suffered from devastating droughts. At present the 530,000 people who live
in the Senegal part of the valley are among the poorest in the region.
The majority are farmers who depend on flooding of the Senegal River to
grow cereals as flood waters of the river recede. However, the timing
and extent of the flood is highly uncertain, so that using improved farming
inputs is.risky. Consequently, yields and overall production are low, and tlhe
people live at subsistence levels. Farmers are progressively shifting from
flood recession cultivation to irrigated perimeters as these are developed by
Government, aided by bilateraL and international agencies. The present area
under irrigation of approximately 10,000 ha is expected to increase fivefold
by 1985. The proposed project would assist Government in increasing the pace
and improving the quality of Lrrigation development. Livestock is also imporit-
ant in the Senegal River Basin, but has so far been used only for subsistence.
The proposed project provides for applied research to improve and integrate
livestock activities in the area.
2.11      Regulation of the Senegal River to permit irrigated development
has been sought jointly by Senegal, Mali and Mauritania which established
in 1972 the Organisation pour la Mise en Valeur du Fleuve Senegal (OMVS).
OMVS, assisted by UNDP, has prepared an ambitious long-range development
program to achieve year-round irrigation on 430,000 ha along the river,
of which about 220,000 ha wou]d be in Senegal.  The program also provides
for power generation and improvement of navigation on the river. UNDP recently
approved a project, to be executed by the Bank, which would provide about 20O
man-months of technical specialists to assist OMVS in its development strategy,
coordination of regional investments and national projects, work schedules and
training.
2.12      The most important projects under consideration are the con-
struction of two dams at Diama and Manantali. France is financing final
engineering and design for the Diama dam which would be located some 24 km
upstream from the Atlantic Ocean. Diama would prevent salt water intrsion
upstream during periods of low river flow and store some 250 million m at



-5-
full capacîty. thus enabling irrigation for double cropping in the Delta
region on some 50,000 ha in Senegal and Mauritania. The main works would
consist of a central concrete weir extended by earth embankments equipped with
sector rates to release flood water and a lock for navigation. Earth dikes
would protect the surrounding area of the reservoir, and a road joining Senegal
to Mauritania would be constructed on top of the dam. The Federal Republic of
Germany is financing feasibility and engineering design for the major upstream
regulatory dam at Manantali in Mali. Manantali would provide partial river
regulation for navigation and irrigation of about 380,000 ha throughout the
year, and also p3wer for industry and mining. Total capacity would be about
11,000 million m , maximum height: 68 m and annual power output: 800 Gwh.
The Manantali studies are at a less advanced stage than those for Diama.
OMVS is carrying out a comprehensive review of the findings of the Diama
and Manantali studies and of other proposals (e.g., river ports and navigation
channel) for development of the river basin, so as to formulate a phased
integrated program.
2.13      While the major regional infrastructure will be planned, executed
and operated by OMVS, the member countries will be responsible for the na-
tional components of the OMVS program. The Government of Senegal has ap-
pointed SAED as the national development agency to construct and manage
all Senegalese agricultural projects associated with OMVS. SAED, a para-
statal organization founded in 1965 to promote irrigation development in
the Senegal River region, concentrated in its early years on developing
simple and inexpensive flood control irrigation perimeters. The Sahelian
drought in the late 1960s and early 1970s showed that flood control irriga-
tion was too sensitive to the vagaries of the river's flood level. Govern-
ment therefore decided to shift to full water control irrigation schemes.
Assisted by many bilateral and multilateral institutions, including the
Bank Group, some 5,000 ha have been developed in the delta and another
5,000 ha further up in the valley. Altogether the total area developed by
SAED amounted to 10,000 ha 1/ by 1977, and its achievement of some 2,500 ha
during each of the past two years has been particularly impressive. Debi
and Lampsar are the only major perimeters under flood irrigation that have
not yet converted to full water control. In the future, in order to take
advantage of the irrigation potential associated with the OMVS program, SAED
will have to meet two major challenges: first, to develop the capacity to
accelerate its annual irrigation development to about 5,000 ha by the late
1980's in order to meet Senegal's projected cereal deficit; and second, to
change from an institution supervising and implementing irrigation works to
an agency capable of executing integrated regional rural development pro-
grams. The proposed project would assist SAED in meeting these objectives.
1/   This does not include 5,000 ha developed at Richard Toll by Government
and private interests for sugar cane production.



- 6 -
The Senegal River Polders Project (Credit 350-SE) and Debi-Lampsar Engineering
Credit (S-18-SE)
2.14      The Senegal River Polders Project, for which an IDA Credit of US$4.5
million was approved in 1973, had the following objectives: (i) developing the
Dagana polder with full water control permitting double cropping on 2,730 ha
for production of paddy (2,520 ha), vegetables (790 ha) and sorghum (1,340
ha); (ii) improving irrigation for single cropping on 1,780 ha in the Debi and
Lampsar polders; and (iii) strengthening SAED with extension staff, training
facilities, equipment and agricultural research. After completion of the
construction design for the Dagana polder, it was expanded with IDA agreement
to 3,200 ha. In July 1974, Governinent asked IDA to reformulate the whole
project because (i) inflation and changes in exchange rates had increased
costs of the Dagana polder alone to US$8.7 million against an original esti-
mate for the whole project of US$7.4 million; and (ii) the Diama dam was
expected to be in operation by 1980, allowing double cropping on Debi and
Lampsar. IDA subsequently a-pproved the reallocation of the entire River
Polders Credit to the Dagana polder.
2.15      Physical Development. Construction started on schedule in early
1974, but due to administrative delays, works were not sufficiently far
advanced to allow planting oE any of the scheduled 770 ha of paddy in
1974; thereafter progress accelerated, and for the 1977 season all but some
500 ha will be planted, i.e. 84% of the revised target. Physical execution
of the irrigation works has been good, but construction of administrative
buildings and houses suffered some delays.
2.16      Cost and financing.  As noted above, the project encountered sub-
stantial cost overruns. Bec ause of the consequent reformulation of the
project, it is not meaningfuL to compare original estimates with actual
costs, but in overall terms the revised Dagana Project of 3,200 ha will
cost some US$13 million compared with the original estimate of US$7.4 mil-
lion for 2,730 ha at Dagana plus 1,780 ha in Debi and Lampsar.
2.17      The IDA Credit of IJS$4.5 million financed only about 30% of the
cost of Dagana as against the appraisal estimate of 40% for the three polders.
Remaining costs are being financed by Government.  Under Credit 350-SE it was
provided that US$4.3 million of the IDA Credit would be passed on to SAED as
a loan for a term of 35 years including a grace period of 5 years at an in-
terest rate of 1%. This loan would be converted to a grant under the proposed
Debi-Lampsar Irrigation Project (para. 7.06).
2.18      Although Government has met the additional funds required to
complete the project, SAED has faced liquidity problems due to:  short-
age of working capital, cumbersome government administrative procedures,
and failure to promptly recover monies due. Although the Credit in-
cluded several specific provLsions, which were incorporated in a financ-
ing agreement between Government and SAED, these have been only partially



effective: in particular, the advance working capital required to be estab-
lished for SAED under the control of SAED's Special Accounting Agent (ACP)
to meet salaries and working expenses, was not opened,and these were met
out of other funds under control of the ACP. The measures recently taken
by Government and those proposed under the Debi Lampsar Project to improve
SAED's financial position are discussed in para. 5.08.
2.19      Procurement and Disbursements.  No problems were met in procure-
ment except for the administrative delays between award of contract and
signature which caused the first year delay referred to in para. 2.14 above.
After a delay of about 9 months, disbursements proceeded satisfactorily and
had reached the appraisal estimates by late 1975. Disbursements were completed
by March 31, 1976.
2.20      Accounts and Audit.  As explained in more detail in para 6.03,
SAED's accounts are prepared centrally under the Central Accounting Agent
(ACC) and computer print-outs of weekly and annual accounts are returned
to SAED for examination. While this centralization of accounting and control
has important concomitant disadvantages (see para 6.04), it has provided
complete and prompt accounts for SAED and its various development projects
including 350-SE. Contrary to the provisions of Credit 350-SE, but in common
with most public institutions in Senegal, SAED has not had its accounts
audited regularly. However, SAED has been included among the institutions for
which audits will be carried out under the Para-Public Sector Technical
Assistance Project (para 5.12).
2.21      Management, staffing and training as envisaged at appraisal, have
been satisfactory. However, it became clear during project implementation
that measures would be required to reorganize SAED to give it more autonomy
as discussed in Chapter VI.
2.22      Cost Recovery.  Water charges have exceeded the rates agreed
upon at appraisal and the collection rate has been satisfactory. The fees
for mechanical services have not been increased sufficiently to take into
account the sharp recent increases in capital and operating costs, so that
the subsidy has not yet been eliminated as required under the Credit Agree-
ment.
2.23      Yields and Production.  Yields of paddy have greatly exceeded
appraisal estimates. In 1976 sample paddy yields averaged 5 tons as against
the Dagana forecast at full development of 3.5 tons per ha. Sample tomato
yields reached nearly 32 tons per ha in the first year of cultivation then
dropped to about 26 tons in the next two years due first to late planting
and then rodent damage: they are expected to reattain 30 tons on average
in 1978; it is unlikely that the 35 tons per ha envisaged at appraisal will
be achieved regularly. In 1977/78, production of paddy is expected to reach
4,000 tons as estimated at appraisal and production of tomatoes 12,000 tons,
which is some 60% in excess of appraisal estimate.



2.24      Economic Rate of Return.  It is estimated that the increased proj-
ect costs and the late introduction of double cropping will be offset
by the greatly increased acreage, much higher output prices (CFAF 58 per
kg for paddy compared to CFAF 15 at appraisal, and CFAF 23 per kg for tomatoes
compared to CFAF 7), and by the more rapid yield progression and higher paddy
yields. The revised rate of return is estimated at about the appraisal
figure of 14%.
The Debi-Lampsar Engineering Credit (S-18-SE)
2.25      In reformulating Credit 350-SE, Government asked IDA to assist
in redesigning the Debi and Lampsar perimeters since flood control, as origi-
nally envisaged, had proved to be unsuccessful in other perimeters in the
delta. The perimeters were highly dependent on the river flood which could
not ensure adequate production or returns to farmers. This shortcoming
was highlighted by the failure of flood control perimeters during the 1972
and 1973 drought in contrast to the success of perimeters under full water
control.
2.26      Accordingly, Governnent and IDA signed the Debi-Lampsar Engineering
Credit in.May 1975 which provided for: surveys, final engineering, technical
schedules, cost estimates and the preparation of tender documents for devel-
opment of 5,000 ha. In addition, studies were to be carried out on the impact
of the project on health, the relocation of Debi village, and on SAED's short-
and medium-term operation and organization. Total cost was estimated at
US$1.25 million, of which the IDA credit was to finance the foreign exchange
component estimated at US$1.0 million.
2.27      Consultants SCET International (France) were engaged to carry out
the engineering studies, and these were completed satisfactorily on schedule
by mid-1976 and led to the appraisal of the Debi-Lampsar Irrigation Project
now proposed.The study of the relocation of Debi village was carried out
satisfactorily by SAED. The health study could not be carried out by the firm
originally selected, and is now being done by the local Saint-Louis Laboratory.
SCET International has completed the study of SAED's short- and medium-term
development programs, and is preparing the organization study of SAED which
will take into account the recommendations of the Bureau d'Organisation et
Methodes (BOM) (para 6.04).
2.28      Procurement and Disbursements.  Due to long delay caused by admin-
istrative procedures in signing the consultants' contracts, disbursements
did not start till late 1976, and the Credit is now only 80% disbursed. The
Closing Date has been extended from December 31, 1977 to December 31, 1978 toD
allow disbursements to be completed under the remaining health component.
The IDA credit is proposed for re-financing under the present Debi Lampsar
Irrigation Project.



-9
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The project would be carried out in the delta of the Senegal River
(Map IBRD 3984-R3), which is very slow moving and varies in width from several
hundred meters in 2the dry season to several km in the rainy season. Extend-
ing some 1,200 km , the area is triangular; its base is the 125 km of highway
between the regional capital, Saint-Louis, and Richard Toll; its apex is the
Debi polder; and its western and eastern sides, the great loop of the main
stream of the Senegal River. The Lampsar polder is about 20 km northeast
of Saint-Louis. The delta is protected against flood by an 84 km dike, con-
structed in 1964/1965, along the south bank of the river. This dike is also
an important dry season road, linking villages along the river. Map IBRD
3983-R shows the area of the whole river basin while maps 12863 and 12864
show the Debi and Lampsar perimeters respectively.
Topography
3.02      Topography is generally flat, with depressions formed by the
river beds made over the years by the Senegal River. The depressions are
flooded by the Senegal River in the wet season, and are used for rice pro-
duction in those areas where soils are not saline.
Climate and Soils
3.03      The delta has a single rainy season, July through September.  Annual
rainfall averages 347 mm in Saint-Louis and 292 mm in Richard Toll.  Tempera-
tures are highest from May through October, with an average maximum in May of
39 C0 at Richard Toll. Soils in the Debi and Lampsar perimeters have a high
clay content, and are extremely hard when dry. As the soils in the delta are
generally saline, the perimeters have been delimited to include only soils
where salinity would not preclude adequate yields of paddy and tomatoes.
Climatological data are given in Annex 1, and details on soils in Annex 2.
Population
3.04      Population is about 175,000 people, about 90,000 of whom live
in Saint-Louis, and is increasing at some 2.5% annually. About 85,000
rural people live in 30 principal villages where many combine fishing with
farming. Ethnically they are mixed, comprising five major tribal groups.
Rural Income. Farm Size and Land Tenure
3.05      The average household has 8 members, of whom 3.5 are active workers.
Per capita income is about US$80 a year, which is only 20% of the national
average and 14% above the Bank's estimated absolute per capita poverty level
of US$70 for Senegal. This income is derived equally from paddy cultivation
and from other activities, which include rainfed cultivation, livestock and
fishing.



- 10 -
3.06      There is no shortage of land and no system of individual land
ownership. Farmers are granted the right of usufruct by the village author--
ities or by development agencies such as SAED to whom Governnent grants lands
which are gazetted as pioneer zones:  the Debi and Lampsar perimeters were
so gazetted in 1966.
Communications
3.07      Communications are good.  Saint-Louis is connec:ted to Dakar, the
capital, by about 250 km of modern paved highway and by railroad. From
Saint-Louis another excellent. paved highway extends eastward to Matam, 400
km inland on the Senegal River, and serves the important centers of Lampsar,
Ross-Bethio, Richard Toll and Dagana. The road follows the southern side of
the Lampsar perimeter. From this highway, secondary all-weather roads mostly
on dike crests, serve all populated points within the delta, including Debi.
Maintenance of the paved highways is carried out by the Iublic Works Depart--
ment (PWD) and is good. Secondary roads and dikes are maintained by SAED.
3.08      There is an airport at Saint-Louis, and during the flood season
river transport carries freight and passengers as far upstream as Podor,
260 km inland, but such traffic is minor. Saint-Louis is connected to
Dakar, Ross-Bethio, Richard Toll and Dagana by telephone, and SAED has its
own radio-telephone network which services its mobile units throughout
the delta.
FarminR Systems
3.09      Farmers in the delta cultivate their holdings, which vary from 2
to 3 ha, under both traditional and improved systems. Under traditional
agriculture, rainfed crops such as millet, maize and cowpeas are planted
in the rainy season on the higher ground. As the flood recedes, sorghum
and other crops are grown lower down the banks. In those depressions whose
soils are not saline, some rice is grown; for the most part floating varieties
are used, and consequently yields are low. Under improved agriculture, SAED
generally allocates 3 ha per family for paddy and some tomato cultivation
in polders formed by protective dikes. Yields vary according to whether
the polders have partial or full water control: under the former, yields
can range from zero when the polders fail to be flooded, to about 1.3 tons/ha,
with an average of about 0.8 tons/ha; under full water control, yields exceed-
ing 3 tons/ha are assured, and have sometimes reached 5 tons/ha. Whereas
under traditional cultivation farmers use rudimentary techniques, under
improved cultivation SAED provides mechanical services, inputs, credit,
and extension and marketing services.
3.10      Farmers were formerly organized in large cooperatives.  However,
they preferred the smaller mutual guarantee groups of some 50 farmers which
were initiated by SAED specifically for intensive cultivation: these have
proven successful and are now adopted for all new schemes.



- Il -
Water Rights
3.11      Water supply for the project would be taken from the international
waters of the Senegal River and its tributaries. Implementation of any
works substantially affecting the river is governed by the agreement of the
convention of March 11, 1972 between Senegal and the other two riparian
states, Mauritania and Mali. In accordance with this agreement, the OMVS
Council of Ministers approved in January 1978 the allocation of water for the
project.
IV. THE PROJECT
General
4.01      The objectives of the project would be to (a) continue the develop-
ment of irrigation in the Seiegal River Delta in the two perimeters at Debi
and Lampsar for producinI paddy'and tomatoes; and (b) prepare for future
development of the 'whoe   -r valley through strengthening SAED's managerial,
planning and research capabilities. The project would be carried out over 4
years, 1978 through 1981.
4.02      The project would include:
(a)  Debi perimeter:
(i)  Construction of primary and secondary irrigation and
drainage networks, one pumping station, on-farm devel-
opment including land levelling, and access roads, to
permit full water control on a single perimeter of
1,100 ha;
(ii) Construction of houses, offices, workshop, storehouses
and other facilities close to the perimeter;
(iii) Provision of agricultural equipment and vehicles.
(b) Lampsar perimeter:
(i)  Construction of embankments along each side of the Lampsar
channel;
(ii) Construction of protective dikes, primary and secondary
irrigation and drainage networks, 14 pumping stations,
access roads, on-farm development including land levelling,
to permit full water control on 11 subperimeters totalling
2,220 ha;



- 12
(iii) Construction oE houses, offices, workshop, storehouses
and other faciLities within the perimeter;
(iv) Provision of agricultural equipment and vehicles.
(c) Agricultural development:
(i)  The selection of some 1,100 farmers and allocation to them
of holdings of 3 ha each;
(ii) Provision of agricultural mechanical services, inputs,
marketing faciLities, and extension services for production
of paddy and tomatoes.
(d) Technical assistance and Gonsulting services
(i) Provision of technical assistance to strengthen SAED's
managerial, fiinancial management, research and planning
capabilities together with equipment and vehiîcles to
carry out applLed research;
(ii) Consulting services to assist SAED in carrying out studies
including finaL engineering for the future development of
the Senegal River delta and valley.
Detailed Features
4.03      The Debi perimeter (see Annex 3) is protected against flooding
by the existing Senegal River dike. The irrigation network has been designed
for a capacity of 2.3 1/s/ha; the capacity of tertiary canlals would be higher
to allow for water management within hydraulic units; the total length of
primary and secondary Sanals would be 18 km, and the volume of embankments is
estimated at 126,000 m . The drainage network has been designed for a capaciLty
of 1.05 1/s/ha; the total length of primary and secondlry drains would be 23 km,
and the volume of excavation ii! estimated at 124,000 m . The pumping station
would have a capacity of 2.5 m /s and would be powered by two diesel engines.
The station would pump from the river for irrigation, and also from the main
drain for drainage. It can also provide water to the perimeter by gravity.
An existing structure could also be used for gravity drainage when the river
level is low.  Both irrigation and drainage networks would he equipped with
hydraulic structures. Land levelling is estimated at 300 m /ha. Roads would
be built inside the perimeter to provide access to each plot. Total length
would be about 60 km.
4.04      Buildings to be constructed near Debi would comprise a project
headquarters with houses, offices, a workshop and a gas station, together with



- 13 -
the necessary vater, electricity and other facilities.  Storehouses for paddy,
agricultural inputs and equipment would also be built at several locations
within the perimeter.
4.05      The Lampsar Perimeter (see Annex 4).  The embankments to be con-
structed along botM sides of the Lampsar channel, totalling 90 km in length
and some 350,000 m in volume, would increase the channel's capacity to 24
million m . This would enable dry season cultivation of tomatoes on 340 ha
in Lampsar, and would also provide potential for dry season cultivation on
about 1,000 ha on schemes built or to be built along the channel. The Lampsar
channel serves as a principal source of water supply for Saint-Louis, and the
additional irrigation usage takes into account the need to provide for the
town's existing and future water requirements.
4.06      The irrigation network is designed, like Debi, for a capacity of 2.3
1/s/ha; the total length of primary and seconda5y canals is 23 km, and the
volume of embankments is estimated at 255,000 m . The drainage network,
whose capacity would be 1.05 1/s/ha, would have a total length3of primary and
secondary canals of 72 km and an excavated volume of 437,000 m . Eleven
irrigation and three drainage pumping stations would be built and would be
supplied'with electricity from Saint-Louis by a power line presently being
constructed with ADF financing. Assurances have been obtained that Government
would ensure that SENELEC would provide power to each station as and when
required. Both irrigation and drainage networks would be equippSd with
hydraulic structures. Land levelling is estimated at some 300 m /ha. Roads
would be built inside the perimeter to provide access to each plot. Total
length would be some 150 km, in addition to the existing paved road which
already links the subperimeters.
4.07      The Lampsar buildings and field facilities would be similar to
those of Debi.
4.08      Agricultural Development (See Annex 5).  Farmers would be selected
by SAED in cooperation with both official and traditional local authorities
according to established criteria including family size, age, agriculture as a
main source of income, proximity of their homes to the perimeter and credit
rating. After selection, a contract would be signed between SAED and either
the individual farmer or the mutual guarantee group, stipulating mutual rights
and obligations. Assurances have been obtained that the contract approved
under Credit 350-SE would not be substantially modified without IDA's concur-
rence.
4.09      Under the contract SAED is obligated to provide on request mechanized
cultivation and agricultural inputs. The project would therefore provide SAED
with 24 tractors and 29 threshers; other equipment would include plows and
planters. In addition, the project would provide special heavy earthmoving
equipment for civil works maintenance and general purpose cars and trucks.



- 14 -
4.10      All inputs other than împroved rice seed, which SAED produces
itself, and tomato seeds, which it imports directly, are provided by ONCAD
to SAED, which then makes them available to farmers on credit. BNDS finances
the purchase of inputs by ONCAD with funds obtained chiefly from the Banque
Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (BCEAO) at a current rate of 5.5%
per annum, to which it adds aL service charge of 2%.  The credit is recovered
by BNDS from ONCAD, which in turn recovers it partly from farmers through
SAED by deduction from crop proceeds, and partly from Government, which meets
the input subsidy (para 7.05)'.
Technical Assistance
4.11      SAED's financial maLnagement, applied research and planning capabil-
ities would be strengthened by the recruitment of 5 specialists whose func-
tions are described in para 6.06. The project would also provide support
staff, vehicles and specializ;ed equipment, as described in Annex 6, to enab]Le
it to extend its applied research activities, in particular for new crops and
varieties, improved cultivation methods and improved livestock production.
4.12      Consultant Services.  SAED's program provides for the development
of about 50,000 ha by 1985. This would require an additional 5,000 ha to be
developed each year. To achieve this high pace of development, SAED would
need outside consultants to assist in preparing feasibility studies and final
engineering for new schemes. In addition, consultants would carry out studies
on specific subsectors such as livestock, agro-industries and marketing. The
project provides for about 23 man-years, at an average cost of US$8,400 per
man-month. SAED is fully competent to prepare terms of reference for these
studies, and assurances have been obtained that the consultants would be
employed under terms and conditions and with terms of reference satisfactory
to IDA.
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
4.13      The project would derive its entire water supply from the Senegal
River, mostly by pumping either from the river itself or from the Lampsar
channel. Irrigation by gravity would be possible only when river water levels
are exceptionally high.  Reliable flow measurements are available for severa,l
stations along the river, upstream of Debi and Lampsar, and the hydrology of
the river is well known. The Senegal River has a single flood each year, which
starts at the end of June-beginning of July, increases gradually to a peak
in mid-September, and declines more slowly on a normal depletion curve,
reaching its minimum in May3or June.  At Bakel the average annual flow of the
river is about 24 billion m 3and occurs mostly during the flood season.  The
mean June discharge is 102 m /s (Annex 7).
4.14      WateS requirements have been calculited at 12,970 m /ha for early
rice, 14,340 m /ha for late rice and 11,540 m /ha for tomatoes, allowing for



- 15 -
an effici ncy factor of 70%.  Total3water requirements would be some 15
million m in Debi and 30 million m in Lampsar. The supply of water from
the river and from the channel greatly exceeds these amounts.
4.15      As flows decrease in the delta, saline water from the Atlantic
slowly moves inland, and by early March the salinity levels at Debi are as
much as six times the maximum limit for irrigated cultivation. These levels
remain high until flows again increase, and at the Ronq pumping station
where the intake of the Lampsar channel is located, water can be safely
diverted after the first days of August. At Debi such a diversion would be
possible several days later. For three to four months after the flow
increases, the quality of the water is excellent, with total salinity being
100 p.p.m. or less, and quantity is ample. Paddy would be grown during
this period. Fresh water would be stored in the Lampsar channel to permit
irrigation of tomatoes until mid-April (see Annex 8).
Water Distribution and Management
4.16      The perimeters are divided into hydraulic units of about 200 ha,
which are in turn subdivided into 4 to 6 blocks, each containing about 5
individual holdings of 3 ha each. A tertiary canal serving the hydraulic
unit is equipped with partition structures which deliver water to each block
through an irrigator canal. Each irrigator is equipped with inlets, which
supply water to individual holdings. The drainage system within the
hydraulic unit is based on the same features:  individual outlets, block
collectors, and tertiary drains. Farmers would irrigate paddy 24 hours and
tomatoes 12 hours a day at peak water requirements through a rotation system
within the hydraulic unit. Map No. 12863 shows the lay-out of a typical
hydraulic unit within the Debi perimeter.
Status of Engineering
4.17      Engineering Design.  Detailed engineering for civil works and
preparation of tender documents were financed under IDA Engineering Credit
S-18-SE. Basic data on topography and pedology were prepared by SAED, while
the engineering work was awarded to consultants SCET International. Irriga-
tion and drainage networks were drawn on topographic maps at a scale of
1/2,000.
4.18      Construction Schedule.  Construction would start in early 1978,
and development of the perimeters is scheduled as follows:
1978      1979        1980      Total
------------- net ha ---
Debi (ha)                550       550                  1,100
Lampsar (ha)             620       690         910      2,220
(See Implementation Chart).



- 16 -
Environment and Health
4.19      The ecology of the region would be little changed by the project.
No known species of wildlife would be endangered. Farming systems practised
would not involve the excessive use of either pesticides or other chemicals
likely to have a deleterious effect on human health. Except for malaria, the
area is relatively free of the more serious tropical diseases. SAED distri-
butes malaria prophylactics to its farmers, and the Ministry of Health operates
three health centers and twenty-one dispensaries in the project area which
provide treatment and advice on disease prevention. Despite twenty-five years
of irrigated cultivation at Richard Toll, bilharzia is unknown, and there is
no evidence that the project vould cause a change in this situation. Three
health studies are underway, financed by WHO, USAID and IDA Credit S-18-SE.
The first two would be completed shortly, and the third by mid-1978. Together
they will present a comprehensive picture of the health situation in the whole
river valley, and will provide a sound basis for a major preventive and
curative health program.
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
Cost Estimates
5.01      Total project costs are estimated at US$35.0 million, of which the
foreign exchange component would be US$28.5 million or 81%. Project costs
exclude duties and taxes, from which the project is exempt.
5.02      Costs for irrigation works and buildings are based on bids received;
and for other items, on recent quotations indexed to January 1978.  Physical
contingencies are 15% on irrigation works, buildings, equipment, operating
costs and agricultural inputs; 20% on applied research; no physical con-
tingencies have been provided for technical specialists and studies. Overal:L
physical contingencies are about 11% of base costs. Assuming the following
annual inflation rates, expected price increases amount to 17% of total
costs:
Annual Inflation Rates (%)
1978       1979        1980       1981
Civil Works                10           9          9           9
Equipment, Salaries,
Services                  8          7           7           7
5.03      Project costs are detailed in Annex 9 and summarized below:



- 17 -
Total Project Costs
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange %
--  CFAF Million ---    ------ US$'000
1.   Debi
- Irrigation and
Drainage Networks   226       770      996      920    3,140   4,060        77
- Buildings              30      86      116      120       350     470       74
- Vehicles and
Equipment           37      141      178     150       580      730       79
- Operating Costs        27       6       33      110        20     130       18
- Agriculture Inputs
(incremental)        21       38      59       90       150      240      64
Total Base Costs Estimate  341   1,041   1,382   1,390    4,240   5,630             75
2.   Lampsar
- Irrigation and
Drainage Networks   383   2,172   2,555   1,560    8,870  10,430            85
- Buildings             36      101      137     150       410      560       74
- Vehicles and
Equipment           62      218      280     250       890   1,140        78
- Operating Costs        57      18       75      240       70      310       24
= Agricultural Inputs
(incremental)       60      105     165      240       430     670       64
Total Base Costs Estimate  598   2,614   3,212   2,440   10,670  13,110            81
3.   Technical Assistance
- Studies               125     705      830      510    2,880   3,390        85
- Applied Research       89      76      165      360      310      670       46
- Technical
Specialists          -      540     540       -      2,200   2,200      100
Total Base Costs Estimate  214   1,321   1,535         870    5,390   6,260        86
4.   Refinancing of Debi
Lampsar Engineering
Credit (S-18-SE)          -     245      245       -     1,000   1,000       100
5.   Total Project
- Base Cost
Estimate          1,153   5,221   6,374   4,700   21,300  26,000           72
- Physical Contin-
gencies             159      560      719     600    2,400   3,000         78
- Expected Price
Increases           292   1,175   1.467   1,200    4,800   6,000           80
TOTAL PROJECT         1,604   6,956   8,560   6,500   28,500  35,000          81



- 18 -
Proposed Financing
5.04      Besides the proposed IDA Credit, the project woulet receive financial
assistance from the Kuwait Fand (KF), French Aid (FAC), and BNDS. The proposed
financing plan is detailed in Annex 10 and summarized below:
-----------------US$ Million-----------------
IDA    KF    FAC    BNDS    Government   Total
1.   Debi                            -      5.1    -      0.3        1.4          6.8
2.   Lampsar                        12.5     -     -      0.9        2.7         16.1
3.   Technical Assistance
Studies                        3.0      -     -                 0.8          3.8
Applied Research                0.5     -     -                 0.4          0.9
Technical Specialists           -       -    2.4                 -           2.4
Subtotal                  3.5     -    2.4                 1.2          7.1
4.   Refinancing of the Debi-
Lampsar Engineering Creclit
(S-18-SE)                      1.0      -     -      --          -           1.0
5.   Unallocated                    3.0    0.2   0.3    --           0.5          4.0
TOTAL COSTS              20.0    5.3   2.7    1.2          5.8         35.0
.57%     15%   8%     3%          17%         100%
5.05      The proposed IDA credit: of US$20.0 million would finance 70% of the
total US$28.5 million foreign. exchange cost and 57% of the total cost.  These
figures include US$1 million to refinance the Debi-Lampsar Engineering Credit
S-18-SE. The remaining US$19 million would finance the foreign exchange coEsts
of the Lampsar, studies and applied research components, equivalent to 80% of
the total estimated cost of these items.
5.06      The KF would finance the foreign exchange cost of the Debi perimeter
with a loan of KD 1.5 million (US$5.3 million) at 3% interest, and repayment
period of 20 years after a 5 year grace period. The FAC contribution of
FF 13.2 million (US$2.7 million) would be in the form of a grant to finance
the technical specialists. BNDS would finance the cost of agricultural inputs
estimated at the equivalent of US$1.2 million, and the remaining costs,
estimated at US$5.8 million, would be financed by Government. A condition of
effectiveness would be the fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the
initial disbursement of the FAC grant. There would not be any linkage between
effectiveness of the IDA Credit and the KF loan, since delays in implementing
the Debi perimeter would not adversely affect the rest of the project.
5.07      All funds would be -passed on to SAED as a grant, since, as explained
in para 7.06, SAED functions essentially as a department of Government.



- 19 -
5.08      To ensure that execution of the project is not affected by SAED's
procedural problems discussed in para 6.03 and its liquidity problems dis-
cussed in para 7.06, assurances were obtained that each annual operating
budget of SAED, as approved by the Government will be executed in accordance
with its terms, and the funds therein provided made available to SAED promptly
as required. The financial arrangements between Government and SAED are
stipulated in a Financing Agreement which provides, inter alia, that: (a)
the proceeds of the Credit would be passed on by the Government to SAED as a
grant, and would be deposited in a SAED account with BNDS. The Central
Accounting Agent of the Centre des Etablissements Publics (CEP) (see para
6.03) would operate the account as required by the Director-General of SAED;
(b) the Government would ensure that funds are made available in accordance
with quarterly cash forecasts agreed by the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Affairs and SAED; (c) the Government would agree to the creation and operation
by the Special Accounting Agent of SAED of an advance working capital fund
("caisse d'avance") to meet urgent operating expenses; and (d) the Goverument
would provide SAED with sufficient funds to initiate its marketing cycle,
including transportation costs. Execution and delivery of this Financing
Agreement would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
Procurement
5.09      Procurement for Debi would be in line with KF procurement proce-
dures. Procurement for technical specialists would be in accordance with
FAC procedures. Inputs would be procured locally by SAED and ONCAD, accord-
ing to procedures acceptable to IDA. All other procurement on the Lampsar
and technical assistance components of the project would be under IDA proce-
dures. Bids have been received following international competitive bidding,
in accordance with Bank Group guidelines, for irrigation works (US$12.3
million) and buildings (US$0.7 million). Equipment contracts for more than
US$100,000 (US$0.5 million) would be procured through international competi-
tive bidding; equipment contracts for less than US$100,000 (US$1.0 million)
would be procured through local competitive bidding, except for equipment
purchases of less than US$15,000 each (US$0.5 million), which would be pur-
chased directly from local suppliers. Consultant services (US$3.7 million)
would be obtained according to IDA's normal procedures. The remainder of
the IDA credit would finance SAED expenditures on operating costs (US$0.3
million) and the refinancing of the Debi-Lampsar Engineering Credit (US$1.0
million).
Disbursement
5.10      The IDA credit would be disbursed against the Lampsar perimeter
development, studies, applied research and refinancing of Engineering Credit
S-18-SE. The proceeds of the proposed IDA credit would be disbursed to cover
the following:



- 20 -
US$ Million
(a) 80% of total cost of irrigation works and
buildings                                             11.0
(b) 100% of foreign exchange cost or 75% of total
cost of vehicles and equipment                         1.8
(c)  75% of total operating costs (excluding salaries)    0.2
(d)  85% of total cost for studies and applied research   3.0
(e)  100% of refinancing of Engineering Credit S-18-SE    1.0
(f)  Unallocated                                              3.0
TOTAL                                       20.0
An estimated schedule of disbursements is at Annex 11.
5.il      Disbursement requests against items (a), (b) and (d) would be fully
documented. Disbursements ag.ainst item (c) would be against certified state-
ments of expenditures. Detai'Led documentation of statements of expenditures
would not be submitted to IDA, but held by SAED for inspection by supervision
missions.
Accounts and Audit
5.12      Under the centralized system of accounts described in para 6.03,
separate accounts would be kept for the project, and would be analyzed by
categories of expenditure on each perimeter and on technical assistance.
Accounts would also be maintaiLned for farmers receiving inputs on credit
and machinery services and for the consolidated fee account (see paras.
6.10 to 6.13). Audit by an independent firm of auditors of SAED as well as
other entities would be financed under the Para-Public Sector Technical
Assistance Project, and assurances have been obtained under the proposed DebiL
Lampsar Project that auditors satisfactory to IDA would be employed to audit
SAED accounts, and that copies of audited SAED accounts and financial state-
ments, together with the audil:or's report, would be submitted to IDA within
six months of the close of each fiscal year.
VI. CIRGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
General
6.01      As stated in para. 2.13, SAED was founded to promote irrigation
development in the Senegal River region, and it would be responsible for
carrying out the project. SAED is managed by three bodies: (i) the Board



- 21 -
of Directors (12 persons) with, inter alia, representatives of the two tute-
lary ministries, i.e., Rural Development and Water Resources, and Finance and
Economic Affairs. The Board is responsible for defining SAED's general
policies and bySlaws, programming works and studies, approving the annual
budget and financial statements, and setting salary scales; however, virtually
all important actions have to be approved by the tutelary ministers. The
Board meets at least 3 times a year. (ii) The Management Committee is a
smaller committee of the Board of 6 persons, to which the Board of Directors
may delegate responsibility for certain functions. (iii) The Director-Gener&l
is appointed by decree, and is responsible for executing the decisions made by
the Board of Directors and for hiring and dismissing staff (see Organization
Chart on project impact on SAED's organization).
6.02      SAED's headquarters, comprising the general directorate, finance
and accounts, coordination of perimeters, and the administration and personnel
service divisions, are in Saint-Louis. In addition, a studies and programming
unit has been set up in Saint-Louis to participate in preparing studies and
engineering, and in carrying out applied research. The agricultural division
is at Ross-Bethio, where SAED also maintains milling activities and a work-
shop. Facilities at the perimeter level comprise houses, workshops, stores,
offices and equipment.
Finance and Accounts
6.03      Like most other Senegalese institutions, SAED is subject to stringent
control over its finances and accounts, the principal features of which are
that: the accounts are maintained centrally by the Central Accounting Agent
(ACC), which provides regular print-outs to SAED and other authorities and
which appoints the Special Accounting Agent (ACP) to SAED; a priori control
over virtually all transactions is exercised by the Controller of Financial
Operations (COF) in the Center for Public Establishments (CEP); it is
obligatory to go to tender for all expenditures more than CFAF 3 million
(US$12,000), and even for lesser amounts the procedures are very cum-_ersome;
and all payments of more than CFAF 25,000 (US$100) have to be made by the
ACC.
6.04      The above organization and procedures result in long delays and
inefficiences both in executing contracts and in making payments, and Gov-
ernnent has recognized the need to give SAED more autonomy to carry out its
accelerated development program. To this end, in accordance with the recom-
mendations of a study carried out by the "Bureau des Organisations et Methodes"
(BcM), a national organization of the presidency, a decree will be issued
shortly that will give the Director General a little more authority; in
particular, expenses of less than CFAF 1 million (US$4,000) will no longer
be subject to a priori control by the COF. This exemption is, however,
heavily qualified, and the present cumbersome procedures will probably not be
reduced significantly in the near future. Consequently, the special measures
proposed in para 5.08 are required to ensure that project payments are not
delayed or complicated by unnecessary procedures.



- 22 -
6.05      Management of the irrigation perimeters is coordinated by the
Coordination Division at headquarters and executed by a manager appointed
for each perimeter during its construction phase. Once perimeters are in
operation, they are grouped in lots of about 5,000 ha. Responsibilities are
allocated between three assistant managers for agriculture, administration  mnd
procurement, and operation antd maintenance (see chart showing typical organL-
zation of a perimeter). Undetr the new procedures referred to above, more
responsibilities would devolve to the perimeters. Under the proposed project,
the Debi perimeter would be combined with the existing Boundoum perimeter, and
Lampsar with the Diagambal perimeter which is under consideration for USAID
financing.
Staffing
6.06      SAED has about 840 permanent staff, 15 of whom are expatriates, and
some 300 temporary workers. The position of Director-General, and most
division head and project màaLager positions are filled by competent Senegalese.
However, Government and SAED agree that additional technical assistance wouLd
be required:
(a)  at headquarters:  to improve SAED's financial management;
(b) in the studies and progrnmming unit: to strengthen its
planning and programming capabilities; and
(c)  at Lampsar-Diagambal:  to develop these perimeters.
Accordingly, the project provides for a financial controller, two specialists
in agronomy and livestock for the studies and programming unit, and an agrono-
mist and a mechanical engineer for Lampsar-Diagambal.  In view of the shortage
of qualified personnel in SerLegal, it is expected that this staff would be
recruited internationally. Assurances have been obtained that these posts
would be filled by June 30, 1.978, and, in the case of the financial controller,
that his qualifications and e!xperience, terms of reference (see draft in Annex
13) and terms and conditions of employment would be satisfactory to IDA. Tu
addition, assurances have beetn obtained that the post of Director-General
would continue to be filled by a qualified and experienced person. The
Director General would be responsible for appointing, subject to Board approval,
the project managers and other project personnel.  The post of manager for
Debi-Boundoum would be filledl by one of the existing perimeter managers; that
of Lampsar-Diagambal would be filled, if possible, by a suitably qualified
Senegalese; if none were available, the post would be filled by the agronomist
to be recruited under the project. Assurances have been obtained that these
posts of Debi-Boundoum and Lampsar-Diagambal perimeters would be filled by
persons with qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA.
6.07      Training.  SAED's present training activities are carried out by
a training section in the studies and programming unit, and consist of semillars
and lectures with audio-visual aids and field visits for the extension workers.
Training facilities and programs would be expanded through construction



- 23 -
of a training center which was recently appraised for financing by USAID,
CCCE and FAC. The main training center would be built at N'Diaye, close to
Lampsar, and would provide more comprehensive training for all levels of
field staff in agricul tural practices for existing and new crops, irrigation
techniques and animal husbandry. The center is tentatively scheduled for
completion by end-1978. Total cost including four years of operating expendi-
tures is estimated at us$6.o million.
6.08      In addition, the project provides for training staff and facili-
ties at each perimeter. These would focus on farmer training, with partic-
ular stress on following a sound timetable, proper application of inputs,
and appropriate cultivation techniques.
6.09      Prolect Monitoring and Evaluation.  The existing agro-economic
section of the studies and programming unit would be responsible for monitor-
ing and evaluation of the project as well as other perimeters, including Daganae
The section would be responsible for design and operation of the monitoring
and evaluation system, and would produce quarterly progress reports and an
annual report giving the information outlined in Annex 12. The cost of
existing staff will continue to be borne by SAED, but the section will be
headed by an agronomist to be financed under the project. Assurances have
been obtained that the unit would also prepare the Project Completion Report.
Cost and Rent Recovery
6.10      At present, farmers pay a consolidated fee which consists of a
water charge per ha cropped that varies according to the crop, and a charge
for mechanical services per ha that varies depending on the service. The
present fees are:
water charges.         paddy:         CFAF 25,000 per ha cropped
tomatoes:     CFAF 35,000 per ha cropped
mechanical services:  plowing:        CFAF 5,.000 to 8,000 per ha
seedbed
preparation. CFAF 4,000 per ha
6.11      Water Charges.  Annex 14, Table 1 shows that the present value
of project construction and incremental operation and maintenance costs is
estimated at about US$5.7 million (CFAF 1-4 billion) for Debi and US$13.1
million (CFAF 3.2 billion) for Lampsar at a discount rate of 10%. Present
value of incremental water charges would be CFAF 86 million (US$0.4 million
equivalent) for Debi and CFAF 232 million (US$0.9 million equivalent) for
Lampsar with present fees. As noted in para 6.12, the present level of water
charges permits an increase to provide a higher cost recovery, and assuming
increased fees of CFAF 35,000 per ha for paddy and CFAF 50,000 per ha for
tomatoes, the present value of incremental water charges would be CFAF 220
million (US$0.9 million equivalent) for Debi and CFAF 546 million (US$2.2
million equivalent) for Lampsar (Annex 14, Table 1). Cost recovery indices
would be :



- 24 -
Debi    Lampsar
Present level of vater charges             6%         7%
Increased water charges                   16%        17%
Assurances have been obtained that water charges would be increased to a
level commensurate with achieving adequate cost recovery while maintaining
sufficient incentive for participating farmers. To this effect, the level of
charges would be periodically reviewed by SAED and IDA, and (a) SAED would
consult with IDA before establishing or changing project participant fees for
that project; (b) equivalent fees would be charged in other areas under
controlled irrigation; and (c) SAED would study participants' ability to pay
charges. With increases in mater charges to CFAF 35,000 per ha for paddy and
CFAF 50,000 per ha for tomatoes, water charges would cover operation and
maintenance costs, and about 12% of capital costs.
6.12      The present rent recovery indexes (ratio of incremental water
charges to incremental rent) are 37% in Debi and 33% in Lampsar. With the
above assumed increases in water charges, the indexes would become 69% in
Debi and 54% in Lampsar (Annex 14, Table 1). Increased water charges would
represent 24% and 38% of net cash incomes of farm types A and B respectively.
They would allow for a maximum cost recovery ratio compatible with farmers'
ability to pay, and per capita incomes would be US$230 and US$127 for farm
types A and B, compared to an estimated critical consumption level of US$120.
6.13      Mechanical Services.  The present fees are much lower than actual
costs (see Annex 5). SAED is currently seeking approval from the Board to
increase charges to a level that would approximate actual costs and thereby
not only reduce the subsidy, but encourage farmers to take over those services
through Cooperatives Utilisation Materiel Agricole (CUMA). Assurances have
been obtained that subsidies accorded to participating farmers will be elimi-
nated after the first year of their participation. This is consistent with
SAED's policy.
6.14      Collection Ratio.  SAED's cost recovery methods are reasonably
effective and the collection ratio for the consolidated fee has been satisfac-
tory.  In 1976 it was about 86%.
VII.  YIELDS AND PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS, PRICES, FARMERS'
BENEFITS, SAED FINANCES AND GOVERNMENT REVENUES
Yields and Production
7.01      Yield progression and production estimates for paddy and tomatoes
are in Annex 5. Paddy yields at Debi and Lampsar are forecast to increase
from 1.8 tons/ha to 3.5 tons/ha in the fourth year of cultivation and tomato
yields from 15 tons/ha to 30 tons/ha. The present average paddy yields of
0.8 tons/ha (para. 3.09) are not assumed to change without the project,
as the chief constraint, which is dependence on the annual flood, would
remain. The forecast yield levels are based on yields on projects with



- 25 -
similar conditions, and take into account the effects of salinity (para. 3.03
and Annex 3). Based on these yields, production at maturity would reach some
10,400 tons of paddy (3,800 tons at Debi and 6,600 tons at Lampsar) and
10,200 tons of tomatoes (at Lampsar).
Market Prospects (Annex 15)
7.02      Paddy would be collected by SAED and processed in its existing
rice mill at Ross-Bethio, which has ample capacity to handle project produc-
tion. ONCAD collects rice and delivers it to wholesalers for distribution on
the market. No problems are envisaged in production and distribution, which is
handled effectively and is well coordinated by SAED, ONCAD and the wholesalers.
Nor would there be any difficulty in marketing paddy as it is expected to be
consumed in the region, and because project production would be only a small
proportion of current and future imports. Apart from an insignificant quantity
which would be consumed fresh, tomatoes would be used for the production
of tomato paste. SAED arranges transport of tomatoes either directly with
private truckers or through ONCAD for delivery to the factory at Savoigne on
the Lampsar perimeter, which is run efficiently by SOCAS, a privately owned
firm. Present tomato paste consumption is estimated at 7,000 tons per year,
of which 4,000 tons are imported. Consumption is expected to increase to
8,500 tons by 1984, thus leaving a gap of 5,500 tons (equivalent to some
30,000 tons of fresh tomatoes). This would require some 1,000 additional ha
of tomatoes, and as only 340 ha would be planted under the project, no problem
is foreseen in marketing project production. In the event that development of
other perimeters should result in tomato production exceeding the requirements
for paste, the project would nevertheless be favorably situated given its
proximity to the Savoigne plant. Furthermore, the market for fresh tomatoes
is expected to expand, and the delta region would be well situated to meet such
expansion due to its earlier crop.
Prices
7.03      Government's policy is to set the paddy farm gate price at a level
which reflects prevailing world market prices. In accordance with this
policy, Government increased the farm gate price in 1975 from CFAF 22 per kg
to CFAF'41.5 per kg to stimulate local production and reduce imports.  This
price still prevails, is close to the present estimated cost of imported rice,k
and has been used in the projected farm budgets:  The price used in the
economic rate of return calculations of CFAF 54.3 per kg is based on the Bank
May 1977 commodities price forecasts for 1985 of US$390 per ton F.O.B. Bangkok,|
after allowing for 30% reduction for quality (Annex 15, Table 1).  Farm gate
tomato prices are se t      bi'th  the approval of Government, by reference
to the retail and wholesale prices, the cost of processing, and the need to
maintain adequate farmers' incentive. The present farm gate price of CFAF 15
per kg has been in effect for 3 years and has been used in the farm budgets.
In the absence of a Bank commodities forecast for tomatoes or tomato paste,
the value of tomatoes used in the economic rate of return calculations of CFAF
23/kg has been derived from the assessment of the appraisal mission based on
investigations of the expected price trends in Europe and on ongoing studies



- 26 -
elsewhere in the Bank (Annex 15, Table 2). Government's policy, which is
supported by the Bank, is tc> set the retail pIcrl-é- f -rice- tiV-Iine with the
world market.  Accordingly, the price vas reduced in 1976 from CP-Ap-i100 per kg
-toCFAF 80 per kg, and the resulting difference between the latest price and
SAED's current selling price of CFAF 85.4 per kg is borne by the "Caisse de
Perequation et Stabilisation des Prix" (CPSP).
Farmers Benefits
7.04      The size of farm to be allocated under the project would follow
SAED's present policy of allocating about 3 ha per family (para 3.09). How-
ever, SAED varies this size according to the intensity of demand from appli-
cants and the cultivation capacity of the family. Assurances have been
obtained that the contract between SAED and participantse would permit the
reduction in size of any holding shown to be beyond the capacity of the
family.  Farm budgets have been prepared (Annex 5) for two models:  type A,
which would apply to about 46% of Lampsar farms, comprising 1 ha early rice,
1 ha late rice and 1 ha tomatoes; and type B, which would apply to all Debi
and about 54% of Lampsar farms, consisting of 1.5 ha of early and 1.5 ha of
late rice. Excluding incomes from other activities, which would remain
unchanged at about CFAF 75,000 (US$306), it is estimated that net farm incomes
would increase from CFAF 74,400 (US$304) to CFAF 375,000 (US$1,530) for farn
type A and to CFAF 175,000 (US$716) for farm type B (increases of 5.0 and 2.4
times respectively). Net per capita income would increase from the present
US$76 (para. 3.05) to US$230 for farm type A and US$127 for farm type B.
Subsidies
7.05      Fertilizer is subsidized by the difference between the price farmers
pay (currently CFAF 25 per kg for compound fertilizer and CFAF 35 for urea)
and the real cost including the imported or ex-factory cost, ONCAD's trans-
portation, commission and financial charges which total some 17%, and BNDS in-
terest (para. 4.10). In accordance with agreements reached under other Bank
Group financed agricultural projects (e.g., Credit 549-SE for the Sine Saloum
Agricultural Development Project), the Government is following a policy of
progressive adoption of free market prices for agricultural equipment and
fertilizer, and will exchange views with the Association annually on the
selling prices thereof. The subsidy on direct fertilizer cost has been pro-
gressively reduced, and is now about 40% for the project. As explained in
para 6.13, the present high dlegree of subsidization of mechanical services
would be eliminated, and the farm budgets are based on the estimated real
costs of these services. Provision of water would be subsidized to the ex-
tent that only part of the capital costs would be recovered by water charges
(para 6.11).
SAED Finances
7.06      Although SAED was established as an autonomous institution, it is
dependent on Government and iinternal and external agencies to meet all its



- 27 -
development expenditures and some of its operating costs. For various reasons
including shortage of working capital, late payment of monies owed to it,
delays in billing, and the cumbersome procedures described in para 6.03, SAED
has faced continuous liquîdity problems. However, Government is planning
to provide in 1978 an additional CFAF 1 billion (US$4 million) as permanent
capital, and provision for this has been made in its FY78 project; the measures
in hand to improve billing procedures and obtain more prompt settlement of
monies due will improve SAED's situation further. However, the most effective
way to ensure the prompt financing of SAED's development expenditures during
the project period will be through the measures described in para 5.08. In
view of SAED's dependence on Governnent and its lack of self-generated re-
sources, the Financing Agreement between SAED and Government under Credit
350-SE, which provides that US$4.3 million of the total credit of US$4.5
million was to be repaid in 35 years including 5 years grace, at 1% interest,
would be modified so that the whole credit would be retained as a grant.
7.07      The project cash flow at Annex 16 shows that before charges for
replacement of assets, which vary considerably from year to year, SAED would
generate an annual surplus from year 1980, which would increase to an annual
level of about CFAF 450 million. The surplus, after replacement of assets,
would be used either for further investments or for repayment to Government,
as Government shall decide.
Impact on Government Revenues
7.08      Government revenues from the project would consist of the surplus
accruing to SAED, and after project completion, taxes on operating costs and
renewal of equipment. Government outflows would be its share in the financing
of the project, subsidies on fertilizers>and its debt service to IDA and KF.
The cash flow shows that Government would generate a surplus from 1981 onwards,
which would increase to a level of about CFAF 350 million a year.
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01      The project would play a vital part in the irrigation develop-
ment of the Senegal river basin. Apart from the direct benefits from
paddy and tomato production, the project would strengthen SAED's capacity
to manage its present operations and to plan for and execute the future
integrated development of the river valley and delta. It would also
increase the incomes of some 9,000 people who are among the poorest in
Senegal's rural areas.
8.02      The project's direct benefits would be the increases in production
of paddy and tomatoes. The economic value of incremental production at full
development would be CFAF 730 million (US$3.0 million) and the net foreign
exchange benefits realized from substituting project production for imports
of rice and tomato paste would amount to CFAF 700 million (US$2.8 million)
a year.



- 28 -
8.03      The investment coslt per ha of the two perimeters would be at abouit
US$4,100 for Debi and US$5,000 for Lampsar. Although the cost per farming
family appears high at three times these figures, the preliminary findings
of an on-going study of income distribution from irrigation schemes in the
Senegal River Basin 1/ show that benefits are spread widely through extended
families and the cost per famaily benefitting from the project is tentatively
estimated at about US$6,100 ior Debi and US$7,500 for Lampsar.
8.04      The economic rate of return has been calculated on the following
principal assumptions (see Annex 18 for details of calculation):
(a) Benefits are based on the yield, production, and price
assumptions given Ln Chapter VII.
(b)  Based on a standard conversion factor for Senegal of 0.83,
foreign exchange costs and benefits have been converted at
a rate of exchange of CFAF 294 - US$1 compared to the
official rate of CFAF 245 - US$1.
(c)  Farm labor is valued at an average rate of CFAF 110
per man-day as exp]ained in Annex 19.
(d) Costs of the technJical assistance component, amounting
to 23% of total costs, have been excluded since almost
all of the costs relate to studies, planning and program-
ming, and applied research required for further develop-
ment of the Senegal. river valley.
(e) The principal sunk costs which have not been taken into
account comprise the existing protection dike and pumping
station.
(f) Costs and benefits that would result from construction
of major dams on the Senegal River (para 2.12) have not
been taken into account, as these cannot be adequately
quantified at prese!nt.
On the above assumptions, the economic rate of return would be 9% for Debi a,nd
12% for Lampsar; the combined. rate of return is estimated at 10%. Sensitivity
tests show that a reduction in benefits or an increase in costs of 10% would
reduce the rate of return by about one percentage point for each perimeter
and overall. These rates of return are acceptable as the project would bene-
fit some 9,000 people whose per capita income of US$85 is well below the
critical consumption level in. Senegal of US$120 per capita and is only 20%
of the national average of US$390. Furthermore, the estimated rates of
return are more likely to be achieved for this project than for projects
which depend on the uncertain rainfall in the Sahel region. The project
1/   "Distribution of Income Through the Extended Family System", Ref. No.
671-57; financed by the Bank's research program.



29 -
would also provide non-quantifiable benefits in that it would strengthen
SAED's capacity to plan, execute and manage integrated development of the
Senegal river valley and take advantage of the potential of the OMVS regional
infrastructure.
Risks
8.05      Some of the usual project risks, such as cost overruns, lower yields
and inadequate funding, have been minimized as far as possible by obtaining
bids before approval of the credit, by allowing for salinity in the yield
estimates,and by specific financial measures. Tomato production and transport
are particularly susceptible to proper timing of transplanting, plant protec-
tion, harvesting and timely transport, but even with a reduction in tomato
yield of 15% to about 25 tons, the rate of return would not be reduced
significantly.
IX.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
9.01      Assurances were obtained during negotiations on the following
principal items:
(a)  Government will ensure that SENELEC would provide power
to each pumping station of Lampsar as and when required
(para 4.06).
(b)  The contract between SAED and project farmers, approved under
Credit 350-SE, would not be substantially modified without
IDA's concurrence (para 4.08).
(c)  Consultants to carry out feasibility studies and final
engineering for further development schemes would be employed
under terms and conditions, and with terms of reference
satisfactory to IDA (para 4.12).
(d)  The Government and SAED would enter into a Financing Agreement
specifying the financial arrangements under which the project
would be executed (para 5.08).
(e)  Technical specialists to fill posts at SAED's headquarters,
in the studies and programming unit, and at Lampsar-Diagambal,
would be recruited by June 30, 1978. The financial controller
would have qualifications and experience, terms of reference and
terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to IDA. The post of
Director General would continue to be filled by a qualified and
experienced person, and those of Project Manager for Debi-Boundoum
and Lampsar-Diagambal would be filled by persons with qualifications
and experience satisfactory to IDA (para 6.06).



- 30 -
(f)  SAED's Studies and Prograinming Unit would prepare the
project completion report (para 6.09).
(g)  Water charges would be increased to a level commensurate
with achieving adequate cost recovery while maintaining
sufficient incentive for participating farmers. To this
effect, the level of charges would be periodically
reviewed by SAED and IDA, and (a) SAED would consult with
IDA before establishing or changing project participant
fees for that project; (b) equivalent fees would be
charged in other areas under controlled irrigation;
and (c) SAED would study participants' ability to pay
charges (para. 6.11).
(h) Subsidies on mechanical services would be eliminated
after the first year of farmers' participation (para 6.13).
(i) The contract between SAED and the participants would permit
the reduction in size of any holding which proves to be
beyond the capacity of the family (para 7.04).
(j) The on-lending terms of Credit 350-SE would be modified so
that the whole credit would be retained as a grant
(para 7.06).
9.02      Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be:
(a) fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the initial
disbursement of the FAC grant (para 5.06); and
(b) execution and delivery of a Financing Agreement between SAED
and Government (para 5.08).
9.03      The project is suitable for a Credit of US$20 million equivalent on
standard IDA terms.



SENEGAL
DEBI LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Climatological Data
Richard Toll
Period of
Observation     J      F       M      A     M    J -  J       A      S     O      N      D        TOTAL
(years)
-Rainfall                 18
Average (mm)                    0.1     1.1    0.0    0.0    0.1  13.4  56.1  11G.2  82.4  25.9  0.0    2.4        291.7
Number of rainy days
-  0.1 mm                    0.2      0.3    0.0    0.0    0.0  1.2   4.4   7.8    7.1   2.7   0.1    0.0         19.8
@   10 mm                    0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  0.3   2.0   3.2    2.1   1.4   o.o    0.0           7.5
js  20 mm                     0.0     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0  0.1   1.0   1.5    0.7   0.2   0.0    0.0          2.9
- Temperature (00 C)        9
Mean                            23.0    25.2   27.1   27.8  29.7 30.1  29.6  29.0   29.9  29.4  27.2   23.0           27.5
Mean maximum                    31.2    34.1   36.7   37.3   39.4 38.5  35.6  34.0   34.5  35.6  34.2   30.4          35.1
Mean minimum                    14.8    16.4   17.6   18.3   20.1 21.0  23.6  24.0   23.9  23.2  20.2   15.6          20.1
-Mean Evaporation (mm)      9      218     248    330    322    339  269   192   144    118   174   196    219          2769
(Piche)
- Average Wind Velocity (m/s)       n.a     n.a   n.a    n.a    n.a-  n.a   n.a   n.a    n.a   n.a   n.a    n.a        n.a
o. X
H- k



SENEGAL
DEBI LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Climatological Data
Saint Louis
Period
of      J      F       M    A      M     J    J    A       S      O      N      D  Total
Observation
-  Rainfall                    1931-60
Average (mm)                         0.8   1.4      0   0.2   1.3   7.2  44.2 160.9  96.7  28.5   2.4   5.3 346.9
Number of rainy days
à    0 1imm                           0.4   0.5     0   0.1   0.4   1.4   4.8  12.0   9.3   3.0   0.6   0.6  33.1
æ   10   mm                           O     0        0   0      0     0.3   1.5   4.4   2.8   1.0   0.1   0.1  10.2
>  20   mm                           0     0        0   0     0      0.1   0.5   3.0   1.3   0.5   0        0     5.4
- Temperature  (0  C)          1951-70
Mean                                   22.5  23.0  23.5  23.3  23.5  25.8  27.2  27.7  28.1  27.8  26.0  23.1  25.1
Mean Maximum                           29.2  29.8  33.3  29.0  27.8  29.2  30.0  30.6  31.3  31.7  31.4  29.4  30.0
Mean Minimum                           15.7  16.3  16.8  17.6  19.3  22.4  24.5  24.9  25.0  23.9  20.6  16.8  20.3
- Mean Evaporation (mm)        1954-59 211   141   120   103    80    84   124   113   120   122   136   208 1563
(Piche)
- Average Wind Velocity (m/s) 1951-60  4.1    4.2   4.7   4.9   4.5   4.5   4.4   3.9   3.6   3.5   3.6   4.1   4.2
(D X
Pl ll



- 33 -
ANNEX 2
SENEGAL
DEBI-LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Soils
Available Data
1.        Fifteen or more soil surveys of all or parts of the Senegal River
Delta have been made during the last 25 years by a number of organizations or
consultants. These surveys were made for various purposes at scales ranging
from 1:200,000 to 1:5,000. The latest surveys of the Lampsar and Debi areas,
which were carried out for the purposes of the project in late 1976, by the
Soil Survey Section of SAED are in considerable detail (one augerhole per 4
ha of land).
2.        Unfortunately, most of the soil surveys are inadequate for project
planning purposes in that: (a) depth of examination and analysis is too
shallow; (b) little data was presented on the effect of salinity on present
or potential crop production levels; (c) the soils are inadequately classi-
fied; (d) supporting field studies are inadequate; and, (e) some of the
soil analytical methods were inappropriate. To fill these gaps, additional
information was collected before appraisal.
3.        Since 1969 research on desalinization by leaching and drainage has
been going on in the Boundoum-West basin. This research, originally carried
out by FAO, has shown that certain soils in the delta region can be reclaimed
simply by subsoil drainage; this would also serve to avoid further salinization
under dry season irrigation.
General Characteristics of the Soils
4.        The Senegal River delta consists largely of a vast, almost flat
plain (slope about 1:10,000), a few meters above sea level, with dark brown
to black, mostly saline, clay soils. The plain is interspersed with hillocks,
levees and ridges of coarse, relatively infertile, mostly kaolinitic sands
and loamy sands comprising about 10% of the plain. The clay lowland soils
were formed largely by deposit of river alluvium over sandy marine and mixed
alluvial sediments and in some places over woody deposits. The clay soils,
although formed from deposit of materials of widely varying geological origin,
have relatively narrow ranges in color and texture, but their -chemical and
physical properties differ in accordance with differences in the predominant
clay mineral. Most of the soils of the project area are lowland clays, which
have characteristics similar to, but not identical with, those of the
vertisols. They swell considerably upon wetting and crack widely and have
a loose, granular surface mulch when dry. These soils also have a high clay



- 34 -                                 ANNEX 2
Page 2
content, are very slowly permeable, and can be cultivated only over a narrow
moisture range.  However, the soils differ from vertisols in that the cra,cking
is less pronounced and does not extend as deeply, the clays are "young" and
of mixed origin rather than being mostly montmorillonitic, the cation exc]nange
capacity is low, the clay l-ayer thin, non-uniform, and relatively high in
organic matter.
Physical Characteristics of the Soils
5.         The area surface clay soils are f rom 0.2 to more than one meter
thick, mostly overlying sandy loams and loamy sands f rom one to several meters
thick. Most of the soils are water-logged and show evidence of long-continued
poor drainage conditions (ii.e. mottling) throughout the profile. Most of the
surface clay layers are very slowly permeable, with hydraulic conductivity
rates ranging from less than 1 to only a few millimeters per 24 hours.  Also,
the underlying sandy loams and loamy sands are much less permeable than gener-
ally assumed, with permeabiLlities averaging about 0.2 meters per day.
6.         Some of the soils have been shown to be unstable, often resulting
in a type of erosion referred to as "piping". Although the problem seems to
occur only locally, specia:L attention will be given to it during executiom
of the works, particularly on the design of open canals and hydraulic struc-
tures.
Chemical Characteristics of the Soils
7.         The soils of the areas are moderate to low in organic matter content;
analytical data from scattered tests indicate that about a third contain lime
(are calcareous) and two thirds contain gypsum, usually at some depth in the
profile; the pH values measured in a saturated paste, range from 3.6-8.5, the
lower values indicating the presence of acid sulphate soils. Although alkali
soils do occur in the delta, they are excluded f rom the project area.
8.         The great majoril:y of the delta soils are too saline to permit
profitable yields of most c:rops.  Hence, the project is located on the non-
and less-saline soils. The following table gives the distribution of the
land over four salinity classes.



- 35 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 3
DISTRIBUTION OF SALINITY IN DEBI AND LAMPSAR AREAS
(ha)
EC of 1:5 suspension (mnhos):*    <.8    .8-1.5    1.5-2.5    >2.5    Total
(exces-  (culti-
sively    vable)
saline)
TOTAL DEBI PROJECT                  300 ha  310 ha       490 ha   570 ha  1,100 ha
Ndiougou                             60       56          55        57       170
Nbodiene-Polo                       165      200         235        58       600
Tilene-Pont Gendarme-Ngomene        115      175         240        70       530
Lampsar                             150       10          -        -         160
Ndelle-Ndiaye                       360       60          -        -         420
Bifeche                             160       20          20       -         200
Gao                                  10       20         110        15       140
TOTAL LAMPSAR PROJECT             1,020 ha  540 ha       660 ha   200 ha  2,220 ha
*     ^Approximate relationships between EC of 1:5 suspensions and EC of
saturation extracts (ECe) in mmhos:  EC 1:5:  <.8   .8-1.5   1.5-2.5  >2.5
EC :  <6      6-11   11-18.5   >18.5
e
Irrigation Water Quality
9.        The water of the Senegal River is well suited for irrigation, being
low in soluble salt content (less than 100 ppm during the main irrigation
season), sodium absorption ration (SAR) and residual sodium carbonate (RSC)
and contains no toxic substances that affect the growth of crops.
Suitability for Crop Growth
10.       The principal crops to be grown under the project are paddy and
tomatoes. Paddy: The fine textured soils, even though saline, are generally
suitable for paddy cultivation, since flooding of the paddy fields temporarily
displaces the bulk of the salinity downwards, below the relatively shallow
rooted rice plants. Yields may be reduced somewhat in the higher salinity
ranges. To be safe, the soils in the last column in the above table
(EC >18.5 mmhos) are excluded from the project. Tomatoes and many other dry
season crops can safely be grown in soils with EC  as high as 6 mmhos.  With
existing crop management practices, no yield reductions of tomatoes are ex-
pected with salinity at and below this level.



- 36 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 4
il.       Above EC  values of 6 mmhos, dry season crops (wheat, corn) would
require sub-soil drainage to prevent excessive salinization. For the present,
desalinizing is not required, as these crops are not expected to be grown.
The applied research program on subsoil drainage is geared towards establishing
what crops are suitable for dry season cropping in the future.
12.       None of the soils in the project area at present show an acid level
(pH) which would prevent or hamper growth. The available data indicate that
it is unlikely that the soils now suitable for tomatoes would develop such ai
defect. There are indications, however, that parts of the project area for
rice cropping could develop t.oxicity from oxidation of acid sulphate soils a[s
a consequence of subsoil drainage.  Again, this would not affect the present
project, but will need to be investigated further before more intensive
cropping can be proposed.



- 37 -                              ANNEX 3
SENEGAL
DEBI-LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Debi Irrigation Works
Existing Situation
1.        The Debi perimeter is a depression inside a bend of the Senegal
River in the lower delta. The area is suitable for rice cropping and is
bounded by the Senegal River dike on the east, north and west and by the
N'Depetout channel on the south. St. Louis can be reached by road following
the main dike to the crossing of "le Djeuss" and then to the paved road
St. Louis-Rosso (75 km). The main dike also links Debi to Boundoum; since
completion of the main dike in 1964, rice has been grown on 500 ha under
partial flood control. Water is both supplied and drained by gravity through
a dual function structure on the west side of the perimeter, N'Depetout
acting as main canal and drain.
Proposed Development Plan
2.        The total net irrigable area would be 1,100 ha.  The perimeter
would be subdivided into autonomous hydraulic units with a total of 370
farms of an average size of 3.0 ha. (Map: Debi perimeter; irrigation and
drainage networks, No. IBRD 12863).
3.        Water would be pumped, or allowed to enter by gravity, from the
Senegal River through a pumping station to be constructed under the project.
From there it would flow by gravity through a simple irrigation network of
unlined canals provided with the usual structures such as crossings, syphons
and diversions. The main control structure is a gate of constant level
downstream located at the beginning of the head canal, just after the
pumping station.
4.        Drainage would be provided by separate network.  After following
during its first stretch the N'Depetout channel, the main drain runs along
the low areas receiving the laterals and ends at the pumping station where
water is delivered by gravity or by pumping into the Senegal River. If
needed, the existing structure on the extreme SW of the perimeter can also
be used to drain by gravity into the Senegal during periods of very low
water on the river. Drainage network would be equipped with crossing struc-
tures. The system is designed to provide surface drainage by removing
excess rainfall and by emptying water from the rice fields.
5.        Two main roads are foreseen in the area crossing the perimeter
west-east and north-south and access roads would be provided to each holding.



- 38 -                             ANNEX 3
Page 2
Water Supply
6.        Water can be pumped from the Senegal as soon as it becomes fresh
at the start of the new flood season each year. This usually occurs about
the middle of August. When the river reaches a level above 1.80 m pumping
can be stopped and gravity fLow used.  The flood period usually lasts three
to four months. During this time the quality of the water is excellent
with total salinity being 100 p.p.m. or less.
7.        Maximum design flow would be 2.5 m3/s or 2.3 1/s/ha of cropped
area these being submersion requirements allowing for field and conveyance
losses.  Under normal operatLng conditions, maximum irrigation needs cor-
respond to the period in which water can be diverted by gravity. Regular
irrigation flow is about 1.2 m3/s or 1.1 l/s ha of cropped area. These
amounts are a very small portion of the available river flow.
Specific Project Works
8.        The following are the principal elements of the project works:
(a)  An irrigation network to deliver water comprising primary,
secondary and tertiary canals.
(b) A drainage network to convey the water back to the Senegal
River and aiming to collect rain, excess irrigation and
submersion waters. Part of this drainage network follows an
existing channel.
(c)  A pumping station with the double function of irrigation and
drainage: (i) irrigation by gravity when Senegal waters are
above 1.80 m and by pumping when they are lower; (ii) drain-
age by gravity when water level in the main drain is higher
than in Senegal and by pumping when it is lower; in this case
water is pumped to the Senegal River or recycled for irrigation.
Maximum discharge is 2.5 m3/s with maximum heads varying from
1.80 m to 2.60 m. Two helix pumps are planned and power will
be supplied by two diesel engines.
(d) Hydraulic structures including gates, syphons, diversions,
bridges...
(e) A road network to provide access to each plot.
(f) Land levelling.



- 39 -                             ANNEX 3
Page 3
Irrigation Works - Characteristics
1.   GENERAL                                                          Remarks
- Location - left bank of Senegal River (lower delta)
- Soils - low, flat, clayey soils
- Gross area (ha)                        1,712
- Net area (ha)                          1,100
- Shape - length L (km)                      8
width W (km)                       4
ratio L/W                          2
- Flood irrigation - water pumped or diverted from
Senegal River
- Surface drainage - conveying to a single pumping
station towards Senegal River
- Subsurface drainage - foreseen at a later stage
(tile drains)
- Works - protective dike (already existing)
- pumping station
- irrigation network
- drainage network
- gravity outlet (already existing)
- Irrigation efficiency                      0.70 1/      1/ Considered for
rice as 20%
losses on the
f ield, 5% on the
distribution
system and 5% on
the main canals.
2.   WATER LEVELS
- Senegal River (at pumping station)   Variable 2/        2/ Max. 2.80.
- Main canal (at pumping station)            1.80
- Main drain (at pumping station)            0.20
3.   IRRIGATION NETWORK
- Design discharge (1/s/ha)                  2.3 3/       3/ Corresponding to sub-
- Main canals (primary and secondary)                        mersion requirements of
- length (km)  3                    18.5             rice plus losses per
- excavation (m )3                  54,755           net irrigated area.
- compacted embankment (m )        125,571
- embankment crest width (m )        2.50
- side slope                         3/2
- bottom width (m)                  1 to 3
- depth                           Variable
- freeboard (m)                      0.50 4/      4/ Reported to the
maximum water
level.



- 40-                                 ANNEX 3
Page 4
- Other canals (tertiary),
- length (km)  3                26.2
- excavation (m            3      6,805
- compacted embankment (m )   78,145
- embankment crest width (m)   1.00
- side slope                     3/2
- bottom width (Da)          0.50 to 1.50
- depth (m)                      1.00
- freeboard (m)                  0.45 5/           5/ Reported to the
submersion flow
level.
- Irrigators
- length/ha (m/ha)                  20
- side slope                  1/1 or 3/2 6/        6/ 3/2 for double
- bottom width (m)                0.50 7/             irrigator.
- depth (m)                       0.80 8/          7/ It can become
- freeboard (m)                   0.35 9/             1.50 for doub:Le
irrigator.
8/ 1.00 for doub:Le
irrigators.
9/ 0.45 for doub.Le
irrigators.
4.   DRAINAGE NETWORK
- Design discharge (1/s/ha)                8.68 10/       10/ Corresponding to the
- Main collectors (primary and                                 drainage of a 15 cm
secondary)                                                water layer in two
- length (km)  3                 23.3                 days; reduced accord-
- excavation (m3)               123,472               ing to the schedule
- embankment (m )                93,243               of drainage; iEor the
- freeboard (m)                   0.20                main drains becomes
- side slope                      3/2                 1.05 1/s/ha.
- Tertiary drains
- length (km)                    28.5
- excavation (m3)                86,705
- embankment (m )                88,048
- freeboard (m)                   0.20
- side slope                      3/2
- Farm drains 11/                                          11/ These drains iact as
- length (m/ha)                     120               well as water dis-
- side slope                       1/1                tribution furrows.
- bottom width (m)                0.20
5.   ROADS
- Main roads
- length (km)                    13.6
- width (m)                       7 12/           12/ 5 m of laterite
pavement + 2 m of
berms.



- 41-                              ANNEX 3
Page 5
- Tracks
- length (km)                   43.0
- width (m)                        4 13/        13/ 3 m of well
compacted soil +
1 m of berms.
6.   FARM DIKES
- length (m/ha)                 78.7 14/        14/ This figure in-
- crest width (m)                0.50               cludes those plot
- height (m)                     0.40               dikes running along
- side slope                     1/1                canals, the volumes
of which are in-
cluded in the pre-
vious chapters.
7.   PROTECTIVE DIKE (already existing)
- length (km)                   il
8.   PUMPING STATION
- double function: irrigation
and drainage
- maxieum pumped discharge
(m /s)                      2.5
- source of pover           Diesel engines
- normal head (m)                1.80
- maximum head (m)               2.60



- 42 -
ANNEX 4
SENEGAL
DEBI-LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Lampsar Irrigation Works
Existing Situation
1.        The Lampsar perimet:er covers a gross area of 2,420 ha along both
banks of the Lampsar channel northeast of St. Louis between the townships oE
Ross-Bethio and Lampsar. The areas suitable for development are alluvial
soils in a narrow strip bounded by the river and the sand dunes. Access to
the zone is by the paved St. Louis-Rosso road along the left bank of the
Lampsar. The project are is well populated with villages located on the
dunes. Traditionally rainfecl cultivation has been practised on the dunes
but increasing interest has recently developed irrigation of the depressions
with flood water from Lampsar.  The elevation of the area ranges from
+0.20 to +1.90 m above sea level.
2.        Total net irrigable area would be 2,220 ha and the perimeter would
be subdivided into eleven subperimeters as follows:
Bifeche                                       200 ha
Lampsar                                       160 ha
N'Delle                                       260 ha
N'Diaye                                       160 ha
N'Gomene                                      200 ha
Tilene                                        130 ha
Pont-Gendarme                                 200 ha
N'Diougou                                     170 ha
Bodiene                                       320 ha
Polo                                          280 ha
N'Gao                                         140 ha
TOTAL               2,220 ha
(Map: Lampsar Perimeter: irrigation and drainage networks, No. IBRD 12864).
3.        Water would be pumped from the Lampsar and conveyed to the fields
by canals. All water would have to be pumped, as the water level of the
Lampsar is too low for gravity irrigation. The irrigation network is provicled
with the usual structures for crossings, water distribution, etc.
4.        Drainage would be provided by main drains on both banks of the
Lampsar and serving groups of subperimeters. To avoid contaminating the
water supply to Saint-Louis, the drainage waters would be spread over
depressions rather than returned to the channel. Three primary drains woulcl
be dug on the left bank: One for Lampsar, D'Delle, N'Diaye and N'Gomene,



- 43 -                             ANNEX 4
Page 2
another for Tilene and the third for Pont-Gendarme. These drains feed the
main drain leading to a pumping station on the St. Louis-Rosso road, whence
water would be spread on the Le Noar depression. Two primary drains would
be dug on the right bank for N'Diougou, Bodiene and Polo and on the other for
N'Gao. Both drains feed the Krankayie pumping station which would discharge
the water to the Krankayie channel connected to the Le Djeuss channel.
Finally, Bifeche would be drained to the Borbof channel.
5.        A main road would be constructed on the right bank linking N'Diougou,
Bodiene, Polo and N'Gao, crossing the Lampsar on the existing bridge and would
provide access to the right bank perimeters. Access roads would be provided
to each holding. The St. Louis-Rosso paved road provides access to the sub-
perimeters on the left bank.
Water Supply
6.        The Lampsar channel would be supplied by the Senegal River, either
by gravity during the flood or by the 17.5 m3/s pumping station at Ronq
which was build by SAED in 1969. Pumping begins each year at the start of the
new flood when the water becomes fresh--this is usually at the beginning of
August. The flood period normally lasts from three to four months. During
this time water quality is excellent, total salinity being 100 p.p.m. or less.
Pumping can usually continue at Ronq until as late as the end of January when
the water starts to become too saline.
7.        Canals and irrigation pumping stations have been designed for a
capacity of 2.3 1/s/ha. However, normal water needs are much smaller and
of the order of 1.1 1/s/ha.
8.        Embankments would be constructed on both sides of the Lampsar
channel to provide water for tomatoes during the dry season. Details on
the Lampsar embankments, water demand and supply, are given in Annex 8.
Specific Project Works
9.        The following are the principal elements of the project works:
(a) A series of protective dikes along the Lampsar and
the Djeuss channels--these dikes would have a crest
width of 2.50 m and side slopes of 2/1.
(b) An irrigation network to convey water from the pumping
stations to the holdings.
(c) A drainage network described in para 4.
(d) Eleven irrigation pumping stations and three drainage
pumping stations equipped with 3 to 5 pumps according
to water requirements and with capacity varying from



- 44                              ANNEX 4
Page 3
400 I/s to 1,000 l/`s and heads from 2.50 to 2.75 m.
The three drainage pumping stations have the following
main characteristics:
Capacity         Stationary Head
1/s                   (m)
Pont-Gendarme                   4 x 600 - 2,400          1.30 - 2.00
Krankayie                       4 x 600 - 2,400          1.20 - 2.30
Bifeche                         2 x 200-   400           1.07 - 1.30
(e) Hydraulic structurets including gates, syphons, diversions,
bridges...
(f) A road network to provide access to each plot.
(g) Land levelling.



- 45 -                               ANNEX 4
Page 4
Irrigation Works - Characteristics
1.   GENERAL                                                          Remarks
- Location - both banks of Lampsar River (lower
Senegal delta)
- Soils - low, flat, clayey soils
- Net area (ha)                           2,419
- Shape - eleven long and narrow curvettes
length L (km)                     28
width W (km)                       2
Ratio L/W                         14
- Flood irrigation - water pumped from Lampsar
River; each cuvette has its
own pumping station.
- Surface drainage - conveying to three pummping
stations discharging on
spreading pools.
- 5ubsurface drainage - foreseen at a later stage
(tile drains).
- Works - longitudinal dikes
- pumping stations
- irrigation network
- drainage network
- Irrigation efficiency                       0.70 1/      1/ Considered for
rice as 20%
losses on the
field, 5% on the
distribution system
and 5% on the main
canals.
2.   WATER LEVELS
- Lampsar                      Variable 2/                 2/ between -0.50 and
- Main canals (at pumping                                       +0.70
stations)                 Variable 3/                 3/ between +1.75 and
- Main drains (at pumping                                       +2.25
stations)                 Variable 4/                  4/ between -1.00 and
+1.30
3.   IRRIGATION NETWORKS
- Design discharge (1/s/ha)                   2.5 5/       5/ Corresponding to
- Main canals (primary and secondary)                         submersion require-
- length (km)  3                    22.8             ments of rice plus
- excavation (m )                   16,019           losses per net irri-
- compacted embankment (m3)        255,365           gated area.



- 46 -                              ANNEX 4
Page 5
- embankment crest width (m )        2.50
- side slope                         3/2
- bottom width (m)                  1 to 3
- depth                           Variable
- freeboard (m)                      0.50 6/      6/ Reported to the
maximum water
level.
- Other canals (tertiary)
- length (km)  3                           46.6
- excavation (m )3                         12,926
- compacted embankment (m )               247,127
- embankment crest width (m)                1.00
- side slope                                3/2
- bottom width (m)                     0.50 to 1.50
- depth (m)                                 1.00
- freeboard (m)                             0.95 7/      7/ Reported to the sub-
mersion flow level.
- Irrigators
- length/ha                                   23
- side slope                           1/1 or 3/2 8/   8/ 3/2 for double irri-
gators.
- bottom width (m)                          0.50 9/      9/ It becomes 1L.50 for
double irrigators.
- depth (m)                                 0.80 10/   10/ 1.00 for double
irrigators.
- freeboard (m)                             0.35 11/   11/ 0.45 for double
irrigators.
4.   DRAINAGE NETWORKS
- Design discharge (1/s/ha)                      2
- Main collectors (primary and secondary)
- length (km)                              72.3
- excavation (mn3)                       436,837
- embankment (m )                        180,101
- freeboard (m)                             0.20
- side slope                                3/2
- Tertiary drains
- length (km)  3                           94.2
- excavation (mn3)                       111,087
- embankment (m )                         81,590
- freeboard (m)                            0.20
- side slope                               3/2



- 47                                 ANNEX 4
Page 6
- Farm drains 12/                                          12/ These drains act
- length (m/ha)                       120                    as well as water
- side slope                          1/1                    distribution
- botton width (m)                      0.20                 furrows.
5.   ROADS
- Main roads
- length (km)                          32
- width (m)                             7 13/            13/ 5 m of laterite
pavement + 2 m of
berms.
- Tracks
- length (km)                         115
- width (m)                             9 14/            14/ 3 m of well
compacted soil
+ i m of berms.
6.   FARM DIKES
- length (m/ha)                         109
- crest width (m)                         0.50
- height (m)                              0.40
- side slope                            1/1
7.   PROTECTIVE DIKES
- length (km)  3                         64
- excavation (m3)                       134,000
- embankment (m )                       234,000
- crest width (m)                         2.50
- side slope                              2/1
8.   IRRIGATION PUMPING STATIONS
- number of pumping stations               11
- maximum total discharge (m /s)            6:10
- source of power                      Electricity
- maximum head (m)                     2.50 - 2.75
9.   DRAINAGE PUMPING STATIONS
- number of pumping stations3               3
- maximum total discharge (m /s)            4.89
- source of power                      Electricity
- maximum head (m)                     1.30 - 2.30



- 48 -
ANNEX 5
SENEGAL
DEBI-LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Agriculture
Cropping Pattern
1.        Crops to be grown under the project would be paddy at Debi (1,100 ha)
and paddy (1,880 ha) and tomatoes (340 ha) at Lampsar. Rice would be grown
on soils with a salinity of less than 2.5 mmhos (electro conductivity of
1/5 suspensions) and tomatoes on soils with a salinity of less than 0.7 mmhos
(Annex 2). Tomatoes with rice would be grown on a 3-year rotation as shown
in Table 1. Each holding would be 3 ha: on the mixed tomato-paddy holding
1 ha would be planted with tomatoes in late September, 1 ha each of early and
late rice at the beginning of August. On the paddy-only holdings, 1.5 ha each
of early and late rice would be planted. By using both early and late paddy
varieties, the harvesting season would be spread over November and December.
Tomatoes would be sown in nurseries from the beginning of September until thLe
end of October and transplanted a month after sowing. They would be harvested
from end of January till end of April.
Cultivation Methods
2.        Rice.  Because the heavy clay soils of the perimeters make plough--
ing before the rain extremely difficult without preirrigation (this has not
been possible since the Senegal River water at Ronq is saline till early
August), ploughing, seedbed preparation and also planting would be carried
out mechanically by SAED usinig crawler tractors. At the time of seedbed
preparation SAED applies 125 kg of diammonium phosphate per ha and, one
month after planting, farmers themselves make a single application of 100 kg
of urea per plant. Farmers themselves weed and harvest by hand. Threshing
and transport is provided by SAED.
3.        Tomatoes.  Land preparation is the same as for rice but after
seed preparation and fertilization (300 kg of diammonium phosphate per ha
and 400 kg of superphosphate), ridging is done by SAED. Farmers transplant
from their own nurseries, weed, and fertilize with 200 kg of urea per ha
and 275 kg of potassium chloride per ha. Tomatoes are treated with insecti-
cides by plane. Farmers piclc the tomatoes by hand and SAED arranges trans-
port to the factory.



- 49 -                               ANNEX 5
Page 2
4.        The above fertilizer quantites and pesticide treatments are based
on current practices but both would be investigated under the applied research
program.
5.        Varieties.  50% of paddy would be of early varieties with a cropping
season of 100-105 days and 50% of late varieties with a cropping season of
about 125 days such as jaja, D52-37 and ikp. Canning tomato varieties would
be:
Rossol, Roma VF and Super Roma.
6.        Yields.  Average yield developments are expected as follows:
Years          1       2        3       4 and onwards
Paddy (T/ha)      1.8      2.4     3.0           3.5
Tomatoes (T/ha)  15        20      25            30
The rice yields take into account the soil salinity factor and the average
yield at full development is expected to be 3.5 tons per ha. Average yield
of tomatoes at full development is expected to be 30 tons per ha as obtained
in the Dagana and Nianga perimeters.
7.        Farm budgets.  The farm budgets (Table 5) for farm type A (paddy
and tomatoes) and farm type B (paddy only) are based on the above yields and
take into account the estimated actual costs of farm inputs and mechanical
services together with increased water charges referred to in Annex 14,
Table 1.
Organization of Farmers and Extension Services
8.        Whereas in Sensgal generally, agricultural input supply, agricultural
credit and produce collection are channelled through farmers cooperatives,
SAED started some years ago to promote and develop mutual guarantee groups
whose farms coincide with the hydraulic unit of the irrigation system.  There
are 57 such hydraulic units with 12 to 14 farms of 3 ha each in the Lampsar
perimeter and 30 in the Debi perimeter.
9.        Within the mutual guarantee groups, farmers are free to organize
themselves--they can work separately or communally--SAED only deals with the
groups for supply of inputs and collect of produce. These groups have proved
successful in other projects under SAED's responsiblity and will have the
additional advantage, in future, of being large enough to allow ownership
and operation of their own mechanical equipment to be tested under the
applied research program.



-50-                             ANNEX 5
Page 3
10.       About four hydraulic units form a mutual guarantee group.  There
will be one extension worker per mutual guarantee group, comprising some 55
farmers families. The exteasion worker will be responsible for water manage-
ment as well as other services. Three to four extension workers will be
supervised by one extension officer. Four extension officers will cover the
Lampsar perimeter area and will be headed by a chief extension officer,
responsible for the extension services in the entire Lampsar perimeter and for
the applied research monitoring unit of the perimeter. These functions
together with similar ones for the Diagambal project would be headed by an
agronomist. (See typical organization chart of a perimeter.) The same type
of organization will apply to the Debi perimeter.
11.       The supply of agricultural inputs, its administration and produce
collection of the output has been kept separate from the agricultural extension
services, as shown in the organization chart. One supply unit will serve
both Debi-Boundoum; another will serve Lampsar-Diagambal.
12.       Mechanical services will also be separated from the extension
services, and grouped with project maintenance personnel responsible for
operation of the irrigation system in one unit, serving Debi-Boundoum or
Lampsar-Diagambal.



- 51 -
ANNEX 5
Table l
SENEGAL
DEBI LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT
CROP ROTATION, FIELD OCCUPATION AND LABOR REQUIREMENTS
fallow
FARMTYPE A:      340 ha annually in Lampsar
JASONDJFMAMJJASONDJFMAMJJASONDJFMAMJ
R ER WZ//z22 LR MM  /
i ha tomatoes (T)
LR E/d   E    T  | ¢ER §
1 ha early rice (ER)
g/ T  |         ER g/z  lLRBz/
___11 __   11__1i                    l ha late rice (LR)
l            2           3
3 ha single cropping per farm
FARMTYPE B: 1,100 ha annually in Debi; 1,880 ha annually in Lampsar
ER          ,ya     X LR M   ER    .-        1.5 ha early rice (ER)
1.5 ha late rice (LR)
LB  ~    ERLR                               _ _ _ _  _ __ _ _ _  _
l i i                    J           3 ha single cropping per farm
l            2            l
MANDAY REQUIREMENTS PER HA CROP AND PER FARMTYPE:
J   J   A   S   O   N   D   J   F   M   A   M   Total:
Rice (W) /1          -   1   6   6   6   6  25   -   -   -   -   -        50
Early Rice (W)       -   1  12  12  11  34   5   -   -   -   -   -        75
Late Rice (W)        -   1  12  1212  12  41           -   -   -   -      90
Tomatoes (W)         -   3   9  65  45  36  21  42  51  48  30   -    350
Farm Type A          _   5  33  89  68  82  67  42  51  48  30   -    515
Farm Type B          -   3  36  36  35  69  69   -   -   -   -   -    248
/1 W : Future without project.
W : Future with project.



DEBI LAMPSAR ITRRIGATION PROJEOT
HOURLY COOTB OF MEA1IICAL BE      SF
CFA francs
CFA francs        purchase        purchase   depreciation    depreciation   Maintenance   Maintenance   Maintenance   fuel and    labor   Total          Total             Costs
including   in hours       including       coefficient                  including         oil       coatS   economic  financial            of
taaes                       taxes             1/                         taxes                            costa      coste            taxes
1. Tractor ( crawler) 90 HP         6,280,000       7,285,000     6,ooo            1,214           0.70           733           850          1,100       650      2,483       3,184
Spareparts 15%                     942,000       1,093,000       -                182                           -             -             -          -         -           182
Total                                                                                                                                             .5        3,996             ,O
2. Tractor (wheel) 60-65 HP         3,235,000       3,750,000     6,000              625            0.65          350            406           733       650      1,733       2,414
Spareparts 15%                     485,0oo        563,000        -                 94             -             -              -            -          -         -            94
Total                                                                                                                                            1,733      2,508            155
3. Offeset plow                     2,030,000       2,355,000     4,000              589            0.90          456            530           _          _          456      1,119
Spareparts 10%                     203,000         236,000       -                 59              -            -              -                                 -            59
Total                                                                                                                                              456       1,198           164
4. Reversible plow                  1,000,000       1,150,000     4,oo0              288           0.8go          200            230           -          -         200         518
Spareparts 10%                     100,000         115,000       -                 29                           -              -            _          _         _            29
Total                                                                                                                                              200         547             71
5. Pulverizing harrow                 750,000         865,000     4,ooO              216            o.60          113            130                      _          113        346
Spareparts 10%                     795,000          87,000       -                 22              -            -              -            -          -         -            22
Total                                                                                                                                              113         368             49
6. Lister                             400,000         460,ooo     4,000              115            0.90           go            104           -          -           90        219
Spareprets 10%                      40,000          46,ooo       -                 12              -            -              -                                              12
Total                                                                                                                                               90         231             31
7. Planter                            40o,ooo         460,ooo     4,000              115            o.80           80             92                                  g o B0    207
Spareparts 10%                      40,o0o          46,000       -                 12              -            -              -            -          -           -          12
Total                                                                                                                                               80         219             29
8. Trailer       Total                740,000         860,000     6,ooo              143            0.50           62             72            -                     62        275             30
9. Thresher                         3,000,00o       3,500,000     6,000              580            0.90          450            520           245        _          695      1,345
Spareparte 15%                     450,000         530,000       -                 88                            -                    -           -                -          88
Total                                                                                                                                              695       1,433            i67
1/ perdentage of deprees±tIon.
lm1I1



- 53 -                            ANNEX 5
Table 3
SENEGAL
DEBI-LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Costs per ha of Mechanical Services, Number of Working Hours and Equipment Requirements
actions    number of  "Financial" "Economic"   Taxes    Annual
CFA francs    (see table 2)  hours per       costs    costs per   per ha    number of
ha        per ha        ha                 working hours
Plowing ( reversible plow)         1+4          4         18,172       10,732     1,524        1,360
Plowing (off-set)                   1+3        1.5         7,761        4,409       711        3,330
Plowing (off-set+pulvezizing)       1+3+5      1.5         8,313        4,578       785        2,820
Harrowing/seedbed preparation       2+5        1           2,876        1,846       204        2,220
Planting                            2+7        1           2,727        1,813       184        1,880
Listing                             2+6        2           5,478        3,646       372          680
Threshing                           9          0.8 tons/  6,269         3,041       731        8,225
hour
Transport tomatoes                  2+8        3           8,349        5,385        555       1,020
rice                     2+8         1          2,783        1,795        185       1,880
ELuipment Requirements:
7 tractors ( Crawler  )1/  80-90 HP    0.5 HP per ha
9 tractors ( wheel) 2/ -   60-65 HPJ
3 heavy reversible plows
6 off- set plows
3 pulverizers ( Cambridge)
3 pulverizing disc harrows
9 planters ( 28 rows)
1 lister/ bedding machine ( 2 rows)
3 harrows ( 5 segments)
9 trailers
19 threshers
1/ 1,073 working hours per tractor per year.
2/ 853 working hours per tractor per year.



SENEGAL
DEBI LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJÈCT
PRODUCTION COSTS PER HA
"Financial"         "Economic"          "Financial" Costs                      "Economic" costs                                      Without Project (Paddy)
CFA francs                    Unit Costs         Unit Costa        Paddy             Tomatoes         Paddy                     Tomaatoes             'Pinancial" costs                  'Economic Costs"
(Uniî)CFAF        (unit)CCFAF    (Unit) CFAF               (Unit) CFAF                (Unit)   CFAF                    (Unit)        CFAF
1. Agricu1ltural Inputs
Seeds; paddy                      70/kg               55/kg            (120)8,400                       (120)6,600                                         (120)      8,4oo                    (120)      6,600
tomatoes               6,280/kg            6,280/kg                            (0,5)3,140                                 (0,5)3,1140
Fertilizer: Diameonium
phosphate            25.1kg             45/kg             (125)3.125     (300) 7,500      (125)5,625               (300)13,500
Urea                 35/kg               50/kg            (100,3,500    (200) 7,000        (100)5,000               (200)10,000
Superphosphate       25/kg               45/kg                            (400) 0o,ooo                              (400o)8,ooo
Potassium Chloride. 25/kg                45/kg                            (275) 6,875                               (275)12,375
Pesticides: 1/                                                                              50,000         -                           50,000
Other expenses:                                                              6,000          15,000            6,000                    15,000
Total A.griculturcl  Inputs:                                                21,025          99,5l5          23,225                   1220l5 8O                                                            __
~~~4oO ~~~~6,6oo
2. Mechinical Services 
Plowing (reversible plow)   18,172/ha             10,732/ha                                 18,372                                     10,732
Plowing (off-set)              7,761/ha            4,409/ha                  7,761           7,76i           44,4o                       4,409                         7,761                              4,409
Plowing ( off-set+pul..
verizing)        8,313/ha            4,578/ha                  8,313                            4,578                                                    8,313                               4,578
Harrowing/seeibed pre-
paration         2,876/ha            1,846/ha                  2,876           2,876            1,846                     1,846
Planting                       2,727/ha            1,813/ha                  2,727                            1,813
Listing                        5,478/h.            3,646/ha                                  5,478                                      3,6h6
Threshing 3/                   6,269/ha            3,041/ha                  6,269                            3,o4                                                      ,433 4/                              6
Transport tomatoes              8 349/ha           5,385/ha                                  8,349                                      5,385
2 783/ha           1,795/ha                   2,783                           1,795                                                       696 5/                              449 5/
Total Mechanical Services:                                                     30,729          42,636           17,482                    26,018                          18,203                             l0,13l
Total Production Costs                                                         51,754        142,151            40,707                  148,033                          26,603                              16,731
rounded to         51,750        142,150            40,710                  148,030                          26.600                              16,730
2/ Herbicides on rice, although introduced in the area, are considered non-economical at yield levels of 3.5 tons/ha.
2/"PinaLncial" coats at levels calculated i0 Table 2.
3/ At full development, 3.5 tons per ha.
2/ At 0.8 tons per ha.
/ At 0.25 houre per ha.



- 55 -                             ANNEX 5
Table 5
SENEGAL
DEBI-LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT
FARM BUDGETS AT FULL DEVELOPMENT AND AT PRESENT
Future with Project (W)       Future Without Project (W)
Farmtype      Farmtype
CFA Francs                             A             B
Farm Size                   (ha)           3              3                        3
Annually Cropped Areas
per crop:  early rice   (ha)            1               1.5                     -
late rice    (ha)            1              1.5                      3
tomatoes      (ha)           1              -                       _
Production:  paddy          (tons)         7             10.5                      2.4/1
tomatoes      (tons)       30               -                       _
A. Gross Revenue per Farm           740,500        435,750                   99_,600
B. Costs
1. Farm Inputs          (CFAF)  141,565          63,075                   25,200
2. Mechanical Services (CFAF)  104,094           92,187                    - /3
3. Water Charges /2    (CFAF)  120,000          105,000                    - /3
Total Costs       (CFAF)  365,659         260,262                  25,200
C. Net Revenue per Family (CFAF)  374,841          175,488                   74,400
(US$)    (1,530)         ( 716)                    (304)
Labor Days                           515            248                      150
Net Revenue per Labor Day (CFAF)   728              708                      496
Net Revenue per hectare (CFAF) 124,947           58,496                   24,800
/1  Average yield of 0.8 tons/ha under flood control conditions; in reality yields
vary widely from 0 to 1.6 tons/ha.
/2  Assuming fees of CFAF 35,000 per ha for paddy and CFAF 50,000 per ha for tomatoes
in the future with project situation (W)._
/3  In the future without project situation (W), SAED would continue to provide
water and mechanical services to the farmers free of charge in the average year.



- 56 -
ANNEX 6
SENEGAL
DEBI-LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Applied Research
General
1.        Despite the large number of successful agricultural activities in
the area of the Senegal River Basin, very little of it is based on proper
agronomic research. The impiression is that too much fertilizer and pesti-
cides are used; soil preparaction techniques and equipment are not up to
date; despite the fact that the valley and the delta of the Senegal River
have always been cattle grazing areas, very little is done on livestock
development and eventual incorporation of such activities in the irrigation
projects; the present crop base (rice, sugarcane and tomatoes for canning)
is narrow and research on new species is urgently needed.
2.        SAED should not carry out basic research since other institutions
in the area and the country are responsible for this. On the other hand,
results of what basic research exists are often not directly applied by
the farmers.  These results should always be tested on farmers  fields by
the farmers themselves under the direct responsibility and supervision of
the extension workers before being translated into extension service guide--
lines.
Existing and Future Agricultural Research Activities in the Area
3.        The research stat:ions in operation are those of Ndiole and Fanaye,
both managed by ISRA. The soils of Fanaye in the upper delta, are represen-
tative of the majority of the soils of both the valley and the delta. The
Ndiole station is situated on a sand dune in the lower delta and is there-
fore representative of sprinkler irrigated crops only.
4.        Apart from some research carried out on the Ndiole station at the
request of, and partly financed by, SAED, no real coordination exists between
SAED and these research institutes. SAED does not have any influence on the
definition of either the research program or its execution. Coordination of
this type, especially in carrying out research, will in the future be assured
by the agronomist responsible for the applied agricultural research program.
5.        In the middle of 1977 a new research station will start operating
in the delta. This station, will focus on vegetable growing and it will be
a sub-station of the Horticultural Research Station at Cambarene near Dakar.
It will be managed by FAO and financing has been assured for 5 years by the



- 57 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
Belgian Government. Research will concentrate on variety trials and plant
protection. Since a considerble potential seems to exist for the produc-
tion of vegetables for the canning industry on sandy soils in the delta and
the valley, this research is important. The existing stations would continue
to be responsible for fundamental research on cereals.
SAED's Research Organization and Staffing
6.        SAED's Bureau d'Etudes et de Programmation (BEP) is responsible
for all its research activities. BEP is presently divided into six sections
responsible for: training, business administration, engineering studies,
agricultural economics, pedology, and agricultural mechanization. SAED
recently decided to transfer the agricultural development division to BEP
where it will be responsible for applied agricultural research. The present
sections are headed mostly by expatriates and total staff is ample, numbering
about 90.
7.        Under the proposed project, SAED's research activities would be
reorganized as follows:
- The pedology section would be made responsible for drainage
as well as soils.
- The agricultural section would be made responsible for
agricultural research and mechanization.
- A livestock section would be created.
Four technical specialists would be recruited to strengthen these sections:
a drainage engineer, a laboratory manager, an agronomist, and a livestock
(animal husbandry) specialist.
Activities
8.        Soils and drainage research would comprise:
- Soil surveys and land classification needed for future
agricultural development projects in the Senegal River
Basin.
- Drainage and groundwater surveys, the design of drainage
systems, testing drainage methods and materials and examining
methods to cope with the soil instability problem.
- Laboratory support services for the soil and drainage
surveys, monitoring of groundwater levels and quality,
and checking for changes in saline, alkali and acid
soil conditions in on-going projects.



- 58 -                            ANNEX 6
Page 3
These activities will be carried out in close cooperation with the agro-
economic section of the BEP, which is responsible for preparation of
future projects.
9.        Agricultural research.  This research would take place on farmers'
own fields and would be limited to single varietal, fertilizer and plant
protection trials, which would result in practical extension service re-
commendations. Each perimeter would have a small team which would be
responsible for implementing the trials and would be part of the extension
services organization in order to maintain continuity between trials and
their application.
10.       In the project areas the tests will focus on:
-    planting date and varieties of cereals (rice, wheat, corn,
barley, and sorghum).
-    planting date and varieties of vegetables under furrow
irrigation (tomatoes, potatoes, onions, green beans,
dry beans, flageolet and others).
-    fertilizer tests set up to decrease its usage and to
improve the methods of application (band-application
and side-dressing).
-    plant protection trials directed towards a reduction of the
frequency of treatments.
11.       Agricultural mechanization.  Although the project is based on thie
provision of mechanical services by SAED, since farmers do not have sufficient
experience in managing trac tors or in animal drawn cultivation, it is en-
visaged that farmers would eventually take over the ownership and operationi
of mechanical services through CUMA. In order to prepare for this transfer,
research will be carried out: into:
-    forming farmers' groups and supplying them with equipment
and technical assistance and monitoring the results.
-    introducing draft animals on a limited scale to individual
farmers and supplying them with the necessary equipment
and technical assistance. The results will be carefully
monitored. This component would be incorporated in the
applied livestock research.
-    testing rice cultivation with minimum tillage practices.
-    adapting equipment to the various operations.



- 59 -                           ANNEX 6
Page 4
Since the Lampsar perimeter is located nearest to the central workshop in
Ross-Bethio, it is ideally situated for these tests.
12.       Livestock.  Actions directed at the improvement of meat and milk
production in the area have been limited. SAED's promising first experience
with field tests on livestock production is recent. A continuation of these
practical tests under the Project is important to better define and guide
the integration of livestock and irrigation.
13.       Many crop by-products and concentrated feeds are available in the
area, but they are not used; for example, rice and wheat straw, molasses,
fish meal, rice bran, and groundnut cake.  In the field tests the combined
use of crop by-products and concentrate feeds, together with irrigated fodder
crops, will be pursued.
14.       Efforts to increase local milk production have failed so far.
Zebu cattle have low yields, but, East African experience can safely be
extrapolated, indicating that much higher yields could be obtained through
cross-breeding with Friesian cattle. Applied investigations would require
the importation of Friesian semen and artificial insemination of a represen-
tative sample of Zebu cows. Although artificial insemination is widely
tested on smallholdings in developing countries, it is an innovation for
the project area, and has to be carefully planned and monitored.
15.       The tests will consist of farmers' groups with the following
specializations:
-    three groups specializing in the production of mutton.
-    one group for beef production through fattening of feeder
steers.
-    one group for milk production.
Animal traction will be tested through adding a number of draft animals to
the above units. Special attention will be given to the production of
farmyard manure. Each farmers' group will be supported by an extension
worker as an observer, who would be responsible for day-to-day advice and
a careful monitoring of the tests. A small experimental feedmill would be
operated by the Industrial Division of SAED.
16.       As a general principle, purchase of seeds, fertilizer, pesticides,
equipment, and livestock would be reimbursed by the farmers taking part in
the tests. Farmers would be indemnified for any mishaps of the research
services.



- 60-                            ANNEX 7
SENEGAL
DEBI-LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT
WATER SUPPLY AND WATER REQUIREMENTS
A. Water Supply
Flow Characteristics of the Senegal River in the Delta Region
1.        The Senegal River is 1,800 km long, with a drainage area of 290,000
km .  The general climatie anid topographical features of the region are
described in Annex 1. This iannex summarizes the flow characteristics of the
river in the delta region, as they relate to potential quantity and quality
of irrigation water, flooding, and drainage, and with special emphasis on
the effects of these characteristics on the Debi Lampsar project.
Source of Data
2.        Many years of records are available of water levels at several
stations along the river.  The earliest known records are of water levels
measured at Richard Toll from 1823 to 1827.  At Dagana, located just upstreaTm
of the delta proper, continuous records since 1916 are available. The history
of stream gauging and measurements of water levels on the Senegal are summa--
rized in a treatise by ORSTOM. 1/ More recently in the framework of OMVS
activities, SAED presented a study 2/ in which ORSTOM data were updated.
3.        The tidal cycle of the Atlantic Ocean influences river levels
upstream past Podor, some 260 km inland. Boghe, 380 km inland, is the first
station whose readings are not affected by ocean fluctuations. Since it is
difficult to measure precisely low flows in the river in the reach affected
by tides, and also because the cross-sectional areas of the river in the
lower reaches of the valley and in the entire Delta are subject to change
during high floods, there are variations in the stage-discharge curves
for most key stations. Nevertheless, the intensive studies performed by
ORSTOM since 1960, by UNDP-FAO experts since 1965, and more recently
by SAED, have demonstrated conclusively that good estimates of stream
discharges can be made from level gauge readings. Data analyzed and
processed by these organizations are the primary basis for the description
of stream flow characteristics presented herein.
1/   Apercu Hydrologique du Fleuve Senegal.  Synthese Provisoire des
Donnees Hydrologiques Elaborees par l'ORSTOM, by C. Rochette & P.
Touchebeuf. ORSTOM Jan. 1964.
2/   Programme d'action a court et moyen terme.  Rapport de fin de lere
phase. SAED/SCET 1976.



- 61 -                              ANNEX 7
Page 2
General Present Flow Characteristics
4.        Under existing natural conditions the river follows a regular
pattern annually. In June or July, the flow begins to increase in response
to the start of the rainy season in the southern headwaters area. The flow
increases slowly, peaking about 3 to 3-1/2 months later. There is only one
flood per year.  Floods decline more slc>ly in accordance with well esta-
blished stream hydrology patterns, reaching minimum levels in May or June.
5.        At Dagana (190 km inland), flood crests occur between September 16
and November 23. About two-thirds of the crests at Dagana have occurred
in the period October 3-25, and the remaining one-third during the period
October 16-23. At Debi, highest levels occur about 5 to 7 days later.
Downstream Dagana peaks are reached later as a result of the natural storage
of the flood plains.
6.        As flows decrease in the delta, saline water from the sea moves
slowly inland. By early March, the salinity levels at Debi are as much as
12,000 p.p.m - six times the approximate maximum limits for irrigation water,
and twelve times the desirable salinity limits already reached in January
(Annex 2). The intruding wedge of saline water begins to appear near
Dagana in June, and the water starts becoming unsuitable for irrigation
sometime during that month. The maximum period of excessive salinity is
about one month.
7.        The change from a saline to a non-saline condition takes place
fairly rapidly with the increase of flow during the wet season.  Obviously
the change takes place earlier further upstream. Therefore, at Ronq pumping
station (intake of Lampsar waters), water can be safely diverted after the
first days of August when the quality of the water is excellent with total
salinity being 100 p.p.m or less. The quality of the water is still accept-
able for irrigation until January at Debi and February at Ronq.
Specific Flow Characteristics
8.        The most downstream river section of the Senegal which has been
thoroughly studied and characterized for discharge is Bakel, where rating
curves are stable, and both wet season and dry season flows can be accu-
rately obtained. Time lag between Bakel and Ronq depends on the size of the
flood, and can be estimated at 40 days for a ten-year flood, and 35 days for
an average flood. Because of the significant influence of tides on water
levels and flows at Debi (65 km) and Ronq (11 km), discharge measurements
are rare and unreliable. Water level data are, however, available.



- 62 -                               ANNEX 7
Page 3
Specific Flow Characteristics at Bakel
9.        Drainage area                                     -  218,000 km2
Mean annual flow (1903-76)                        -   23,560 hm3
Mean annual discharge (1903-76)                   -      747 m /s
Lowest registered annual flow (1972)              -    8,000 hm 3
Highest registered annual flow (1924)             -   39,100 hm
Average date of beginning of flood                -   June 22
Average date of peak                              -   September Il
3
Average flood discharge                           -    3,760 m /s
Characteristic flood discharges  T -   10         -    7,180 m /s
T -  100       -   10,100 m /s
T -1000        -   13,000 m /s
Mean June discharge (1903-76)                     -      102 m /s
Minimum June discharge (1975)                     -      0.9m /s
This table shows the contrast between:
(i)  the very high flows of the flood season, far exceeding
the estimated irrigation requirements at that period, and
(ii)  the extremely low flows of the dry season, making impossible any
annual double cropping unless storage facilities are provided.
Besides, low flows give rise to the intrusion of ocean salt water,
and this prevents any water diversion from the river for irrigation
purposes for many kilometers inland.
Salinity Phenomena
10.       The phenomena associated with the gradual intrusion of salinity
upstream in the delta region as river flows decrease following the flood
season have been studied in some detail and reported on by C. Rochette 1/
and subsequently by UNDP-FAO study teams in the Senegal basin.  SAED-SCET
has also made independent salinity measurements in the area. Among the
points noted in these studies are the following:
1/   "Remontee des Eaux Marines dans le Senegal" ORSTOM 1964.



- 63 -                     ANNEX 7
Page  4
(a) The average river salinity in the delta at any specific
location is:
(i)  a functioe of the river flow when flows are greater
than 50 m /s;                                3
(ii) a function of time for flows less than 50 m /s with
time zero when the discharge starts to decrease.
(b) The date of occurrence of excessive salinity can be predicted
with a considerable degree of accuracy each year, once the
river discharge has clearly established its recession pattern
for the dry season (this can be as early as December);
(c) The date of occurrence of fresh water for irrigation each year
in the delta can be forecast within about a month in any year,
and within about a week, or less; in specific years once
the rains lead to increased river flows in the upper basin.
11.       As far as water supply to the project is concerned, and given that
the salinity of Senegal waters imposes a constraint, the following conclusions
can be drawn regarding the present status of the river flows:
(a)  At Ronq (diversion for Lampsar project), the fresh water
period runs from the first of August to the first of February
(95% guaranteed).
(b) Double cropping in the Lampsar project is possible provided
adequate storage facilities are created along the Lampsar
channel (see separate chapter in this Annex).
B. Water Requirements
Rice
12.       Rice is the main crop to be grown in Lampsar; it would use the
greatest amount of water, and requires the highest delivery rates of flow.
Estimates of rice water requirements were based primarily on Penman's
formula, plus consideration of rice cultivation practices. Table 1 shows
for rice and tomatoes the values of Potential Evapotranspiration (ETP),
average rainfall, deficit, and net water requirements after application of
the crop coefficient. For rice, it is necessary to add the pre-irrigation
and submersion requirements. The following criteria were used:



- 64 -                           ANNEX 7
Page 5
Gross Water requirement   Duration         Water Used
(  /ha cultivated)       (days)     m3/day/ha  l/s/fha
Pre-irrigation                      1,000                2           500      5.79
Submersion                          3,600              20            180      2.08
Maintenance
early rice                       8,370               90            93       1.1
(total)                 (12,970)
late rice                         9,740             105            93       1.1
(total)                 (14,340)
13.       While the preceding data are representative, actual water require-
ments would vary with the variety of rice grown, date of planting, permeabil-
ity of the soil, amount of fertilizer used, and degree of farming expertise.
14.      *For rice cropping, total irrigation efficiency was considered as
about 70%, resulting from 20,% losses on the field, 5% losses on the distribu-
tion network, and 5% losses on the main conveyance system.
Tomatoes
15.       Tomatoes will be grown in Lampsar from October to mid-April.  The
net monthly water requirements are also s Vown in Table 1 which indicates a
seasonal total ne5 consumption of 8,080 m /ha. Maximum requirements occur
in March (1,640 m /ha net), and more precisely in the second week of the
month (400 m lha net).
16.       Water irrigation efficiency was taken as about 70% by application
of the same losses as for rice (see para 14 above).
Daily Irrigation Durations
17.       Farmers would irrigate their rice fields on a 24 hour per day basis.
This task is not a difficult one, and the procedure is already being prac-
tised in other SAED irrigated perimeters in the delta.
18.       For tomatoes, it is more realistic to plan on f'armers irrigating
their fields no more than 12 hours in any one day. Peak delivery in March
will be 2.00 l/s/ha, although the normal rate will generally not exceed 1.05
l/s/ha. Since the system is conditioned by the requirements for rice culti-
vation, these rates do not iu?ose any structural or operational problem.
Summary of Delivery Requirements
19.       With the foregoing delivery rates and quantities as a basis, the
table has been prepared as a summary of key factors in water



- 65 -
ANNEX 7
Page 6
Crop        Peak delivery  Normal rate  Cropped Area   Maximum    Total Annual
(1/s/ha)      (1/s/ha)          (ha)        Div rsion    Divmrshon
(m /s)      (10  m)
Early rice       2.30         1.10            940            2.16         9,410
Late rice        2.30         1.10            940            2.16        10,630
Tomatoes         2.00         1.05            340            0.68         2,490
-    Peak delivery - for rice, equivalent to the submersion rate; for
tomatoes, worst month at 26 days and 12 hours/day.
-    Normal rate   - for rice, the maintenance rate; for tomatoes,
average consumption at 26 days, 12 hours/day.
-    Maximum        - primary and secondary canals
diversion    - for rice, the cropped area x 2.3 1/s/ha; for
tomatoes, the cropped area x 2.00 1/s/ha.
- tertiary canals; capacity is higher to allow
for water management within hydraulic units
(rotation for pre-irrigation)
C. Comparison of Supply and Demand
20.       Comparison should be made in terms of peak flows and volumes.  Peak
flows Sorrespond to the month of August, with both rice crops demanding water,
4.28 m /s. This coincides with the wet season when Senegal potentiil is far
beyond the maximum requirements. The peak of tomato demand (0.68 m /s) is
in January, at a time when fresh water is still available in the Senegal. In
terms of volume, there might be cause for concern only after February, when
the tomato crop has to rely on Lampsar 3channel storage; the total volume
required after February 1 is 837,100 m , which is a small part of that
storage. However, this problem has to be considered within the broader
framework of total water requirements along the Lampsar channel (Annex 8).



SENEGAL
DEBI LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT
CROPS NET WATER REQUIREMENTS
(mm) !/
_     F      M     A      M     J      J      A     S      O      N     D    Total
- Potential Evapotranspiration
ETP (mm) Penman                       150   160   230   250   260   240   220   170   160   190   160   140   2,330
- Usable Rainfall
Pu = 0.75 P (mm)                        0     1      0      0     2      6    30   110    59    22        2      1     233
- Deficit
D = ETP - Pu (mm)                     150   159   230   250   258   234   190    60   101   168   158   139   2,097
- Water Requirements
B = K 2/D
Early Rice                                                                       K 1.20  1.20  1.20
B  72   121   202                    395 (586)
Late Rice                                                                         K 1.20  1.20  1.20  1.20
B  72   121   202    95              490 (682)
Tomatoes                          K  0.90  0.82  0.71   0.6                                      0.53  0.70  0.83
B  135   131   164       38                                      88  111   115      782 (808)
1/  10 mm - 1 m3/ha.
2/ Weighed values according to crop scheduling.
( ) Total water consumption = irrigation 4 Pu
ÇD



- 67 
ANNEX 8
SENEGAL
DEBI-LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT
The Role of the Lampsar Channel in the Senegal Delta Water Supply
Introduction
1.        The Lampsar channel is a waterway running approximately NE-SW, which
connects the Senegal River at Ronq pumping station with St. Louis. It plays
an important role in providing water supply to the city of St. Louis, and in
the irrigation of several perimeters along its banks (Kassak Sud, Kassak Nord,
Grande Digue Tellel, Savoigne); it is also a source of drinking water for
people and livestock. It is provided with three main controlling structures
(gated bridges) at Ross Bethio, N'Diol and Dakar Bongo, subdividing its
total length (90 km) into three stretches of 44.7 km, 25.5 km, and 19.8 km.
2.        From August 1 to February 1 when water quality in Senegal is good,
water is diverted at Ronq either by gravity or by pumping. Allocations of
water have been made by SAED in such a way that natural storage between
February and August is enough to serve the domestic water supply needs of
St. Louis and of the population along its banks. However, with the develop-
ment of other irrigation perimeters like Lampsar and Diagambal, the pros-
pects for dry season cropping, and the normal growth of water demand by
St. Louis, more precise and firm arrangements had to be made to ensure that
all water users would be satisfied. For this purpose a study was carried out
by the consultants SCET-International in December 1974 and updated with the
present available data. This Annex contains the main findings of the study
which concluded that dry season irrigation requirements in the zone of
influence of the Lampsar channel could be fully satisfied with the construc-
tion of small longitudinal embankments on both sides of the channel.
Water Availability
3.        Due to salinity constraints, water can only be diverted (by gravity
or pumping) from the Senegal into the Lampsar channel between August 1 and
February 1 (guarantee of 95%). The Ronq pumping station is designed so that
gravity flows are possible when the water level in the Senegal is above +1.30 m,
provided that downstream the water is lower, (+1.30 m is the level of the sill
crest). Observation of the average hydrograph of the Senegal at this site
shows that gravity flows can be used for about 90 days, from the last week
of August to the end of November, the maximum level in the Lampsar channel at
Ronq being 1.50 m (see para 8). Pumping will be necessary in August, and from
December till the end of January. In the beginning and at the end of the
period the water level in the Senegal is at about 0.20 m.
4.        From the point of view of economical operation, gravity diversion
should be maximized to completely utilize the storage capacity of the Lampsar
channel; when the Senegal level drops, pumping should be used to maintain



ANNEX 8
Page 2
this full storage by supplyiLng the volumes required for irrigation purposets,
and to make up for evaporat:Lon losses. No more water can be diverted after
February 1, and from then oni, storage should be enough to satisfy the
requirements of the following six months till August 1, when new water
can be diverted from the Senegal. Since the diversion period corresponds
to the wet season, there are no constraints on quantity. Also, pumping
capacity at Ronq does not cause any problem (see para 6).
5.        The zone of influence of the Lampsar channel can be subdivided
into three sections corresponding to the stretches mentioned in para l
above: (i) From Ronq to Ross-Bethio, the irrigable area is about 3,400 ha,
of which about 630 ha might be used for tomato growing in dry season.
(ii) From Ross Bethio to N'Diol, the irrigable area is about 3,600 ha,
corresponding mainly to the Lampsar and Diagambal projects (3,220 ha);
after February, the maximum area which might be under cultivation is
about 700 ha (tomatoes and potatoes).  (iii) Downstream N'Diol. the main
water consumer is St. Louis. Evaporation losses can be estimated on free
water surface values as indicated in Annex 1.
6.        The critical period is from February on since, before that date,
water supply is ample and pumping capacity at Ronq exceeds peak irrigation
requirements 1/. The monthly water requirements for each of the sections
during this critical period is as follows:
Month        Ronq/Ross- ethio    Ross-Bethio/ 'Diol   N'Diol-Dak r-Bongo
('000 m )              ('000 m )           ('000 m ) a)
February           902.3                  936.8                300.0
March              567.0                  488.0                300.0
April               81.9                   70.6                300.0
a) 1980 estimates.
After April and till August no cropping is practised, and water requirements
are reduced to amounts needed for human and animal consumption.
Water Balance
7.        The storage characteristics of the Lampsar channel were determinecl
on the basis of cross profiles every 300 m, and the curves water level/area,/
volume obtained for each of the stretches mentioned in para 1 above. This
enabled optimization of the ratio of storage capacity to volume of dike
embankment by concentrating storage in areas where natural conditions were
more favorable.
1/   Assuming a peak submersj on discharge for rice of 2.3 1/s/ha, Ronq
pumping station (17.5 m /s) would be enough for 7,600 ha.



- 69 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3
8.        The following table shows water levels, storage capacity, and
volume of embankment required for the three stretches and for the two
key dates February 1 (stop diversion, full capacity) and April 15 (end of
irrigation period).
Irrigation             WATER MANAGEMENT                         EMBANKMENTS
February 1              April 15               Crest   Volume
area      water level  Storage   water level  storage  level   ('000 m )
(ha)         (m)         (hm3)         (m)         (hm3    (m)
Ronq/Ross-Bethio  630           1.50         9.07         0.70        3.21   2.50      142.5
Ross-Bethio/
N'Diol           700          0.70         2.65        -0.05        1.46   1.70       37.0
N'Diol/Dakar-
Bongo             -           0.50        12.30        -0.10        9.00   1.50       65.0
Total                            24.02                    13.67             244.5
9.        For irrigation of the first two sections, a total of 4.67 hm  will
still be stored at the end of the cropping season, of which 2.96 hm  can still
be used once they are above the minimum pumping level (-0.50 m). This would
be a sufficient safety margin.
10.       The last section is closely connected with the St. Louis water supply.
The watSr balance shows that at the end of July, out oS the initial volume of
12.3 hm  stored3at the beginning of the period, 9.0 hm  still remains at the
end, and 4.0 hm are usable, which gives a reasonable safety margin.
11.       Freeboard for the dikes was taken as 1.00 m, with a crest width of
2.50 m, and side slopes of 2/1.



IENEGAL
DEBI LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECR PROJET W IRRIlATIOC  DE DEBI L6APSAR
Total Pro-ent Coat/CoOt Projet
Local               Foreig                Total                 Loca                For-ig                 Total            ERchange 
Monnaie locale   ~Devises                                  ionLAinLoal             DevisesZDeis
- - - - - -  CFAF '000 -i- - ----------                         --------------------------------US$  '000       1-         -       -----
DBbai                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.  Debi
irrigetion and Drainage Natcornk          225,900              770,100              996,000920                                    3,14D Eiseae irrigetios et drainage
B.ildingo   ___                            29,640                86,36o              116.000                   120                  350                  470                   74                                Vît irtene
Vahiclne sed Eqeipsnrot                    36,69o               i4i,310              178 0 0                   150                  580                     0                  79                                 Vlinles et qeipeient
sElnties                                   25, 0O                  -                  25,000                  300                  -                      lDO
Operati.n tnd Ihiniananos                   2,000                 6,090                8,0 0                    10                   20                    30                  75                                Emtretlenîe o fndtionneren
Agricultur3-1 lopot  (In.re.ental)         21 240                37,760 0             59900                    90                   150                  245                   64                                    Ce8r  ds   (dse
Basa Cnet ratinera     340,470            î,î4î,s~~~~~~_oo      1,382,000                130ciJ5,630                                                        7,5                                   îprvaphysiq.es
Physiral Contingesoies                  51,670               154,i30              206,000                   210                  620                   830                  75                                     Iwrèod prix
Expected price increeses                63,000              190,000               253,000                  260                   770                1,D30                   75
TOTAL  DREI                            i55,i4D                                                  1,380 11,0CO                                                                75                                     TOTAL DEBI
2   L=sn                                                                                                                                                                                                          2. Lanser
Ifligtin ored Dfreinage Ntoorke          383,000             2,172,O0             2,555,000                 1.56O                8,870                11,990                   85                                 ite..eeatirrigation st drainage
rolX~-g                                 55,770              103,230              137,000                   150                   41o                  s6c                   74                                VBïeic-e  et&eçeen
Vahinles pnd Eqeip.ent                    61,500               218,500              280,ooo                   250                  890                 1,140                  78                                  Véhiculee  t q.ip   u
Salaries                                  51,000                  -                  51,000                   210                 -                      210                   0                                  Saires       E
Oparstion snd maintenaene                   6,0o                18,00o                24,ooo                   30                    70                  100                   75                                  ntretien et Enctionneet
Agrineltîne  Inpute (Increented)           59,400              105,600               165,00o                  240                   430                  670                   64                                  n.puto meruculen (eooioonre)
Bana Cent atinetet                        596,670            2,615,330            3,212,0,o 2o450                                10,660               13,110                   Si                                   Et de banc
Phynloal Oontiegenel-e                    19790                5505o                ,804,oo                   36o                1,590                 1,950                   81                                 Ieprénne phyniqu.e
Expe-ted price inere. ea                  157,000              671,000               8M2,00o                  640                 2,750                3,390                   81                                  Imprévu= de prie
WTAL. LAkPSAE;   843,370                                 3,676,630            4,520,000                 3,450               15,ooo                18,450                   ,                                      TOTAL LAMPSAR-
3.   Teehoneld Aseisianea                                                                                                                                                                                          3   aenfereemsnt inetituetine
Appdiad r..-h                            325,000               705,000              890,000                   510                2,880                 3,390                  8sE5de
TAppiie.cssr                              89,000                76,000              i65,ooe                   360                  310                   670                  46                                  P5egrste
Teehe.cl   ensoielinia                      -                  540,000              54o,o00                  _                   2,200                 2,200                 100                                 APsistes.a tiehequa
Base test estiata                     214,000              15,31,000           1,535,000                   870                5,390                6,26o                   86                                      Cnetr  de base
tPhystre  Cpniignee                    18,000                15,300               33,000                    70                   60                   130                  16 Iaves physiqees
Bepeoted pries inerreses    ~~54,o00              332,000              386,000                   220                1,350                 1,570                  86                                      IPFVSprie
TOTAL TECNlRUIL ASSISTANCE             P6         ,000                                0                 1,7,960                                                            85                                      TOTAL RENFORCRIENT fNSTITUrION
4.  Refi.4.iee nf DEBI IAMPRSA
Encineerinî  Credit 5-18-EE                   -                  245,0 0              245,000                  -                   1,030                 lOO                 100                            4.  Raeboasement crédit d'lseLeierie 1-18-lE
5.  TOTAL PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                  5. TOTAL PROJET
Base tCst Estio.te                  1,151,140            5,2o2,860             6,374,000                4,710                 21,290               26,00                   82                                     Cfit  de b...
Physiclt Ceetingannies               159,370               559,630               719,000                  640                  2 2,70              2,910                   78                                        prewu  physiques
Bepeetnd price inneensea              274,o00             1o, 0                1,467,100                1,120                  4,970                5,990                  81                                     lepréws prie
TOTAL FOJEBCT                       i,584,510            6,975,490             8.56000                  f"470                 28,430              74,9oo                   oî                                     TOTAL PROJET



SENEGAL
DEBI LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECTIPROJET D'IRrIGATION DE DEBI LAMPSAR
DEBI
Cost Estimate,'Estimation ces coûts
1oreign
Local    Foreign       Total    Local   Foreign    'l'otal   Exchange
----    CFAF '000          - - - IS.'000------- 
1.  Irrigation and Drainage Networks                                                                                                    1.  Réseaux d'irrigation et de drainage
Land ClearIng and Levelling                       77,500    112,500       150,000    150         460        610       75                Débroussaillage et nivellement
Earthworks                                       117,700    741,700       455,000    470       1,-90     1,860        75                Terrassements
StructureE                                        48,000    192,000       240,000    190         790        980      50                 Ouvrages
Mechanical and Hvdro-mechanical Eouijment          5,000      28,ooo       37,ooo      20        110        ]7'      85                 Ecuipement mécanique et hydromécanicue
Electrical Equirment                                 900       5,100        6,000      PM         20         20      85                 Enuipement électrique
Roads                                              4,000      12,000       16,000      20         50         '0       75                Pistes
Eesettlement of Debi village                      13,200      46,800       60,000      50        190        240       78                Péinstallation village Debi
Supervision of Works (43) 3600                                32.400       36,ooo      10        130        140       90                Supervision travaux (4,)
Subtotal                                      225,900    770,100       996,000    920      3,140      4,060       77                    Sous-total
Contingencies (15%)                            34,300    114.700       149)000    140         470       610       77                    Imprévus physiques (15%)
Subtotal                                      260,200    d8Lt500   1,145,000  1,060        3,610      4,670       77                    Sous-total
2. Bulldin a                                                                                                                            2.  Bâtiments
ProjecstHeadouarters                              20,870      62,670       87,500      90        250        '40      75                 Centre projet
Field Storehouses                                  8,280      19,020       27,600      0O         80        110       70                Magasins de stockage au champ
Supervision of kbrks (4%)                            490       4.410        4,900      _          20         20       90                Supervision travaux (4X)
SubtOtal                                       29,640      86,360      116,000    120         350       470       74                    Sous-total
Contingencies (15%)                             4.420      122580 -    17,000       20      -50 4 ,n 0            74                    Imprévus physiques (15%)
Subtotal                                       34,060      98,910      133,000    IhO         ùOO        540      74                    Sous-total
s.  Vehicles an- E,otiiment                                                                                                              .  Véhicules et équioement
Ecuipment for Buildings 0. and M.                  1,500       8,500       10,000      10          °         40       85                Equipement pour entretien bâtiments
Cars                                               1,650       9, 50       11,000      10         70         40      85                 Voitures
Lorries                                            1,570       8,90-       10,500      10         °0         40       85                Camions
Agricultural Equiument                            25,000      75,000      100,00      100        320        420      75                 Equipement agricole
Ecuipment for Civil Uorks 0. and M.                62970      79,570       46.500      20        ]70        190       o5                Equipement pour entretien reseaux
Subtotal                                       3,0;60    141,310       178,000    150         580        730       79                   Sous-total
Contingencies (157)                             5,460      20,540       26,000      20         80       100                             Imprévus physiques  (15%)
Subtotal                                       42,150    161,850       204,000    170         660        830       79
4. Salaries                                            25,000       -           25,000    100         -          100       -            4.  Salaires
Contingencies (15%)                             4           -40                     20        _           20      _                     Tmprévus physioues  (15%)
Subtotal                                       29,000                   29,000    120         -          120       _                     Sous-total
5- Oreration and aint_nence                              2,000      6,000         8,000     10         20         30       -            5- Entretien et fonctionnemeFt
- . zontingen ce "ETr ;.                                      7 0                                                                  --,non  r PS   SM  Wmarevus pnyslquee  Cffl
Subtotal                                        2,250       6,7o0        9,000      02         20         30       75                   Sous-total
6. Agricultural Innuts (Incremental)                   21,240      37,760       59,000      90        150        240       -        _        Inuts agricoles (additionnels)
Contingencies  _151>                            3.240       5.760        9.000      10         20         30      -                      Imprévus physiques (15%)
Subtotal                                       24,480      43,520       68,000    100         170        270       -                     Sous-total
Total Base Costs                             340,470  1,041,530   1,382,000  1,390         4,240     5,630        75                      Total coûts de base
contloge»oxes                                .51,670    154,330       206,000    210         620        830       75                      Imprévus physiques
Expected Price Increases                      63,000    190,000       253,000    260         770     1,030        75                      Inprévus de prix
Total Pebi Costs                             4.55,1ho  1,385,860   1,841,000  1,860        5,630      7,480       75                      Total Debi
56  7T



SENEGAL
DEBI LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT/'PROJET D'IRRIGATION DE DEBI LAMPSAR
Debi
Expected Price Increases/'Imprevus le prix
Calendar Year/Année Civile
1978      1979       19dO    1981       1982       Total
----------       (CrA  0000 'FCFA '000)----------------
1.  Debi                                                                                                                      1.  Debi
1.1  Civil Dorks                                                                                                              1.1  Travaux de génie civil
Irrigation and Drainage Networks              458,o0o   687,ooo   _         -,i45,000                                         Réseaux irrigation et drainage
Buildings                                     40.000    60,000   33,000   -           -           133,000                     Bàtiments
Subtotal                                498,000   747,000   3      0                       1,278,000                          Sous-total
Annual Inflation Rate (8") '1                10          9         9   -         -                                            Taux annuel d'inflation (%) ')
Exuected Price Increase                  50,000   149,000   10,000                           209,000                           Imprévus prix
1.7  Equipment and Services                                                                                                   1.2  Equipement et services                                           u
Salaries                                        5,000     8,000    8,oo0    8,000   -               29,000                    Salaires
Vehicles and Equipment                         80,000   124,000   -          -         -           204,ooo                     Véhicules et équipement
Overation and Maintenance /2                   1,000      2,000    3,000    3,000                    9,000                    Entretien et fonctionnement /2                   _
Agricultural InputE (Incremental)             20,000    48,000   -          -         -            68,000                     Inputs agricoles (additionnels)
Subtotal                                106,000   182,000   11,000   11,000   -              310,000                          Bous-total
Annual Inflation Rate (%)                     8          7         7         7   -                                            Taux annuel d'inflation (50)
Expected Price Increases                  8,400    29,000    2,600    4,000   -               44,ooo                           Imprévus Prix
1.3        Total Without Price Increases            604,000   929,000   44,000   n,ooo    -            1,588,000                1.3       Total sans imprévus prix
Expected Price Increases                 58,400   178,000   12,600    4,000   -              253,000                           Imprévus orix
Total With Price Increases              662,400 1,107,000   56,600   15,000   -            1 ,84d,ooo                         Total avec imsprévas prix
Efficiency Pricing                     (633,000) (980,000) (49,000)  (8,000)  -           (1,670,000)
,l  Calculated by compounding the estimated rite of                                                                           1  Calculé en composant les augmentations de prix des années
price increases in prior year and one half the rate                                                                          Drécédenten et la noitié de l'augmentation de prix de
of increase in the year concerned.                                                                                           l'année considérée.
/2  Excluding salaries.                                                                                                      /2  Salaires exclus.



- 73 -                            ANNEX 9
Table 4
SENEGAL
DEBI-LAMIPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT/PROJET D'IRRIGATION DE DEBI-LAMPSAR
Debi Irrigation Works/Debi travaux irrigation et drainage
Cost Estimate/Estimation du coût
Total
CFAF '000
1.1  Land Clearing and Levelling             150,000   1.1  Débroussaillage et nivellement
1.2  Earthworks                                         1.2  Terrassements
Irrigation and Drainage Networks    375,000            Réseaux irrigation et drainage
On-farm Works                          70,000          Aménagements terminaux
Pumping Station                        10,000           Station pompage
455,000
1.3  Structures                                         1.3  Ouvrages
Irrigation and Drainage Networks    125,000            Réseaux irrigation et drainage
On-farm Works                          40,000          A la parcelle
Pumping Station                        75,000           Station pompage
240,000
1.4  Mechanical and Hydromechanical                     1.4  Equipement mécanique et
Equipment                                              hydromécanique
Irrigation and Drainage Networks      12,000           Réseaux irrigation et drainage
On-farm Works                           1,000          A la parcelle
Pumping Station                        20,000           Station pompage
33,000
1.5  Electrical Equipment                      6,000   1.5  Equipement électrique
1.6  Roads                                    16,000   1.6  Pistes
1.7  Resettlement of Debi Village             60,000   1.7  Réinstallation village Debi
1.8  Supervision of Works (4%)                36,000   1.8  Supervision travaux (4%)
Total Base Costs                   996,000              Total coûts de base
Contingencies (15%)                149,000              Imprévus physiques (15%)
TOTAL                       1,145,000                 TOTAL



SEIOEGAL
DEBII LAMPSAR IRRIGAT2IOM1 PPOJECT, PROET Dl' LRRI(ATIOII DE OlEBI LAISAR
Lampsar
Coat Estimate Estimation du coùt
Foreign
Local         Foreign      Total     Local  Foreign   Total   Exchange X
-CFAF '000OOFCFA '000 ------ --   '00OO--------
l.  Irrigation Systems                                                                                                                     1.  Réseaux d'irrigation et de drainage
land Clearing and Levelling                            33,500        196,500      270,000    14e        800      940        85              Débroussaillage et nivellement
Earthworks                                            150,000          1,030   1,180,000    620    4,200    4,820           87             Terrassements
Structures                                             65,00C        565,000      4700,00     270    1,490    1,760         85              Ouvrages
Mecharnical and Hydromechanical Equipment              47,000        240,000      287,000    190        980    1,170        85             Equipement mécaniique et hydromécanique
Electrical Equipmenit                                   7,500         42,500       50,000      30       170      200        85              Eouipement électrique
Roada                                                  °0,000         90,000      120,000    120        370      490        75              Pistes
Lampsar Embankments                                    40.000        120,000      160,000    160        490      650        75             Endiguement Lampsar
Supervision of works (4%3)                         '0,00o           88,000       98,000      40      360       400        90                  Surveillance des travaux (41)
Subtotal                                           383,000      2,17  ooo   2.55000 1,570    8                 ' 50       85                  Sous-total
Conti..5-geriss (15%)                                                  (D 00  000  380,000    230    1.330    1,560       77                  Imurévus ahyvieuesq(1qw.°)
Subtotal                                          44o,ooo       2,495,000   2,935,000  1,800   10,190   11,990            85                  Sous-total
Buildings                                                                                                                              2.  Bâtiments
Project Heodquarters                                 20,270           62 630       83, 500      90     250       340        75              Centre projet
Field Storehouses                                    14,400           33,600       48,ooo      50      140       190        70             Magasins de stockage ou chamu
iupervision of waorks (42O)                           500           5,000        5,5°°      -        20        20        90                  Surveillance des travaux (4,)
Subtotal                                          35,270           96,230      131,500    140        390      530        73                  Sous-total
Contingencies (15% )                               5,460               40       21,000     20        60        80        74                  Imprévus physiquesj15%)
Subtotal                                           11,250         1  ,770      158,000    170        470      690         4                  Sous-total
3.  Vehicles and Equipment                                  1,500           8,500       10,000      10        30        40       85        3.  Véhicules et équipement
Equipment - Buildings 0. and M.                       1,500            8,500       10,000      10       30        40        85             Equipement pour entretien et fonctionnement bâtiments
Cars                                                   1,650           9,350       11,000      10        30       40        85             Voitures
Lorries                                                2,630          14,870       17,500      10        60       70        85              Camions
Agricultural Equipment                                "8,750         146,250      195,000    200        600      800        75              Equipement agricole
Equipment for Civil 'iorks Operation b Maintenance                     5           4                             1                          Equipemet pour entretien réseaux
Subtotal                                         5l,500         218,500      280,000    250        890    i,14o         78                  Sous-total
Contingencies (15%)                               5,240          32,760       42,000      4e       130       170        78                  Imprévus physiques (15?6
Subtotal                                          70-740        251 260       522,000    290    1,020    1,310          78                  Sous-total
4. Salaries                                                51,000            -          51,000    210       -          210                 4.  Salaires
Contingencies (15%)                               ooo              -           8,ooo      30      -           30                            Imprévus physiques tl5X)
Subtotal                                         49,000             -059,0009?724e                                       o                  Sous-total
5.  Operatiog and Maintenance                               ("000          18,000       27,640      30        70       100                 5-  Enttretien et fonctianna     t
Contirenie                                        1 oo             ,oo          4oo                  o         o)
onigencies (15%)jp05,0 U0                                                              -         10       10                                      MM,rvus qfleIWZs3 si,2
Subtotal                                          ,000           21,000       29,ooo       30       d0       110        75                  sous-total
6, Agricultural Inputs (Incremental)                       59,400         105,600      165,000    240        43o       670                  7.  Innuts ar icoles (atditiormels)
Contingencies (15%)                               9,000          16,000       25.000      40        60      100                             Imprévus physiques  15%)
Subtotal                                          r 4e0         121,600       190,000    280       490       770        6£4                 Sous-total
Total base costs                                596,670       2,615,330    3,212,000  2,450   10i66a   13,110           81                  Total coûts ue base
Total contingencies                              89,700         390,300       480,000    360   t,590   -1,950           81                  Imprévus physiques
Expected  nrice increases                       157,000                                - 640    2, 75 l        90       81                  Imprévus -'e prix
Total Lampsar cents                             843,570         676,63    42,000                                                            Total nampear
3,676,630   240so,00o  3,450   19,000   iS,4he



SENEGAL
DEBI LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT/PROJET D'IRRIGATION DE DEBI LAMPSAR
LAMoPSAR
Expected Price Increases/Imprévus de prix
1978       1979        1980       1981        1982      TOTAL
----------------------CFAF '000/FCFA 'OO0------------------------
2. LAMPSAR                                                                                                                    2. LAMPSAR
2.1 Civil Works                                                                                                                2.1 Travaux génie civil
Irrigation and Drainage Networks           590,000    880,000   1,465,ooo        -           -        2,935,000               Réseaux irrigation et drainage
Buildings                                   45,000      45,000      68,ooo       -          -           158,000               Batiments
Subtotal                            635,000    925,000   1,533,000        -          -         3,093,000               Total partiel
Annual Inflation rate (Y)                10           9            9                                                   Taux d'inflation annuel (%)
Expected Price Increase              64,oOo    184,000      475,000       -          -           723,000               Imprévus prix
2.2 Equipment and Services                                                                                                     2.2 Equipement et Services                       <
Salaries aild Wages                         10.000      15,000      17,000      17,000       -           59,000                Salaires
Vehicles and Eqgdpment                      80,000    100,000      142,000       -           -          322,000                Véhicules et équipement
Operation and Maintenance                     5,000      7,000        8,000      8,000       -            28,000               Entretien et fonctionnement
Agricultural Inputs (Incremental)           60,000      70,000      60,000       -           -          190,000                Inputs agricoles (additionnels)
Subtotal                            155,000    192,000      227,000      25,000      -           599,000                Total partiel
Annual Inflation Rate (7)                 8           7           7                                                     Taux d'inflation annuel (1)
Expected Price Increase              12,000      31,000      54,ooo       8,000      -           105,000                Imprévus prix
2.7        Total Without Price Increases        790,000  1,117,000   1,760,000      25,000       -        3,692,000            2.3 Total sans imprévus prix
Expected Price Increases             76,000    215,000      529,000       8,000      -           828,000               Imprévus prix
Total with Price Increases          866,000  1,332,000   2,289,000       33,000      -         4,520,000                Total avec imprévus prix
Efficiency Pricing                 (867,800)(1,233,900) (1,698,900)   (26,oo0)       -        (3,826,600)
>
z 
oa r



- 76 -                              ANNEX 9
Table 7
SENEGAL
DEBI-LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT/PROJET D'IRRIGATION DE DEBI-LAMPSAR
Lampsar Irrigation Works/Lampsar Travaux Irrigation et Drainage
Cost Estimate/Estimation du coût
Total
CFAF '000
2.1  Land Clearing and Levelling            230,000     2.1  Débroussaillage et nivellement
2.2  Earthworks                                         2.2  Terrassements
Irrigation and Drainage Networks  830,000               Réseaux irrigation et dirainage
On-farm Works                       130,000             Aménagements terminaux
Pumping Stations                     40,000             Stations pompage
Protective Dikes                    180,000             Digues de protection
1,180,000
2.3  Structures                                         2.3  Ouvrages
Irrigation and Drainage Networks  170,000               Réseaux irrigation et drainage
On-farm Works                        60,000             A la parcelle
Pumping Stations                    200,000             Stations pompage
430,000
2.4  Mechanical and Hydromechanical                     2.4  Equipement mécanique et
Equipment                                               hydromécanique
Irrigation and Drainage Networks   25,000               Réseaux irrigation et drainage
On-farm Works                         2,000             A la parcelle
Pumping Stations                    260,000             Stations pompage
287,000
2.5  Electrical Equipment                   50,000      2.5  Equipement électrique
2.6  Roads                                 120,000      2.6  Pistes
2.7  Lampsar Embankments                   160,000      2.7  Endiguement Lampsar
2.8 Supervision of Works (4%)               98,000     2.8  Supervision travaux (4%)
Total Base Costs       2,555,000                   Total coûts de base
Contingencies (15%)       380,000                  Imprévus physiques (15%)
Total                  2,935,000                   Total



- 77 -
SENEMAL                                                                          doL
DEBI-LAMPEAR IRRIGATION PROJECTt PROJET D'IRRIGATION DE BEBI-LAMPSAR
Buildingn/'Bétimenots
Quantittes and Cost Estimate /Quantitatif et Estimatif
Unité        Quantité       Prix Unitaire
Unit         Quantity       Unit Price          TOTAL
CFAF /FCFA      (CFAF '000)
I. DEBI1.  nsT
1.  Project Headquarters                                                                                                l.Centre du projet
Housing                                         n2              800           60,000            48,000             Logementg
Offices                                         n2              250            50,000           12,500             Bureaux
Workshop                                        m2               200           35,000            7,000             Atelier
Gas Station                                     LS                                               1,000             Station essence,
Basic Infrastructure                                                                                               Infrastructure de base  (adduction eau,
(Water Supply, Electricity                                                                                         adauction électrique, accès,
Supply, Access, tree plantation)                LS                                              15.000              plantationa)
Subtotal                                                                                        83,500                 Sous-total
2.  Field Storehouses                                                                                                  2. Magasins au champ
Paddy Warehouses                                m2              770            30,000           23,100             Hangars paddy
Agricultural Inputs
and Equipment storehouses                  a2               150           30,000            4,500             Magasins Agricoles
Subtotal                                                                                        27,600                 Sous-total
k    unervisian of daorda t4»)                                                                       14,900          3, aa;,rvisian travaux (kt0)
Dotal Base Costs                                                                     116,000                     Total coûts C base
Contingencies (15 )                                                                   17,D00                      lpr4vua  bvaiquea (354
Total                                                       TPoral
[l.  LAMPSAR
1.  Project Beadeuarters                                                                                               1. Centre du projet
Housing                                          2              800            60,000           48,000             Logements
Offices                                         n2              250            50,000           12,500             Bureaux
Uorkzhop                                        n2               200           35,000             7,000            Atelier
Gas Station                                     LS                                               1,000             Station essence
Basic Infrastructure
(Water Supply, Electricity supply                                                                                  Infrastructure de base (adduction eau
Access, tree plantation                    1LSt                                              15,000             plantatiorq)
Subtotal                                                                                        83,5oo                Sous-total
2.  Field Storebouses                                                                                                  2. Magasins au champ
Paddy  arehouses                                m2            1,300            30,000           39,000             Hangars paddy
Agriculturai inputs2
and Equipmest Storehouses                    n                300           30,000             9.000             Magasins agricoles
Subtotal                                                                                        48,000                Sous-total
7.  Supervision of Works (4%)?                                                                            5                           t         (4%)
Total Base Conts
Contingenciee  154)                                                                    C,I                                  ts hsese
T-tal                                                          ~~~~~~           ~          ~~~~~~~~~~21,000  Imprévus physiques (lys1)
Istal                                                    156,000                    d~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-otal



SENEGAL
DEBI-LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT/PROJET D'IRRIGATI(N DE DEBI-LAMPSAR
Vehicles and Equipment/Véhicules et équipement
LAMPSAR                                                     DEBI
Quantité    Ceut Unitaire   Coût Total                   Quantité   Coet Unitaire       Cout Total
ITEMS                                              Quantity    Unit Cost           Total Cost                Quantitv   Unit Cost           Total Cost
------CFAF'000/FCFA'OO  --------------                   -----------CFAF'OOO/FCAF'OOO----------
Equipment for                                                                                                                                                      Equipement pour batiments (mobilier,
Buildings (Furniture, Office equipment,                                                                                                                            fournitures de bureau, équipement atelier
Workshop equipment and Miscellaneous)                                LS                10,000                                 LS              10,000               et divers)
Cars                                                  10.0           1,100             11,000                   10.0         1,100            11,000              Véhicules
Lorries                                                5.0           3,500             17.000                     3.0        3,500            10,500              Camions
Agricultural Equipment                                                                                                                                            Equipeaent Agricole
Tractor  (crawler)                                  7            6,750             47,260                     4          6,750            27,000                    Tracteur  (chenillard)
Tractor  (Wheel)                                    9            3,480             31,300                     4           3,480           13,900                    Tracteur  (roues)
Reversible Plow                                     3            1,100              3,300                     2          1,100              2,200                    Charrue Lourde
Offset Plow                                         6            2,200             13,100                     3           2,200            6,600                    Charrue Offset
Pulverizer (Cambridge)                              3               800             2,400                     2             800             1,600                   Emotteuse
Pulverizing Disc  arrow                            3               800             2,400                     2             800             1,600                    Pulvérisateurs à disques
Planter (28 rows)                                   9               430             3,900                     5             430             2,200                    Semoir (28 rangs)
Lister Bedding Machine                             1               430                400                     -            -                 -                      Billonneuse ( 2 corps)                   a
Harrow  (5 segments)                                3                40                120                    2              40               100                    Herse (5 éléments)
Trailer                                             9               800             7,200                     4             800             2,200                   Remorque
Thresher                                           19            3,230             61,300                    10           3,230            32,300                    Batteuse
Spare Parts                                         -               -              22,320                     -             -              9,300                     Pièces détachées
Subtotal                                                                          195,000                                                100,000                    Sous-total
Equipment for Civil Works Operation                                                                                                                               Equipement pour  entretien reseaux
and Maintenance
Bulldozer                                           1           15,000             15,000                     1          15,000            15,000                    Bulldozer
Loader                                              1           13,000             13,000                     1          13,000            13,000                    Chargeur
Grader                                              1           15,000             15,000                     1          15,000            15,000                    Niveleuse
Lorry                                               1            3,500              3.500                     1           3,500                                      Camion
Subtotal                                                                           46.500                                                 46,500                    Sous-totl'
Total Base Costs                                                                  280,000                                                178,000                     Total coÛts de base
Contingencies (15%)                                                                42,-z                                                  26 ooo                     Imprévus physiques (15%)
Total                                                                             322,000                                                204,000                     Total
nIo



SENEGAL
DEBI-LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT/PROJET D'IRRIGATION DE DEBI-LAMPSAR
Operation and Maintenance Costa/Coûts entretien et fonctionnement
DEBI                                 LAMPSAR
Annual                                Annual
USS/ha   CFAF/ha   (CFAF  o000)       US$/ha   CFAF/ha   (CFAF '000)        %
1.  W /i                                                                                                                                   1.  W /i
Salaries and Wages                           120      29,500        32,450  (46)    97      23,880        53,010       (40)                  Salaires
Equipment Operation /2                       102      25,090        27,600  (39)   108      26,350        58,500       (45)                  Fonctionnement équipements /2
(Consumables and Rep irs)                                                                                                                    (carburants, réparations)
Materials and Supplies                        13       3,180         3,500   (5)      9      2,250         5,o0o        (4)                  Matériaux et fournitures
Overhead (12%)                                2        6,940         7,630  (10)    26       6,310        14,000       (il)                  Fraie généraux (12%)
TOTAL                                   264      64,710/4      71,180 (100)   240      58,790/4    130,510       (100)                        TOTAL
2.  W                                               492    120,400/2      60,180 /3       360      87,930/5    105,510 /3                  2.  W
3.  Incremental 0. and M. Costa                                           11,000                                 25,000/6                  3.  Co6ta additionnel entretien et
fonctionnement
Efficiency Pricing (75% foreign exchange)                            (12,700)                               (28,800)
/1  W : Future with project; W   Future without project.                                                                                  /1  W: Futur avec projet;  W   Futur sans projet.
/2                                                                                      DEBI              LAMPSAR                         /2
Agricultural Mechanical Equipment (see Annex 5, table 4)                            19.2                   r                              Equipement agricole mécanique (voir Annexe 5, tableau 4)
Equipment for 0. and M of Irrigation Works                                           6.4                 8.8                              Equipement entretien réseaux (y compris fraie pompage:
(including pumping costs: CFAF 0.6 million                                                                                                FCFA 0,6 million pour Debi et FCFA 3,0 millions
for Debi and CFAF 3.0 million for Lampsar)                                                                                               pour Lampsar)
Vehicles, Workshop Equipment                                                         2.0                 8.0                               Véhicules, équipement atelier
/2  Estimated coste from SAED 1976/1977 budget. Costs of                                                                                  /3  Estimations à partir budget SAED 1976/1977. Les frais
SAED personnel are extremely high at present.                                                                                              de personnel de la SAED sont actuellement très élevée.
/4  Irrigated areas in W are 1,100 ha in Debi and                                                                                          /4  Les superficies irriguées avec le projet (W) sont de
1,200 ha in Lampsar.                                                                                                                       1.100 ha à Debi et de 2.220 ha à Lampsar.
/2  Irrigated areas in W are 500 ha in Debi and 1.200 ha                                                                                   /5  Les superficies irriguées sans le projet (W) sont de
in Lampsar.                                                                                                                               500 ha à Debi et de 1.200 ha à Lampsar.
/6  At full developnent; Annex 9, Table 6 (1981).                                                                                          /6  En vitesse de croisière; Annexe 9, tableau 6 (1981);
Ds|X,



SENEGAL
DEBI-LAMPSAR TRRTGATrON PFO.TECT/PROJET D'IRRIGATION DE DEBI-LAMPSAR
Technical Assistance/Renforcement institution
Expected Price Increases/Imprévus de prix
(CFAF '000)
1978                  1979                   1980                   1981                    laR2                TOTAL
Studies                                                                                                                                                                          Etudes
Subtotal                                      45,450                181,820                181,820               190,910                230,000                830,000        sous total
Expected Price Increases                        3,640                29,090                 43,640                 61,030                 96,600                234,000       Imprévus prix
Subtotal                                   49,090                210,910                225,460                251,940                326,600             1,064,000            Sous total
Applied research                                                                                                                                                                 Prévulgarisation
Personnel                                     12,020                 23,690                 23,690                 23,690                                        83,090        Personnel
Others                                        76,3226,180                                    6,380                  6 030                                       114,31o        Autres
Subtotal                                   88,340                 49,                    30,070                 29,720                                       19T, 00            Sous total
Eroected Price Increases                       8 200                  9 030                  7,660                 10 110                                        35,000        Imprevus prix
Subtotal                                   96,540                ,goo                    37,730                 39,830                                       233,000            Sous total
Technical Specialist8                                                                                                                                                             Assistance technique
Subtotal                                      75,000                155,000                155,000                155,000                                       54o,000        Sous total
Expected Price Inereases                       6,ooo                 24 800                 37,200                 49,000                                       117000          spprévus prix
Subtotal                                   81,000                179,800                192,200                204,000                                       657,000            Sous total
Total without price increases                      208,790                386,690                366,890                375,630                230,000              1,568,00o        Total nons imprévos prix
Expected price increases                            17,84o                 62,920                 88,500                120,140                 96,600                3860ooo I00révas prix
Total with price increases                         226,630                449,610                455,390                495,770                326,600              1,954,000        Total avec imréôvua pris
Total avec  mPrcvus pri



SENEGAL
DEBI LA PSAR-IRRIGATION PROJEtS?PROJET D IRRIGATION DE DEBI-îAOIPSAR
Applied Re.earch - Agruonmy end lioeock/Prévolgarisation - Agriculture et élevage
Cost EstimatelEstistiîon du coût
(irrr '000/Prr '0007
1978                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Exîbhage/
1978                  1979                   1980                  1981                   1982                  TOlkT        Devises
1     Persol                                                                                                                                                                                  1      Personnel
Agraonoical sectiîc                                                                                                                                                                            Division agricultere
Ageonumist                    (1)1       1,580                  3 170                 3,170                  3,170                                        11,090                               Agronome
AgWicultora1 Aooiétant        (1)          620                  1,240                 1,240                  1,240                                         4,340                               Assistant agriculture
Necthnization Ansiataot       (1)          620                  1,240                 1,240                  1,240                                         4-34Q                               Assistant mda...isation
Enonerators                   (2)          620                  1,240                 1,240                  1,240                                        4,340                                Enquteur
Livent.ck Section                                                                                                                                                                              Division élevage
Livontock Export               1         1,580                  3,170                 3,170                  3,170                                        11,09D                               Epart elevage
Liveetclk Assistant            1           620                  1,240                 1,240                  1,240                                        4,340                                Assistant élevege
ObserverfInseminatcr           1           320                    320                   320                    320                  _                      1. 280                              Observatsor/inssinsteur
Subtotal                             5,960                 11,620                11,620                 11,620                                       40,820            O                       Sous total
2.    Ecuivnent *ad Vshialae                                                                                                                                                                   2.   REeipoeont etv&hlrnls
Care                           3         3,300                  1,100                  -                      -                      -                     4,400                               Véhicules
Foedmill                       1         4,000                 4,000                   _                      _                      -                     8,000                               Atelier aliments bétail
Field Eqoip-eut                          1,500                  1.500                  -                      _                      -                     3,00D                               Equipemsot su champ
Office Eqoipmeet                         1,000                   -                                            -                      -                     1,000                               Equipe-eot bureau
Agricultural Equipmeat                   1,500                  1,500                  -                      -                      -                     3,000                               Eçuipe eot agricole
Tractor 65 PP                  1         3.5n0                   -                                            -                      -                     3,500                               Tracteur 65 CV
Spaot Parts                                750                    300                  -                      -                      -                     1 05D                               places détschéas
subtotal                            15,550                  8,400                  _                      -                      _                    23,950         78                        Sous toctl
3.   Ooertin   uts                                                                                                                                                                             3.    CoûGs de fonctionnsmsnr
Vohicles end T-cut-ce                      800                  1,500                 1,500                  1,500                   -                     5,300                               Véi!vlns et tracteurs
Poed.ill                                   500                  1,000                 1,000                  1,000                   -                     3,500                               Ate, f   alimente bétail
Office Supplies                            200                    100                    100                   100                   -                       500                               Fo.r-itoves huvesu
Subtotel                             1,500                  2,600                 2,600                  2,600                   -                     9,300         72                         Soue totel
4.    Operotini Fond Livestork end                                                                                                                                                             4.    Fond  do tucricnncect pravulgsrisaicu,
Agrioltural lechenisatiuu                                                                                                                                                                      élevage et nécacisaton
fcr Applied Research                         1,000                  1,000                  -                      -                      _                     2,000
Subtutul Agro.noy and Livetckto     24.010                 23 620                 14.220                14 220                                        76.070                                   Bouc otal ogroucoin et élev-ge
t-4o



SENEGAL
DEBI LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT/pFOJET D' IRRIGATION DE DEBI LAMPSAR
Applicd Pononrch - P.do.olg nyd Drainge/Pr4vulonrition - pédol=gie et dr-inago
Coat Esti=-t./E.timution du c0ût
(CFAF 'OOO/FCFA '000)
1978                  1979                   1980                   1981                   1800                  TOTAL                     Devise. 
1.    Personnel                                                                                                                                                                                                           1. Personnel
Assistent Dreinag  EZngineer     I          1,580                  3,160                  3,160                  3,160                    -                   11,060                                                    Assi.tant Ing8nienr dr-isege
Pedologitt                       1          1,580                  3,160                  3,160                  3,160                    -                   11,060                                                    Pedologue
Anolyst.                         1            450                    900                    900                    900                   -                     3,150                                                    Analyste
Soil Surveyor                    1            450                    900                    90                     900                                         3,150                       -                            Technicien pédologue
Sobtotal                                4,060                  8,120                  8,120                  8,120                                        28,420                        0                              Soua total
2.    E          -uionient nd Vehicles                                                                                                                                                                                    2. Eguiptuet et oéhi0nles
Tilo-laying Machine              1         37,000                   -                      -                      -                      -                    37,000                                                    Mnchine  drainer
Cars                             2          1,100                  1,100                   -                      _                      _                     2,200                                                    Vihi-ules              v c
Truck Mounted Po-er                                                                                                                                                                                                     T.rSée  i ... iq.. *ur réhicule
Auger vith Pqver Take-Off       1            -                    3,000                    -                      -                      -                     3,000                                                     avso prise de fores
Laboratory Equipxent             -          2,000                  2,000                   -                      -                                            4.000                                                    Equipent l.borntoire
Spr p-t                          -          1,950                  1.000                   -                      -                      -                     2,950                       _                                .P.ces détaoha
Subtte.1                               42,050                  7,100                   -                      -                      -                    49,150                       88                               Sous total
3.   Olprati.g C..t.                                                                                                                                                                                                       3   Coûtg f...ti.onee   t
Laboratory Supplie.              -          1,000                    300                    300                    300                   -                      1,900                                                   Peursitores leboratodre
Offio Supplie.                  -             200                   100                    100                    100                    -                       500                                                    Fusesitores b-r.a.
Drninage Materi.l for            -                                                                                                                                                                                       Matéri-sa d' essai
teating                                     300                    300                    300                   -                      -                       900                                                      peur draine
Operuting Cnet. tile                                                                                                                                                                                                     M Machine à poser de. dr-ins
Ilying machine end vehicles               1000                   2,000                  2,000                  2,000                   -                     7.000                       _véhi-ulee
subtotal                                2,50)                  2,700                  2,700                  2,400                   -                    10,300                       70                                Soua total
TOTAL                109,610                                  17,940                 1                      10 540                                        88,930                                                        TOTAL
T1t1l buse co-tS                       73,620                 41,560                 25,060                 21,760                   -                   165,000                       46                           Total -oûte dr b-ne
odEingoflclo  (20%)                    l4,7,O                  8, 310                 5,010                  4,960                                        3 33,000                                                  OorOvos physiquen (20%)
Copal aoplled reeuonci                 88,34o                 4g9,R70                30,070                 29,720                   -                   196,000                                                    Total préiOne'initi..



- 83 -                               ANNEX 10
Table 1
SENEGAL
DEBI - LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project financing/Financement du projet
Total Costs
CFAF         US$
million      million    IDA    KF    FAC    BNDS    Government
1. Debi
- Irrigation and
Drainage Networks
- Buildings                 1,420        5.8        -      4.8    -        -       1.0
- Vehicles and
Equipment                 120        0.5        -     0.3    -         -      0.2
- Salaries                     25        0.1        -       -     -        -       0.1
- Operating Costs              25        0.1        -       -     -        -       0.1
- Agricultural Inputs          70        0.3        -       -     -       0.3       -
Total 1            1,660        6.8        -      5.1    -       0.3      1.4
2. Lampsar
- Irrigation and
Drainage Networks
- Buildings                 3,280       13.4      11.3      -     -        -      2.1
- Vehicles and
Equipment                   340        1.4       1.1     -      -        -      0.3
- Salaries                     50        0.2        -       -     -        -       0.2
- Operating Costs              50        0.2       0.1      -     -        -       0.1
- Agricultural Inputs         220        0.9        -       -     -       0.9
Total 2            3,940       16.1      12.5      -     -       0.9      2.7
3. Technical Assistance
- Studies                     930        3.8       3.0      -     -        -      0.8
- Applied Research            220        0.9       0.5      -     -        -      0.4
- Technical
Specialists               590        2.4       -            2.4
Total 3            1,740        7.1       3.5      -    2.4       -      1.2
4. Refinancing of Debi
Lampsar Engineering
Credit (S-18-SE)              240        1.0       1.0            -        -       -
5.  Unallocated                   980        4.0       3.0    0.2   0.3        -      0.5
TOTAL              8,560       35.0      20.0    5.3   2.7       1.2     5.8



- 84 -
ANNEX Il
SENEGAL
DEBI-LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT/PROJUT D'IRRIGATION DE DEBI-LAMPSAR
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(Prévisions échéancier paiements)
IDA Fiscal Year and Semester/              Cumulative Disbursements (US$'000)
Année budgétaire et semestre (IDA)         Paiements cumulés (US$'000)
FY 1978
2nd semester                                        1,000
FY 1979
Ist semester                                        4,200
2nd semester                                        6,800
FY 1980
lst semester                                        9,400
2nd semester                                       13,800
FY 1981
lst semester                                       17,800
2nd semester                                       18,400
FY 1982
lst semester                                       19,000
2nd semester                                       19,500
FY 1983
lst semester                                       20,000



- 85 -                        ANNEX 12
SENEGAL
DEBI-LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation
Objectives
1.        In broad terms the objectives of monitoring the project's perfor-
mance would be to design and operate an information collection system which
would help to identify issues or problems of implementation and operation.
This would serve the project as a management tool for both operational and
policy decisions.
2.        The information system would supply project management with key
indicators to ensure that the project meets its development objectives.
Efficiency of project implementation would be measured in respect to stan-
dards of performance in terms of targets set at appraisal.
3.        On-going evaluation of problems of project implementation and
operation would allow project management to adapt the project to changing
objectives and circumstances.
Design of the Data Collection System
4.        The Agro-Economic Section of BEP would be responsible for design
and operation of the monitoring and evaluation system. The design would
include selected summary indicators, showing project progress, both at
farm and project levels, in the following fields:
-    investments, both physical and costs of infrastructure and
equipment;
-    agricultural inputs and outputs;
-    operation and maintenance of irrigation and drainage
systems;
-    irrigation water management;
-    reimbursements of farmers' credits;
-    project cost-recovery; and the
-    socio-economic impact of the project.
5.        IDA would review both the design of the system before it becomes
operational and the form of presentation.



- 86 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2
Data Collection Methods
6.        The monitoring u]lit's main task would be extracting, summarizing
and codifying information which is already collected for other purposes.
7.        Internally, the three sources of data are:  the extension,
procurement and technical services. Special attention would be given to
avoid overloading these services with extra administrative work. Data
collected in the course of normal operations would be presented in a
suitable way to serve the project's monitoring.
8.        Some data would be extracted from external sources, such as the
cooperatives, ONCAD, BNDS .nd Government agencies working in the area.
9.        A small task force of three enumerators would allow the collection
of data which could not be obtained from the above services. These are
basic data needed to measure the socio-economic impact of the project. Tlhey
would include data on popuLation, farm budgets and farmers' income, sample
surveys of yields and some point checks on the value of data collected by
other sources.
10.       The monitoring uinit would provide key indicators on project imple-
mentation and operation in Quarterly Reports. An annual report would also
be prepared on overall project performance in comparison with appraisal
expectations and targets.
Reporting Requirements of the Applied Research Component of the Project
I1.       Before each agricultural season a program and budget on applied
research would be prepared. Semi-annually, progress reports would be
submitted, which would include, if applicable, an analysis of research
results and recommendations for implementation.



- 87 -                         ANNEX 13
SENEGAL
DEBI-LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for the Financial Controller
General
1.        SAED is a parastatal organization responsible in Senegal for the
agricultural development of the Senegal river valley and delta. Up to 1977,
it has developed about 10,000 ha under full control irrigation systems.
SAED's budget was about CFAF 5 billion in 1976/1977 (US$20 million), of which
50% was allocated to investment and 50% to operational expenditures. SAED's
accounts are prepared centrally by computer (IBM 370-145) under the direction
of the Agent Comptable Central (ACC) in the Centre des Etablissements Publics
(CEP), and its accounting organization is headed by the ACC. Financial
control of SAED is exercised by the Controlleur des Operations Financieres
(COF) of CEP. General accounts are well kept, but the analytical accounts
need considerable refinement.  SAED does not have a financial division re-
sponsible for the follow-up of financial operations, preparation of budgets,
cost and variance analyses, cash flow forecasts, etc. Only a few of these
tasks are presently carried out on an ad-hoc basis by the business administra-
tion section of the Bureau d'Etudes et de Programmation (BEP).
2.        Under the project, a senior financial controller would be recruited
to head a newly created financial division which would absorb the present
business administration section of BEP.
Terms of Reference
3.        The Financial Controller will be the Director General's adviser
for all financial aspects of SAED management and will set up and head the
financial division.  He will train a counterpart to replace him, but will
remain as adviser as long as mutually agreed between IDA and SAED's Director
General. His period of assignment would not be less than 4 years, and the
Director General would be his direct supervisor. The applicant should have at
least 10 years' experience in a senior position, preferably in a commercially
oriented agricultural concern. The applicant should be familiar with modern
data processing systems including those now used by ACC.  He will have to
work in close coordination with the ACC and SAED's accounting services (both
headquarters and projects) and with the evaluation and monitoring unit of the
BEP, also to be created under the project.
5.        Specifically, he will:
(a) Organize SAED's financial division and comment on the adequacy
of staff proposed for recruitment by the Director General;
(b) Liaise closely with the ACC and COF as well as with SAED's ACP;



- 88 -
ANNEX 13
Page 2
(c)  Establish the format of financial monitoring documents
to be prepared by the financial division or by the
"rojects (i.e., capital and operations budgets,
trading accounts, variance analyses, balance sheets,
cash flow statements), and review them on a regular
basis;
(d) Set up an internal control system to ensure the correctness
of the financial procedures and information;
(e) Propose to the Director General concrete measures to improve
SAED's financial situation; he will pay special attention
to SAED's acute cash problems;
(f) Ensure that procedures and measures recommended are
actually enforced. He will report periodically to the
Director General on results;
(g) Set up an accounting unit for the Debi Lampsar Project
within the general analytical accounting system of SAED;
(h)  Prepare and expedite disbursement claims to the financing
institutions; and
(i) Liaise closely with the external auditors and ensure that
their recommendat:ions are put into effect.
6.        The applicant wiLl have a challenging role in creating and
operating the financial division of a large agricultural development proj-
ect authority, with its Director General. This will require competence
and dedication, keeping in mind that the final objective is to provide
SAED with an efficient department operated by well-trained local staff.



- 89 -
ANNEX 14
Table 1
SENEGAL
DEBI-LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost and Rent Recovery Indices 1/
Item                                           Farm A 2/    Farm B 3/    DEBI         LAMPSAR
----CFAF thousand----      ----CFAF million---
1. Gross value of farm prod. at gate ex.
sales taxes 4/                               600.5         295.8        109.5       322.5
2.   less: production costs 5/                    229.7         139.3          51.5       133.8
3. Net cash income                                370.8         156.5          5810 l88.7
4.   less: imputed value of family labor 6i        73.0          19.6           7.3        32.7
5.         imputed value of management
services                      7/       72.1         35.5          13.1        38.7
6.         allowance for risks             8/      30.0          14.8           5.5        16.1
7. Rent                                           195.7          86.6          32.1       101.2
8. Rent as a percentage of net cash income
[7:3J%                                        53           55            55          54
9. Water charges                                   90            60           220        546
10. Rent Recovery Index [9:ï %                      46            69            69          54
11. Public Sector Outlays (capital and O&M)           -            -         1,400      3,200
12. Cost Recovery Index [9:1%                         --                        16          17
('000 CFAF)                (US$)
Farmers income per capita at full
development                                      56.3       31.3         230 9/      127 9/
Estimated critical consumption level               20.8                     85
Estimated national income per capita               95.6                    390
1/  Costs at January 1978 constant CFAF; items 1 through 9 are incremental values
at full development.  Figures in parenthesis are present values discounted at
10% over 50 years. W : Future with project. W : Future without project.
2/ Farm A : 2 ha rice plus 1 ha tomatoes.
3/ Farm B : 3 ha rice.
4/ W : see farm budgets (Annex 5); W : CFAF 140,000 per family.
5/ W : see farm budgets (Annex 5); W : CFAF 16,000 per family.
6/ W : see farm budgets (Annex 5); W : 150 man-days at a market wage of CFAF 200.
7/ 12% of incremental gross value of production.
8/ 5% of incremental gross value of production.
9/  Assuming a family of 8 persons and including US$38 derived from activities other than
paddy cultivation.



90 -                         ANNEX 15
SENEGAL
DEBI-LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Market Prospects and Prices
A. Rice
Background
1.        Senegal's rice consumption has been steadily increasing by some
3.6% annually since the early 1960s. Presently, consumption is about 250,000
tons or 50 kg per capita, a very high figure by African standards. However,
this high consumption compares to a production of only 70,000 tons in a
"normal" year. During the drought (1972 and 1973) production dropped by 50%,
and rice imports reached the very high average of 180,000 tons per year, which
placed a heavy burden on Senegal's economy and public finances.
2.        To reduce imports of rice and induce local production, the Govern-
ment raised the retail price from CFAF 58/kg (1974) to CFAF 100/kg (1975),
and the producer price fronm CFAF 22/kg (1974) to CFAF 41.5/kg (1975). Gov-
ernment announced that prices would henceforth follow the world market. T'hese
measures were encouraged by the Bank, and resulted in: (i) a decrease of im-
ports to some 100,000 tons in 1975; (ii) a reduction in the rice account defi-
cit of the government stabilization fund; and (iii) an increase in local
production to some 110,000 tons in 1976. In 1976, Government decreased the
consumer price to CFAF 80/kg, in line with the decline of international
market price.
Marketing
3.        Based on previous consumption trends, demand for rice would be
300,000 tons by 1984, when the proposed project would reach full development.
Government plans to reduce 1this sharp increase by 50,000 tons, by shifting
part of rice demand to processed millet, couscous and maize. At the same
time, Government also intends to take appropriate measures to increase local
output to 180,000 tons by the mid-1980s. These reasonable forecasts show
that imports of 70,000 tons would still be required, and therefore no market-
ing problem is expected for the 10,400 tons of paddy produced by the proj-
ect, which is expected to be consumed locally.
Paddy Farm Gate Price
4.        The estimated economic import substitution fartm gate price of
CFAF 54.3/kg for paddy is based on the Bank world market forecasts for 1982
(see attached table), as well as on the assumption that the paddy would be
consumed locally (Saint-Louis would be a high consumer). As Senegal imports
mostly broken rice, a 30% reduction of the FOB Bangkok price for 15% broken
has been used.



- 91 -                         ANNEX 15
Page 2
B. TOMATOES AND TOMATO PRODUCTS
Background
1.        World production of fresh tomatoes averaged 24 million tons per
annum in the early 1960s, then increased rapidly in the early 1970s, reaching
34 million tons in 1973. Major producers were Mediterranean countries (30%),
United States and Canada (20%), and Eastern Europe (20%). Production of
tomato products also increased considerably in the early 1970s, amounting
to 3.6 million tons in 1973, equivalent to 13 million tons of fresh tomatoes,
i.e. 38% of total production. Main products were: tomato paste (1.6 million
tons), canned peeled tomatoes (1.4 million tons), and tomato juice (0.6
million tons). Worldwide per capita consumption in 1973 reached 5.3 kg of
fresh tomatoes (14.7 kg in Europe) and 0.2 kg of tomato paste (5.3 kg in the
United States, 2.9 kg in Canada, and 1.5 kg in the Federal Republic of Germany,
France, and the Netherlands). World production continued to increase in
1974 and 1975, but demand lessened, particularly in the industrial sector, as
a result of overstocking and the high price of tomato paste. In 1976, produc-
tion is estimated at 33 million tons.
Trading and Prices
2.        Trading of fresh tomatoes amounted in 1973 to 1.5 million tons, con-
sisting mainly in off-season shipments within Europe and between Europe and
the United States. Trading of tomato paste increased from 350,000 tons in
the late 1960s to 500,000 tons in 1973; major flows were from southern
European countries (which exported some 75% of their production) to Great
Britain, Germany and the United States. In 1975, paste exports dropped by
some 20% from the 1973 level, and prices were US$500 per ton; because of
stronger demand in 1976 the prices increased to US$600 per ton, and they
are expected to be somewhat higher, at US$800 per ton, in 1977 and possibly
also in 1978.
3.        It is difficult to forecast the long-term trend of prices for tomato
paste. On the one hand, demand should continue to rise as a result of popu-
lation growth, higher levels of consumption, and possible opening up of new
markets (such as the Near East and Western Africa) where there appears to be
considerable potential. On the other hand, there is a very high risk of
excessive supply, considering the huge production potential of the U.S. and
the Western Hemisphere, the lack of coordination between producers and pro-
cessors, the tendency for supply to over-respond to demand, and the one-year
lag in response of tomato growing and processing to the market situation.
It is, therefore, reasonable to assume that prices over the long term will
remain volatile. An economic price of US$600 per ton, corresponding to the
1976 price level, has been used in the economic analysis of the proposed
project.
Senegal
4.        Senegal produces an estimated 27,000 tons of fresh tomatoes annually,
of which about 17,000 tons, i.e. 63%, are grown in the Senegal River region;



- 9' -                          ANNEX 15
Page 3
the rest are produced near Dakar and consumed fresh. Most of the production
of the Senegal River region is processed, and provides some 3,000 tons of
tomato psCte for domestic use. Total domestic consumption of tomato paste
is estimated at 7,000 tons per year (1.3 kg per capita); this high level is
due to the prevalent use of paste in preparing rice and fish, the two major
components of the national diet. Senegal therefore imports about 4,000 tons
of paste, i.e. 57% of its needs.
5.        Unit prices of a 4.4 kg can of tomato paste CIF Dakar have been
the following: CFAF 100 (late 1972), CFAF 225 (mid-1974), CFAF 136 (early
1976), CFAF 200 (late 1976). Although these trends follow that of the
international market, the prices do not adequately reflect the economic
value of paste, mainly because exporting countries subsidize their produc-
tion, and because the Government controls imports. To encourage and protect
local processing, Government grants import license quotas only for the esti-
mated seasonal excess of domestic requirements over local output, assesses
the price charged to the imports, reserves the right to refuse to authorize
landing if prices are deemed too high or to charge the importer ("per-
equation") if the importer's price is too low, determines the importer's
margin (CFAF 30/kg) and resale price (CFAF 252/ton in early 1977), and
collects a theoretical 70% import duty. Government also controls wholesale
and retail prices (CFAF 257 and 275 respectively in early 1977), with a view
to limiting margins and reducing overall prices to consumers.
6.        There are three processing plants in Senegal, each with a capacity
for handling an annual average of about 25,000 tons of fresh tomatoes. Only
one plant is in production.
(i) SOCAS plant: located in the vicinity of the Lampsar perimeter,
at Savoigne this plant has been in operation since 1973.
The bulk of its fresh tomato requirements is supplied under
contract by SAED; the remainder is grown by SOCAS itself
on about 200 ha. The plant is efficiently run. Since its
first year of operation in 1973 when total output was 700 tons,
production increased to 2,700 tons in 1976 and is expected to
reach 4,000 tons in 1977.
(ii)  SOPESINE plant (Government-owned); located at Dagana, financed
under Italian aid. Expected to become operational during 1977.
(iii) Dakar plant: Constructed by an expatriate contractor. Now
awaiting Government agreement to start operations.
When all these plants are operating, Senegal would be fully equipped to pro-
cess foreseeable local production of tomatoes.
7.        Consumption of tomato paste is expected to reach 8,500 tons by
1984, assuming a 2.5% annual rate of increase- By that time, about 5,500 tons
of paste, equivalent to 30,000 tons of additional fresh tomatoes, should be
produced. This would represent some 1,000 additional ha of tomatoes; of this,



ANNEX 15
Page 4
340 ha would be grown under the proposed project, and the remaining 660
ha could be grown mainly in the Senegal River region without particular
difficulty. The above figures show that the quantity of tomato paste to be
produced for local consumption will be limited. Government and SAED control
the production of tomatoes, and it has been agreed that in the event of a
production surplus situation, Lampsar would be considered as a top priority
irrigation scheme for tomato growing. This is favored by the proximity of the
SOCAS processing plant (less than 10 km), and of the town of Saint-Louis (30
km).



ShiNEGAL
DEBI-LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT/PROJET D'IRRIGATION DE DEBI-LA-IPSAR
Rice Price Structure, 1985/Structure du prix du riz. 1985
(1975 terms)
1985
CFAF/ton     US$/ton
- Export rice of Thai A/l                                                                           Riz prix exportation Thailand, 5%
broken, FOB Bangkok--                              100,450         410                            brisures, FOB Bangkok-/2/
- Export rice of Thai 100%                            70,310         287                            Riz prix expor ation Thailand
broken3/                                                                                          100% brisures3
- Ocean freight and in-                                                                             Transport maritime et assurance
surance                                              8,580          35
- Import price, CIF Dakar                             78,890         322                            Prix importation, CAF Dakar
Plus port charges, cus-                                                                             Plus charges portuaires, douanes,
toms, handling                                        3,700          15                             manutention
Plus storage costs                                     2,480          10                            Plus frais stockage
Plus transport costs                                                                                Plus transport Dakar/Saint
Dakar/Saint Louis (279 km                                                                            Louis (270 km à 20 FCFA/
at CFAF 20/t X km)                                    5,4oo          22                             T X km)
Less transport from the rice                                                                        Moins transport rizerie/
mill to Saint Louis (40 km                                                                           Saint Louis (40 km à
at CFAF 20/t X km)                                      800           3                             20 FCFA/T X km)
- Rice price, ex-mili project                                                                       Riz, prix sortie usine zone        >
area                                                89,670         366                             du projet                          1
- Paddy equivalent price                                                                            Prix paddy
(65% recovery)                                      58,300         238                             (65% rendement)
-Milling cost, transport and                                                                        Co1t tralrsfar rmatient
handling farm to mill                                40i0           16                             transport et manutention
- Economie farmgate paddy                                                                            Prix économique paddy au
price                                               54,7on                                         producteur
1/ Bank,forecast price of MaY 1917 in 1977 constant dollars    l/ Prévisions Banque Mondiale de Mai 1977 en dollars constants
adjusted to January terms by The Bank Index of DC's ex-            1977, augmentées de 5% en termes janvier 1978, conformément
perts of manufactures, SITC 5-8.                                   à Index inflation dans les pays en voie de développement.
2/ Excbange rate CFAF 245 = US$ 1.00.                              2/ Taux de change:  245 FCPA = i dollar.
3 /Obtained by applying a 30% redurtion on   4  /Thu e    chnex-4 CA=  olr
3/ OThaied b% b                 routn           . o _ the export rice    3/ Obtenu en appliquant une réduction de 30% au prix
of Thai 5% broken.                                                 exportation Thalland 5% brisure.
txl
(DX



SENEGAL
DEBI LAMPSAR-IRRIGATION PROJECT/PROJET D'IRRIGATION DE DEBI-LAMPSAR
Tomato paste price structure (28-30% dry weight)/Structure prix concentré de tomate (28-30% poids sec)
1985
CFAF/t        us /t
- Export price of canned tomato pastel/             158,030            645        - Concentré en boite; prix exportationl/
- Ocean freight and insurance                        19,600             80        - Transport maritime et assurance
- Import price CIF Dakar                            177,630            725        - Prix importation CAF Dakar
- Plus port and handling costs                       10,000             41        - Plus frais portuaires et de manutention
- Plus importer's margin                             30,000            122        - Plus marge d'importation
- Less transport mill to Dakar                        6,200             25        - Moins transport usine/Dakar
- Canned tomato paste price, ex-mili                                              - Concentré en botte; prix sortie usine
project area                                     211,430            863           zone du projet
- Less price of cans (200 cans at CFAF 100)          20,000             82        - Moins prix bottes (200 boîtes à 100 FCFA)
- Tomato paste price of 0.9 tons ex-mill            191,430            781        - Concentré; prix de 0.9 ton sortie usine
- Tomato paste price, ex-mill                       212,700            868        - Concentré; prix IT sortie usine
- Fresh tomato price (18% output)                    38,290            156        - Prix tomate fraiche (rendement 18%)
- Processing costs                                   14,ooo             57        - Coats transformation
- Collect and transport price farm to mill            1,000              4        - Frais collecte et transport
- Tomato farmgate price                              23,290             95        - Prix économique tomate au producteur
I/ FOB (Europe), of one ton, half-gross, in 5 kg cans.                 1/ FOB Europe; une tonne, demi-gros, en botte 5 kg.
Ln



SE8GAL
DEBI-LAHMFAR IRRIGATION PROJECT
SAED CASH FLOW (PROJECT)
(CPAF '000)
1978        1979         1980         1981        1982         1983         1984         1985         1986         1987         1988
I. ]2ffOWS
to project
financing
a) Goyernment grantn
IIA                           1,030,000    1,270,000    2,060,000     290,000      250,000
KF                              467,000      779,000       39,000      13,000         -
FAC                              81,000      179,800     192,200      204,000         -
b) Government                        313,000      397,000     626,000       85,0oo
r) ENDS 1/                            86,oo       137 000      74 000         -            -
TOTAL                        1,977,000    ,762,O0   2,991,200        592,000      250,000
1.2 IEBI Perimeter
SaleS of products                     (85)         (89)         (93)        (97)         (101)       (105)       (109)       (113)
Rice ?/                                                      84,000      125,000      173,000    224,000       240,000    253,000      253,000      253,000      253,000
Fannera  payeent                                               72,300       72,300       72,300      72.300       72;300     72,30         ,2,300      72,300      ____3_
15b,300     177,300      245,300     296,300      312,300    325 300      325,300      325,300      325,300
1.3 LAMPBR Pgrimeter
Sàles of produets
pice                                                          74,ooo     188,000      267,000     356,o0o      397,000    413,0o0      413,000      413,000      413,000
Tomatoes 3/                                      59,000     137,000      176,000      215,000    235,000       235,000    235,000      235,000      235,000      235,000
Famera' payment
Rice                                                         63,760      123,570      123,570    123,570       123,570    123,570      123,570      123,570      123,570
Tomatoes                                                     15 700       31 500       31 50       31 500       31.500      31.500       31.500       31.500      31,500
Subtotal LAMPSA,                                  5           2            487570       67M570      74,7        803,070     803,070      803,070      803,070      803,070
TOTAL 1                      1,977,000    2,821,800    3,437,960    1,256,870    1,132,370   1,042,370    1,058,370   1,128,370    1,128,370    1,128,370    1,128,370
II. OUTFLOWS                                                                                                                                                                          n
2.1 DEBI perimeter                     622,400    1,107,000      56,600       15,000
Project coCta                                                                                      18,80C       22,100      48,300      64,600                    18,800
Renewal of equipment
Purchase of produce/Paddy                        57,500       80,000     104,100      126,200     135,800      135,800     135,800     135,800       135,800     135,800
Payments to ONCAD 4/                             21,800       55,700
Milling conts (CFAF 4/kg paddy)                                7,900      10,600       13,200      15,400       15,400      15,400       15,400       15,400       15,400
operation and malntenence            6 000       10 000        ,000       il,000        l l000    ll,oO  11, il 000         11,000       il 000      11,000       11 000
Subtotal DEBI                    6,         19300          211,200     140,700      150,400     181,000         3        210,500     2       
2.2 LAMPSAR perimeter
Project conts                      866,000    1,332,000    2,289,000      33,000
Renewal of equipment                  -            -            -           -            -         18,800       22,100      48,300       65,000         -          18,800
Purchase of produce
Paddy                                          50,800      120,300     160,500      201,000     232,500      232,500     232,500      232,500      232,500      232,500
Tomatoes                                       38,300       89,300     114,800      140,300     153,000      153,000     153,000      153,000      153,000      153,000
Payments to ONCAD                                64,200       81,300      74,000
Milling costa                                                  7,000      15,900       20,400      24,500       26,400      26,400       26,400       26,400       26,400
Operation and matntenance          15 000        22.000       25.000      25.000       25.000      25.000      25-9         25.000       25.000       25,000       25,000
Subtotal IAMPSAR                 581,000    1,485,300    2,591,900     423,200     38  700      453,800      459,000     485,200      501,900      436,900      455,700
2.3 Technical asBistance               226,630      449,610      455,390     495,770      326,600
TOTAL 2                      1,736,030    3,131,210    3,258,490    l,c68,670     863,700    634,800       643,300     695,700      728,700      599,100      636,700
Surplus/deficit            240,970     (309,410)     179,470      188,200     268,670   407,570        415,070    432_46        _  670---5 70             491,370
Annual Cumulaîlo,    240,970      (68,440)    110,030      299,230      567,900    975,470    1,390,540  1,823,210    2,222,880    2,752,150    3,243,520
v Inflow financed through ONCAD.
/ Aosuming anL incraane of the price in real temAo fromn the present unsubsidized CFAF 80.0 per kg to CFAF 113 per kg in 1985, to rfilect similar i,,rrease in Bank forecast.
S At CFAF 23 par kg.
To b. retraceded from ONCAD to BNDS.



SENEGAL
DEBI LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Impact on Government Revenues
tCFAY 00oo)
1978         1979        1980       1981      1982      1983       1984      1985       1986      1987
I. Inflows
SAED Cash Surplus                     240,970                   179,470   188,200   268,670   407,570   415,070   432,670   399,670   529,270
Tax Revenues /l                                                            24.000    24 000    36.500    38,7oo    56.200    67,300    24,000
Total I                                                    179,470   212,200   292,670   444,070   453,770   488,870   466,970   553,270
M].  Ontflows
Project Cost                          313,000      397,000      626,000    85,000
SAED Deficit                                       309,410
Subsidies to:
- Farmers (fertilizerl /2               3,800       13,700      19,600    19,600    19,600    19,600    19,600    19,600    19,600    19.600
l0dt Service on External Project
Financing;, 
_ IDA /3                            7,700        17,200      32,700    34,900    36,800    36,800    36,800    36,800    36,800    36,800
- KF /4 -                          14,000        37,400      38,600    38,900    38,900    87,200    87,200    87,200    87,200    87,200         O'
Total II                         338,500      774,710     716,900   178,400    95,300   143,600   143,600   143,600   143,600   143,600
Surplus/(Deficit)                (97,530)    (774,710)   (537,430)   33,800   197,370   300,470   310,170   345,270   323,370   409;670
/1  On recurrent expenditures and renewal of equipment not financed under the proposed project.
/ CFAF 4,000 and CFAF 22,500 per ha for paddy and tomatoes.
/3 Standard IDA credit terms: service charge of 0.75% on cumulative disbursements, grace period
of ten years, repayment period of 30 years with an interest of 1% for the first ten years
and 3% for the following 20 years.
/4 Loan with an interest of 3%, 5 year grace period and 20 year repayment period.
iii



SENEGAL
DEBI-LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT/PROJET D'IRRIGATION DE DEBI-LAMPSAR
Incremental Value of Production - Valeur nette additionnelle de la production
DEBI
(CFAF'000)
1978          1979           1980           1981          1982
Onward
1.1  Additional Cultivated                                                                         1.1 Accroissement de la superficie
Area (ha)                                1,100                                                  cultivée (ha)
1.2  W Production 1/                                                                               1.2 Production avec le projet (t)
- 1.8 t/ha                                  1,980                                                 - 1.8 t/ha
2.4 t/ha                                                2,640                                     2.4 t/ha
3.0 t/ha                                                               3,300                      3.0 t/ha
3.5 t/ha                                                                             3,85o        3.5 t/ha
TOTAL (t)                                 1,980         2,640          3,300         3,850        TOTAL (t)
- Gross Value of                          107,510       143,350        179,190       209,060      Valeur brute de la production
Production
- Production Costs                                                                                Dépenses de production
(CFAF 40,710 /ha)                      44,780         44,780         44,780       44,780        (40,710 FCFA/ha)
- Labor Costs                               9,980         9,980          9,980         9,980      Dépenses de main-d'oeuvre
Net Value of                                                                                    Valeur nette de la
.  Production                            52,750        88,590        124,430       154,300       production
1.3  - W Net Value of                                                                              1.3 Valeur nette de la production
Production 2/                          13,555        13,555         13,555        13,555       sans le projet
1.4         Incremental net                     39,195         75,035       110,875       140,74'  1.4 Valeur nette additionnelle
value of production                                                                            de la production
1.5    Efficiency pricing                       52,770        95,780        '38,790       174,630
1/  W Futur with project/ Futur avec projet - W Futur Without Project/Futur sans projet.
2/  W Production:  500(ha)x(0.8(t/ha)x54,300(CFAF/t)-21,720,000
W Production:Costs: CFAF16,730x5OO =       CFAF    8 365.ooo
W Net Value of Production                          13,355,000
rH >1
~ oe



SENEGAL
DEBI-IAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT/PROJET D' IRRIGATION DE DEBI LAIPSAR
Incremental Value of Production - Accroissement de la production en valeur
Lamnsar
(CFAF'009)J(Milliers FCA)
1978       1979        1980        1981        1982         1983
onwards/et apres
1pddv                                                                                                                 1.  Paddv
i.1  Incremental cultivated area (ha)                         970       910                                               1.1  Accroissement de 1  superficie cultivee (ha)
1.2 W 1/ Production (T)                                                                                                   1.2  Production avec le projet (t)
1.8                                                 1,750     1,640                                                      1.8
2.4                                                           2,330       2,180                                          2.4
3.0                                                                       2,910        2,730      6,590                  3.0
3.5                                                             3-400                                                    3.5
Total (T)                               1,750     3,970       5,090        6,130      6,590                         Total (t)
- Gross value of production                                95,030   215,570      276,39o     332,860    357,840           - Valeur brute de la production
- Production costs (CFAF 40,710/ha)                        39,490    76,530       76,530      76,530     76,530           -  Depenses de production (40.710 FCFA/ha)
- Labor 6osts                                               6,130    11,890       il.890      i,89        il.890          - Dépenses de main-d'oeuvre
- Net value of production                                  49,410   127,150      187,970 l2414,40         M               - Valeur rette de la production
1.3 W  2/ Net value of production                          32o50    32,050         325 o,50               32,050          1.3 Valeur nette de la production sans le projet
1.4  Incremental net value of production                      5      95,100      155,920     212,390    237,370           1.4  Valeur nette de l'accroissement de production
Efficency pricing                                      (24,470) (122,610)   (195,600)   (263,360)  (281,450)
2.  Tomatoes                                                                                                              2. Tomates
2.1  Incremental cultivated area (ha)           170           170                                                         2.1 Accroissement de la superficie cultivée (ha)
2.2 Production  (T)                                                                                                       2.2  Production  (t)
15                                    2,550         2,550                                                                 15
20                                                  3,400     3,400                                                       20
25                                                            4,250       4,250        5,100                              25
30                                                                        5,100        5,100                              30
Total (T)                2,550         5,950     7,650       9,350       10,200                                    Total (t)
- Gross value of production                  59,420       138,640   178,250      217,860     237,660                      - Valeur brute de la production
- Production costa (CFAF 150,000/ha)          25,500       51,000    51,000       51,000      51,000                      - Dépenses de production (150.000 PCFA/ha)
- _Labor dosta                                 6,550       1300       1309°       13,090       13,090                     - Dépenses de main-d'oeuvre
- Net value of production                     27,370       74,550  1140,       1 l53,770     173,570                      - Valeur nette de la production
3.  Total Incremental Net Value of Productior   27,370         91,910   209,260      309,690     385,960                  3. Valeur nette additionnelle de la production totale
Efficency pricing                           (36,700)      (97,180) (144,710)   (192,240)   (216,ooo)
}/ W   Future with project                                                                                                WFutur avec projet
W   Future vithout project                                                                                             W Futur. aan  projet
2/ W   Gross value of production:  1,200 (ha) x 0.8 (T/ha) x 54,300 (CFAF/T) -   CFAF 52,130,000                          W Valeur brute de la production sans le projet
W   Production conts:                    16,730 (CFAF/ha) x 1,200           -1.200 (ha) x 0,8 (t/ha) x54,300  (FCFA/t) -                                                              52,130,00- FcFA
W Dépenaes de production sans le projet
W   16.730 FCFA/ha x 1.200                       i            20,080,000 pCFA
W  Net value of production:                                                       32,050,000                        W Valeur nette de la production sans le projet                 3F2,00,0    ICFA



SENEGAL
DEBI LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT/PROJET D'IRRIGATION DE DEBI LAMPSAR
Economic Analysis/Analyse économique
Economic Costs and Returns/Coûts et bénéfices
(CFAF '000)
DEBI                                                                LAMPSAR
Costs                 Incremental                                     Costs                   Incremental
O. and M.            Benefits                                         O. and M.             Benefits
Year        Capital       (Entretien et        (Bénéfices               Year      Capital        (Entretien et         (Bénéfices
(Année)    (Capital)    fonctionnement)        additionnels)           (Année)    (Capital)    fonctionnement)        additionnels)
1           633,000            -                    -                  1           867,800             -                  36,700
2           980,000          10,000                52,770              2         1,233,900           14,000              121,650
3            49,000          12,700                95.780              3         1,698,900           28,800              267,320
4             8,000          12,700               138,790              4             26,000          28,800              387,320
5            -               12,700               174,630              5         -                   28,800              479,360
6           -                12,700               174,630              6         -                   28,800              479,360
7 to 50     _                12,700               174,630              7 to 50  -                    28,800              479,360
Economic rate of return = 9%                                        Economic rate of return = 12%
(Taux rentabilité économique)                                       (Taux rentabilité économique)                        o
o
DEBI -+ LAMPSAR                                                     SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Costs                 Incremental                                       Increase in           Decrease in
O. and M.            Benefits                                           Costs 10%            Benefits 10%
Year        Capital       (Entretien et         (Bénéfices                                       (Augmentation         (Réduction
(Année)    (Capital)    fonctionnement)        additionnels)                                     coûts  10%)          bénéfices 10%)
1         1,500,800                                36,700              DEBI                           8%                    8%
2         2,213,900          24,000              174,420
3         1,747,900          41,500              363,100               LAMPSAR                       11%                   10%
4             34,000         41,500              526,110
5           -                41,500               653,990              DEBI 4 LAIPSAR                10% /4                10% /1
6           -                41,500              653,990
7 to 50     -                41,500              653,990
Economic rate of return   10%
(Taux rentabilité économique)
/1  Economic rates of return have been rounded to the nearest whole nuxrber; this conceals an actual decrease of
about 1 percentage point for Debi + Lampsar.



- 101 -
ANNEX 19
SENEGAL
DEBI-LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Labor Analysis
A.   Labor Supply
1.        The current estimated population of the Debi Lampsar area totals
about 12,200 persons, according to the April 1976 national census. The proj-
ected population growth rate in this area is assumed to be 2.5% per annum
(as against 2.2% for the nation as a whole), which would increase the total
population of the area to approximately 15,000 persons at full development
estimated in 1984. With average family size currently about 8 persons,
this would mean about 1,870 families.
2.        On the assumption that 835 families would be settled on the future
Diagambal perimeter located in the project area, the remaining 1,035 families
would provide a labor force of 1,035 x 3.5 = 3,620 men, assuming that each
family would supply an average of 3.5 workers to the Debi-Lampsar Project.
3.        On the basis of an average of 20 working days per man per month,
and 240 days per man per year, the total annual labor supply would be 870,000
man-days and a monthly average of 73,000 man-days.
B.   Labor Demand
4.        Estimates of the average monthly and annual labor requirements
per ha for early rice, late rice and tomatoes are given in Annex 5, table 1.
The attached table 1 gives estimates of total labor requirements in the proj-
ect area.
C.   Economic Cost of Farm Labor
5.        The wage rate for hired labor at the peak of the agricultural season
is around CFAF 300 per man-day, which is assumed to reflect the opportunity
cost of labor to the economy at such times. In months of high rural unemploy-
ment, the opportunity cost of labor would be much lower.
6.        The economic cost of labor at different times of the year for
the project area was determined by the use of a technique developed in the
Thailand Phitsanulok Irrigation Project (Report No. 2486-TH) and used in
the Philippines Chico River Irrigation Project (Report No. 1009a-PH) and
in the Philippines Jalaur Irrigation Project (Report No. 1311a-PH). It is
postulated that the marginal opportunity cost of farm labor in the project
area can be approximated by an S-shaped curve. The marginal opportunity
cost is positive at all levels of labor demand, and increases as more labor
is employed in farm work. The increase is slow initially, reflecting the



- 102 -
ANNEX 19
Page 2
scarcity of alternative productive employment, but becomes more rapid as
the labor supply is more ful.Ly used. At full employment in the project
area, the opportunity cost is assumed equal to market wage of CFAF 300
per man-day during periods oi' heavy labor demand. As labor demand
increases beyond this point, the market wage rate continues to rise
until it reaches the observed maximum of CFAF 500 per man-day, at which
level it remains constant for subsequent demand increases.
7.        In practice, the S--shaped curve can be approximated by three
straight line segments. The attached graph shows the curve of approxi-
mate shadow wage rates used in the analysis. The curve shows the esti-
mated marginal opportunity cost of labor as a function of demand (expressed
as a proportion of supply). The shape of the curve is determined by points
A, B, C and D. Point A represents the minimum opportunity cost of farm
labor which is estimated to be CFAF 50. In theory, Point B represents the
opportunity cost of farm labor when the demand for labor begins to exceed
the supply of family labor, and the hiring of non-family labor is required.
The opportunity cost at Point B is approximated by the minimum market rate of
CFAF 175. Point C indicates that at full employment of rural labor, the
opportunity cost would equal the market wage of CFAF 300 per man-day. The
horizontal segment to the right of Point D indicates that at CFAF 500 per
man-day, all the laborers needed for farm work in the project area would be
available.
8.        The monthly marginal opportunity cost may be read directly from
the curve at the corresponding level of labor demand. With the project,
it varies from CFAF 57 per man-day in months of high unemployment, ta CFAF
450 per man-day in November. The total economic cost of farm labor is then
the area under the curve up to the level of employment. Computed in this
way, the future economic cost of farm labor would be CFAF 40.5 million with
the project at full development, and CFAF 6-4 million without the project,
or an incremental cost of CFA]F 34.1 million. This would be equivalent to
pricing the incremental employment of 280,000 man-days per year at a shadow
wage rate of CFAF 122 per manr-day. The corresponding shadow wage rate for the
total labor demand of 364,930 man-days at full development would be CFAF 110
per man-day.



SENEGAL
DEBI LAMPSAR IRRIGATIN PROJECT,'PROJET D'IREIGATION DE DEBI LAMPSAR
Total Monthly Labor Requirements (in Man-days)  -  Besoins mensuels en main-d'oeuvre (hommes-jours)
Area'
Superficie  January.  February' March,  April,' May,  June,  July,'   August/  September,  October/  November   December,
(ha)      Janvier   Février    Mars    Avril   Mai   Juin   Juillet  Août         Septembre   Octobre   Novembre   Décembre    Total
DEBI
Paddy                                                                                                                                                                       1
W                         1,100       -         -          -                               1,100   17,200    17,200        12,650     25, 700     25,700      90,750
W;                          500       -         -          -       -        -      -         500    7,000       ',000       7,000      7,000      12,500      25,000      w
LAMPSAR
Paddy
1,880       -         _         _        _       _       _       1,880   22,570    22,570       21,620      47,260      4-,260    155,160
W                         1,200        -        -          -       -        -      -        1,200    7,200      7,200       7,200       7,200     '0,000      60,000
Tomatoes
l                           740       14,'0o   17,740    16,720  10,200  -         -       1,020    7,o60    22,100        15,700     12,240       7,140    119,020
W                         _            _        _          _       _        _      _        _       _
TOTAL
W                                      14,'00   17,740    16,'20  10,200  -        -        4,000   38,870    59,870       49,570      8o,800     75,700    364,920
W                         -           _         _          _       _        _      _        1,700       10,200      10,200   10,200      10,200     42,500    85,000
1, W = Future with oroject. Futur avec projet.
= Future without project. Futur sans projet.                                                                                                                             H



SENEGAL
DEBI LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT/PDROJET D'IRRIGATION DE DEBI LAMPSAR
Economic Cost of Farm Labor L'
Coût économigue de la main-d'oeuvre agricole V
Jan.     Feb.     Mar.      Apr.  May  June  July      Aug.     Sept.    Oct.      Nov.      Dec.     Total
Labor requirement         W   14,300   17,340   16,320   10,200   -    -   4,000   38,830   57,870   49,570   80,800   75,700           364,930     w    Besoins en main-d'oeuvre
(Man-days)              __                                                                                                                               (hommes X Jour)
w         -              -                     -   1,700   10,200   10,200   10,200   10,200   42,500         95,000     w
Marginal opportunity       W       78       82        81       70   -    -       57      125       160      145       450      355                  w    Co0t écon.oique marginal
cost (CFAF/Man-day)                                                                                                                                      (FCFA/hommes X Jour)
W     -        _         _        _      _    -       52        70       70       70        70      131                  W
Average economic           w       64       66        65.5     60   -    -       53        88      105       98       151      133          110      w    Coût économique moyen
cost of farm labor                                                                                                                                       (FCFA/hommes X jour)
(CFAF/Man-day)          W      -        -         _        _      -    -       51       60        60       60       60        90           75     W
Economic cost of           W      915    1,114    1,o69       612   -    -      214    3,398    6,076    4,833   12,177   10,092         40,500     w    Coût économique main-
farm labor ('000 CFAF)                                                                                                                                   d'oeuvre (millions a
w     -        -         -        -       -    -      87       612      612      612       612    3,846        6,381     w      FCFA)                       >
Incremental economic
cost of farm labor     W-W      915    1,114    1,069       612   _    _      127    2,786    5,464    4,221   11,565    6,246         34,119    W-W   Coût additionnel de la
('000 CFAF)                                                                                                                                            main-d'oeuvre agricole
(millions FCFA)
l/ W = Future with project/Futur avec projet.
W = Future without project/Futur sans projet.
I D
ou x
'O 



SENEGAL
DEBI-LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT
IMARGINAL ECONOMIC COST OF FARM LABOR
;FAF/FCFA                      (COUT ECONOMIQUE MARGINAL DE LA MAIN D'OEUVRE AGRICOLE)
500
400
300 
200 -
100 
A
10       20        30        40        50        60       70        80        90        100      110       120       130       140       150
Labor demand as % of supply I demande en % de la main d'oeuvre disponible
.11           .22                          .44                                     .73
Thousands of man x days / Milliers d'hpmmes x jours
World Bank-17565






SENEGAL
DEBI-LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE OF IRRIGATION WORKS
1977              1978              1979               1980
1. DEBI                                         I     I      550 À             550
Developed area(ha) per year
(cumulative)
2. LAMPSAR                                                     620           690               910
2.1 Developed area(ha) per year                               -.        
(cumulative)           C   B   A il         (620>             (1,310>           (2,220)
2.2 Irrigation and drainage networks;
pumping stations                                           (BORBOF)
a. Bifeche (200ha)                                    200       -
b. Lampsar (160 ha)                                        160
c. N'Delle (260 ha)
d. N'Diave (160 ha)                                                     160   *
e.  N'Gomene (200 ha) >00
f.  Tilene (130 ha)                                                           20
g. Pontgendarme (200 ha)                                                     200
h. N'Diougou (170 ha)                                                                    170
i.  Bodiene (320 ha)                                                                       320
j. Polo (280 ha>                                                                                 280
k. N'Gao (140 ha)                                                                                140_-
TOTAL = 2,220 ha                                   620                690                910
1.2 Primary drains                                                (NOAR)
02 (left bank of LAMPSAR)
*D3                                                                                     (KRANKAYIE)
Dl
D2 (right bank of LAMPSAR_
C = Call for tender; B = Receipt of bidding documents; A   Award of contract
A   Irrigation pumping station         Drainage pumping station    A  Mixed pumping station  (irrigation and drainage)
World Bank-17585






SENEGAL
DEBI LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT
SOCIETE D'AMENAGEMENT ET D'EQUIPMENT DU DELTA (SAED>
ORGANIZATION CHART
TUTELARY MINISTERS
| BOARD OP DIRIECTORS       +{
|    GENERAL DIRECTOR
STUDIES AND PROGRAMMING UNIT SECTIONS W
H         D    mAgrG.It.ral   P.do I4V    AgricuItuni AEênoic Engineenng    Business i
Dev-Io' nt            mechenization s.ùdie                 iiret, ,.'
* Agr-oconofie * Topo.grphy                                             .0.
* ReeAgricultl onsrarch          * Monitorino
Mechanization      -            and Evaluation
ACCOUNTING DIVlSION/ACP
GENERAL ACCOUNTING
ANALYTIC ACCOUNTING
INVESTMENTS ACCOUNTING
CONSTRUCTION     AGRICULTURAL    MACHlNERY AND    PROCUREMENT
P     WORKS         DEVELOPMENT         FACILITIES       MARKETING
* EARTHWORKS      *CROP PROTECTION  e CENTRAL WORKSHOP
* CIVIL WORKS     *EXPERIMENTATION  O CENTRAL WAREHOUSE
* FORCE ACCOUNT                      * RICE MILL
MINISTER OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND WATER RESOURCES                               SENEGAL OELTA                     - F        -        r -
MINISTER OF FINANCE AND ECONOMIC AFFAIRS                                      SENEGAL OE_ ___TA
HEAD OF THE ACCOUNTING DIVISION IS A SPECIAL STATE ACCOUNTANT                           TL          HAUT                 NIANGA    MATAM       BAKEL      GUEDE
(AGENT COMPTABLE PARTICULIER)                                                          KA           E        AAN                                      j
31 BUREAU D ETUDES ET DE PROGRAMMATION (BEP)
E REALIZED UNDER THE PROPOSED PROJECT
D STRENGTHENED UNDER THE PROPOSED PROJECT
TRANSFERRED UNDER THE PROPOSED PROJECT                       WorId BaEk- 17537






SENEGAL
DEBI LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT
TYPICAL ORGANIZATION CHART OF A PERIMETER
ISIAN MANAGER
ASSISTANT MANAGER               ADMIISTRATION M INANCER               ASSSTANT MANAGER      j
AGLICLjRAL DEVELOPMENT               AOANO PRTOCURFIMENTE             OPERATION AND MANENANCE
CNIEF       -T AININO        OMINISTRATIO10
EXENSION          CENTR|    AND                   PROCUREMENT
SERVICES                           FINANCE
&"UED     ~EXTENSION               AGRticUiLTURtAL   CIVIL. WORK(S
rIESEARCHI      OFFICERS                  EQUIPMENT      OPERATION AND      WO_KSIop
MAINTENANCE
EXTENSION
WORKERS
Wcwld Smnk-17619






r7          t             51, i                                          I                               _ I               ,   t _
SENEGAL                                                     U  R                  A
SENEGAL RIVER BASIN                                         M   A  U  R                                                                               F T  A   N   I  A  S AF RIA
A t/aen/ic                g            7L.a ° 4't
4~~~~~~~~~~~0
sa  IM  12-`                                                            ;                                                      Ql
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Mfl,E
?S  fruwhdatkç  Jt~~.n  'p flhi  hG  J' -'E"
1$SOHYETS IN MM
le           D~~~RiAINAGE BASIN
GAMU (UNOER STUDY    --
mA#NROADS
ILM3    '"RAILROADS                                           G    U       N
-.    2   ôt7f 2INTERNATIONAL BOIN DARES               (
_NTERMITTENT StRaA                                 - --                                                                           t
IVORY COAST 
Y"a                        Y            YJi/SIÏRRA  LEONE"\                                    i       '






É) B  BOUNpoujW~ ~~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~trt                                                                      gn        T oleOuu
k\ ~~~<            ni ~~~~    T AGAR    <   ~~~~~~~                                                            -~~             SENEGAL
4  ~,              DEBI-LAMPSAR IRRIGATION
WER   DELT                  lit ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LNA                                                                    PROJECT
} ;, ;'"ç=t,, -\" ,;=~~~ «D'  6-°i>;ii E  TXJ;;i-;g=J \ DEM0uLTA   R-;    ;-EGION
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D DIU <<j                                                                       §      8
Propuerd pruIne
<                                                                                                                                           pY,   StX   ,(, nOR TH  gze~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 S DEBI-lAMPSAR IRRIGATION~~~~~~~~~e er o n în r ,     S o p o   i d e   c n ru   l o
CSS (Compagnie Suer.e Senegl)
A= 4 iité2s - Â</ /  X-  4   s  / Je  r9                                                vv              2                                       Main Dike~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mon iE
a",                                                                                                                                     A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I,DI
<e iV                                                                                                                           a + N ". iV    /  tX   (r > F   ,   >  k    t    Proposed pumping setons
9'                                                                                                                                                       D .silÀ\ ^,,i 9 / S ,Xz > ,S \ \+ urneama Dam under sepd,
Ruade
LE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~$Airpores
|   SAVOIGNIE                                     :IDE     Z                                                                                                 Arot
é .ffi  Diams  //  ogi it  } '      t                 //                                        )      /                                  --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--    lent national boundenies
ste          ~~~Di-me
48i4U1-.»M;   /1  5tP /                     8 D    /                                      /         J   J                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AREA (h.)
//PERIMETERS -SAECD @GTFNTIAL    DEVELOPED AS    CULTIVATED
<Fus marn     DC   77       IFioud IIIor
R V 5VMPSARnALLEY             iJ a,                                               >     /      conerei    Feu meront 1n   ero)  eî                  e9                                  .
m /h) 47 <5/ 5BS 3 00 3 20Û I $ E ; E . - a < ] . C: E;; DS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m                                        3100           ,21
JELEL           ~~~~1,300    I  000 
GRANDE DIGUE           30500      1  9                                                             , 5         o
SAVOIGNE               35D           350             -
LAMPSAR              2,220            -             1,200           \N                   G.
PE N  E  G  A  L
KASSACK< SPRTH         600            -              30
D   k,A)< ç  S                                                                                    KASSACK K SOUTH        300             -              200
i             r2         rNSTIIAGAR                                     1,450           -               R00 
D / I I KILPMETERD                              P l° DAGANA            3,200         2,730             -         "'      - -
ume rosesoooe ea,iea.tprurét IL,rdou MTR                                   COLONAT RICHARD TOLL  500       50      X
_t."15,020     7,6B0          3,S00 






03~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                                                   r                            -:;0@i=  -Eg 8@u.l[             F= blÉ>;sig=7s ty=MA   IAtS, g
li;é;!;~- >  t; 4« 5 S ii u g f r    --.4  " i l;                                                                    i#l           ;S W u0                                       r
Z 4I r  P » W CSjjÀX;=g3*,<  _ ,__  _s, _~~  L54i\gr-iié<E-tl lé                                     f           S E     Gn
~~= A GE CL' SF== CA ?;M;   .   }#(                .S         I ~~~~?    NS               4e-  H S             S     ;                    RQ                   ( /-b7  I  m je 
ew~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   
W_;`!p A - / /" ' \ . > tGt!,::, z . b§tj' Nt+<-
; r:  t ,P c                                                                                                                                             SENSE GAL
i 0 ,/ / / t 0: ''- : 5 v . DEBI-LAMPSAR ~~~~~~~~~~~IRRIGATION  PROJECT
: ~~~:rt  ,Fi ;0    C  If  si'i'   'ri ^1x   4                                                X                      ^   Pumpingstation jirrigationoriddrainage)~~4,Pnmingstaion(irrgaton nd raiage
im 7;    \   I     :   *,   :   6,f   Q  E7   'r  ?S   >   _ Pri mary  and    secondary  canais
E M .\{iS   ;   /   DA    >3>;  ;f;  ; ; | f ' s R  Z,   I-\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SF  0               ;         /        -  = Primary and secorinsaydan secodary rain
9;  tl /  OT  GUET  : /S S t U X C ; C; | /7 7 N &v2S - ------ - Dike with roud~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dik wit roa
1::;Ç`XL'1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  |  I                                                                         _ __  _  '_= Main road (poirt of proreot)
j"!; 1}61:                                       :   t  D;    z   1                   '                                                                ----A cce ss    road   (port of  proîncr)
r I<;>ll   J;  p   4   .              t       \                                                :             - .-   X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~373~   hydraulipse"
2~~~~~~~~~
~é7%   j  là  *                                         ks                      '-3/                                                                      Pdyfr
i  * : ù   {   >   >   f   > <   ) t \ 5_ _ _ > s s .                                                                               -         .- i n t e r n a t i o n a l   b o i n o a r i e s
;. i   I                                                                                    -                   0 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1000  20|00
I,                                                                                                          M E T E R S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ TEn
-t; f          '    t
=U,-;,       , I~
..î      
.,:    -    ,.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EEA






dUCS 1977
S    E  N    E  G    A    L
DEBI LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT
LAMPSAR   PERIMETER
Irrigation and Drainage Networks
/DJEUSS RIVER 7   
g7- -2iw~Y- G
-  ROIECT IRRIGAT ON AREAS
A   PUMPING  5TATIOW  IR RIGATIG                                                        Ross  ono  T
OPUMPIG STATION  DRAINAGE
___ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' >\ MO JR I TAIS 10S
Cé}#iE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --  FRIOn  OR S                                                                                                           N7;us,
EMBANKMENTS                                                         -F         S EN ESGA L
'10001,~~~~~~~~~900
ROIDS                                                               ,                            A
D   COLGMETERS                       ___---- LIMIS OF SUB PERIMTER5                                                     MR-O--.
mJllt ell2METEt er arre/eNese h  seSj  rVR- ' GUINEA9ISSOO'U  pEA ,



