FILE COPY                              Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repod No. P-2192a-SE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR THE
DEBI LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT
February 21, 1978
This documnt has a resied ditibution and may be used by recipieans only in the performne 
bther officid dutes. Its contents may not outhrwife be dislosd witbout World Bak autberlzateof.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:           CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1.00            =     CFAF 245
CFAF 1 million           US$4,080
FISCAL YEAR
Government: July 1 - June 30
SAED:        July 1 - June 30
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES:  METRIC
1 meter (m)                   -    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2)     -    0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km             0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (t)              =    2,204 pounds (lb)
1 hectare (ha)                -    2.47 acres (ac)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNDS      =    Banque Nationale de Developpement du Senegal
FAC            Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
ONCAD     =    Office National de Cooperation et d'Assistance
pour le Developpement
OMVS      =    Organisation pour la Mise en Valeur du Fleuve
Senegal
SAED           Societe d'Amenagement et d'Exploitation des
Terres du Delta du Fleuve Senegal
USAID          United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
DEBI-LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:        Republic of Senegal
Amount:          US$20 million equivalent
Terms:            Standard
Co-lenders:      Kuwait Fund and Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (France)
Project          The proposed project provides for civil works, agricultural
Description:    development activities, and consulting services and technical
assistance to achieve the following major objectives: (i)
continue the development of irrigation in the Senegal River
Delta in the two perimeters at Debi and Lampsar for production
of irrigated paddy on about 3,000 ha and tomatoes on 340 ha;
and (ii) prepare for the future integrated development of
the entire river valley through strengthening the management,
planning, and research capabilities of the national develop-
ment agency SAED (Societe d'Amenagement et d'Exploitation des
Terres du Delta) which is responsible for planning, construc-
tion, and management of all Senegalese irrigation schemes
within the proposed regional development of the Senegal River
Basin.
The project is expected to yield direct benefits as a result
of increased production of paddy and tomatoes, including
foreign exchange benefits to be realized from substituting
project production for current imports of rice and tomato
paste. The project will also provide greatly increased
incomes for about 9,000 people who are among the poorest
in Senegal's rural areas; these benefits are expected to
be spread widely through extended families. Project risks
have been minimized as much as possible by obtaining civil
works bids before approval of the proposed Credit, by allowing
for the effects of salinity in estimating crop yields, and by
specific financial measures to ensure adequate and prompt
funding for project implementation. Tomato growing does
present some particular risks, but these are not expected to
significantly affect the estimated economic rate of return.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated
Project Cost:    The estimated cost of the proposed project is US$35 million
equivalent (exclusive of taxes and duties from which the
project is exempt), of. which foreign costs comprise US$28.5
million (about 81%). A summary table of cost estimates is
shown below:
Local   Foreign    Total
---(US$ thousaads)…
Debi Perimeter                             1,390      4,240     5,630
Lampsar Perimeter                          2,440    10,670    13,110
Studies                                      510      2,880     3,390
Applied Research                             360        310        670
Technical Specialists                          -      2,200     2,200
Refinancing of Debi Lampsar
Engineering Credit S-18-SE                   -      1,000     1,000
4,700    21,300    26,000
Contingencies - physical                     600      2,400     3,000
prices                    1,200     4,800      6,000
TOTAL                      6,500    28,500    35,000
Financing Plan:  The proposed Credit of US$20 million will finance the entire
foreign exchange cost of the Lampsar component, studies, and
applied research (amounting to 80% of the total cost of these
components including contingencies), together with US$1 mil-
lion for re-financing the Debi Lempsar Engineering Credit
S-18-SE. A US$5.3 million Loan from the Kuwait Fund is ex-
pected to be used for financing the Debi component. FAC will
provide US$2.7 million as a grant to finance expatriaFe tech-
nical specialists. The Government will provide the remaining
project costs estimated at US$7.0 million equivalent, of
which US$1.2 million equivalent from the Banque Nationale de
Developpement du Senegal for agricultural inputs.
Estimated Disbursements:
FY78   FY79   FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83
----(US$ millions)-----------
Annual                      1.0    5.8    7.0    4.6    1.1    0.5
Cumulative                  1.0    6.8   13.8   18.4   19.5   20.0
Rate of Return:  The economic return is estimated at 9% for the Debi peri-
meter and 12% for Lampsar; the combined return is
estimated at 10%.
Staff Appraisal Report:  Report No. 168.5a-SE dated February 21, 1978.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
FOR THE DEBI LAMPSAR IRRIGATION PROJECT
+   1.    I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Dev-
elopment Credit to the Republic of Senegal for the equivalent of US$20 million
to help finance the Debi Lampsar Irrigation Project, including re-financing of
the 1975 Debi-Lampsar Engineering Credit (S-18-SE, US$1 million).  The Credit
will be on standard IDA terms. Additional financing for the proposed project
is expected to be provided by a Loan from the Kuwait Fund in the amount of
US$5.3 million equivalent, with a term of 25 years including 5 years of grace,
and interest at 3 percent per annum. The Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (FAC)
will also provide a grant in the amount of US$2.7 million equivalent to
finance technical specialists.
PART I: THE ECONOMY*
2.         A report entitled "The Economy of Senegal" (212-SE) was distributed
to the Executive Directors on September 10, 1973. Since then, a series of
preparatory sector missions and an October 1976 basic economic mission visited
Senegal to update the macroeconomic data base and to review in depth the country's
development strategy. The following paragraphs reflect the findings of these
missions, whose conclusions will be included in a basic economic report now
being prepared. Updated country data appear in Annex I.
Economic Structure and Past Developments
3.        Senegal is situated at the extreme western part of the African con-
tinent. In the interior, the mainstay of the economy is millet cultivation
and nomadic cattle-raising for domestic consumption, and groundnut cultiva-
tion for exports. Soils are generally poor, and variations in rainfall
periodically cause severe food shortages in the months between the sowing
and harvesting of the next crop. The large river basins -- some of them
fed in the tropical rain zone -- have so far been exploited only marginally.
Land distribution is fairly even. In the western part of the country arable
land is becoming scarce, but in the extreme south-east some good land is
still available. The modern sector of the economy is concentrated in Dakar,
a well organized city of about 1 million inhabitants. The economic base of
Dakar consists of excellent port facilities, an industry which is turning
gradually toward exports, and a small but fast-growing tourist sector.
Senegal's per capita GNP for 1976 was estimated at $390, but average in-
come in Dakar is roughly five times as high as in the countryside.
*    The text of this Section is substantially unchanged from the President's
Report for the Third Railway Project which was distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors on January 26, 1978.



-2-
4.        During the 1960s, the Senegalese economy experienced virtual stag-
nation as real output increased less rapidly than population, and per capita
GNP declined. Two factors were responsible for this situation. First, with
independence, Senegal lost its privileged position as the center of French
West Af;ica, and therefore had to adjust to reduced economic, administrative
and political circumstances. Secondly, in the latter part of the decade,
groundnut production fell due to unfavorable weather and declining export
prices. In the 1970s, a new stage in Senegal's development set in, charac-
terized by a higher rate of private and public investment. Private invest-
ments, which had hovered around 4 percent of GDP in the late 1960s, rose
to 7.5 percent during the period 1970-75. Until 1972, public investments
stayed at around 5.5 percent of GDP, but increased to 7 percent during the
1973-75 period.
5.        While the 1970's saw a rise in the rate of investment, output and
incomes were depressed in 1972 and 1973 by the Sahel's most severe drought
in over a century, which brought a decline in real national income. After
1973, when weather conditions improved and purchasing power of the rural
population was restored, both agricultural and industrial production shot up.
The long-standing Government program to modernize rainfed agriculture proved
to be very successful in years with better rains. In 1975/76 the groundnut
crop reached a historical record of 1.45 million tons (more than double the
average for the 1968-73 period), followed by a crop of 1.1 million tons in
1976/77, but the 1977/78 crop was again below average because of bad rainfall.
Industry grew by about 10 percent per yiear between 1973 and 1975. Total
production increased in real terms by 4 percent in 1974, about 10 percent in
1975, and 6 percent in 1976, but will stagnate in the following two years due
to less favorable crops.
6.        Strong price increases for Senegal's major exports helped to bring
about the economic recovery. The prices of both groundnuts and phosphates
quadrupled over the period 1969-74, providing strong incentives to prodtuction.
However, since prices of imported oil and food also increased at high rates,
the gains in real income from the rise in export prices were limited. More-
over, in 1975 international prices for Senegal's exports again began to fall,
almost gffsetting the growth in real output. These wide international price
fluctuations had serious consequences oni domestic prices, public finance, and
balance of payments.
Public Finance and Balance of Payments
7.        The Government responded with flexibility in the adoption of eco-
nomic policies. In 1974, the Government: initially tried to maintain stable
domestic prices in the face of the skyrocketing food import prices. By
end-1974, it became clear that the costs of this policy were becoming ex-
zessive and that changes would need to be made, even though transfers to the
public sector resulting from improved groundnut production and prices were
much higher than in the preceding year. To reduce subsidies and put public
finances on a sounder footing, the Government raised the prices for rice,
sugar, and groundnut oil by 40 to 90 'percent. To compensate for the rapid



-3-
increase in basic food prices, Government salaries were raised on average by
16 percent, with actual increases ranging from 60 percent for the lower grades
to 3 percent for the higher ones. The minimum wage was increased by 47 per-
cent, thus raising the entire wage scale of the private sector. Average
consumer prices rose by some 28 percent in six months' time, but the Govern-
ment managed to stabilize prices almost completely thereafter. At the end of
1974, the Government also increased producer prices for groundnuts to bring
them closer to world prices which were at that time particularly high. The
cost to the Treasury of this latter step was expected to be compensated in
large part by additional revenues from the profitable phosphate mine in which
the Government increased its participation while levying an 80 percent tax on
the excess profits accruing from the quadrupling of the export prices of
phosphates in 1972/73. In 1974 and 1975, Government revenues from phosphates
amounted to roughly $45 million a year.
8.        These steps led to an increase in public savings from a yearly
average of US$27 million during fiscal years 1970 through 1973, to US$46
million during fiscal years 1974 through 1976. The higher level of public
savings was doubtless an important factor in stimulating the Government to
increase its expenditure on public investments from a yearly average of US$24
million to US$56 million during the same two periods. In addition to the
rise in investment, purchases of equity and lending to domestic enterprises
by the Government increased from an annual average of US$5 million to US$62
million in FY74, $35 million in FY75, and about US$32 million in 1976, mainly
because of the participation in the phosphate mine and the acquisition of two
foreign-owned public utility companies. The combined capital outlays of the
Government were thus substantially in excess of public savings, and were
financed in large part through foreign bank loans. As a consequence, foreign
debt service carried by the Central Government increased from $8 million in
FY73 to $38 million in fiscal year 1976, representing about 10 percent of
Central Government revenues.
9.        The balance of payments came under heavy pressure in 1973 because
of low groundnut exports and increasing imports of foodstuffs and equipment
goods, and net foreign reserves of the country fell to minus US$15 million.
In the following years the deficit on current transactions was reduced, but
the outflows of private capital related to the acquisition of foreign enter-
prises continued, and net foreign reserves reached a level of minus US$48
million at the end of 1975. This was financed by US$30 million in IMF oil
facilities, and the rest by increasing indebtedness of the mostly foreign-
owned commercial banks with their parent companies. Senegal's membership in
the West African Monetary Union, the Stabex Fund established by the European
Economic Communities (EEC), and available IMF facilities, lessens the risks
usually associated with such low foreign reserves.
10.       During 1976, the balance of payments remained under pressure.  The
state marketing board purchased the large groundnut crop from the farmers at
the favorable prices established in 1974, injecting massive purchasing power
into the economy, while the Government continued expansive monetary and
budgetary policies. This substantially increased the demand for imports.
However, export revenues stagnated since groundnut prices were 45 percent



-4-
below the 1974 peak, and phosphate prices were down by 40 percent. Price
declines of the same order of magnitude took place in some of Senegal's food
imports, but the net effect on the terms of trade was heavily negative. The
year 1977 did not bring any substantial improvement in the balance of payments
situation, although the groundnut crop was again good. In August 1977 net
foreign assets were down to minus $62 million, and with a 1977/78 groundnut
harvest about one-third below average, use of the existing safeguard mechanisms
is likely this year. Senegal has already been declared eligible for drawings
on the IMF Trust Fund of up to $7.7 million.
11.       The drop in export prices also created a considerable problem for
public finance. The losses on groundnut transactions in the stabilization
fund were, to a large extent, compensated by gains on the domestic sales of
rice and sugar imports, but budgeted revenues from excess profits on phosphate
operations did not materialize, creating unexpected deficits during 1976/77.
Moreover, the decline of phosphate revenues diminished Government's ability to
cover its financial deficits on the Eurodollar market. In January 1977, the
Government decided to adjust its fisca:L policies. It postponed all new cur-
rent and capital expenditure programs, increased duties on imports from the
EEC, and increased sales tax and taxes on the export of groundnut products.
It also abolished subsidies on wheat f'Lour, and reduced fertilizer subsidies
by 50 percent. The whole package should improve Government finances by $37
million on an annual basis which will, to a large extent, compensate for the
loss of phosphate revenues. Finally, in 1977 there was a recovery of groundnut
prices which eliminated the losses on groundnut transactions in the stabiliza-
tion fund. As a result of these developments, the conclusion can be drawn
that the Government has successfully restored balance in its current operation.
Prospects and Creditworthiness
12.       The Government's long-range development strategy remains based
on promotion of agriculture and export-oriented activities. The agric'ul-
tural program calls for development of areas less affected by rainfall
fluctuations (Casamance and Eastern Senegal) where cash crops other than
groundnuts can be grown. Irrigated cereal production is being developed
in the arid northern part of the country along the Senegal River. This
policy will make the country less dependent on the uncertainties of its
climate and world market prices; but since the majority of the rural poor
are involved in groundnut farming, the Government is continuing its efforts
to promote animal traction, treated seeds, fertilizer use, and crop rotation
to raise the productivity of farmers. The Government also aims at long-term
improvement of the balance of payments mainly through modest expansion of
phosphate mining capacity, promotion of local cereal production to reduce the
heavy burden of food imports, and development of light export industries and
of tourism. The Government is actively preparing projects in these fields,
but because costs are relatively high in mining and other export sectors,
progress in developing efficient investments may be slow, and a cautious view
of the long-term outlook is warranted. In particular, the expansion of
phosphate mining is uncertain owing to capacity increases in other parts of
the world and falling world market prices. With chances for export growth
limited, and substitution of locally produced cereals for imports critically
dependent on very large investments in irrigation, the trade deficit may stay



5-
high, even if the growth objective is cut back to about 4 percent a year,
as compared to an official objective of 5.8 percent. Foreign capital aid
and some commercial loans are expected to be available up to a potential of
$200 million a year during the 1977/78-1980/81 Plan period in order to finance
a widening gap in the balance of payments.
13.       In the medium term, the Government will need a relatively large
proportion of foreign financing for its public investment program. The share
of the public sector in total investments will go up, partly because of the
critical dependence of the economy on the acceleration of publicly financed
irrigation, partly because of the increased share in ownership and control
which the Government has recently acquired in the most important sectors of
the economy, and partly because of the private sector's low propen4ity to
invest due to high production costs in Senegal. Unfortunately, public savings
cannot be expected to increase at the same pace as public investments. The
tax effort is already considerable in Senegal, and all additional taxable
capacity has been used to offset the revenue losses in the,phosphate sector.
There may be scope for slowing down growth of recurrent expenditures in some
categories of the budget; however, insufficient maintenance of the existing
capital stock, operating costs of ongoing development projects, and efforts of
foreign donors to persuade Government to increase its contribution to their
current programs all augur for higher recurrent expenditures, which in turn
limit the possibility of significantly increasing public savings. The Govern-
ment could further increase taxation of groundnut farmers, but since this is
still the most profitable large-scale production open to Senegal, higher
taxation of this sector would harm the long-term growth prospects of the
economy. Additional savings would have to be generated within the para-public
sector whose efficiency Government is trying to improve.
14.       Through the economic stabilization program launched in 1977, the
country re-established itself as a potential borrower of Eurodollar-funds.
Should the Government use these funds to finance projects whose internal cash
generation covers the additional debt service, then the availability of
Eurodollars will not worsen the public finance situation. However, if this
borrowing is used to finance infrastructure or social projects which do not
generate cash, the high debt service on these loans would compete with other
recurrent expenditures essential for economic development. Without a suffi-
cient level of public savings, the periodic disturbances inherent in the
Senegalese economy could easily force the Government to a position of having
to roll over medium-term commercial debt. In such a case, the confidence of
foreign private lenders would be eroded, and the country's creditworthiness
would be adversely affected. To avoid such a situation, one important step
would be an undertaking by Government to foreign donors that at least 15 per-
cent of the public investment program would be financed from public savings
(in the Fourth Plan, 1973/74 - 1976/77, public savings financed 30 percent
of public investments mainly because of the relatively low level of public
investment actually achieved). Achieving the 15 percent target during the
Fifth Plan period would mean a 25 percent reduction in planned investments and
some reduction in the growth rate of current expenditure. This would in turn
require, among other measures, rigorous screening of new projects on the



-6-
recurrent cos'.7 that they may generate. As to foreign financiers, it would
mean that out of the roughly 85 percent of the public investment program to be
financed by them, a substantial part of the local costs would be covered.
This high percentage of foreign financirLg would have to be maintained for some
years to give the Government time to make the structural changes required to
achieve a more satisfactory contribution to public investment.
15.       On the assumption that Governnment takes steps to maintain a balance
between public investments and public saLvings, Senegal would remain credit-
worthy for lending on IBRD terms. The Government has demonstrated its commit-
ment to development by increasing public investments between 1970 and 1976 by
19 percent per year in current prices. The development strategy continues to
be based on agricultural production and rural development, to which 27 percent
of the new investment program is allocated. The Government has also demon-
strated its capacity to respond adequately to the problems which its vulner-
able economy is bound to encounter periodically. There are also reasonable
prospects for long-term diversification and growth. Senegal's access to
short-term financing facilities and membership in the West African Monetary
Union also reduces the risks associated with economic fluctuations. However,
lenders (including the Bank) should provide a large part of their assistance
on concessionary terms in order to avoid a rapid buildup of debt service. In
conclusion, assuming the continuation of responsive and sensible policies,
public debt service is expected to increase from 6 percent of export earnings
in 1976 to roughly 11 percent in 1980, and to be kept between 10 and 15
percent in the long run.
PART II: WORLD BANK OP'ERATIONS IN SENEGAL
16.       The Bank Group has had 38 operations in Senegal to date.  Total
outstanding lending amounts to US$173.6 million, including nineteen IDA
credits, thirteen Bank loans, two blends of Bank and IDA funds, three IFC
operations, and one blend of Bank and IFC funds. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of January 31,
1978, and notes on the implementation of ongoing projects. Execution of these
projects is progressing reasonably well, except that some operations particu-
larly in highways and education have been affected by the shortage of counter-
part funds due to the Government's continuing difficult public finance situa-
tion, as well as by lack of qualified local staff for key positions. The
Government is well aware of the need to constantly seek ways to reduce
delays caused by these problems, and particularly of the importance of assur-
ing good management supervision of projects in all sectors. In this respect,
we shall try through the Para-Public Sector Technical Assistance Project ap-
Droved by the Executive Directors in January 1978 to initiate the measures
i.ecessary to resolve on a sectorwide basis some of the issues regarding the
general situation of the country's finances and Government control of public
enterprises and mixed companies, particularly those which are channels for
Bank Group assistance.



-7-
17.       The Bank  Group's share in total external aid disbursements to
Senegal over 1977-81 will stay at around 16 percent, of which roughly 45
percent in IDA financing. The Bank Group's share in outstanding disbursed
debt was 21 percent in 1976, and will slowly start to surpass that level
after 1981. The Bank Group's share in public debt service is expected to
increase from 3.8 percent in 1976 to about 8 percent in 1981, a rise which
is mainly due to the increase in Bank loans from 21 percent of Senegal's
outstanding disbursed debt to the Bank Group at end-1976 to about 42 percent
by 1981.
18.       The objectives of Bank Group lending in Senegal fall under five
main headings. We continue to give priority to rural development, including
development of irrigation in the Senegal River Valley Region (e.g., the
recently completed River Polders project, and the Debi Lampsar Irrigation
Development project proposed in this report), intensification of groundnut
production and diversification into new crops and new regions (e.g., the
Sine Saloum agricultural development project, Terres Neuves Resettlement and
Eastern Senegal Livestock projects, and the Second Sedhiou rice project in
Casamance); as in the past, we would expect our agricultural lending over
the next few years to exceed one-third of the total. Secondly, we have
supported diversification of the economy by lending to the growing indus-
trial sector through the Societe Financiere Senegalaise pour le Developpe-
ment de l'Industrie et du Tourisme (SOFISEDIT), a development finance
company established with Bank Group assistance in 1974. This diversifi-
cation objective is being further assisted by a second Loan to SOFISEDIT
approved early in FY 77 which includes provision for developing an integrated
scheme to provide assistance to small-scale Senegalese entrepreneurs, as
well as by a tourism project approved later in FY 77 for construction of
infrastructure and common facilities to support a 2,500-bed hotel development
on the Petite Cote. Thirdly, we have encouraged modernization and expansion
of the country's infrastructure particularly through lending in all modes of
the transport sector; we are pursuing this effort through a project for a
major extension of the Dakar Fishing Port approved by the Executive Directors
in April 1977, as well as through the Third Railway Project approved in
February 1978 which is designed to improve the organization, management, and
operational and financial performance of the Senegal Railway. Fourthly,
Government has asked us to help re-orient and expand the country's education
system at all levels, and we have identified a proposed Third Education
Project which would help meet some of the major objectives in the sector,
particularly the need for trained high-and middle-level technicians and
managers in the modern sector and in agricultural development activities,
and to increase access to primary education, particularly in rural areas.
Overall, we remain conscious of the need to prepare project components in
the social services sector (particularly nutrition and health), within the
limits of the Government's ability to bear the recurrent costs involved.
And finally, we are helping Government increase its absorptive capacity for
planning, executing, and managing development projects through institutional
support within individual Bank Group projects, and through broader efforts
such as the Technical Assistance Project for the Para-Public Sector.



-8-
PART III: IRRIGATION IN THE SENEGAL RIVER BASIN
The Agricultural Sector in Senegal
19.       Agriculture plays a central role in the country's economy, account-
ing for about 35% of GDP, almost 70% of exports, and about three-quarters of
the total labor force. Agricultural production is however subject to high
risks because of the erratic rainfall and poor soils common to the Sahelian
region. Even in normal years, therefore, substantial quantities of foodstuffs,
particularly rice, have to be imported. The sector itself has several import-
ant characteristics: small-scale farms account for almost all agricultural
production; groundnuts account for about half of total agricultural production;
60% of the rural population is concentrated within about 150 km of Dakar in
the Groundnut Basin; and large areas in the northern and eastern parts of the
country are suitable only for livestock production under extensive grazing.
20.       Government strategy in the a,gricultural sector aims essentially at:
(i) increasing groundnut and millet production; (ii) diversifying production
by emphasizing cultivation of new crops, and by promoting livestock dev-
elopment in Eastern Senegal and encouraging migration of farmers to this
region from the heavily populated areas in the Groundnut Basin; and (iii)
seeking more secure drought relief by harnessing existing water resources,
primarily in the Senegal River Basin, but also in the Casamance region.
These actions are all an important parit of the Government's strategy over the
past several years to shift the emphas:is of its investment and development
effort toward the rural sector. Projects financed by the Bank Group and other
donors have demonstrated the viability of large-scale irrigation on the
Senegal River, and this type of development which has started only over recent
years, is now being given high priority by the Government. Irrigated agricul-
ture would be largely devoted to rice production, which after millet, is the
most popular food grain in Senegal.
21.       Bank Group operations in the sector have been designed to fit into
the general framework of the above strategy, and are meeting the particular
needs of various regions throughout the country. Total lending of $57.8 mil-
lion equivalent has helped finance 13 operations for agricultural develop-
ment, including one for irrigation in the Senegal River Delta (para. 34),
three to establish and implement an agricultural credit program, two projects
for rice development in the Casamance region, one for livestock development
and two for farmer resettlement in Eastern Senegal, the Sine Saloum Development
Project for crop improvement and diversification in the southern Groundnut
Basin, a drought relief program, and engineering studies for the Debi-Lampsar
irrigation project proposed in this report.
22.       Project execution has been progressing satisfactorily, except that
technical assistance provided to the naLtional groundnut marketing agency ONCAD
(Office National de Cooperation et d'Assistance pour le Developpement) under
the agricultural credit programs has not produced the expected results,
despite some steps taken by the Governament to reorganize the agency and to



-9-
strengthen its management and financial operations. ONCAD's poor performance
and financial situation have however not affected the physical implementation
of Bank Group projects, as it has been provided with short-term credit by the
Central Bank through the Banque Nationale de Developpement du Senegal (BNDS);
BNDS assists development projects in various sectors including agriculture,
livestock, and fisheries by providing funds for inputs, which are then deli-
vered by ONCAD to the cooperatives. Project implementation has also prog-
ressed satisfactorily because ONCAD's functions are gradually being assumed
by the various regional development agencies, which are semi-autonomous bodies
organized to promote and sustain rural development programs. The Technical
Assistance Project for the Para-Public Sector provides for a review of ONCAD's
financial and accounting system, and three years of audit of its accounts.
Development of the Senegal River Basin
23.       The Senegal River Valley represents a large undeveloped area with
great potential for improved water use in a region which has suffered severely
from the effects of devastating droughts. The majority of the 530,000 people
who live in the river valley are farmers who depend on flooding of the Senegal
River to grow cereals as flood waters of the river recede; however, the timing
and extent of the flood is highly uncertain, and using improved farming inputs
is therefore risky. Consequently, yields and overall production are very low,
and the people live at barely subsistence levels. Farmers are progressively
shifting from flood recession cultivation to irrigated perimeters as these
are developed by Government, aided by bilateral and international agencies.
The present area under irrigation of approximately 10,000 ha is expected to
increase five-fold by 1985. The proposed project will assist Government
in increasing the pace and improving the quality of irrigation development.
Livestock is also important in the Senegal River Basin, but has so far been
used only for subsistence. The proposed project provides for applied research
to improve and integrate livestock activities in the area.
Organisation pour la Mise en Valeur du Fleuve Senegal (OMVS)
24.       Regulation of the Senegal River in order to permit irrigated develop-
ment is an objective sought jointly by Senegal, Mali, and Mauritania which in
1972 established OMVS to pursue this goal. The OMVS High Commission was reor-
ganized in December 1975 in order to increase its capacity to supervise final
studies and execution of an ambitious program prepared in cooperation with the
United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) to permit year-round irrigation
on about 430,000 ha along the river (220,000 ha in Senegal, 160,000 ha in
Mauritania, and 50,000 ha in Mali). The key regional infrastructure consists
of a salt-water barrier dam at Diama (Senegal) which would allow irrigation
for double-cropping on about 50,000 ha in Senegal and Mauritania, and a large
multi-purpose dam at Manantali (Mali) which would provide partial river
regulation for navigation and irrigation of about 380,000 ha throughout
the year, as well as power for industry and mining. Feasibility and final
engineering studies for Diama and Manantali are being financed respectively
by France and Germany; the Diama studies will be finished by early 1978, and
those for Manantali are scheduled for completion by end-1978. OMVS is plan-
ning to carry out a comprehensive review of the findings of the Diama and



- 10 -
Manantali st .ies as well as of other proposals for development of the river
basin (e.g. navigation channel and river ports), in order to formulate a
phased integrated program. Over the past two years the Bank has helped OMVS
define its personnel needs, and is acting as executing agency for a-$2.25
million ui;iDF-Linanced five-year program of institutional support which was
recently approved by the OMVS Council of Ministers. This program provides for
about 200 man-months of technical assistance services to assist OMVS in its
development strategy, coordination of regional investments and national
projects, work schedules, and training.
25.       While the major regional infraLstructure is being planned, and will
be executed and operated by OMVS, the member countries will be responsible for
the other components of the program, such as irrigation and other agricultural
development, and agro-industry. The Bank Group would be prepared, subject to
its usual economic and technical analysis, to finance some parts of the pro-
posed regional infrastructure, but in the meantime is actively working on
OMVS-related irrigation projects in Mauritania and Mali, in addition to the
Senegalese project proposed in this repcrt.
Societe d'Amenagement et d'Exploitation des Terres du Delta
du Fleuve Senegal (SAED)
26.       The Government of Senegal has appointed SAED as the national de-
velopment agency responsible for construction and management of all Senegalese
agricultural projects located in the River Valley and Delta, and which are
therefore associated with the OMVS program. Following its establishment in
1965, SAED concentrated on developing simple and inexpensive flood control
irrigation perimeters. However, the Sahelian drought in the late 60's and
early 70's showed this method to be very sensitive to the vagaries of the
river's flood level, and the Government decided to shift to full water control
irrigation schemes. With the benefit of substantial external assistance, SAED
has so far developed about 10,000 ha, and its achievement of some 2,500-ha
during each of the past two years has been particularly impressive. Debi and
Lampsar are the only major existing perimeters in the Delta which have not yet
been converted to full water control irrigation. In the future, in order to
take advantage of the irrigation potential associated with regulation of the
Senegal River envisaged under the OMVS program, SAED will have to meet two
major challenges: first, to achieve irrigation development of about 50,000 ha
by 1985 to meet Senegal's projected cereal deficit, which would require an
increased rate of development of about 5,000 ha annually; and second, to
change from an institution fo.r implementing and supervising irrigation works
to an agency capable of executing integrated regional rural development
programs. The proposed project will help SAED meet both objectives (paras. 51
and 52).
Organization and Management of SAED
27.       SAED has a 12-person Board of Directors responsible for defining
general policies and by-laws, programming works and studies, approving annual
budgets and financial statements, and setting salary scales. Management is
by a Director-General appointed by decree who is responsible for executing
decisions made by the Board, and for hiring and dismissing staff. Present
management is very good. SAED's headquarters are located in Saint Louis.



- 1.1 -
The headquarters organization includes a studies and programming unit which
has been set up to participate in preparing studies and engineering, and in
carrying out applied research. The agricultural division is at Ross-Bethio,
where SAED also maintains milling activities and a workshop. Facilities at
the perimeter level comprise houses, workshops, storehouses, offices, and
equipment.
28.      -Operation of the irrigated perimeters is coordinated from head-
quarters and executed by a manager appointed for each perimeter during its
construction phase. Once perimeters are in operation, they are grouped in
lots of about 5,000 ha. Responsibilities are shared among three assistant
managers for agriculture, administration and procurement, and operation and
maintenance. Under the proposed project, the Debi perimeter will be combined
with the existing Boundoum perimeter, and Lampsar with the Diagambal perimeter
which is under consideration for financing by the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID).
Staffing and Training
29.       SAED has about 840 permanent staff, of whom 15 expatriates and about
300 seasonal workers. The Director-General and most division head and project
manager positions are filled by Senegalese. However, Government and SAED
agree that additional technical assistance is required to improve SAED's
financial management, to strengthen its planning and programming capabilities,
and to develop the Debi and Lampsar perimeters. The proposed project provides
for a financial controller, two agronomists, one livestock specialist, and
one mechanical engineer. In view of the shortage of qualified personnel in
Senegal, it is expected that this staff will be recruited internationally.
SAED has provided assurances that all positions will be filled by June 30,
1978 in agreement with the Association (Section 2.02(b) of Project Agreement).
Since appointment of the financial controller and of project managefs for the
Debi and Lampsar perimeters is particularly important for the success of the
proposed project and of SAED's operations generally, the candidates' qualifica-
tions and experience, as well as the terms and conditions of their employment,
will have to be satisfactory to the Association; assurances were also provided
that the post of Director-General will continue to be filled by a qualified
and experienced person (Section 3.06 of Development Credit Agreement and
Section 2.09 of Project Agreement).
30.       SAED's present training activities are carried out by a special
section in the studies and programming unit; training consists mostly of
seminars and lectures with audio-visual aids and field visits for the exten-
sion workers. Plans are underway for expansion of training facilities and
programs following construction of a training center to be financed by USAID,
FAC, and the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE), which is
scheduled for completion by end-1978. The new center will allow more compre-
hensive training for all levels of field staff in agricultural practices for
existing and new crops, irrigation techniques, and animal husbandry. The
proposed project provides for training facilities and staff at each perimeter,
with a focus on farmer training in proper and timely application of inputs
and appropriate cultivation techniques.



Finance and Accounts
31.       Like many other Senegalese public enterprises, SAED is subject to
stringent a priori centralized Government control over its finances; the rigid
organization and procedures cause long delays in executing contracts and in
making payments.   Government has recognized the need to give SAED more
autonomy to carry out its accelerated development program, and will implement
the recommendations on organizational structure and financial procedures made
by the Bureau d'Organisation et des Methodes, a consulting and training agency
attached to the Office of the President. A decree authorizing the necessary
action will be issued shortly; the Association has reviewed the provisions of
the draft decree and considers them satisfactory.
32.       SAED has faced liquidity problems due to shortage of working capital,
cumbersome Government administrative procedures, and failure to promptly
recover monies due. Several specific provisions incorporated in a financing
agreement between the Government and SAED under Credit 350-SE (see para. 34)
were only partially effective; however, Government has shown its commitment
to SAED by financing important cost overruns on that project. A significant
improvement in SAED's financial position is expected as a result of the Gov-
ernment's actions mentioned in para. 31 above, and other measures proposed
under the present project (para. 53).
Cost Recovery
33.       SAWD is responsible for cost recovery, and charges consolidated fees
which consist of a water charge per ha cropped according to the type and value
of the crop, and a charge for mechanica:L services per ha depending on the type
of service used (para. 50). SAED's methods are reasonably effective and
produce a satisfactory collection rate 1(86% in 1976), but the fee needs to be
increased to achieve a higher recovery of construction costs of the perimeters,
and full recovery of actual costs of mechanical services. Agreement has been
reached under the present project to increase the fee to a level which will
cover operating and maintenance costs and a modest proportion (about 12%) of
capital costs, but will at the same time not damage farmer incentives. The
level of charges will be reviewed perioclically by SAED in consultation with
the Association (Section 3.05 of Development Credit Agreement and Section 3.05
of Project Agreement).
PART IV: THE PROJECT
Background
34.       In 1973 the Association approved Credit 350-SE of US$4.5 million
for the Senegal River Polders Project. This first irrigation project in the
Senegal River Valley was intended to develop the Dagana Polder with full water
control permitting double cropping on about 2,730 ha for production of paddy,
sorghum, and vegetables; to improve irrigation through flood control for
single cropping on 1,780 ha in the Debi and Lampsar Polders; and to strengthen
SAED with extension staff, training facilities, equipment, and agricultural



- 13 -
research. After completion of the construction design for the Dagana polder,
it was expanded with IDA agreement to 3,200 ha. Later, primarily because the
effects of inflation and adjustments in exchange rates resulted in much higher
costs than estimated, and also because Government decided to introduce full
water control for perimeters in the Delta, Government requested and the
Association approved reallocation of the entire Credit to the Dagana Polder.
Although there were some delays in building construction, physical execution
of the irrigation works was good, and planting for the 1977 season covered
about 85% of the targeted area. Yields of paddy have greatly exceeded ap-
praisal estimates, and in 1977/78 total paddy production is expected to reach
4,000 tons as estimated at appraisal; production of tomatoes should reach
about 12,000 tons, which is some 60% above appraisal estimates.   Overall, it
is estimated that the in,reased project costs and the late introduction of
double-cropping will be offset by much higher output prices and higher paddy
yields, and the revised rate of return is estimated at approximately the
appraisal figure of 14%. A Project Completion Report will be prepared shortly.
35.       In reformulating Credit 350-SE, the Government asked the Association
to help redesign the Debi and Lampsar perimeters, since flood control as
originally envisaged had proved unsuccessful in other perimeters in the
Delta. The perimeters were highly dependent on the river flood which could
not ensure adequate production or returns to farmers. This shortcoming was
highlighted by the failure of flood control perimeters during the 1972 and
1973 droughts, in contrast to the success of perimeters under full water
control. The Debi-Lampsar Engineering Credit (US$1.0 million, 1975) provided
for surveys, final engineering, technical schedules, cost estimation, and
preparation of tender documents for development of 5,000 ha on the Debi and
Lampsar perimeters, as well as the Diagambal perimeter which is being con-
sidered for USAID financing. The Credit also financed studies on the impact
of the project on health, the relocation of Debi village, and on SAED's short-
and medium-term operations and organization. The engineering studies done by
consultants SCET International (France) were completed satisfactorily on
schedule in mid-1976, and led to appraisal of the project proposed in this
report and under which the Engineering Credit will be re-financed. The study
of the relocation of Debi village was carried out satisfactorily by SAED. The
health study is now being done by the local Saint-Louis laboratory. SCET
International has also completed the study of SAED's development programs, and
is now preparing the organization study following the recommendations of the
Bureau d'Organisation et Methodes (para. 31).
36.       The proposed project, which will build on experience gained during
the operations discussed above, was appraised in February 1977. Negotia-
tions for the proposed Credit were held in Washington in January 1978 with
a Senegalese delegation led by Mr. Ousmane Seck, Minister for Planning and
Cooperation. A Credit and Project Summary is given at the front of this
report, and the project area is described in paras. 37-38 below and shown on
Map IBRD 3984 R3. The Staff Appraisal Report No. 1685a-SE is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors.



- 14 -
The Project A-'=
37.       The project will be carried out in the Delta of the Senegal River
which varies in width from several hundred meters in the dry season to several
kilometeLi. il cLhe rainy season. Soils in the Debi and Lampsar perimeters
have a high clay content and are extremely hard when dry. As the soils in the
Delta are generally saline, the perimeters have been delimited to include only
soils where salinity would not preclude adequate yields of paddy and tomatoes.
38.       Population in the project area is about 175,000 people, of whom
90,000 in the town of Saint Louis, and the rest rural farmers living in about
30 principal villages. The average houslehold has 8 members, of whom about
three are active workers. Per capita income of US$80 per year, which is only
about 20% of the national average, is derived about equally from paddy cul-
tivation, and from other activities including rainfed cultivation, livestock,
and fishing. There is no shortage of land, and no system of individual land
ownership. Farmers cultivate their holdings, which vary from 2 to 3 ha, under
both traditional and improved systems. Under traditional agriculture using
rudimentary techniques, rainfed crops such as millet, maize, and cowpeas are
planted in the rainy season on higher ground. As the flood recedes, sorghum
and other crops are grown lower down the banks. Under improved agriculture,
SAED generally allocates 2-3 ha per family for paddy and some tomato cultiva-
tion in polders formed by protective dikes. SAED provides mechanical ser-
vices, inputs, credit, and extension and marketing services. In the past,
farmers were organized in large cooperatives, but now prefer the smaller
mutual guarantee groups of about 50 farmers each, which were initiated by
SAED specifically for intensive cultivation; these have proven successful,
and are now adopted for all new schemes.
Water Rights
39.       Water supply for the proposed project will be taken from the Thter-
national waters of the Senegal River. Implementation of any works substan-
tially affecting the river is governed by the agreement of the Convention of
March 11, 1972 between Senegal and the other two riparian states Mauritania
and Mali. The proposed project will not affect river flows, since water
will be taken during the flood period when supplies are abundant; nevertheless
OMVS, the authority responsible for regulation of the river, was asked by
Senegal to approve allocation of water for the project. The OMVS Water Rights
Commission recommended the allocation, and final approval was given by the
OMVS Council of Ministers in January 1978.  The Association has reviewed a
copy of the resolution and considers it satisfactory.
Project Description
The proposed project would consist of:
(a) Debi Perimeter:
(i) Construction of primary and secondary irrigation
and drainage networks, one pumping station, on-farm



- 15 -
development including land levelling, and access roads,
to permit full water control on a single perimeter of
1,100 ha.
(ii) construction of houses, offices, workshop, and
storehouses, including provision of water, elec-
tricity, and other facilities; and
(iii) procurement of agricultural equipment and vehicles.
(b) Lampsar Perimeter:
(i)  construction of embankments along each side of the
Lampsar channel;
(ii)  construction of protective dikes, primary and secon-
dary irrigation and drainage networks, 14 pumping
stations, access roads, on-farm development including
land levelling, to permit full water control on 11
subperimeters totalling 2,220 ha;
(iii)   construction of houses, offices, workshop, and store-
houses, including provision of water, electricity,
and other facilities; and
(iv) procurement of agricultural equipment and vehicles.
(c) Agricultural Development:
(i)  selection of about 1,100 farmers, and allocation to them
of holdings of 3 ha each; and                          -
(ii)  provision of agricultural mechanical services, inputs,
marketing facilities, and extension services for pro-
duction of paddy and tomatoes.
(d) Technical Assistance and Consulting Services:
(i)  provision of technical assistance to strengthen SAED's
managerial, financial management, planning, and research
capabilities, together with specialized equipment and
vehicles to carry out applied research activities; and
(ii)  consulting services to help SAED carry out studies,
including required final engineering, for future
development of the Senegal River Delta and Valley.



- 16 -
Cost Estimates
41.       Total project costs are estimated at US$35 million equivalent
(exclusive of taxes and duties from which the project is exempt), of which
US$28.5 million in foreign costs (about 81%). A summary table of cost
estimates is shown below:
Local   Foreig    Total    Local   Foreign   Total
- -(CFAF million)--  -…------(US$'000)…------
1. Debi Perimeter
Irrigation & drainage
networks               226       770       996       920    3,140      4,060
Buildings                  30       86       116       120       350       470
Vehicles & equipment       37      141       178       150       580        730
Operating costs            27         6       33       110        20        130
Agricultural inputs        21       38        59        90       150        240
(incremental)
341    1,041    1,382    1,390    4,240        5,630
2. Lampsar Perimeter
Irrigation & drainage
networks               383    2,172    2,555    1,560    8,870    10,430
Buildings                  36      101       137       150       410       560
Vehicles & equipment       62      218       280       250       890     1,140
Operating costs            57       18        75       240        70       310
Agricultural inputs        60       105      165       240       430       670
(incremental)
598    2,614    3,212    2,440   10,670    13,110
3.  Technical Assistance
and Consulting Services
Studies                   125      705       830       510    2,880      3,390
Applied Research           89        76      165       360       310       670
Technical Specialists       -      540       540        -     2,200      2,200
214    1,321    1,535        870    5,390      6,260
4. Re-financing of Debi-
Lampsar Engineering
Credit S-18-SE             -       245       245        -     1000       1,000
Total Base Costs 1.153    5,221    6,374    4,700   21,300    26,000
5. Contingencies
Physical                  159     .560       719       600    2,400      3,000
Price                     292    1,175    1,467    1,200    4,800        6,000
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS 1,604    6,956    8,560            6,500   28,500    35,000



- 17 -
42.       Costs for irrigation works and building construction are based on
civil works bids received. Costs for equipment, agricultural inputs, con-
sulting services, and technical assistance (about 23 man-years at an average
cost of US$8,400 per man-month), are-based on recent quotations updated to
January 1978 prices. Physical contingencies applied include 15% for the
perimeters, and represent overall 11% of total base costs of the project.
Price contingencies have been applied according to annual inflation rates
assumed as follows: for civil works, 10% in 1978, and 9% in each of the
years 1979-81; for equipment, salaries, and services, 8% in 1978, and 7% in
each of the years 1979-81. Total price contingencies represent about 17% of
project costs.
Financing Plan
43.       The proposed Credit of US$20 million will finance the entire for-
eign exchange cost of the Lampsar component, studies, and applied research
(amounting to 80% of the total cost of these components including contin-
gencies), together with US$1 million for re-financing the Debi Lampsar En-
gineering Credit S-18-SE (Section 2.02 (b) of Development Credit Agreement).
44.       Additional financing for the project is expected to be provided by a
loan of US$5.3 million equivalent from the Kuwait Fund to finance the Debi
component; loan terms would be 25 years including 5 years of grace, with interest
at 3% per annum. Also, a grant of US$2.7 million equivalent from FAC will finance
the services of technical specialists. The Banque Nationale de Developpement du
Senegal (BNDS) will provide US$1.2 million equivalent to meet the cost of agricul-
tural inputs to be made available to project farmers on credit (para. 50). The
remaining project costs, estimated at US$5.8 million equivalent, will be met by
the Government. In view of the importance to the project of the recruitment of
technical specialists, a condition of Credit effectiveness will be the fulfill-
ment of all conditions precedent to initial disbursement under the FAC grant
(Section 5.01(c) of Credit Agreement). A similar condition has not-been stipu-
lated for the Kuwait Fund loan, since possible delays in implementing the Debi
component will not adversely affect the rest of the project. Moreover, no
substantial delays are expected since the Kuwait Fund has been working in close
cooperation with the Association and the Government on this project, and has
provided its agreement in principle to the proposed financing. The Kuwait Fund
is now arranging to carry out its own evaluation of the Debi component in
March 1978, and will subsequently present the project to its Board of Directors
for formal agreement. The Association would however be in a position to suspend
all or part of its Credit if by December 31, 1978 the conditions of disbursement
of the Kuwait Fund loan would not have been met, or if other equivalent sources
of financing for the Debi perimeter were not secured (Section 4.01 (h) and (i)
of Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement
45.       Procurement for the Debi component will be in line with Kuwait Fund
procedures. Recruitment of technical specialists will be in accordance with
FAC procedures. Agricultural inputs will be procured locally by SAED and
ONCAD, according to procedures acceptable to the Association. All other
procurement for the Lampsar component and for consulting services and applied
research will be under procedures of the Association. Bids have been received
following international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines for irrigation works (US$12.3 million) and buildings (US$0.7 mil-
lion). Equipment contracts for more than US$100,000 (US$0.5 million) will
be procured through international competitive bidding; equipment contracts
for less than US$100,000 (US$1.0 million) will be procured in accordance with



- 18 --
local competitt-'.v  bidding procedures acceptable to the Association, except for
equipment purchases of less than US$15,0(00 each (US$0.5 million) which will be
purchased directly from local suppliers on the basis of at least three quota-
tions for each contract. Consulting services (US$3.7 million) will'be obtained
in agreement with and under terms'and conditions acceptable to the Association.
The remainder of the Credit proceeds will finance SAED expenditures on operat-
ing costs (US$0.3 million) and refinancing of the Debi-Lampsar Engineering
Credit (US$1.0 million). (Schedule I of Project Agreement).
Disbursements
46.       Credit proceeds will be disbursed as follows:  80% of total costs
of civil works for irrigation works and buildings; 100% of foreign or 75% of
total expenditures for vehicles and equipment; 75% of total operating costs
excluding salaries; 85% of total costs for studies and applied research; and
100% of refinancing of Engineering Credit: S-18-SE. Disbursements will be
fully documented, except those for operating costs which will be made against
certified statements of expenditures; detailed documentation for the latter
will not be submitted to the Association, but-will be retained in SAED's
office and made available for review by project supervision missions
(Schedule lof Development Credit Agreement).
Implementation
47.       The project will be carried out by SAED which has already satis-
factorily developed 10,000 ha in the Senegal Delta and Valley. On the basis
of past experience and future expectations, SAED is considered fully competent
to carry out the project. Execution is scheduled to start in early 1978, and
to take about four years to complete.
48.       Debi and Lampsar Perimeters.  Development of the irrigated peri-
meters is planned as follows:  Debi, 550 ha in 1978 and in 1979; Lampsar,
620 ha in 1978, 690 ha in 1979, and 910 ha in 1980.  The project will derive
its entire water supply from the Senegal River, mostly by pumping either
from the river itself or from the Lampsar channel. Irrigation by gravity
will be possible only when river water levels are exceptionally high. The
amounts of water available are far in excess of requirements for cultivation
of rice and tomatoes according to forecast production levels. The perimeters
are divided into hydraulic units of about 75 ha, which are in turn subdivided
into 4-6 blocks, each with about 5 individual holdings of 3 ha each.  Both
irrigation and drainage units will be equipped with hydraulic structures.
Roads will be built inside the perimeters to provide access to each plot;
total length will be approximately 150 kmi, in addition to the existing paved
road which already links the sub-perimeters. Supervision of all works on the
two perimeters will be by consultants selected in agreement with and under
LXrms and conditions acceptable to the Association (Section 2.02(a) of Project
Agreement).
49.       Agricultural Development.  Farmers will be selected by SAED in
cooperation with both official and traditional local authorities according
to established criteria including family size, a'ge, agriculture as a main
source of income, proximity of their homes to the perimeter, and credit
rating. The size of project farms will f'ollow SAED's present policy of



- 19 -
allocating about 3 ha per family; however, SAED is permitted to reduce the
size of any holding according to the intensity of demand from applicants and
the capacity of the family to cultivate the land. After selection, a contract
will be signed between SAED and either the individual farmer or the mutual
guarantee group (para. 38) stipulating respective rights and obligations.
Under the model contract, SAED is obligated to provide on request mechanized
cultivation and agricultural inputs. The main equipment included in the
project will be 24 tractors and 29 threshers; other equipment will include
plows and planters. In addition, the project will provide special heavy
earthmoving equipment for maintenance of civil works, as well as general
purpose cars and trucks. The form and content of SAED's contract with the
farmers was approved by the Association under Credit 350-SE, and SAED has
agreed that it will not be substantially modified without the agreement of
the Association (Section 2.08 of Project Agreement).
50.       All inputs other than improved rice seed which SAED produces itself,
and tomato seeds which it imports directly, are provided by ONCAD to SAED
which makes them available to farmers on credit. ONCAD obtains financing
for the credits from BNDS, which gets the funds for such credits from borrow-
ings chiefly from the Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique de l'Ouest
(BCEAO) at a current rate of 5.5% per annum, to which it adds a service charge
of 2%.  The credit is repaid by ONCAD, which in turn recovers it partly from
farmers through SAED by deduction from the proceeds of crops it markets for
them; the remainder not covered by deductions from farmers' incomes is financed
by Government which subsidizes inputs. The Association considers the above
arrangements satisfactory.
51.       Consulting Services.  To achieve its planned high rate of irriga-
tion development, SAED will need outside consultants to assist in preparing
feasibility studies and final engineering for new schemes. In addition,
consultants will carry out studies on specific subsectors such as livestock,
agro-industries, and marketing. SAED is competent to prepare terms of re-
ference for these studies, and has provided assurances that consultants will
be employed in agreement with and under terms and conditions acceptable to
the Association (Section 2.02(a) of Project Agreement).
52.       Technical Assistance.  SAED's capabilities in financial management,
applied research,-and planning and programming, will be strengthened by five
technical specialists as discussed in para. 29. The project will also pro-
vide support staff, vehicles, and specialized equipment to enable SAED to
extend its applied research activities, in particular in the areas of suit-
able new crops and varieties, and improved methods of crop cultivation and
livestock production.
53.       SAED Prolect Financing and Accounting.  To ensure that project
execution is not affected by SAED's organizational and liquidity problems,
the proposed Financing Agreement between Government and SAED would provide,
inter alia, that Government deposit in a special account with BNDS the funds
required for SAED's expenditures on the project for each quarter by the end
of the preceding quarter. The proposed Agreement would also stipulate that
the Government provide SAED with advance working capital to meet its operating
expenses, as well as sufficient funds to initiate its marketing cycle,
including transport costs. The Association has reviewed and approved the



- 20 -
draft Financing Agreement between the Government and SAED, and execution and
delivery of the Agreement will be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
Credit (Sections 3.01 and 5.01 (b) of Development Credit Agreement and Section
2.06 of Project Agreement).
54.       Development Credit Agreement 350-SE had provided that US$4.3 million
of the proceeds would be passed on-to SAED as a loan for 35 years including
five years of grace with interest at 1% p.a. Because of SAED's financial
situation as discussed in para. 32, and since it is an autonomous institution
dependent on Government and domestic and external agencies to meet all its
development expenditures and some of its operating costs, the loan would be
converted into a grant under the Financing Agreement mentioned in para. 53
above. Since all project financing from Government, the Association, and
other sources is in the form of a grant, the project cash flow shows that SAED
would generate an annual surplus from 1980 which would increase to an annual
average level of about CFAF 450 million. The surplus, after replacement of
assets, would be used either for further investments or for repayment to
Government as the latter decides.
55.       Accounts and Audits.  SAED will keep separate accounts for the
project, and these will be analyzed by categories of expenditure on each
perimeter and on studies and applied research. Accounts will also be main-
tained for farmers receiving inputs on credit, machinery services, and
for consolidated fees. An audit of SAED's accounts will be carried out by
independent auditors financed under the Technical Assistance Project for the
Para-Public Sector, which also includes funds to improve SAED's financial
systems and accounting procedures, and for training of accountants. Copies
of audited accounts and financial statements, as well as the auditor's report,
will be submitted for ceview by the Association within six months of the close
of each fiscal year (Section 4.02 of Project Agreement).
56.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  The existing agro-economic section of
SAED's Studies and Programming Unit will be responsible for monitoring and
evaluation of the project as well as other perimeters, including Dagana under
Credit 350-SE (para. 34). The section will be responsible for design and
operation of the monitoring and evaluation system, and will produce quarterly
progress reports and a comprehensive annual report. The cost of existing
staff will continue to be borne by SAED, but the section will be headed by an
agronomist to be financed under the project. SAED will be responsible for
preparing the Project Completion Report, which will be done by the Studies and
Programming Unit (Section 2.05 of Project Agreement).
Environmental and Health Considerations
57.       The ecology of the area will not be significantly affected by the
project. No known species of wildlife will be endangered. Farming systems
practised will not involve excessive use of either pesticides or other
chemicals likely to have a deleterious effect on human health. The area
is relatively free of the more serious tropical diseases except for malaria;
SAED distributes malaria prophylactics to its farmers, and the Ministry of
Health operates three health centers and 21 dispensaries in the project area



- 21 -
which provide treatment and advice on disease prevention. Despite 25 years
of irrigated cultivation in the area, bilharzia is unknown, and there is no
evidence that the project will cause a change in this situation. Three
health studies are underway financed by the World Health Organization (WHO),
USAID, and IDA Credit S-18-SE. The first two are expected to be completed
shortly, and the third by mid-1978; together they will present a comprehen-
sive picture of the health situation in the entire river valley, and will
provide a sound basis for future planning of a major preventive and curative
health program.
Market Prospects
58.       Paddy will be collected by SAED and processed in its existing rice
mill at Ross-Bethio, which has ample capacity to handle project production.
ONCAD collects rice and delivers it to wholesalers for distribution on the
market. No problems are envisaged in production and distribution, which is
handled effectively and is well coordinated by SAED, ONCAD, and the whole-
salers. Nor would there be any difficulty in marketing paddy as it is ex-
pected to be consumed in the region, and because project production would be
only a small proportion of current and future imports. Apart from an insigni-
ficant quantity which would be consumed fresh, tomatoes would be used for the
production of tomato paste. SAED arranges transport of tomatoes either
directly with private truckers, or through ONCAD for delivery to the factory
at Savoigne on the Lampsar perimeter, which is run efficiently by SOCAS, a
mixed company. Present tomato paste consumption is estimated at 7,000 tons
per year, of which 4,000 tons are imported. Consumption is expected to
increase to 8,500 tons by 1984, thus leaving a gap of 5,500 tons (equivalent
to some 30,000 tons of fresh tomatoes). This will require some 1,000 addi-
tional ha of tomatoes, and as only 340 ha will be planted under the project,
no problem is foreseen in marketing project production. In the event that
development of other perimeters should result in tomato production-exceeding
the requirements for paste, the project will nevertheless be favorably situated
given its proximity to the Savoigne plant. Furthermore, the market for fresh
tomatoes is expected to expand, and the Delta region would be well situated to
meet such expansion due to its earlier crop.
Project Benefits and Risks
59.       The project will play a vital part in the irrigation development
of the Senegal River Basin. Investment costs per ha for the two perimeters
(approximately US$4,100 for Debi and US$5,000 for Lampsar) are relatively low,
due apparently to active competition in the area to implement similar irri-
gation works for full water control. The project is expected to yield direct
benefits in the form of significant increases in production of paddy and
tomatoes. Yield assumptions are based on projects with similar conditions,
and take into account the effects of salinity. Total production at maturity
would be about 10,400 tons of paddy (3,800 tons at Debi and 6,600 tons at
Lampsar), and about 10,200 tons of tomatoes at Lampsar. The value of produc-
tion would amount to about US$3.3 million equivalent, representing net annual
foreign exchange savings of about US$2.8 million equivalent.



- 22
60.       On -he basis of assumptions regarding crop yields, production, and
prices, ana  costs of farm labor, the estimated economic return on the pro-
posed investment would be about 9% for Debi and 12% for Lampsar, with a
combined return of about 10%; these returns do not take into account the
cost of che technical assistance component (representing about 23% of total
project costs) since almost all of these costs relate to studies, planning
and programming, and applied research required for future development of the
region. Under sensitivity assumptions where costs were increased by 10%
or benefits-decreased by 10%, the economic returns shown above would each
decline by about one percentage point. The returns do not include benefits
from possible river regulation (see para. 62 below). In addition to the
direct benefits, the project will also produce non-quantifiable benefits in
that it will strengthen SAED's capacity to manage its present operations,
and to plan for and execute the future integrated development of the Senegal
River Valley and Delta.
61.       The above rates of return are acceptable, as the project would
benefit some 9,000 people whose average per capita income of US$80 is well
below the relative poverty level in Senegal (estimated at US$120 per capita),
and represents only 20% of the national average of US$390 per capita. As a
result of the project, the incomes of these people could be expected to
increase to approximately US$127 or US$230 per capita depending on the type of
crop farmed; preliminary findings of an ongoing study of income distribution
from irrigation schemes in the Senegal River Basin indicate that these bene-
fits would be spread widely through the extended family system. Furthermore,
the estimated rates of return for this project are more likely to be achieved
than for projects which depend on the uncertain rainfall in the Sahel Region.
62.       Project risks have been minimized as far as possible by obtaining
civil works bids before approval of the proposed Credit, by allowing for
salinity in the yield estimates, and by specific financial measures to ensure
adequate and prompt project funding.  ]:n actual fact, it is very possible that
project benefits will be greater than estimated once regulation of the river
is achieved and double-cropping can be practised; however, since it is not now
possible to estimate the costs of river regulation or the minor additional
costs needed for double-cropping at Debi and Lampsar, these expected addition-
al benefits have not been taken into account in the rate of return calcula-
tions. There are some particular risks involved in tomato cultivation,
since the crop is susceptible to problems of proper timing of transplanting,
plant protection, harvesting, and timely transport. The project makes full
provision for these factors, and the calculations show that even with a 15%
reduction in estimated tomato yield, the rate of return would not be reduced
significantly.
PART VI: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Association and
the Republic of Senegal, the draft Project Agreement between the Association
and the Societe d'Amenagement et d'Exploitation des Terres du Delta, and the



- 23 -
Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of
the Articles of Agreement of the Association, are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. Special conditions are listed in Annex
III, Section III. Features of particular interest in the draft Credit and
Project Agreements are described in paras. 29 through 62 of this report.
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII:  RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachments:
Washington, D.C.
February 21, 1978






ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                              Page 1 of 4 pages
SENEGAL             - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                 -------------------------------------------------
SENEGAL           *                  REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOrAL      196.2                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      80.0                        1960       1970   ESTIMATE           GHANA          IVORY COAST   TUNISIA
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     200.0 *   270.0 *  390.0*/a              430.0       350.0       370.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)             3.4        4.4       5.1/a               8.6         5.4         5.0
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        17.0      22.0      26.0/a               36.0        16.0        31.0
PER So. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         43.0       55.0     64.0/a               64.0        32.0        67.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUOE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          48.0      47.6       47.6                49.8        46.1        44.7
CRUDE OEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           27.5       24.4      23.9                24.4        23.3        16.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)    193.0             . .   158.0                156.0          ..       125.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT aIRTH (YRS)       35.9       40.0       40.0                41.5        41.0        51.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 .         3.0       3.0                 3.2         3.1         3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  2.1       2.6        2.7                 2.6         3.4/a       2.3/a
URBAN                                  3.5        6.0        6.0                4.5         S.7Fb       3'0/b
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           22.7       29.0       38.8               28a4        28.0        40.1T/C
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        42.6      41.2       44.2/a              46.9        42.5        46.3
tS TO 64 YEARS                       53.6       54.9       52. 7               49.5        54.8        50.2
66 YEARS AND OVER                      3.8       3.9        3.17T               3.6         2.7         3.5
AGE DEPENOENCY RATIO                     0.9        0.8a      0.9/a               1.0         0.s         1.0
ECONOMIC DEPENOENCY RATIO                1.2/a      1.2/a     1.4/d               1,4         0.9          1.8/c,d
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)                 .       .        ..               10.9           *       112.2
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..         .          .                 2.0          *-        12.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)          1300.0    1600.0       1650.0            3300,0      2600.0      1300.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)            ..      73.0 .                        54.0 /a    82.0         57.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)             ..        7.0         .                 6.2           ..       12.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTAON
% OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D aY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             36.3 b       .. .b.                        ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             62.57W       ..        ..
LOWE5T  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              3.2D        ..        ...
LoEST  40% OF NUS  OLDS                9.4/b       ..        ..
DISTRIBUTION Of LAND ONERSHIP
_-- -- -- - - - - - -- - - -- -- -- -- -- -_
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              .-         ..         .                   *-          *        53.0/e
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS                 S..        .       .,                .           ..        o.s 
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            22100.0/C 16640.0  17330.0                12950.o/b  15320.0       5950.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON             ..    2680.0/c 2100.0                1070.0D7    2830.0/d    730.0/f
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL aED            73300/d   810o75f 850.0/e                760.0      1150.0       41f.0 7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          97.0      91.0       97.0               99.0        114.0        94.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               64.0      64.0       65.0                46.0        60.0        63.oth
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            ..      28.0/d       *-                10.0/c      18.0/e      14.07i
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               ..         ..        ..                  ..          ..
EDUCATION
AOWUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       27.0       43.0       43.0                61.0        76.0       100.o
SECONOARY SCHOOL                      3.0        to.o        ..                11.0        11.0        23.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             13.0       13.0       13.0                15.0        13.0        13.o
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDAFa)                        ..       9.                            23.0         7.0        12.0Lj
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%I                   .-       10.0          L               25.0        20.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 1.5         ..        ..                  .      .      -        2.7/C
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                       12.0/f       *
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY                                                                                    60.0/C
(% OF ALL DWELLtNGS)                 96.0/f        *-        *                   .-          *-       24.0/c
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                      ..         ..        ..                  ..          .
CONSUMP TI ON
RAOIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          47.0      69.0        66.0               78.0          . .       77.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            6.0       9.0                            5.0        10.0        13.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            41.0       73.0     94  0               338.0        95.0       155.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                0.1       0.1        0.2                 0.4         0.2         0.1
…---------------_ ------------------------ - -------------- - --------------------      ------_ -----_ --_ ---------- - -
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONs ON REVERSE



Pege 2 of 4 pages
foleap ohrvtia* rotad, date for 1968 refer to any year b.tween 1959 And 1961, for 1970 b.etwen 1968 end 1970, and for Moot Recen.t Estimate  etwe..
1973 and 1979.
O NP? on daplt. data arm has.d on the World Bank Atlas athodolgy (1974-76 beasis).
eoTuniaia he. beta  aelected A. An objective coancry because of  oan  similaricy of its ecoccry uith the Senegalese econeory, including favorable
prospect. for ch. d4oLopunt of fiabhriea .od tourim..
1!60     /a  Ratio of populati.on onder 15 and 65 and over to total labor torc.;    lb  population;    Ic  1963;    Id  1962, govorueMat
hospice.1 .t.ae ibLWAstm;    Is  Total, urban and trurl;    If  osta are for tosAru   of Dakar only and refer ro Eoropean-type
dwe ILligs;     L    Inside only.
1910     IA  Ratio of population  -Wd-  19 And 65 a.d orer to total labor force;    lb  Gorernnst hospital ..tbliabhenta                        Ic  Ioeledlog
Assistant ourses;       1   1964-66 .
MOST tIENTf STsrMAlT:    /a  1976;    /b  1970-71;    I   1971;    /d  Ratio of population  under 15 and 65 aed ooar to total labor
fores;   7.  Goerecanen  hoepitai e.tablig aneot.
1HN      970    /.A  Rcluding .aeployed;    lb  R.gi.t.rd., no, all prootiolag t. the coutry;    /o  1966-68.
IvoRY COAST    1970    IA  Due to laigrations pop.lation gr-thacaras 10 higher than the r.at, of oat.ral increase;    /b  L965-70;    /c  Ratio of
p.pul.ciot undr 15 and 65 and ver to total labor fores;    Id  Covoranent only, lncludiog midives;    Is  1964-66.
TLINISZA         1970    Ia  Due to emigration population growth rate, ia loeer thao natural iocrease;    /b  1956-66;    Ic 1966;    Id  Ra.tio of
popuLatio  under 15 and 65 and ovsr to  ota).l labor forte;    /.  Covorint 4.5 million h..t.res of private land, ..tludi.g
0.9 million h..sctra  L. osnrahip, aed 2.1 saillion hactares  of olatv   land;    If  Personnel Jo g-.eanet  -sri-e;
G overmaent hospital e.tablisheeots only            lb/  1964-66;    I/i  Excluding t.oholealI economy and technical ind-atry;
L.Registered only.-
110, Dqemeber 1, 1977
DON iOF SOCAL INDICATORS
L.nd Area ftho, k.x                                                                           Poosltton oar our.in  parso  -  opulation dicid.d by  -aber of p-rAoictn
TotaL- Total accrfaoe area eanpritog leand Area And inland -eto".                               maletad fasals graduate  uae.tr-ined" or ".artifiad" torsos, an d
dAgri.   Hegat r ....c otmt  of  gtri.ult.r.1 Area uatd temporarily or Perma                    awoiliary personnel with tr.ioing or emperotis.-
nantly for coop., pasturso, oaskta  & kit.h.O  tardena or to Li. fallo.                     P.Pulstiao  oar ho.onitl had - Population dioldad by n-M,e of hospital bed.
avail.blt in puablit And private general and Mpetaliood h.opitaL sod
GNP oar -ant. (150  - GNP par .apita sotlmatsa at ouromrket prices,                             rahabilitstione  ntorn;.. toId.s noraiog homa  and  -.cbliehaent. for
caol.culte  by sase, -ovralon sathod a. World Beek Atlas (1973-75 beata);                     .Cuaodial And pr-avotie tore.
1960; 1970 and 1975 dec..                                                                   Per capita. oupol of eolori.. Cl, of  Cauret) -Caputad fran soargy
ouvttof mar food sppliao  -rilabla in oounry per copira par day;
Populatiou sod vital ettciati                                                                   -valable supplies toopriaa doneotic production, iprt. I.oo exports, and
Population (mid-roar million)    a of July first:  if oat  voil.bla, avstage                    chanas  in atock; tat supplias ontud. animal feed, oeeda, fuantitias usad
of tw  .an-year .cttmaear; 1)60, 1970 And 1975 data.                                          10 food prc lgAnd loas-a i. distrIbution; roquiraeote  -ar  .stimated
by FA80 based on phyaiolgle.1 Maded  for nor-a  activity And health c-nod-
Postulation, density - or aot ar. km - Pfid-yaar pepulation per square kilo-tef                  rieg  wivrousetal tnparotuara, body unighto,  gt  and aec di.tributiona  of
(ISO hooeora-a  of total area.                                                                popultiotn, and alloing 101 fot tatan  on houaohold leve.
Poeula-ion density - oar aunare 60 of .pric. land - C00psatd aa above fur                     Par cWsot  auppLy of orot.i. (brai   oar day) - Prtein.  conteat of per cspita
grol,rLland only.                                                                      oat supply of faod P.r day; net aupply of food Ja definad as above  rnquire'
.nefor all oaontriaa establiahed by tSODA tEconoic Ra.a*reh Servic..
Vital otatiartes                                                                                provId, for A mintosaalonc  of 60 gras of total protein par day, aod
Crode birth rets par thogpn.-    vr.Rea - do Ie live birth. per nhouaand of                     20 gr-n  at animal and pulsprten  of ahich 10 gras ah-uId be e.noal
mid-year population; ts-yee  rilthmtic  -vsrae  ondiag in 1960 And 1970,                      protsin; thoea  atandrds Are loner th.. thosa of 75 graa of total protein
and fiv-ya-  -oarg  sodium  10 1975 tar moan recent .ptinats.                                 and 23 Sr-a of animaL Protein as an avrage for ths anrid, proposed by FAO
Ctud. death trc.tapr chotueaud.  -vrmas - Annual  deatbs Per chouad of aid-year                 in th. Third World Food Survy.
papulation; can-year -ritheetlc everag.eending in 1960 Aod 1970 and five-                   Par capita orot.i. ..pplin fran animal And L.l.. - Pr.tpi. oupply of food
year average ending Jo 1979 for most rcant aatinet.                                           d-ti-d frn .animal  ad ptuies in groam  per dey.
Wnant mortality rat, (/thou)   Andnual deaths of infsnte under on  year of .1;e               Death rtac  (/th..) aese 1-4 - dAnu-I deaths per thotoetod in age troop 1-4
per thoneand lIve births.                                                                     year., to children 10 chi.AS age  rup; auSgget.d *5An indicator of
Life ..M.oCaner At birth (Yro)   A-Avrage otar ot year. of lift re-mWinig At:                    malntrition.
birth; uauellr fiv-y.ar  -.eSga aending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 fcc davelop-.
log co,mertri-                                                                              Edu.Ctio
Gr-,rerdctc  cts                      .lveae  tb.  of live daugtbore atnawill hear             Adjusted enrollmentyratio;-  rmar  achol. - forollsont of all ages a  per-
in her normal. Praprouctiv  perio  ifaeaprecas pre.entaa-epeoiflc                              aut.g. of Priaysholaepopalatlon; lncluda  ohildrn agad 6-1   er
fertility reran; usually five-year average. nding in 1960, 1970 amd L975                      hut Adjtuated for diff.r..t lengtha of primary aducction; for tountries olth
for dsveloping countri.s.                                                                     univerel education, atrollant eay ecee..d 1501 aince  -e  pupil- ar  halo
P.uol.tio  orond  ras') -total  - opound Annual growth rsta  of mid-year                        or above th  official echool ec..
ppltIo fr 19t060, 190-liad  98-5                                                         Adluated  -oole tjrto - ancndarv sc6oo1 - Computad as above; asondary
?Populaion xrowth rate Cl) - urban -Conputad Like groth rat. of total                           aducation rtfuiree at leap t foot years of approved primary Leatructi.n;
population; different dei.itiona of urban erec may affect coMpr.bllity of                     prwid- eagnera1, vo.caIona  or te..chhr training ianruotiena for pupilo
daaamn   onnia.'                                                                             of 11t  17 yer  of Ags  roteapndn  aouneas are genar Ily  ..c lud.d.
Urnbanpouato  (7. of total) - Ratio of urban cc total popultion; differant.eeofcbliarodd (tint an  ocood Ito-ls) -STtota  year  of
deiniciona of urban area  may effect   poeprability of data amoung tountrina.                  ochoolig; at ...condary lvel, vo cltoneal inatruction may he partially or
C-PACpttly aeIded.
Ame erut-.re   prcent) - Childre  (0-14  -ur),  nrinig-age (15-64 years),                     Vocational enroLl-me   (l of ...ndery) - Vocational Lnatlttion   include
And retired (65 yma-  and ove) es percennagee of  i-erpopulation.                              teobinal. industrial or other prrs-  ebich oper.t. indepeedaotly ora
As. depeedency ratito - Ratio of population  -Mdr 15 ad 65 and ovr to tbhee                      depera tsn  of aecondery loetit.njoop.
of Ages 15 tbho,gh 64.                                                                       Adult literacY rate Cl) - Literate adults (able to read aed -rit.) as per-
ruonaic d.p*asnen  ratio - Ratio of pouain der 15 and 65 end ovr to                             Aetage of total adultPopulanion aged 15 years ad orr.
th   abr freIaggouof 1-kyaso
fail,olanmme -acetor o...ae.tou   Cocsalatln  u,oanhr of accaptote                       jjfggJoe
of bh-rcb-onr"I devioe.  nder awapice, of nationa  ftlly  planing pr-grest                   Persen  par rae  (urbn    A-Avrage etanr of personPapr rom  In ocuplad
rai, peoime- oer  (7. of married wan) - percentage. of -aried  sc  a,f                     artue   n   nnuidpr
child-hearing aS. (15-44 yeare) uho  -a  hirth-notrmt da-ioca to all marriad                Ooue 1d             77lima   ihout pideter Cl) - Occupi.d con-reio-eI deeIILga
omoim sese age grop.                                                                       in uban ad rural area, without inaid  at ouatside piped oater Utilities
ftpl.T-t                                                                          =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0oaa  t   ic'tr!Zctt  Cr of all  .l1 ma  - Convetional deeLliga with
Total laborfor Lts  touAavd) - cnaialyati,e P.-nama  imcluding seind                             electricity in lining quarters aa percent of ctot1 dweIingSa in  rors  and
forena an   nlyd but atLudiog h--te-.c,  roudents,  tr.:  defieitiona                          rural Areas.
1,   -ais   -aeartao are non c-parable.                                                     Rural doellinas conaaotad to electricity  Mt  - Casputed As abov  for rural
Labor force In or Inturo Cl,) - Agrteuitur.l Labor force -(in faming, forestry,                  d-iliag. omy.
"hostin  And finhiog) an prernt.g. of  ctotI labor, fn..
_nPI= sd    l of lbor forca) - U-naplyed are uaualy dafined aa pareon  too                    Conetptio
are able and wIl Ling to tea a 506, out of A J06     a given day, ranained tout              Radio recLiver  (par thou Pop) - All typ   of rosiv-ra  for redia br-dcasta
of a; job, and seeking nork for a specified min.- period otr encadiog ona                      to general puhlil  per cb-u.ed of papuletion; emoludes tonlicenee  receivers
eb  may oat he  -perabl. betwee  ctpumtrea dee t. different definition.                        in countrima and in pun  bhet registretion of radio oat.svat in effect;
of unaployad and  -o*o of data, e.g.., epioytc office statiatica, sepie                        data for recent ye.r  may nort he oSMprAb.b  sinca mot connri.e aboiiabd
.usey. * oepolory unaploy= t Inaurenca.                                                       I. tiea g.
Paaaemtar car  (oar thou no) - passengetere -tapria  mano  -ar  seating
In.-e diatribution - Percentage, of pri-tce t-mo   (both 10 ..oh and kind)                       latheeight pe-noma  natiud   abul.eee, h..-..a and eilitary
rec.ived by richest St. richeat 201. pooratt 50, aod poorest 4it of h-a-                       vehicle..
holds.                                                                                       Elactrloit"  iheh,ro Sr --P) - apna-L eanatpti   of idaoa.oeril
publia And pri,ene electricity in lilueatt bare per capita, genrally
Distribution of land  -werhip - Peracntag. of land annad by wealthi.tt lOt                       based on production data,  ithout .1lawanne for lossae in grida hut show-
atd ponet 101 of land                                                                          Ener  og for buporc  end  w--rc  of electricity.
Neetoriat (ke/ r  oay e) - par capita anua  coxatption in kilagram
tealh 06ed Nutrition                                                                             eatimend fran d tic  prodction pue Met ltort. of  -aeprint.
Ppoplatioa par physicdam - Pepuietion divided by mt.er of practicing
p1byaiciena qualified froa A eadical anhool an onivereity level.



1972         19T3         1975
D-.1U  P-d-t                    193.1            .1 ~900 33.  1       or.Vo. 3      10 t.i.oc  52.0004     to             T0           t3.o7o
o    .e..r..                               20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~16.'i  301.0  209.6    3009.4        367. 1        367.1    -0.5           1.3          3.0              30.2         20.3          31.0
o   cro.3                        .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Lj ~~~~~~~  ~~~~   ~~M  9                -    ~       -    -             10.5          2.5              ?~O.2         26.5         26.0
6.  .~~~~L3.100fl20~~~~~~30UI    26           2000         269.9 ~~~~~~~~38.                        062                                   .30.                                        5.2
7.  Co.ooel.29e4    0.799.5                                            906.1        918.6         680.1        975.2       103306      0.2          4.5           3.2              69.2         06.2         30.
3.   ooo.oo   24..oOre    1.0.4      .-00.1         129.7         192.8        1T6.2        079.9        139.2         192.9      5.2          5.1          _.3              15.6          1T.6         10.6
D-50.0   5ro-          9  63                             95.          9283    2.0 l:           140.0          0.9         122.9    -.07          31.2         -1.2              12.1          12.3         121.4
30.  00010..a3 .00.o                                      1I,.,          99.9        043.         152.9        123.7          46.1    .4.3          23.6         .0.9              12.7          35.0         126
Anooo1 D.,. *0 C,-rea 99±...O P--eo  05 70.1
2rOtt0 2000                                            .6        77.3         290.6        129.9           99           192    21.0          19.6         10.9              22.          03.7          22.6
3n-c-.i-o   09  (-tw-61c  r0*1.1                    61.1         67.7         100.5        169..          153           196    19.1.         54.0          0.               31.2         27.6          2.
00.1. 0o0 relatod O.0.ri.1.           ~~~~~10.5     25.6          63o.9        69.2           67           89    29.5           71. a          ,2               0.6         112           3.
ro.o.o.Oorre                           0~~~ ~ ~~~~~~           ~~4.0  029.5  169.4  1396.2   125          202    33.6            3.2          9.2              27.9         22.5          26-..
Otter 020.oo.otioe .004.               10~~~~~4.3  ..ii2        ..54.          262            52           11      23.          9.            0.8              72.9         19.7          17.7
720.0 Ocroo..61.. 3.o.oro. 30153      ~193.9        360.0       479           59.             575     ~     8      22.9         27.2          6.7             100.2        300.0         730.0
3,2000   rd-o                                  73.6         69.6.       061.2        199.2           2235         200    -2.2          66.0          1.2              43.5          'O.0,         7.
't0o   00-                                          11.9         22.2         103.7        103.7           67             9    232.         006.3         -9.7               7.3         32.           14.
Poroe. 2.6...                                   6.2         11.4         22.1          52 .4          32           42    39.7          68.5           5.3               2.6          7.3
700cr                         62.2         99J. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3373.~~~~~~g        162          33      15.2         2.9          12.19                           29~           ..'
'2062  e.rr,..00.c tororo. Cr04)      1~~51.9      13'          29            31              52          58       9.0          31.6          41.             350.0        130.3        707.7
00004.   o e 00-.                                              A--9f 1971 *130 Cio 2907
0003    00.30.                               91.6        121.5         2213         191.5        162.2         197.2
3.o      90.  30.                                   29.5        129.7T         9.          197T.9       194.6        354.5
!c.= . .5-0. 3.d.                                  101.0          94.6        1113.9        96.2         99.0          77.4
0o0.0 d01  o..                             12.7         103.9         122.4        169.1        122          22.
34101 09210 00 205509 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~2                                                           920           2.
ldrU..olOore                           ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~222.5  194.2D  039.2  31.         266            602       -.           267            .025.2                        77.3         70.0
7o3.0rd   .   Ojlg              .191.7                            196.7        219.3        267.0         266.0        335.9       3.2         12.0           6.3             71.5          26.7          7.
OCrOSOC                               355.1        333J5.        405.9        469.5~     ~ ~ .33302I.    3..          .          -3 7          1.9              02.5          65O.7        42.0
T0.0                                                593.4         596.2I       92.          372          19.430.                    .            ..                          130.0         030.7
000122 '090000                          P0.000~~~~~~~Fi   Y.-. 52.  10  J2.. Ml i. b013100  If oopn- 37A ft-.0.        A..o   000GO.0 0.. dPc0.0                                    D5OP
Croorol Ooooce...,oS                 3 ~~~1MM      21134        197k/75       2IL2 6       967         a    1113~5  72/TL1to335LT5    76775 to 80/91              103            00t0 37                                30d6-0-
Orete.-90-                                       55.10     755j.6          7           o7.3        T06T00.        990401973 roiote-4                                                               rOrs.7o.       070c         r
F-dit-~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~7.39.                                                                     143            5.6                90.53.0                            T7            h           5             o.
___________________                                                             04.1         99.2 .5       T9.5                                                    9.9         17.3           673            .7.
7orot20040    4.5.3                                          9..L          5.9          31                                                                                                                                      1 3  0.  .  .5
O09e.7  .6.6.                                                        .T                                                             C  3122.9      ~       9.1                                4.3
Otter P09182 3.oO.r                      2.6~~~~~~~1:  3.2         3.3           5 .0         3.0            T                                                     1.7          3.2           7.6            .o.
000110 3.oOor 0000.0.0000!  16.0  20.2   20.0          30.9        .9.1            70           11.9                15.2                  6.3          0.1           6..          7.5           0.715.2  63  T.L  .~  11.
Cdo.    0.1   ao.re.   00Oor.3000.                                                                    r.c,..-                                                         ooo
200cr 020162 Oc-. -. CO..1023                          9.5          8.2          7.9         T.2            7.2              7024-007..  ft-go                                    90.,
22010200*2                                             5.7          5.6          4.9         4.5           4.6               .0003.                                                                      .2.
E0.   0..,Sroc                                     7.9          7.5           7.7         6.9           6.9               7.ro         40.62Oo.23.~2                                                 523.
300r2.-0...                                      W 0.6        39.1         38.9         06.9          42.6  .             0003T7.73.
Otoor                                                    6         37.          19.7        00.0           13.                0620'o6or.73.                                                             7.
700..  COrret En.p.oOi-o.                            30.0         100.30       130.2       129.0         350-0.0T3
%-YEMI00 0202TO0S                                    3960         1965         1970T9O
122~~~5.  0970      3075        198                              00h-.0  010  00009                                     79                  40.0
E.pn  00i-020                                     3.32         2.02         1.11        2.01                             COOo-.  L00                                            9                     .
9-g.0 0.l DO.-..o   S.eoaa9. O..                    -0.36          0.13         0.16        0.07                             Pr, -. .-0
t.9-06  90ioo...1 S-.v6g  90.                         . .                       0.17        2.79                                                                                                       37.
~~Wfl FOPCE.2l.                                97
3ii.6  69.4                                                          ~~~~         ~         ~~~~~~~~~~1071  1971
'.d-t, ~ ~ ~~9.97.9                                                                                                   703.3                   eo.2
7,062                  030.0                                                                 ~~~~~~         ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1696.9  270.1
.00 -0   i 001.6.       I ... 00.. 5.15 os.                    2./  900i0t.-e  Oroo 01
..u.ooooo  400     ~            0r2r  ro.  1d.000.00r'O4    00.02109000
~/  OacUoloa 2n.o1 0901000Jot1.. de..Joto 0  Polio...



AR I 
Ps.g- 4 or 4
(amout. in millio.s or U/S/ dollars at corroet prices)
17Actul                                         Provisional Zi timated                  Projected       1.99Db ROtt
1970          iI T        2T           193fl        17            2~          1978         1977         1q78T                     1932          1910-T5       1975-30
0199089Y BALANCE OP PAYME'3T
Eopo,ts (iseludieg "IF5)                   236.8        230.8        333.4        355.5        601.5        693.3        669.1        682          630           759          854            23.8            4.3
i-prt Aincludi.6s                                                   -3T3S3 -48 o276.3  -294.6  -3T3.  _487.  -6905  -T3.6  -814.6    -ai3         -462         -940       -z12T              23.6            5.9
Resourc-  aloaceM(X_Y )          -39.5        -63.8        -39.9           T           9.        -100.3       -115.9        -131         -212         -            -203             20.5          15.1
to-erest (ost)                              -2.2         -1.7         -2.1         -4.5        -11.5        -2i.6        -20.9        -24          -28           -30          -32            58.0            8.2
Direct Incoetmest Income                   -10.2        -2.7.        -12.3        -16.4        -26.5        -37.1        -i5.9        -10          -10          -15          -2              29.6          -29. 1
workers'temittsooe                         -16.0        -15.3        -19.8        -18.0        -19.9         -6.3         -5.4         -5            -5            4           -4           -lT.O -0 .1
Other Fpctor Sernices-                       7.6          8.9         10.9         10.0         10.2         10.1          8.8          9            9           10            11             5.9            1.7
sela/cs on Curret Ao.-uoti,                -23.3        -     3           7.7 -13.1  -         -                          56.1   -      3         -7 -3L                                     30.8           fl.3
Private Oirect locest-nt                    -0.2          3.2          2.3        -14.8         -5.2         11.5          T.5          8            8            15           21                           12.3
Orfiojal Capita iGrante                     11.9         18.6          3.3         19.1         19.14        22.4         23.0         24           27           30           33              3.5            5;
Public Y nd LT fAaee
Dxsburse ete                              18.6         23.2         18.5         99.2         38.1         T6.7         TO.3        102          122          190          22'1            32.8           2-1.
.-aepsoente                                -4.6         4-,4         -8.4        -22          -19.4        -20.2        _23.7        _4           _4             3           -59            43.3           23 3
lMea Ouebtrseemete                         lS.b 10.1    TS.7 3 0 .7 .   46.       68 78 1   0  15. 1  7  33A                                        78            0                          32.2          23.5
eOh 9 and LT bags 1/
uebreMsacTb        q 1                    11.8          8.4         10.9          -           31.3          -            -          .
-R'osebnt-                                 -4.6         -8.1         -7.9       -2T7T         -33.8        -22.4         _0.2        ...
N-t Disbursements                            7.2          0.3          3.0        -27.T         -2.5                     -_0.2 .
Canitsl Trsnse.oticns n.e.i. 2/                          -3.5         -7.9          3.4         22.9          9.6         14.2         -            _-                         -
.sgogo it  tet Hes-rves (icrene        e 0)  ± .i        l              i2.6   _    43           J          -1T.5         -1.7         -8          T-f      -     3            4
0RAT53 AND LOA1   COUTYIT:S
COficial rsntetsnd gr-nt-lik.e 3/           173          64.2         56.         7.3 
Curren.t opsote                          35. 4        r3            54'9 3                    T 3 . 8
Capital gsts                             11.9          18.6         8.3          19.1         19.4        22.4          23.0
Public 4 and 17T L-                         8.4          31.3        4                                                    1
4ric-te 8soki  and '3RD                _      _ -i                                            3.0    7.0
108ic                                     3 Oeseloprent Pond   2.1  7.0  11.2   23.7          -           25.2          10.5
African Oecelcce.ecu Fund  -    -            -            -            6~~    ~    ~~~          ~~~~~~~~~.8  Si1  -
Other Mu.Itilnt-rai                                      1.5        1.1          3.1          5.4          3.7         12.6
oc -ersIott                                1.6         7.2         14 3         59.5         41.5          40.9         37.8
Suppliers                                  1.T          2.2          0.6         11.0          0.9          -            -
Fi-cnoail O-stitatiosb                     _           13.4          6.3         83.0          8.2         16.7         24.8
Total trance and .oan cooeitmetts           55           2L-J        1C S.7       251.9 L       115         218.9        139.3
.220XA! DEBT                                   Actul Dobt Otetandiog on -leceeber 31. 1926
Di -d onlJoest -
World 3nob                                       11.3
.DA                                              55.4                                16.5
Other Multilateora                                3.T                                 2.6
Go-err-eeti                                     101.5                                30.2
Suppliers                                        11.5                                  3.4
Prarate Oasis And 1.cstitutioos                 140.2                                41.7
3Sodo                                              3.9                                1.2
Public Debts t.i.
Iota)  P_blic M -sd LT Debt                     335.6                               100.0
'ther 9 sod LT Debts                            100.00
Short-ton Debts
D2E9T AD DE03 SERVICE
Pblic Debt Otestanding  1ad Oisl5rsed          1970         1971         19729T 1973                                            iona1
Interest on 9ublic Debt                     1.4           L.4          1.6          7.2         13.6         18.4         17.7
Re,So tete. 0n PAbIio Dtot                  4.6          7LS           8.4         22.5        19.4          20.2         23.7
Total Public Debt Service               7               12.2          13.0         29.7         33.0         387          41.4
ther  olu Service (tonI                     7.8          5.3          7.4         27.2         32.1         21.9
lan  DJbt Service (tt)                     13.3         18.5          23.4         56.9         65.1         60.5
BOcet os Copert E-arnigds (3)
Public Debt Service                       2.5          5.3          3.9          8.3          9.5          5.5          6.1
cta  Debt Service                         5.8          8.3          6.i         16.o _/      10.8 j/       8.7
35 . Direct Inve.tment Psoment           13.1         13.2         13.4         20.9 T/      15.4 1/      14.2
A..rage Terme or Public Debt
oteres:. a  ' Prior-ear DO and 3          1.6          4'3          3.6          5.2          6.7          7.6          6.o
Ar-citio  c  8 PS rior tear DO and D  5.2             T7.           8.7         16.2          9.6          8.4          8.1
CaRD Debt 3utetandicg And Disbursed
53RD Debt as ' Poblio Debt O and D        2.2          1.8          1.7          1.4          1.4          3.5          4.4
r3RD Debt as 6 Public Debt Service        4.1          3.2          3.1          1.8          1.9          2.0          3.0
IDA Debt Outtstndig and Disbursed
IDA Debt an 3 Ptwbli  Debt 0  Ad D        8.3          8.4         11.4        10.2          13.0        16.8          16.5
IDA Debt an 8Pblic Debt Service          0.1           0.5          0.7          0.3          3.7         0.7           0.8
.ot applic-ble                                                 e starf  stiuto
.. not aailable                                                - cil or negligible
...noet avaulablo separatelr                                  -- lessolatn c.lf the
but iooluded in total                                             sma-lest unit Oas
I/ Diurerence bet.ee.s Sonogale' public debt report to the 1B2D and 4 sod LT loans
a-cordiag to the Ce_tra Bang.
2/  Slort-ter;  capital, ad orrors and nadesios.
3/ 5t disbursoent l- b-s.



ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF WORLD BANK OPERATIONS IN SENEGAL
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of January 31, 1978)
Amount, less cancellation
Loan or                                                      (US$ Million)
Credit Number   Year   Borrower        Purpose          Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Three Loans* and five Credits fully disbursed            7.0    24.8
252-SE        1971   Senegal   Rice Development                3.7         0.1
253-SE        1971   Senegal   Technical and Agri-
cultural Education             2.0        0.1
254-SE        1971   Senegal   Settlement Scheme               1.4         0.1
835-SE        1972   Senegal   Railway                 6.4                 0.7
336-SE        1972   Senegal   Housing Site and
Services                     8.0         4.2
866-SE        1973   OPTS       Telecommunications   6.25                  2.6
366-SE        1973   Senegal   Highway Maintenance             8.0         0.5
404-SE        1973   Senegal   Agriculture Credit              8.2         1.0
446-SE        1974   Senegal   Drought Relief                  3.0         0.1
987-SE        1974   SOFISEDIT Development Finance  3.0                    0.4
530-SE         1975   Senegal   Education                     15.0        13.0
S-18-SE         1975   Senegal   Irrigation Eng.                 1.0        0.2
549-SE)       1975   Senegal   Agric. Diversifica-
1113-SE)                          tion                  7.0     7.0        10.6
578-SE        1976   Senegal   Terres Neuves II                2.0         1.1
1221T-SE         1976   Senegal   Feeder Roads           6.6                 4.4
1222-SE         1976   Senegal   Third Highway         15.0                 6.9
633-SE        1976   Senegal   Livestock                       4.2         3.8
647-SE         1976   Senegal   Second Sedhiou                 6.3         6.0
1332-SE         1976   SOFISEDIT Second Development
Finance              4.2                 3.9
1405T-SE**       1977   Senegal   Port of Dakar          6.0                 6.0
1412T-SE         1977   Senegal   Petite Cote Tourism  8.0                   8.0
1413-SE        1977   Senegal   Petite Cote Tourism  5.6                    5.6
764-SE**      1978   Senegal   Para-Public Sector
Tech. Asst.                  6.3         6.3
Total                                  75.05  100.9        85.6
of which has been repaid              2.20    0.2
Total now outstanding                  72.85  100.7
Amount sold                             0.4     0.1
of which has been repaid              0.4      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA***    72.85  100.6
Total Undisbursed                      45.50   40.1        85.6
* A Loan of US$3.5 million for agricultural credit (584-SE) made in 1969
was cancelled on March 25, 1971.
** Not yet effective.
*** Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of January 31, 1978)
Amount (US$ Million)
Equity
Year    Obligor                     Type of Business   Loan   Investment   Total
1967    Societe Industrielle        Fertilizer
d'Engrais au Senegal       Plant                2.45        1.01       3.46
1972)   BUD Senegal                 Vegetable            -          0.87       0.87
1973)   S.A.                        Export
1976)
1974    SOFISEDIT                   Development
Finance Company      -          0.21       0.21
Total Gross Commitments                         2.45        2.09       4.54
Less Cancellations, Terminations                2.30        0.37      2.67
Total Commitments now held by IFC               0.15        1.72       1.87
Undisbursed balance                              -           -          -
C.   Bank and IDA
Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. 254         Terres Neuves Settlement Project; US$1.35 Million Credit of
June 18, 1971; Effective January 31, 1972; Closing Date: -
March 31, 1978
The project is completed and 300 farmers' families have been re-
settled. Six new villages have been installed. The school is in operation
and the dispensary is nearly completed. iOnly a few farmers' cooperatives have
been established, but the Societe des Terres Neuves (STN) the State Corpora-
tion in charge of the project, continues its formation efforts. The project
has been successful in providing higher inacomes than expected for settlers,
and has attracted families with more adult workers than originally antici-
pated.  A Project Completion Report is being drafted following a mission in
October 1977.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in executioni, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3
Cr. 314/       Second Railway Project:  US$3.2 Million and US$6.4 2iillion
Ln. 835        Credit and Loan of June 23, 1972; Effective December 29, 1972;
Closing Date: September 30, 1978
The original project was substantially modified to reduce track
renewal works in favor of making funds available to purchase spare parts for
track laying and maintenance equipment and for locomotives. Track renewal
has now been completed, as well as procurement for workshop rehabilitation
and track equipment, and orders have been placed for locomotive spare parts.
Rehabilitation of workshops and installation of equipment should be completed
by mid-1978. Material for modernization of freight cars is being delivered,
and the entire modernization program should be completed by mid-1978. As a
result of sustained efforts by the Bank, a new General Manager has been ap-
pointed, and a qualified French engineer has been recruited to fill the new
position of Deputy General Manager. Much improvement is still needed, how-
ever, in management efficiency and training, and this is the focus of the
Third Railway Project approved by the Executive Directors in February 1978.
Cr. 336        Site and Services Project; US$8.0 Million Credit of
September 29, 1972; Effective August 31, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
Project execution is about six months behind schedule due to delay
in approval of contracts caused by lack of counterpart funds. However, a
first disbursement of counterpart funds took place in February 1977, allowing
work to resume. To speed up the completion of priority infrastructure, the
percentage of IDA funds disbursed has been temporarily increased from 45%
to 67%. This increase was made possible by the postponement of construction
of community facilities beyond June 1978; their construction according to the
October 1976 schedule was no longer justified in view of the slow pace of
plot occupancy. The percentage of IDA disbursement will be reduced after
June 1978 to a level consistent with the balance of IDA funds. Most of these
funds will then be used to help finance the construction of community facili-
ties which should be completed by June 1979. The project will continue to
receive close supervision.
Ln. 866        Telecommunications Project:  US$6.25 Million Loan of
December 19, 1972; Effective June 5, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Large cost overruns have raised the cost of this project from US$8.9
million at appraisal to US$20 million according to recent estimates. A co-
financing formula was successfully worked out which included a loan from the
French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) of US$4 million, new
French suppliers' credits of US$4 million, and an increased contribution
from the borrower, Office des Postes et Telecommunications du Senegal (OPTS).
The new financial package and conditions of the CCCE loan were accepted by
the Senegalese Government, and the agreement would enable the project to be
completed as originally appraised. The impact of the additional investments



ANNEX II
Page 4
on OPT's financial position cannot yet be determined because the account and
financial statements have not been audited recently, and because OPT has not
introduced an analytical accounting system providing for separation of tele-
communications and postal/financial operations. The Commission des Comptes
is currently undertaking the first full-scale audit of OPT's accounts and
financial statements as of the end of FY 76. The Government has authorized
payment of arrears to OPT, but actual disbursement has not yet taken place
due to the--weak financial position of the Treasury. As far as the physical
execution of the project is concerned, some progress has been made, but due
to uneven timing of the execution of different components, completion is not
now expected before mid-1979.
Cr. 350         River Polders Project; US$4.5 Million Credit of January 9, 1973;
Effective June 8. 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The project was intended to develop the Dagana Polder with full
water control permitting double cropping on about 2,730 ha for production
of paddy, sorghum, and vegetables; to improve irrigation through flood con-
trol for single cropping on 1,780 ha in the Debi and Lampsar Polders; and
to strengthen the implementing agency SAED with extension staff, training
facilities, equipment, and agricultural research. After completion of the
construction design for the Dagana polder, it was expanded with IDA agreement
to 3,200 ha. Later, primarily becausie the effects of inflation and adjust-
ments in exchange rates resulted in mach higher costs than estimated, and also
because Government decided to introduce full water control for perimeters in
the Delta, Government requested and the Association approved reallocation of
the entire Credit to the Dagana Polder. Although there were some delays in
building construction, physical execution of the irrigation works was good,
and planting for the 1977 season covered about 85% of the targeted area.
Overall, it is estimated that the increased project cost and delay in intro-
duction of double-cropping will be ofEset by higher output prices, and higher
paddy yields, and the revised rate of return is estimated at approximately the
appraisal figure of 14%. A Project Completion Report will be prepared
shortly.
Cr. 366         Second Highway Project; US$8.0 Million Credit of April 9, 1973;
Effective November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project consists of pavement strengthening of primary roads,
implementation of a four-year maintenance program, and preinvestment studies
and a review of feeder road requirements. The strengthening program was
reduced from 109 km originally scheduLed to about 40 km due to construction
costs being much higher than estimated at appraisal, the effects of inflation,
and also because all the unallocated i-unds under the Credit were devoted to
maintenance operations; the remaining sections are being financed under Loan
1222-SE for the Third Highway Project. Construction was satisfactorily
completed early in 1977, about 15 months later than anticipated. The highway
maintenance program is progressing, but well behind schedule, primarily due
to the slowness of Government services in implementing consultants' recommen-
dations, as well as to the shortage of key local supervisory personnel and



ANNEX II
Page 5
funds for operating expenditures. The Association has agreed with the Gov-
ernment on a program of actions necessary for successful project implementa-
tion. The preinvestment studies for 228 km of primary roads, and the review
of feeder road requirements, have been successfully completed.
Cr. 404         Second Agriculture Credit Project; US$8.2 Million Credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective November 28, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978
The 1975/76 season was good: groundnut and cereal production
reached their highest levels since 1969.  Results of the 1967/77 season are
not yet available, but fertilizer use did increase from 80,000 to about
100,000 tons. Demand for short and medium-term credit remained stronger than
anticipated, but available credit funds were sufficient to meet requirements.
Government is eliminating the subsidy on some farm implements, and reducing
the subsidy on fertilizers. The on-going study of fertilizer applications
financed under the Credit should provide a basis for policy review in due
course. Major organizational and financial problems still exist at ONCAD
despite technical assistance provided since 1969. Steps taken by Government
in early 1975 to remedy this serious situation--maintaining staff levels,
giving ONCAD management more financial autonomy, and strengthening it with
qualified accountants--resulted in some improvement, especially in accounting.
However, ONCAD's overall performance has not improved, and the organization
remains overstaffed-. ONCAD credit requirements attained record levels partly
because of accumulating operating losses, but mainly because of the large
groundnut and millet stocks and prolonged prefinancing for Government's
account.
Cr. 446         Drought Relief Project; US$3.0 Million Credit of December 7, 1973;
Effective February 5, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The project is part of the Senegalese plan to rehabilitate people
in drought-affected areas by helping them redevelop and improve their farms
and lands. Equipment and operating costs financed under the Credit have en-
abled some Government services to achieve efficient performance levels, and
overall the project is progressing satisfactorily. Areas destroyed by bush
fires in 1975/76 have decreased by 50% compared with the previous year, and
animal health services have been able to visit and vaccinate an increasing
number of animals, which reflect the reconstitution of the national herd
severely affected by the 1972 drought. The scope of the well digging pro-
gram, the last component of the project, was reduced in agreement between
the Government and IDA, since costs proved to be higher than expected partly
because works involved remote locations and difficult terrain.
Ln. 987         SOFISEDIT Project; US$3.0 Million Loan of May 24, 1974;
Effective November 22, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
SOFISEDIT was created by the Government in March 1974 for the
purpose of providing long-term financing for development enterprises in
industry and tourism.  By September 30, 1977, SOFISEDIT had approved 34 loans



ANNEX II
Page 6
totalling about US$9.2 million equivalent, and 8 equity investments totalling
about US$585,000 equivalent. A second Loan of US$4.2 million was approved by
the Boc.-l    September 1976.
Cr. 530         Second Education Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of
February 19, 1975; Effective April 22, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
This project aims to help Senegal meet its modern sector needs
through rehabilitating existing vocational training schools, and providing
new ones, for industry, fishing and the hotel trade. The project also pro-
vides practical training for the rural population through an experimental
scheme of 30 village education centers., and creates science and technology
teaching facilities for lower secondary schools as well as building four new
schools. Construction of the science facilities is about 24 months behind
schedule; civil works costs are about 25% above appraisal estimates, and the
Government has proposed constructing 8 centers rather than the 11 originally
proposed. The vocational ugrading ceniter is in operation, with courses
underway to meet the needs of industry. Sketch drawings for the hotel/tourism
school have been completed. The rural education component is proceeding
slowly due to difficulties in coordinating the activities of Government
agencies concerned with the program. The management of the Project Unit
continues to be efficient.
Cr. 549/        Sine Saloum Agricultural Development; US$7.0 Million Credit and
Ln. 1113        US$7.0 Million Loan of May 22, 1975; Effective October 31,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project aims at increasing and diversifying agricultural produc-
tion in the Sine Saloum region through strengthening the activities of the
Societe de Developpement et de Vulgarisation Agricole (SODEVA). Activities
under the project, including the setting up of extension services, are under-
way as planned. Preliminary results of monitoring project output on 100 farms
do not show a significant increase in revenue as a result of the project's
intensification themes. If this trend is confirmed by the results of the next
season, new ways will be sought to bring about increases in production and
farm incomes. On the other hand, results of the promotion of maize production
and the integration of livestock are generally satisfactory. Contract for the
construction of Project Headquarters has been awarded; construction of field
offices and stores has begun. The applied research program on animal-drawn
farming equipment proceeds satisfactorily. Coordination with ONCAD for the
delivery of agricultural inputs and the marketing of project's output remains
a problem.
Cr. S-18       Debi-Lampsar Irrigation Engineering Credit, US$1.0 Million
Credit of May 22, 1975; Effective February 13, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
The Credit finances execution of the engineering studies needed for
implementation of the Debi-Lampsar irrigation scheme. The present report pro-
poses a project for execution of the related construction works.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. 578         Terres Neuves II Resettlement and Eastern Senegal Technical
Assistance Project; US$2.0 Million Credit of August 6, 1973;
Effective November 14, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project is on schedule: 420 families have been settled, 7
villages have been built, 180 families remain to be recruited, and one new
village remains to be installed. All mechanical land clearing (900 ha) has
been completed. The contract for the last 44 km of village access tracks has
been awarded. The timely installation of hand-dug wells and the inadequate
accounting system of the Societe des Terres Neuves are still problems. The
study for the Eastern Senegal Regional Development Plan is underway.
Ln. 1221T       Feeder Roads Project; US$6.6 Million Loan of March 31, 1976;
Effective June 15, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project consists of improvement and maintenance of 1,250 km
of feeder roads, purchase of highway equipment and spare parts, and technical-
assistance. Equipment is being delivered, and the administrative structure for
maintenance operations is being established. Project works have been started
successfully.
Ln. 1222        Third Highway Project; US$15.0 Million Loan of March 31, 1976;
Effective June 15, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project consists of pavement strengthening of 204 km of pri-
mary roads, equipment procurement, and consulting services for preinvestment
studies, highway maintenance, and to develop the domestic construction in-
dustry. Project implementation is well underway. The pavement strengthen-
ing program started about nine months later than anticipated at appraisal,
but work is now progressing satisfactorily.  The Government requested Bank
approval to drop about 29 km of project roads from the program and replace
them by 23 km of other roads considered to have higher priority for improve-
ment. Consultants for preinvestment studies have been selected, and work
is expected to start shortly.
Cr. 633         Eastern Senegal Livestock Project; US$4.2 Million Credit
of June 17, 1976; Effective June 29, 1977; Closing Date
June 30. 1982
The project aims to improve livestock production in Eastern Senegal
through improved grazing and herd management practices of about 30,000 pastora-
lists, development of stock watering facilities and firebreaks, improved
animal health services, extension and credit services, and a functional
literacy program. Credit effectiveness was slow because of delays in the
loans of co-financers BADEA and the Kuwait Fund being made effective. Despite
the delays, however, implementation is on schedule as pre-financing has been
available to the project authority SODEFITEX, and Government also used about
US$100,000 from the Project Preparation Facility. The 1976/77 veterinary
vaccination campaign has been successfully completed, the first three pastoral
units have been formally established, and other project components are well
underway. Livestock producers appear to accept the project enthusiastically.



ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. 647         Second Sedhiou Project:  US$6.3 Million Credit of June 25, 1976;
Effective November 23, 1976; Closing Date: June 30. 1981
The project is the second phaLse of the Casamance Rice Project
initiated in 1971 in the Sedhiou district and now completed. The objectives
of the present project are to increase and diversify agricultural and live-
stock production, and raise the incomes of the district's rural population.
The project would be based on improved farm practices successfully introduced
under the first operation. Despite delays in disbursements, Government fund-
ing has enabled the project to operate satisfactorily during the transition
period from the first to this second project. The 1977/1978 agricultural
campaign - the first project year - was influenced by Government price poli-
cies and affected by a fairly severe drought with average rainfall some 40%
below normal. Due to high intervention prices, groundnut production is ex-
pected to exceed forecasts by 13%, but foodgrain production (paddy, millet,
and maize) is expected to be substantially lower than forecast. The Project
Management Unit is operating satisfactorily, and SOMIVAC (the Regional Devel-
opment Agency of Casamance) has also started operations.
Ln. 1332        Second SOFISEDIT Proiect; US$4.2 Million Loan of October 14,
1976; Effective April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
US$4 million of the Loan amount would meet approximately two-thirds
of SOFISEDIT'S requirements for financing the foreign exchange component of
approved industrial and tourism projects through December 1978.  The remain-
ing US$200,000 would be passed on to the Societe Nationale d'Etudes et de
Promotion Industrielle (SONEPI) to help develop an integrated scheme for pro-
viding assistance to small-scale Senegalese entrepreneurs.
Ln. 1405T       Dakar Fishing Port Project:  US$6.0 Million Loan of June 7,
1977; Not yet effective; Closing Date:  June 30, 1981
The project has four major objectives: (i) increasing the berth
space available to accommodate industrial fishing vessels; (ii) providing
essential waterfront areas for repair, storage and maintenance of fishing
gear, ice plants, workshops, and administrative offices; (iii) ensuring
maximum revenues by application of effective control over fleet operations
and setting adequate tariff structures; and (iv) studying the requirements for
handling future container traffic. Loan effectiveness is late because of
delays in effectiveness of the loan from one of the co-financers.
Ln. 1412T       Petite Cote Tourism Proje,-t:  US$8.0 Million and US$5.6 Million
Ln. 1413        Loans of June 7, 1977; Effective January 5, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
The project consists of three major components:  (i) provision of
infrastructure and common facilities for development of the first hotel
zone at Sali Portudal, including construction of a 250 bed pilot hotel, and a
new telephone exchange at M'Bour; (ii) renovation on Goree Island; and (iii)
funds for project administration, technical assistance, and studies. Start-up
activities for the project have been financed with funds (about US$200,000)
made available under the Project Preparation Facility.



ANNEX III
Page 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  First Bank mission to consider the project:  October 1976
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:  SAED and consultants
(c)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:  February 1977
(d)  Date of completion of negotiations:  January 1978
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness:  June 1978
Section II: Special Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(i)  technical specialists for SAED's headquarters staff will be
recruited in agreement with the Association by June 30, 1978
(para. 29);
(ii) SAED will increase consolidated fees to a level sufficient to
assure adequate cost recovery without damaging farmer
incentives (para. 33);
(iii) fulfillment of all conditions precedent to initial disb7urse-
ment under the FAC grant (Condition of Effectiveness, para.
44);
(iv)   the contract between SAED and project farmers agreed under
Credit 350-SE stipulating mutual rights and obligations
will not be substantially modified without the agreement
of the Association (para. 49); and
(v) execution and delivery of a Financing Agreement between the
Government and SAED (Condition of Effectiveness, para. 53).






t-ld k~~~~+a I   -f   4                                                         -/                          ///
7,,-A~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                           5,-0 31  o~
*  ~~~~/u,o,  n>e/                                                                       + ~~~~~~~~~~SENEGAL
fOSSA NRTH                                DEB-LAMPSAR? IRRIGATION
NNZ,  L    W  ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~DELTA    REGION
j~~~ 'C\ k.                                 9 DI~~~~~~~~~ D   E L Tt4  i1
UTH~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pooe  rtc
~ Othr prjec  eitin or uder onstrctio
CX  n2onr. t0' \'\oo.o,nNM                                                                                                             LOS Compagno Sucr,tre Seirogall~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oth, "i"F '~i~
X\N A.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S (-.~~S- -l
A  Mr-oe pupigstkin
\k n x %  §D    aDatLte   tO
LE yWAh ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ JLE                           ,30Hu                         0
COARSE 01000   000      IRE (h~
SAVOIOtaR        35~~0   35097            F-d
MPSAR VALLEY                                                                        HFJ ~~~~~~~~~~LMPAR2,20-  1,200-  sct     0 N         1  AL 
KASSACE NORTH  53,00         -,0             300TID
000000K 005Th  ~~1300         90             200 
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SVIN                                     5             5                               ,.,,        0
tITSI~~~~                      ~     ~~AGARN,5AKLMTRS000  3,200  2.230               G            C -
COLOtuAT RICHARD TOLL  500        5000,                           l,i'-t-t.xsn                          ,
Or Locix  a  m,,,,do,iu,m,,ucin,a,acmu;n0,,.aic.  c7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                  15,020         2.080          3,600        , 5,0207 6803,60



