CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 775 SE
Development Credit Agreement
(Debi Lampsar Irrigation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 17, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 775 SE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 17, 1978, between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
(hereinafter sometimes called the Borrower or Senegal) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association.)
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the foreign exchange cost of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the Societe
d'Am6nagement et d'Exploitation des Terres du Delta du Fleuve
Sengal, an etablissement public of the Borrower (hereinafter
called SAED) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to SAED the proceeds
of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from the Kuwait Fund
for Arab Economic Development (hereinafter called the Kuwait Fund)
a loan (hereinafter called the Kuwait Fund Loan) in an amount
equivalent 'o $5,300,000 to assist in financing Part A of the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(hereinafter called the Kuwait Fund Loan Agreement) to be entered
into between the Borrower and the Kuwait Fund;
(D) the Borrower intends to contract from the Fonds d'Aide
et de Coop6ration a grant (hereinafter called the FAC Grant)
in an amount of 13,200,000 French francs (equivalent to about
$2,700,000) to assist in financing Part D (i) of the Project on
the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (hereinafter
called the FAC Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower
and Fonds d'Aide et de Coop6ration;
(E) by a development credit agreement dated May 22, 1975,
(hereinafter called the Second Development Credit Agreement)
between the Borrower and the Association, the Association granted
to the Borrower a credit (hereinafter called the Second Credit) in
various currencies equivalent to one million dollars ($1,000,000)
to assist in financing technical and organizational studies
necessary for the implementation of the Project; and
(F) the Association is prepared to refinance the Second
Credit out of the proceeds of the Credit provided for herein; and


﻿- 2 -
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and SAED;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble hereto have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and SAED of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(b) "Second SAED Financing Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and SAED pursuant to Section
3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Second SAED
Financing Agreement;
(c) "SAED Financing Agreement" means the agreement dated
March 4, 1973, referred to in the First Development Credit Agree-
ment as the SAED Financing Agreement;
(d) "First Development Credit Agreement" means the develop-
ment credit agreement (Senegal River Polders Project), dated
January 9, 1973 between the Borrower and the Association;


﻿-3-
(e) "SAED" means the Societe d'Amenagement et d'Exploitation
des Terres du Delta du Fleuve Senegal, an 6tablissement public
of the Borrower, established pursuant to Law No. 65-001 of the
Borrower, dated January 20, 1965, and organized pursuant to Decree
No. 65-026 of the Borrower, dated January 20, 1965, and includes
any successor thereto;
(f)  "BNDS" means the Banque Nationale de Developpement du
Senegal, a societe d'economie mixte of the Borrower, established
pursuant to Law No. 64-33 of the Borrower, dated May 26, 1964, and
operating under by-laws (Statuts) approved pursuant to Decree
No. 64-492 of the Borrower, dated July 3, 1964, and includes any
successor thereto;
(g) "ONCAD" means the Office National de Cooperation et
d'Assistance pour le Developpement, an etablissement public
of the Borrower, established pursuant to Law No. 66-60 of the
Borrower, dated June 30, 1966, as amended by Law No. 67-46 of
the Borrower, dated October 12, 1967, and includes any successor
thereto;
(h) "SENELEC" means the Societe Senegalaise de Distribution
d'Energie Electrique, a societe d'economie mixte established,
and operating pursuant to the Borrower's laws and regulations;
(i) "Project Period" means the period during which the
proceeds of the Credit will be disbursed, expected to extend from
the Effective Date to the Closing Date;
(j) "Project Area" means the area where the Project is to be
carried out as described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(k) "Debi Sub-Project" means Part A of the Project;
(1) "Lampsar Sub-Project" means Part B of the Project;
(m) "Debi Sub-Project Area" means the area where Part A of
the Project is to be carried out as described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement;
(n) "Lampsar Sub-Project Area" means the area where Part B
of the Project is to be carried out as described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement;
(o) "Participating farmer" means a farmer or farmer group
participating under Part A or B of the Project;


﻿(p) "Consolidated fees" means the payments made by farmers
to SAED on account of mechanical services provided by SAED and on
account of water charges, all as provided in Section 3.05 of the
Project Agreement; and
(q) "CFAF" refers to the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) On the Effective Date of this Agreement, the Association
shall withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself, on
behalf of the Borrower, the amount required to repay the principal
amount withdrawn and outstanding, together with the accrued
service charges and other charges if any, thereon, of the Second
Credit. Any amount remaining unwithdrawn in the Credit Account
for the Second Credit shall automatically be cancelled on the same
date.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and   civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provi-
sions set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-5-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing April 1, 1988, and ending October 1,
2027, each installment to and including the installment payable
on October 1, 1997, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Con-
ditions.
Section 2.09. The Directeur General of SAED is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause SAED to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Second SAED
Financing Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall
take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable SAED to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of Subsection
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall make available under a
financing agreement to be in form and substance satisfactory to


﻿-6-
the Association to SAED: (i) the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii)
whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that the funds
available to SAED will be inadequate to meet the estimated
expenditures required for the carrying out of the Project, to
provide all such additional funds as may be required to meet such
expenditures.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Second
SAED Financing Agreement in such manner as to protect the inter-
ests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the
purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Second SAED Financing Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall make available to SAED
such additional personnel as may be required by SAED to enable it
to carry out the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall take all necessary steps to ensure
that the technical specialists referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
the Project Agreement shall be replaced only by personnel with
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause ONCAD to make payment without
delay for all rice and other produce delivered by SAED to ONCAD.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall take all necessary steps to eliminate
all subsidies for mechanical cultivation services accorded to
participating farmers, after the first year of their participa-
tion.
Section 3.05. Without limitation or restriction to the
generality of the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 of
this Agreement, the Borrower shall, promptly as required, take all
action necessary on its part to enable SAED to impose and collect
consolidated fees, as provided in Section 3.05 of the Project
Agreement.
Section 3.06. Without limitation or restriction to the
generality of the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement and
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall take all necessary steps to ensure that:


﻿-7-
(i) each annual operating budget of SAED, as approved by the
Borrower, shall be executed in accordance with its terms
and the funds therein provided made available to SAED
promptly as required; and
(ii) SAED shall, during the Project Period be at all times
headed by a qualified and experienced Directeur General;
such Directeur General shall be assisted by an agent
comptable particulier and a sub-project manager for
the carrying out of each of the Parts A and B of the
Project, all to be with qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 3.07. The Borrower undertakes to provide, or cause
SENELEC to provide, the facilities constructed or installed under
the Project with adequate supplies of electric power or to enable
said facilities to be operated efficiently, all under arrangements
satisfactory to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) SAED shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation of SAED under the Project Agreement or the
Second SAED Financing Agreement;
(b) Law No. 65-001 of the Borrower, dated January 20, 1965,
or Decree No. 65-026 of the Borrower, dated January 20, 1965,
shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived
in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the ability
of SAED to carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations
set forth in the Project Agreement or the Second SAED Financing
Agreement;
(c) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of SAED or for the suspension of its operations without the
prior consent of the Association;


﻿- 8 -
(d) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that SAED will be able to perform its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement or the Second SAED Financing
Agreement;
(e) SAED shall have become unable to pay its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by SAED
or by others whereby any of its assets shall or may be distributed
among its creditors;
(f) a default shall occur under the First Development Credit
Agreement or under the Second Development Credit Agreement other
than in respect of the payment of principal, or service charges or
any other payment required thereunder;
(g) the form agreement referred to in paragraph (c) of
Section 7.01 of the First Development Credit Agreement has been
amended without the prior approval of the Association;
(h) the conditions precedent, if any, to the first dis-
bursement of the Kuwait Fund Loan shall not be fulfilled by
December 31, 1978, and the Borrower or SAED have failed to satisfy
the Association that they have secured alternative sources of
financing under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Associa-
tion to meet expenditures under Part A of the Project.
(i) (I) Subject to subparagraph (II) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the Kuwait Fund Loan or of the FAC
Grant made to the Borrower for the financing
of the Project shall have been suspended, can-
celled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms of the Kuwait Fund Loan
Agreement or of the FAC Agreement, or
(B) the Kuwait Fund Loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(II) Subparagraph (I) of this paragraph shall not apply
if: (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination
or prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement, and (B) adequate funds for
the Project are available to the Borrower from


﻿-9-
other sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under this
Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) or (f) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and SAED; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (b), (c), (e), (h) or
(i) (I) (B) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement
on behalf of SAED have been duly authorized by all necessary
corporate and governmental action;
(b) the execution and delivery of the Second SAED Financing
Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and SAED, respectively, have
been duly authorized by all necessary corporate and governmental
action; and
(c) the conditions precedent to the first disbursement of
the FAC Grant shall have been fulfilled subject only to the
effectiveness of this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
by SAED and is legally binding upon SAED in accordance with its
terms; and


﻿- 10 -
(b) that the Second SAED Financing Agreement has been duly
authorized by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the
Borrower and SAED, respectively, and constitute valid and binding
obligations of the Borrower and SAED in accordance with their
terms.
Section 5.03. The date July 17, 1978, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.02 through 3.07 of this Agreement and the provisions of para-
graphs (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) of Section 4.01 and of para-
graphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.02 of this Agreement shall
cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date thirty years after the
date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Finances et des
Affaires Economiques
Rue Charles Laime
B.P. 4017
Dakar, Senegal
Cable address:
MINIFINANCES
Dakar


﻿- 11 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By /s/ A. Coulbary
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ X. de la Renaudiere
Acting Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
(1) Civil works for              11,000,000       80%
irrigation works
and buildings
(2) Vehicles and equip-           1,800,000       100% of foreign
ment                                         expenditures
and 75% of
local expendi-
tures
(3) Operating costs                 200,000       75%
(excluding salaries)
(4) Consulting services           3,000,000       85%
(5) Refunding - Credit            1,000,000       100%
No. S-18 SE
(6) Unallocated                   3,000,000
TOTAL         20,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of the
Borrower is also that of another country from the territory


﻿- 13 -
of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds


﻿- 14 -
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financ-
ing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to: (a) con-
tinue the development of irrigation in the Senegal River Delta
in two perimeters at Debi and Lampsar for producing paddy and
tomatoes; and (b) prepare for future development of the whole
river valley through strengthening SAED's managerial, planning and
research capabilities. The Project is to be carried out in an
area of about 1,200 km2 in the Delta and Lower Valley of the
Senegal River, in the northwestern part of the territories of the
Borrower, having as its base the main highway between St. Louis
and the Dagana basin; its apex the Debi basin; and its western
and eastern sides, the main stream of the Senegal River; all as
delineated on Map IBRD No. 3984R2, dated July 1977, of the Inter-
national Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The Project
consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Debi perimeter
(i) Construction of primary and secondary irrigation
and drainage networks, one pumping station; carry-
ing out of on-farm development including land
levelling; and construction of access roads, all to
permit full water control on a single perimeter of
1,100 ha located in an area of about 1,500 ha as
demarcated on Map IBRD No. 12863, dated June 1977,
of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development;
(ii) Construction of houses, offices, stores and other
facilities close to the perimeter; and
(iii) Provision of agricultural equipment and vehicles.
Part B:   Lampsar perimeter
(i) Construction of embankments along each side of
the Lampsar channel;
(ii) Construction of protective dikes, primary and
secondary irrigation and drainage networks, 14
pumping stations, access roads; carrying out of
on-farm development including land levelling, all


﻿- 16 -
to permit full water control on 11 subperimeters
totalling 2,220 ha located in two areas totalling
about 3,000 ha as demarcated on Map IBRD No. 12864,
dated July 1977, of the International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development;
(iii) Construction of houses, offices, stores and other
facilities within the perimeter; and
(iv) Provision of agricultural equipment and vehicles.
Part C:   Agricultural development
(i) The selection of some 1,100 farmers and allocation
to them of holdings of 3 ha each; and
(ii) Provision of agricultural mechanical services,
inputs, marketing facilities and extension services
for production of paddy and tomatoes.
Part D:   Technical assistance
(i) Strengthening of SAED's managerial, financial
management, research and planning capabilities
together with provision of equipment and vehicles
to carry out applied research; and
(ii) Studies including final design of projects for the
future development of the Senegal River Delta and
valley.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Terms and Conditions of
Second SAED Financing Agreement
1.   The Borrower shall make available to SAED as a grant that
portion of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time
to Categories (1) through (5) of the table of Allocation of the
Proceeds of the Credit set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
2.   In addition to the portion of the proceeds of the Credit made
available to SAED under paragraph 1 above, the Borrower shall make
available to SAED, in the form of a grant, such additional funds,
as are required to enable SAED to carry out the Project and its
other operations.
3.   Funds required for the Project shall be made available to
SAED before the end of each calendar quarter on the basis of
estimates prepared by SAED and approved by the Borrower and the
Association, covering SAED's funding requirements for the Project
for the following calendar quarter.
4.   The funds to be provided under paragraph 3 above shall be
deposited with BNDS for credit to the account of SAED. Withdrawal
from such account will be made by the Borrower's Agent Comptable
Central des Etablissements Publics upon proposal of the Directeur
General of SAED.
5.   The Borrower shall take all necessary steps to ensure that
each annual operating budget of SAED as approved by the Borrower
shall be executed in accordance with its terms and the funds
therein provided made available to SAED promptly as required.
6.   Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions above,
the Borrower shall establish and thereafter maintain in favor of
SAED, an advance working capital fund (caisse d'avance), managed
by the agent comptable particulier of SAED, for the purpose of
meeting SAED's extraordinary working expenses (including, without
limitation, salaries for temporary personnel, spare parts and
expenses for maintenance and other actions which may be incurred
on an exceptional basis). Such fund shall be credited with an
initial amount of CFAF35,000,000 (which amount shall be revised
upwards or downwards, as and when appropriate) and shall be
replenished by the Borrower promptly at such time as sixty-five
per cent of the initial amount shall have been drawn down.


﻿- 18 -
7.   Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions above,
the Borrower shall, at the beginning of each harvest, make avail-
able to SAED, either in the form of Treasury advances or bank
overdraft, sufficient funds to enable SAED to initiate the market-
ing cycle for the produce to be harvested (including inter alia
transport costs related thereto).


