CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 775 SE
Project Agreement
(Debi Lampsar Irrigation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SOCIETE D'AMENAGEMENT ET D'EXPLOITATION
DES TERRES DU DELTA DU FLEUVE SENEGAL
Dated March 17, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 775 SE
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 17, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
SOCIETE D'AMENAGEMENT ET D'EXPLOITATION DES TERRES DU DELTA DU
FLEUVE SENEGAL (hereinafter called SAED).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Senegal (hereinafter some-
times called the Borrower or Senegal) and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty million dollars
($20,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that SAED
agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as
hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a financing agreement of even date herewith
between the Borrower and SAED, a portion of the proceeds of the
credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will
be made available to SAED on the terms and conditions therein set
forth; and
WHEREAS SAED, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. SAED shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. (a) For the supervision of the construction of
Parts A and B of the Project, and for carrying out Part D (ii) of
the Project, SAED shall employ by June 30, 1978, or such other
date as the Association may agree, consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Association.
(b) For carrying out Parts A, B and D (i) of the Project,
SAED shall employ by June 30, 1978, or such other date as the
Association may agree, technical specialists (including one
financial controller, two agronomists, one mechanical engineer and
one livestock specialist) whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of goods and civil works to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) SAED undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and
for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by SAED to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, SAED
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) SAED shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) SAED: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and
to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the


﻿-3-
Association's accredited representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between SAED and the
Association, SAED shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower, the Association and SAED of
their respective obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment and the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit.
(d) SAED shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of SAED; SAED undertakes to furnish to the
Association any records and documents pertaining to the foregoing
provided that the transmission of such records and documents shall
be deemed to the reasonable by both the Association and SAED.
Section 2.06. SAED shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Secoi.d SAED Financing Agreement. Except as the Associ-
ation shall otherwise agree, SAED shall not take any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Second SAED Financing Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 2.07. (a) Without prejudice to the legal and/or
administrative provisions which govern the tutelle of SAED, SAED
shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views with the
Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the
Second SAED Financing Agreement, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit.


﻿-4-
(b) Without prejudice to the legal and/or administrative
provisions which govern the tutelle of SAED, SAED shall promptly
inform the Association of any condition which interferes or
threatens to interfere with, the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance
by SAED of its obligations under this Agreement and under the
Second SAED Financing Agreement.
Section 2.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, SAED shall conclude with each farmer or farmer group
allocated land in the Project Area, an agreement in accordance
with a form of agreement acceptable to the Borrower and the
Association; such form of agreement shall provide inter alia
that the amount of land allocated to a farmer pursuant to said
agreement may be reduced should the original amount of land so
allocated prove to be beyond the capacities of such farmer to
work efficiently. SAED shall take all necessary steps to ensure
that the provisions of said agreements shall be duly enforced at
all times.
Section 2.09. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, SAED shall during the period of carrying out of the Proj-
ect:
(i) employ a qualified and experienced person to serve in
the position of 'Directeur General and persons with
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Asso-
ciation on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association to serve in the positions of agent comptable
particulier of SAED and of sub-project managers for
the carrying out of each of the Parts A and B of the
Project;
(ii) employ such additional qualified and experienced staff
as may be required to carry out the Project; and
(iii) take all necessary steps on its part to ensure that
the technical specialists referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement shall be replaced only by person-
nel with qualifications and experience acceptable to the
Association.
Section 2.10. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, SAED shall take all steps necessary on its part to estab-
lish and, thereaftei, maintain an account with BNDS, for the pur-
pose of receiving the funds required for the Project.
I


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SAED
Section 3.01. SAED shall at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and
carry on its operations, all in accordance with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural practices
and under the supervision of experienced and competent management
assisted by qualified and competent staff.
Section 3.02. SAED shall at all times take all such action as
shall be necessary on its part to acquire, maintain and renew all
rights, powers and privileges which are necessary or useful in its
operations.
Section 3.03. SAED shall at all times operate, maintain,
renew and repair its facilities, plant, equipment and machinery in
accordance with appropriate engineering and management practices.
Section 3.04. SAED shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.05. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, SAED shall charge and collect, from farmers or farmer
groups to whom land in the Debi and Lampsar Sub-Project Areas
has been allocated, and from other farmers or farmer groups to
whom land in other improved areas administered by SAED has been
allocated and where water is supplied under conditions at least as
favorable as in the Debi and Lampsar Sub-Project Areas, annual
consolidated fees for each hectare allocated to such farmers or
farmer groups.
(b) Without limitation or restriction to the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section 3.05 of the Agreement, SAED shall:
(i) not later than June 30, 1980, or such other date
as the Association may agree, set and thereafter
maintain and collect water charges for each hectare
of land developed in the Project Area under the
Project; such water charges shall be set at levels
under which (I) as much as possible of irrigation
infrastructure investment costs under the Project


﻿- 6 -
are recovered over the life of such investments
consistent with the ability of farmers to pay while
maintaining sufficient incentives for participating
farmers, and (II) in addition thereto the operation
and maintenance costs of the facilities constructed
under the Project are recovered; and
(ii) collect after the first year of participation of
participating farmers charges on account of mecha-
nization services provided to participating farmers
to a reasonable provision for depreciation of
equipment used in providing such services, the
operation and maintenance costs of such equipment.
(c) SAED shall consult with the Association, annually and in
advance, in establishing annual consolidated fees to be imposed on
farmers and farmer groups in accordance with paragraphs (a) and
(b) of this Section.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) SAED shall maintain records adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b) Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
subsection (a), SAED shall: (i) establish and maintain separate
accounts in respect of each Part of the Project, in which expendi-
tures in respect of each such Part (including management and
overhead costs and those on research and training) shall be
recorded separately and in such detail as to identify the pur-
pose and function of each expenditure; (ii) maintain individual
accounts for farmers or farmer groups receiving credit for farm
inputs and land cultivation services; and (iii) maintain a con-
solidated fee account, in which shall be recorded the amounts of
all consolidated fees received from farmers in the Debi and
Lampsar Sub-Project Areas and other areas managed by SAED.
Section 4.02. SAED shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish


﻿-7-
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited,
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other infor-
mation concerning the accounts and financial statements of SAED
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of SAED thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 30 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify SAED
of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or


﻿-8-
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For SAED:
Societe d'Amenagement et d'Exploitation
des Terres du Delta du Fleuve Senegal (SAED)
Botte Postale 74
Saint Louis
Senegal
Cable address:                    Telex:
SAED                              7764 SG SL
Saint Louis - Senegal
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of SAED may be taken or executed by the
Directeur General of SAED or such other person or persons as
he shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. SAED shall furnish to the Association suffi-
cient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf of SAED,
take any action or execute any documents required or permitted to
be taken or executed by SAED pursuant to any of the provisions of
this Agreement.


﻿- 9 -
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ X. de la Renaudiere
Acting Regional Vice President
Western Africa
SOCIETE D'AMENAGEMENT ET D'EXPLOITATION
DES TERRES DU DELTA DU FLEUVE SENEGAL
By Is! A. Coulbary
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Cred-
its" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bid-
ding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   Contracts for similar items shall, to the extent practicable,
be grouped into one single bid.
3.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding under the Project, SAED shall prepare
and forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any
event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to
the public of the first tender documents relating thereto, a gen-
eral procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing
such information as the Association shall reasonably request;
the Association will arrange for the publication of such notice
in order to provide timely notification to prospective bidders
of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in question.
SAED shall provide the necessary information to update such notice
annually so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph A.1 above:
(i) contracts for equipment estimated to cost the
equivalent of $15,000, or more but less than
the equivalent of $100,000, may be awarded on
the basis of local competitive bidding procedures
of the Borrower acceptable to the Association;
provided, however, that the aggregate amount of all
contracts to be so awarded shall not exceed the
equivalent of $1,000,000; and


﻿- 11 -
(ii) contracts for equipment estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $15,000 may be awarded
by SAED through negotiated purchees, on the
basis of at least three quotations for each of
the contracts to be placed; provided, however,
that the aggregate amount of all contracts to be
so awarded shall not exceed the equivalent of
$500,000.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and
sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be
excluded; and (iii) the cost to SAED of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Senegal may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Senegal if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of SAED and the Association that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Senegal equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Senegal.


﻿- 12 -
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest eval-
uated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then
be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this compari-
son, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, SAED shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.


﻿- 13 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, SAED
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends
to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the con-
sultants referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement, on
the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with
the recommendations for award of the said consultants and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform SAED and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding para-
graph, SAED shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform SAED and
state the reasons for such determination.


