Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19054-MD
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.2 (US$1 1.1) MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA
FOR A
SOCIAL PROTECTION MANAGEMENT PROJECT
June 4, 1999
Human Development Unit
Czech Republic, Hungary, Moldova, Slovak Republic & Slovenia Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 6/2/99)
Currency UJnit = Lei
12.1 Lei= I US$
US$0.0826 = I Lei
FISCAL YEAR
1999
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CU                  Communications Unit
EU                  European Union
FMS                 Financial Management Specialist
GDP                 Gross Domestic Product
LACI                Loan Administration Change Initiative
MLSPF               Ministry of Labor, Social Protection,
and Family
MOER                Ministry of Economy and Reform
MOF                 Ministry of Finance
PAS                 Procurement Accredited Staff
PAYG                Pay as You Go
PCU                 Project Coordination Unit
PIP                 Project Implementation Plan
PMR                 Project Management Report
SAL                 Structural Adjustment Loan
SPU                 Social Policy Unit
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Director:    Roger Grawe
Sector Director:   James Christopher Lovelace
Team Leader:    Alan Thompson



Moldova
Social Protection Management Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective                             2
2. Key performance indicators                                 2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project          2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                 2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices    5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                        7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project  7
3. Benefits and target population                             7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements              7
D. Project Rationale
I. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection  8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other
development agencies                                   9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design   10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership           10
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                10
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic                                                   10
2. Financial                                                  11
3. Technical                                                  11
4. Institutional                                              11
5. Social                                                     12
6. Environmental assessment                                   12
7. Participatory approach                                     12
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                             13
2. Critical risks                                             13
3. Possible controversial aspects                             14
G. Main Loan Conditions                                              15



Page No.
1. Effectiveness conditions                                   15
2. Other                                                      15
H. Readiness for Implementation                                      15
L. Compliance with Bank Policies                                     15
Annexes
Annex 1.     Project Design Summary
Annex 2.     Detailed Project Description
Table A      Project Organizational Chart
Table B      Implementation Schedule
Annex 3.     Estimated Project Costs
Table A      Project Cost Summary by Component
Table B      Detailed Costs - Expenditure Accounts by Components
Annex 4.     Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5.     Financial Summary
Annex 6.     Procurement and Disbursement Arrajngements
Table A      Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B      Procurement Plan
Table C      Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table D      Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table E      Additional Procurement information
Table F      Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Table G      Financial Management and PMR-based Disbursements
Annex 7.     Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.     Documents in Project File
Annex 9.     Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10.    Country at a Glance
Map          24285r3



Moldova
Social Protection Management Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
Czech Republic, Hungary, Moldova, Slovak Republic & Slovenia Unit
Human Development Unit
Date: June 4, 1999                                 Team Leader: Alan Thompson, ECSHD
Country Director: Roger Grawe, ECCO7               Sector Director: James Christopher Lovelace, ECSHD
Project ID: 51173     Sector: Human Development   Program Objective Category: Economic Management
Lending Instrument: Investment                     Program of Targeted Intervention:  [x] Yes  [ ] No
Project Financing Data               [] Loan      [x] Credit      [I Guarantee      [ ] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: US$ 11.1 million/SDR 8.2 million
Proposed terms:                       []   Multicurrency     []  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10        []   Standard Variable  [   Fixed          [ ]   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.75% on
undisbursed
credit balance
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan:
Source                             Local            Foreign           Total
Government (net of taxes)                                   .9                                 0.9
Taxes                                                       2.2                                2.2
IDA                                                         3.4                7.6            11.1
Total          6.5                7.6             14.1
Borrower: Republic of Moldova
Guarantor: N/A
Responsible agency(ies): Ministry of Labor, Social Protection and Family (MLSPF)
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M)*:    2000     2001       2002     2003    2004
Annual      0.3        4.7        6.1     2.4       .6
Cumulative     0.3        5.0        11.0    13.4     14.1
*includes taxes and all contingencies
Project implementation period: 5 years Expected effectiveness date: 9/30/1999    Expected closing date: 3/31/2005
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective
The objectives of the project is to develop the capacity required to implement the pension reform and to
support the development of an efficient and sustainable social protection system in Moldova.
To achieve this objective, the project will support the development of a consistent social protection policy
framework through the creation of a trained Social Policy Unit within the MLSPF and the strengthening
of policy monitoring and evaluation system. The project will improve administration by building capacity
in the areas of organizational and human resource development, strengthening financial management, and
developing the information systems. This will involve the introduction of new administrations to record
and use personal social contribution data, and to provide for the revised calculation of pension benefits.
The project will also enhance the speed and efficiency of benefit provision. Assistance will also be given
to the Tax Inspectorate to adopt modern techniques and use the additional information to strengthen
contribution collection. The project will build the MLSPF's capacity to design and implement
information, education and advocacy programs.
2. Key performance indicators (see Annex 1).
Key performance indicators would be (i) regular policy monitoring and evaluation review and statistic
report; (ii) administrative efficiency measured by establishment of personal accounts, processing speed,
accuracy, internal control, collection rate, etc.; and (iii) increased awareness of public regarding the
pension system. Indicators are listed in detail in Annex 1.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: 18896-MD   Date of latest CAS discussion: May 6, 1999
The CAS reviewed by the Board on May 6, 1999 highlights public sector reform and poverty alleviation
as two of the focal points of the Bank Group's strategy. This project contributes to these CAS objectives
with the aim to improve the quality of public spending and expenditure management, improve access to
services, and sustain longer term reform of core services.
A policy dialogue established through the supervision of the Structural Adjustment Loan II, which had
several conditionalities relating to pension reform, has laid the ground for this institutional strengthening
and reorganization. Introduction of the pension reform will reduce the need for general budget subsidies
and encourage individuals to take greater responsibilily for their own future pension position. To be
effective the reform requires an enhanced administrative capacity, which will provide better management
and control of expenditures, and improved use of information leading to greater pension coverage and
improved revenue collection. It is also envisaged that analytical work and the policy dialogue established
in the project will be extended to cover broader social assistance and social welfare policy issues to
produce a positive impact on poverty alleviation.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Major issues. The social insurance system inherited from the pre-transition era could not deliver effective
social protection due to its poor policy framework, fragmented institution structure, extremely weak
administrative capacity, as well as the lack of communication with and understanding of the public about
the system. The overall economic difficulties faced by the country further undermined the sustainability
of the system.



Page 3
Policy Framework and Monitoring. The underlying policies that govern Moldova's current social
protection system require fundamental reform. First, the social insurance and assistance policies have
been built up over a number of years based on subjective judgement of those in need and on privilege.
They are not formulated based on adequate economic analysis of poverty impact, incentive mechanism,
and financial implications. As a result, the system is not transparent, unjust and financially not
sustainable. Pension reform was a major step forward in terms of policy development. However, much
remains to be done. Second, the social insurance system was, and continues to be, intermixed with
various social assistance programs. It lacks a broader social protection strategy. No careful assessment
has been done regarding the need for and impact of various programs. The impact of social policies is not
monitored and evaluated. Consequently, the efficiency and effectiveness of these policies is not known.
Institutional Structure and Administrative Capacity. The state social insurance system has serious
problems in its organizational structure and capacity. First, the responsibilities of social tax collection and
inspection is unclear. In 1996, the Tax Inspectorate was given total responsibility for the collection of
social tax revenues. The Social Fund, however, continues to exercise its role in collection, resulting in a
situation where the tax service collects the revenues in cash, and the Social Fund collects contributions in
kind. The large amount of contributions in the form of goods and the practice of "netting out" leave the
system extremely vulnerable to evasion and abuse. Second, the management of the pension system is
inadequate and inefficient. Accounting practices are not consistent with international standards, and there
are no internal controls in place to ensure financial integrity. Information technology is inadequate and
obsolete, and lacks individual contribution records and the data communication between government
agencies.
There is no long term human resource development strategy and training is limited to on the job
instruction for new staff. The lack of a career structure makes it difficult for the ministry to recruit
qualified staff, while existing staff are not motivated. Prolonged wage arrears for civil servants have only
worsened the situation. At the management level, an over involvement in day to day problems leaves the
MLSPF and Social Fund without strong management control, or strategy.
Communication and Information Provision. The level of awareness of the general public about their
rights and responsibilities, and the operation of the pension system is extremely low. There is a general
lack of understanding in the MLSPF of the importance of information and communication, and as a
consequence, lack of long term plan to educate and inform the stakeholders. Information provision in the
past has been very passive; this has further increased the difficulty in promoting the pension reforms. At
every level, there is serious lack of capacity to design, implement, and evaluate communication programs.
No institutional arrangement are in place, no in-house technical skills are available, and no baseline data
is collected regarding the awareness and perceptions of stakeholders.
State of the system prior to the reform. The last few years have seen growing social insurance
contribution arrears, delays in pension payment, and a move to higher proportions of in-kind contribution
resulting in higher levels of pension payments in kind. The Social Fund budget is poorly defined,
providing for a mixture of social insurance and social assistance benefits which rely heavily on support
from general budget. As a self sustaining system the Social Fund is clearly bankrupt.
Data provided by the Social Fund shows that the collection rate of cash contribution during 1998 was
only 44% of the budgeted revenue. In-kind contribution accounted for 43% of contributions during the
same time period (which is about the same level as in 1997). Pension payment arrears for 1998 reached
nearly 250 million lei as of end-1998, more than 4 months of pension payment liabilities (about 100 mln
lei more than in early 1998). In-kind payment increased considerably in September and remained above
60% of total payment through the last quarter of 1998. Adding to this complication is the regional
disparity in pension payment. Data shows that for the two large urban centers in Moldova (Chisinau and
Balti) there were no pension payment arrears, whereas in some regions, accumulated arrears reached as
high as one year.



Page 4
The practice of budget planning and forecasting are laLcking in the MLSPF/Social Fund. Revenues are
overestimated; outstanding arrears are not included; there is no solid statistical base for many of the
expenditure estimates. Furthermore, no independent audit is regularly undertaken to allow for the
verification of actual receipts and expenditures. The budget lacks transparency and clearly defined
financial responsibilities between the general budget of the state and the Social Fund. Many social
assistance benefits are paid out of pension contributions when general budget transfers were not made.
In sum, prior to the pension reform, the social insurance system in Moldova could not deliver the much
needed protection to the elderly in particular, and the poor in general. The government strategy in
commencing the new pension law is only the first step towards a fully reformed social protection system.
Future work in designing a comprehensive social protection system must include review of other social
insurance and social assistance programs.
Government Strategy
Since independence in 1991 the Government of Moldlova has been faced with a series of short term
economic crisis. Revenues to the Social Fund have been falling and political pressures to maintain and
increase pension levels have continued, while at the same time the number of Moldovans living in
poverty is increasing. In recent years various attempts have been made to re-structure the pensions and
social assistance provisions, but these have either had a short term focus, or have been overturned in the
short term by either political pressure, or changing circumstances.
Starting in early 1997, with assistance from the Bank and the EU, the MLSPF started to work on a longer
term pension strategy. A strategy paper was produced in spring 1997, and proposed legislation in October
1997. Unfortunately the proposed legislation again focused on addressing the short to medium term
problems without producing any structural change or a, longer term pension strategy. Intensive work in
the MLSPF, with Bank support, during the early part of 1998, resulted in a revised long term pension
strategy and draft legislation.
Following the elections in March 1998 the new government have declared their intention to re-focus their
attention on reform policies and one of the first indications of this was the revised pension legislation put
to Parliament in summer 1998. The legislation had a second and final reading in October 1998 and was
passed. This now forms a longer term pension strategy, removing all the previous privileges and
providing a clear link between social contributions paid and pensions earned. The new pension legislation
retains the PAYG concept with a significantly reduced redistributive element, but provides PAYG
pensions in a way that can be adapted in future into either a partially or fully funded scheme when the
macro economic position would support it.
Administrative strategy is another area that has received very little attention since independence, the
government now recognizes that a series of short term administrative changes have not produced any real
improvement in the administrative capacity. At present there is a lack of capacity to collect social
revenue, and collection rates are falling. The Social Fund attempts to collect revenues in kind, however
this lacks control and is susceptible to significant fraud and abuse, both internally and externally.
Financial arrangements are very poor with almost no control and no auditable accounting procedures that
would meet international standards. The introduction of the new pension scheme has forced the
government to focus on a longer term strategy. New administrative procedures are required and the old
ones have to be changed if the new pension strategy is to be properly implemented and sustained. The
MLSPF is looking at an administrative strategy that recognizes the need for structural change to the
administration and that will build on work currently under way in three pilot areas under an EU TACIS
program. It is this strategy that the MLSPF is working to refine with support from the World Bank. It



Page 5
has been agreed that all revenue collection should be undertaken by the tax authorities and that a new
administrative structure to record all personal social contributions and to calculate pensions will be
established to replace the current Social Fund.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will focus on addressing the main sector issues in the state social insurance system of
Moldova as outlined above - the lack of coherent approach in policy analysis, monitoring and evaluation,
the inconsistent organizational structure and weak administration, and the lack of communication strategy
and capacity.
While both the counterparts and the Bank team clearly recognize the urgent need for reform in social
assistance programs, the primary focus of this project is on the pension reformn. However the project is
designed so that each component can be developed to provide the same benefits for social assistance as
they are designed to provide for pensions. Thus the policy component will be developed to provide the
analytical capacity for social assistance in addition to monitoring the pension reform, the administration
component will provide the basis for making all future cash benefit payments through one organizational
structure, and the public relations component will deal with all aspect of social policy not just pensions. It
is expected therefore, that this project will not only strengthen the policy work and the administration of
the pension system, it will change the way the broader social protection issues are perceived and
approached. All these will pave the way for future work in the area of social protection in the broad
context.
Social Protection Policy Analysis, Monitoring and Evaluation. To implement the pension reform and to
support long term social protection policy development, capacities in analyzing, monitoring and
evaluating the effectiveness of policies need to be developed. This component of the project would
support the establishment of a Social Policy Unit within the MLSPF which would (i) analyze the
development in areas related to social protection, with state pensions as the focus at the initial stage; (ii)
develop key indicators to evaluate current policies, and (iii) provide policy recommendations. The output
of the Unit would consist of regular (annual) evaluation reports of social protection policies, well
constructed information collection, and policy notes analyzing specific policy issues.
The Social Policy Unit would work closely with other departments of the Ministry to ensure that policies
can be effectively implemented. A working group which would include the respective divisions of the
Ministry of Finance (MOF), Ministry of Economy and Reform (MOER), and other related government
agencies would be established to help to coordinate social protection policy making and monitoring.
Several alternative designs for this component were considered, including cases where the Unit would be
located in other ministries or would be established as an independent unit. Given the responsibilities of
the MLSPF in social protection, and the governments long term goal to improve core social services, it
was decided to locate the Social Policy Unit within the MLSPF.
Social Protection Administration. To develop the administrative capacity necessary for the
implementation of pension reform, the project will focus on assisting the Social Fund and the MLSPF to
clearly define the organizational functions and structure, to strengthen their capacity to administer the
calculation and delivery of pensions and benefits, and to develop an information system to support the
organizations. In addition, some assistance will be given to the Tax Inspectorate to improve the services
that they provide to the social insurance system and to improve the use of shared information in the
enforcement of social tax compliance.
Strengthening the Administrative Capacity: This sub-component would support the reorganization of the
MLSPF/Social Fund administrative structures at all levels from national down to local office level. In
terms of human resources, a systematic appraisal of the current skills base will be arranged together with
a comprehensive Training Needs Analysis which will lead to a focussed training program. The program



Page 6
would contain business planning and organization, the use of management and financial information and
risk analysis, along with improved accounting and auditing procedures.
Developing Information Technology: To address the MLSPF's problem of limited IT capacity, largely
concentrated in HQ based computer center, the project would support the design and implementation of a
suitable IT system specification for the future which would aim to provide an integrated computer system.
In particular it would provide for the storage of all social contribution information on personal accounts
and for the retrieval and use of that information in the calculation and payment of pensions and other
benefits. An assessment of the current capacity and IT needs of the whole organization at all levels has
been conducted with the support of the PHRD Grant.
Assisting the Tax Authority. In implementing the reforned pension system, the Tax Inspectorate has the
responsibilities in collecting social tax and in transferring to the Social Fund information on individual
contributions made. In return, they will have at their disposal an increased level of information on non-tax
payers. Efficient social insurance management will require the Tax Inspectorate and the MLSPF/Social
Fund to reach agreements on the manner and details of the information that should be transferred between
these two institutions, and on service delivery. The long term sustainability of the social insurance system
and of this project also relies on effective contribution collection.
Taking into consideration the existing capacity of the Tax Inspectorate, and the need for close cooperation
between the tax authority the social insurance administration, it was decided that the project will provide
some technical assistance and training to the tax authority. The objectives of these activities are to help
the tax inspectors to study and apply modern tax targeting techniques, to make better use of the available
information provided by the reformed pension system, and to learn from the experience of other countries
in social tax collection. While the need for computer hardware has been addressed in other ongoing
projects, software support will be provided in this project to ensure that information can be exchanged
efficiently between the social protection and tax systems.
Public Information Provision and Communication. The ability to achieve long term objectives of the
social protection system depends in large part on the level of understanding and support of key groups
botlh within, and outside, the system. To address this, a component for strengthening the capacity of the
Ministry in designing and implementing a comprehensive information and education strategy would be
included in the project.
In order to effectively design -and administer the process of communicating with stakeholders in a
consistent and comprehensive way, a Communications Unit (CU) would be established in the Ministry.
The main functions of this Unit would be to (i) establish regular communication channels in order to
communicate the policy messages on behalf of the Ministry, (ii) convey necessary information to the
public regarding their rights and responsibility in the system, and (iii) provide the management of various
departments in the Ministry with key administrative information. This Unit would assist the MLSPF in
assessing the current level of understanding of the social protection system, in monitoring the progress of
increasing awareness, and in developing a standard repoirting system within the Ministry.
In the design phase, it was debated whether to include this component as a sub component of
Administration. It was decided to keep it as an independent component since it will be necessary to
develop communications at all levels within the Ministry, among parliamentarians, and with the public.
An alternative design might have been not to include the activity in the project at all. It was decided to
support improved communications because the public are poorly informed about the pension system or
their rights and obligations under that system. It was also found that the Ministry spends a
disproportionate amount of time dealing with queries and misconceptions, passively defending pension
policy instead of actively explaining it to the public. Assistance in this area will enable the Ministry to
begin to develop longer term strategies instead of only dealing with short term problems.



Page 7
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component               Category      Cost Incl.    % of    Bank-       % of
Contingencies  Total  financing    Bank-
(US$M)               (US$M)   financing
1. Social Protection Policy      Policy/             0.6        5         0.5        5
Analysis, Monitoring and         Institution
Evaluation                       building
2. Social Protection Administration  Institution     12.3      85         9.6       85
building
3. Public Information Provision and  Institution      0.6       5         0.5        5
Communication                    building
4. Project Coordination          Project              0.6       5         0.5         5
Management
Total        14.1     100        11.1      100
2. Key policy and institutional reforms to be sought:
The project seeks to provide the appropriate institutional reform to implement the ongoing pension
reform. Institutional reform would be aimed at reorienting the administration to respond to the changes
brought about with the new law, and to develop the administration into one that can provide an improved
and sustainable level of service to the public. Institutional reform will provide a stronger basis for
delivery, ongoing recording and rationalization of social tax collection. Institutional building in policy
development, monitoring and evaluation will be sought to further prepare the counterparts to develop a
more stable pension system, and address other reforms in the area of social protection.
3. Benefits and target population:
The public is the ultimate beneficiary of an improved pension system. Pensioners will benefit from on
time payments, calculated in a fair and transparent manner, and provided in a more client-oriented
manner. The project would also benefit contributors who are not of pension age through information
programs which will help them to better understand the system. Enhanced understanding of the pension
reform may provide them with more confidence in their future retirement.
The MLSPF, the Social Fund, and the Tax Inspectorate are the direct beneficiaries of the project through
strengthened institutional capacity. They will be able to develop more relevant policies through increased
analytical capacity, and to improve pension administration through better management practices,
increased efficiency, and transparency of financial systems. Local offices of the Ministry and the Social
Fund will be more accountable through decentralization and provision of tools to enhance their
performance.
Other ministries will also benefit from the project. As the increased efficiencies mentioned above are
expected to free up scarce resources, there would be less drain on the general budget. Assistance to be
provided to the Tax Inspectorate will improve its use of information and increase the effectiveness of
collection. Better provision of financial information by the MLSPF will allow the MOF to manage the
general budget more efficiently. Stronger capacity in policy development in the MLSPF will improve the
collaboration in policy analysis and monitoring among the MLSPF, MOF, and MOER.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements.
The project would be implemented over a five year period through the MLSPF. The project will be under
the overall responsibility of a Project Director, a senior official in the MLSPF, who would provide the
strategic link between the implementation of the pension reform and effective delivery of the project.



Page 8
There will be a Component Manager for each component. A Project Steering Committee (PSC) will be
established to oversee the management of the project. It will consist of the Project Director, component
managers, and staff working on various sub-components of the project as appropriate. The Chairman of
the Committee will be the Minister of Labor, Social Protection and Family.
There is a separate component for project coordination which would provide the resources to effectively
manage the project. A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) established within the Ministry, will be staffed
with a PCU Director, a procurement officer, a financial officer, and support staff. The PCU will become
the key point of communication on the project. The intent of building the structure of a coordination unit
within the Ministry is to encourage greater integration of the project in the daily business of the Ministry
and through project management development contribute to improving general management within the
Ministry. This arrangement is consistent with agreements reached during the CPPR that responsibility for
project management should be shifted back to line ministries. An organizational chart is contained in
Annex 2
To guide implementation, an operational manual consisting of, implementation plans and TORs for each
of the components, job descriptions of the PCU staff. definitions of reporting lines, functions of the
steering committee, procurement and disbursement proc.edures, has been developed. A draft operational
manual was submitted as a condition of Negotiations, and will be finalized and adopted before
Effectiveness. Annex 6 contains the detailed procurement and disbursement arrangements for the project,
as well as assessments and action plans in these areas.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The alternative project design considered was a broader reaching operation in social protection,
attempting to develop social assistance and unemployment administrations. However, much work remains
to be done to define a long term social protection program. As the government has tackled pension reform
as a first step, the design team chose to support the institutional building/restructuring necessary to
implement the reform. Once management capacity wiithin the ministry has been further strengthened,
follow-on investments may be available to assist the Government to reform other areas of social
protection. The development of a Social Policy Unit will enable the MLSPF to better identify the needs
and formulate more realistic social protection policies.
The project team considered using some of the new lending instruments, but found they were not
particularly well suited for the proposed operation. While a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL)
instrument would be attractive given its streamlined procedures, the project is not of an experimental type
or featuring particular innovations. Also, the LIL would be on too small a scale to support the objectives
of the reform; LILs are also normally expected to proceed on a faster track than what is realistically
anticipated for this operation. The Adaptable Program Loan (APL), while providing certain flexibility,
would also not be relevant to the operation since the pension reform has already been established through
SAL 11 and is at a fairly advanced stage. Therefore, it is concluded that a traditional investment operation
is the preferred lending instrument. A mix of policy development and capacity building can be achieved
through the provision of goods and services, and through structured implementation, taking pace with the
phased reform over a longer term.



Page 9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned).
Sector issue                     Project            Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation Development
Progress (IP)   Objective
(DO)
Bank-financed
Overall macroeconomic policies, State    Moldova Structural    S               S
and private pension reforms          Adjustment Loan 11
Enterprise and financial sector reforms;   Moldova First Private  S            S
Strengthening the capacity in tax    Sector Development Project
collection
Macro-fiscal sustainability, public  Moldova Public Sector     Under
expenditure rationalization          Reform Project I          preparation
Pension reform and administration;   Latvia Welfare Reform     HS              HS
Social policy monitoring             Project
Social policy monitoring             Lithuania Social Policy &    HS           HS
Community Social Services
Project
Pension reform and administration    Kazakhstan Pension        N/A             N/A
Reform Adjustment Loan;
Kazakhstan Pension
Reform Implementation
Loan
Othzer development agencies
TACIS                                Assistance to MLSPF to    N/A             N/A
develop models for
improved pension
administration; 3 regional
pilots.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Page 10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design:
Lessons from social sector lending in the ECA region and also Bank-wide have shown that (a) integration
of administration in policy design is extremely important - attention must be given to the institutional
aspects of reform in order for the objectives of the reform to be achieved; (b) investment to support
structural adjustment is essential; (c) projects which are overly complex often do not implement well; (d)
monitoring and evaluation of project progress is imnportant;  (e) early consideration of project
implementation arrangements can help to avoid future delays; (f) careful attention should be given to
ensure that the government does not over extend itself on its commitment for counterpart funds; and (g)
clear communication and earlier ownership of the project are key factors to its success. These factors
have been reflected in the design of the project.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Borrowers commitment to reform can be seen through the passage of the pension reform law and
drafting of supporting legislation. It can also be seen in the efforts and active discussions regarding
administrative consolidation, which will support the overall reform.
Th e project has been developed in close collaboration with the MLSPF, the Social Fund, MOF. Tax
Inspectorate and MOER. The project concept was developed by 46 stakeholders during a participatory
strategic planning workshop conducted in October 1998. Participants represented a variety of central and
regional administrators working in the social protection system. Further refinement of the concept into a
concrete project was done through additional participatory exercises. This has allowed for better
representation of stakeholders' concerns in the project, has increased ownership of the project, and has
provided the Ministry with more strategic tools for beginning to refine roles of responsibility.
5. Vaiue added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank has been providing assistance in Moldova's pension reform through policy dialogue in
implementing the Structural Adjustment Loans. The Bank has assisted the Government in formulating
reform policies and reviewing the Social Fund budget. The Bank is also providing technical assistance
through an IDF grant to carry out a Social Expenditure Review in 1999 covering state, local and Social
Fund budgets.
With the assistance of the Bank, a new designed Houselhold Budget Survey for Moldova was developed
and implemented by the Department of Statistics in 1997. A poverty assessment was carried out by the
Bank in collaboration with MOER in 1998. The results, of both of these studies has created a valuable
information base for current and future social policy work with the MLSPF. A pension survey financed
with bilateral assistance has also enhanced the Bank's and Borrower's knowledge base. These activities
combined with a well established policy dialogue provides the Bank with a comparative advantage to
advise the GOM on pension reform and to support a social protection management project.
Although the funding involved in this project will be relatively small, the support of the Bank in this
project will provide significant value added in the following areas: (a) secure funding for the investment
that is urgently needed in order for the new pension system to be operable; (b) assistance in the design of
the new administrative structure, IT and accounting system; assistance in improving management
capacity; (c) a vehicle for long term policy discussions; aznd (d) mobilize and coordinate donor support.
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic
[ ] Cost benefit     [x] Cost effectiveness    [ Other [specify]



Page 1 1
The economic benefits that the project will help to generate can be conceptually categorized as the fiscal
savings from the pension reform policies, savings to be achieved directly from the project investment, and
externalities generated by the project activities which are not quantifiable. It is important to recognize that
the main element of the reform requires that individuals' pension benefit be calculated based on his/her
lifetime contribution record. The current administration and information technology system cannot
perform such functions. The no-project scenario is therefore the no-reform scenario.
Fiscal savings will be reflected in lower pension expenditure and higher social tax revenue. Savings on
pension expenditure will be the direct outcome of the reformed pension policies, such as increasing
retirement age, strengthened length of service requirement, and the elimination of many privileges.
Higher revenues will be the outcome of both policy changes and the project. Reform policy will lead to
higher contribution because of longer service period and stronger incentives for individuals to contribute.
The project, on the other hand, will allow individuals to better monitor the contributions made on their
behalf. More importantly, the project will develop a new administration that will allow the tax authority to
obtain more information on non-payers and to pursue more active collection enforcement. The potential
increase of collection rate will be very significant over time. As an example, 1% growth of collection rate
would have led to an increase in social tax revenue of above 9.5 million Lei in 1998 alone.
Administrative savings will include (i) reduced processing time for recording, calculating, and paying
pensions; (ii) reduced resources needed to ensure low error rate; and (iii) savings due to strengthened
accounting practice and internal control.
Externalities. This project aims to build capacity of the MLSPF. It will enable the MLSPF to better
analyze and monitor social protection policies. It will also assist the MLSPF to communicate with the
public regarding their rights and responsibilities. Finally it should provide higher quality services and
save the time spent by the clients. These benefits are difficult to quantify.
2. Financial
Disbursement arrangements would be consistent with other Bank projects. No special problems are
anticipated. Further discussion on this subject is given in Annex 6.
3. Technical
The project has been designed to be consistent with best practice in the region and the objectives of the
CAS in terms of reorienting existing structures to be more efficient. It has been emphasized throughout
project preparation that the key is to develop the right organizational structure and administrative
procedures with adequate computerization support, rather than allowing information technology needs to
determine the process of change. Correct sequencing of technical assistance, along with piloting and
testing of information systems as the project progresses will enable the administration to continue to
respond to changing needs.
4. Institutional
The project will have to balance several issues relating to transition, organization and coordination. The
Government's pension reform took effect January 1999 without adequate institutional support. In the
transition, the MLSPF will have to manage existing structures while designing new systems (IT, human
resources, and accounting).
The MLSPF is eager to move forward with the implementation and has initiated reorganization of the
Ministry outside of the project. This has some benefits in that it shows willingness to change, however it
is still not clear if there would be difficulties matching the ongoing reorganization to what will be
developed under the project. In addition, the project is proposing to create/reorganize several units. Given



Page 12
the fiscal constraint and the downsizing of government in general, this would have to be done by using
existing resources more efficiently.
Coordination among government agencies will be key. Rationalizing the financing of social benefits and
the budgeting process requires consensus within the Government, especially between the MLSPF and the
MOF. Policy work in the area of social protection depends on good collaboration between MLSPF and
the MOER. Most urgently, collaboration with the Tax Inspectorate is crucial for the successful operation
of the social insurance system. The project seeks to develop capacity of the MLSPF to administer
pensions, with the Tax Inspectorate collecting social contributions and sharing information with the
MLSPF. The project will also provide some assistance to the Tax Inspectorate to improve their services.
There will have to be agreements between the two institutions regarding the transfer of information and
service delivery.
The project management design is intended to build up the capacity within the MLSPF. However
establishment of a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) within a Ministry which has not implemented a
World Bank financed project will be a challenge. Lack of experience could impact project progress. To
avoid this, the project supports consultant/PCU staff part:nerships to foster learning.
5. Social
The pension reform retains all the principles of a PAYG system but improves the sustainability by placing a
much greater emphasis on personal responsibility for the payment of contributions and therefore the
ultimate provision of income in old age. It introduced minimum pension guarantee to those who have
contributed to the system for a minimum period but whose pensions are lower than the guaranteed level.
This policy measure aims at alleviating old age poverty at a cost that is affordable for the system.
This project is designed to provide the administration required to maintain personal pension contribution
records and to provide that information at regular intervals to keep the contributing public better informed.
Such administration will better encourage and enforce compliance with the pension system. This will
provide for better long term sustainability and better individual pension provision in the future thus reducing
the social risk of poverty in old age. Through the assistance in policy monitoring and stakeholder survey
analysis, the project will also help policymakers to better identify vulnerable groups and assess policy
options.
6. Environmental assessment:       Environmental category: [] A    [  B    [x] C
The project is aimed at institutional capacity building and is not envisaged to impact the environment.
Some minor civil works may be financed by the project, but they would not effect the environment. An
environmental data sheet was completed for the project in January 1999 confirming this assessment.
7. Participatory Approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
*  The public and pension age population as the ultimate beneficiaries:
A pension survey was conducted as part of preparation and provided valuable insight in the attitude of
pensioners towards the current system and information about how the system is affecting them. The
survey reinforced the need to change the system. Additional surveys among other groups of the
population will be conducted during the project to target public relations activities, and gauge progress in
reaching these groups.
*  MLSPF/Social Fund (and regional offices), as the prime beneficiaries:
Planning workshops as part of preparation has enabled agreement among stakeholders of the project's
objectives. Problems and solutions were identified and reflected in the design. Study tours to Latvia were



Page 13
organized for the MLSPF staff to study the experience of Latvia welfare reform.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Other ministries such as the MOER, MOF, and Tax Inspectorate also participated in the planning
workshops, along with NGOs, research institutions, employers organization, pensioners association, and
trade unions. The project team have met regularly with the Parliament social and budgetary committees to
discuss issues in social protection reform. During project preparation, some of these stakeholders attended
a study tour to Poland to learn about the Polish pension reform and how a reformed system could
potentially affect their interests. This proved to be a very worthwhile activity. The MLSPF understands
the importance of involving these groups in the process, and gaining their support.
F: Sustainability and Risks
In assessing the sustainability of the project, one has to realize that this project is closely linked to the
pension reform recently introduced in Moldova. If the pension reform fails, it will have an impact on the
project. However, some factors affecting the sustainability and risks of the reform will not necessarily
affect that of the project. The project team has attempted to draw the distinction between the two.
1. Sustainability:
Broader pension reform. The pension reform may not be sustained if future political pressures make
demands on the pension system that cannot be met by the current contributors, reflected as pension delays
and underpayments. These could be seen as a failure of the administration and thus an un-sustained
project. Changes in the economic position of the country could lead to reduced revenue collection putting
the sustainability of the pension reform at risk. This again could reflect on the sustainability of the project.
The Project. One concern is that introduction of information technology will require adequate resources
to sustain the investment in terms of facilities, maintenance, staff, and periodic equipment upgrading
beyond the project investment. Funds for the counterpart's contribution will also be necessary during
implementation. Several projects in the country portfolio have experienced delays due to non-availability
of counterpart funds. It was agreed during appraisal that government contribution can take three forms: (i)
donor financing; this will be sought to cover a portion of government contribution; (ii) some investment
costs and incremental expenditures paid by the Government; these would not necessarily be a direct cash
contribution, and can include salaries of key staff implementing the project, some costs of staff training,
costs of additional electrical requirements as a result of new information technology, etc. (iii) cash
contribution from the Government.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
The overall risks for the operation are divided into (i) general risks, which are country specific and are
mainly outside the control of the project, but could have an impact on the project; and (ii) project risks,
which can be mitigated to some extent through project design and supervision. While the possibility of
general risks is quite high, their impact on the project is considered to be medium. For the general risks,
the project can provide "coping mechanisms" and project implementation could be adjusted if necessary.
Close monitoring would be carried out to mitigate these impacts on the project.



Page 14
Risk (reflecting as`sumptions in AEnne  )   Rtisk,  Risk Minimization Measure
General Risks (country specific)
Major political instability                    M        Coping mechanisms
Prolonged economic crisis                      M        Coping mechanisms; making use of
the SPU for analytical input.
Insufficient general budget allocated for social  M     Restructure the payment structure so
benefit payments                                        that the impact is limited to non-
pension benefits.
Project Risks
Major pension policy change will impact project    L    Capacity building in policy analysis
progress                                                and technical assistance will help to
monitor the economic and social
impact, make policy
recommendations, and keep
policymakers and the public informed.
MLSPF leadership cannot manage the change      M        Provide the tools to empower
process effectively                                     management.
Other government reforms (such as territorial  M        Design flexible administration and
reform) impact social protection administration.        make careful assessments.
There is no clear agreement among line ministries   L   Develop coordination agreements, and
regarding roles and responsibilities, especially in     working groups.
social tax collection.
Increase in staff turnover                     L        Provision of a better career structure
and opportunities for training.
Lack of experience of the PCU may lead to delays   M    Closely monitor and provide intensive
assistance.
Difficulties with counterpart funding          M        Set realistic levels for counterpart
contributions; seek donor assistance;
assist with flexible arrangements.
Overall Risk Rating                            M_
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
This is seen as a non-controversial project as it deals with improvement in the sustainability and general
provision of pensions. The pension reform that proceeded the project was controversial, and care will be
needed during the implementation of the project to ensure that future policy changes to the pension
legislation do not re-introduce measures that would put the long term sustainability of the pension system
at risk. The project itself will provide for changes in the practice of collecting social revenues in-kind,
and through the Social Fund. This practice is very damaging to the financial sustainability of the pension
policy but is beneficial to enterprises particularly in the agricultural sector. It is considered that the



Page 15
removal of this provision and the tighter control of social revenues that the project will provide could be
raised as being damaging to the agricultural sector and as such potentially controversial.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions would be:
*  The Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Association, has been adopted;
*  The PCU has been established and is operating with resources, composition and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association;
*  The Borrower has opened in Lei the Project Account in the National Bank of Moldova or in a
commercial bank acceptable to the Association, and has deposited into said account an initial amount
equivalent to $50,000.
2. Other covenants:
*  The Borrower shall maintain a Project Account and replenish it regularly.
*  The Borrower shall have the records, accounts and financial statements of the Social Fund for each
fiscal year beginning with the fiscal year ending on December 31, 1999 audited.
*  The Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan for strengthening of the financial management
system.
*  The MLSPF will prepare and submit to the Association an annual work program for the Project by
March 31 of each year.
*  The MLSPF will prepare and submit to the Association a semi-annual project implementation report,
starting in July 2000.
*  The MLSPF will maintain the PCU and Project Steering Committee until completion of the project,
satisfactory to the Association.
*  The MLSPF shall establish the Social Policy Unit and the Communications Unit by December 31,
1999.
*  The Borrower shall carry out a mid-term review by March 31, 2002.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Not Applicable. The design documents for the project are limited to specifications for renovation of
premises to accommodate computer equipment and networks. Since renovations are not envisaged in the
first year of the project, this will be done during project implementation.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
Bidding in the first year is mainly related to TA. TORs have been reviewed in draft for most of the key
activities. RFP documents will be prepared prior to Effectiveness. Other bidding is for small goods,
which will be done on the basis of shopping procedures.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.



Page 16
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x]  This project complies with all applicable Bank   Oies.
Program   a Le        an T  mpson, ECSHD
Sector Director: Ja   ristopher Lovelace, ECSHD
Countiy Director: Roger Grawe, ECCO7.



Annex 1
Moldova: Social Protection Management Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary         Key Performance IndiMcaors       Monitoring and Evaluation            Criil
'   Assumptions
Sector-related CAS                                                                            No major political and
Goal:                                                                                         economic crisis
Rationalize and modernize                                  I                                 Sufficient general
pension system                                             l                                 budget allocated for
social benefit payments
Project Development                                                                           (Outputs to
Objective:                                                                                    Objective)
l                                 No major pension
Develop the capacity required                                                                 policy changes.
to implement the pension    1.1 Increase of contributors     1.1 Tax collection record
reform and to support the   1.2 On time payment             1.2 Administrative report         MLSPF leadership
development of an efficient  1.3 Transparent budgeting and   1.3 SF budget and independent   I manages the change
and sustainable social           accounting practice             audit                        process effectively
protection system in Moldova    1.4 Improved management     1.4 Regular business plan and
1.5 Efficient information support   evaluation                   Other government
1.6 Strengthened policy support   1.5 Personal accounts         reforms (such as
1.7 Increased awareness of the      established; IT system in place  territorial reform) are
public regarding the system     and functioning             consistent with the
1.6 Annual social report and policy  administrative reform of
notes                       the social protection
1.7 Client survey result        system.
i Clear agreement
among line ministries
regarding roles and
responsibilities,
especially in social tax
collection.
MLSPF staff are
retained.
PCU manages project
efficiently.
Sufficient counterpart
funding is in place.
Outputs:                                                      _
1. Social protection policy  1.1 Social Policy Unit         1.1 Business plan;
analysis and monitoring          established; three full time  1.2 Regular social report and
framework established;           staff appointed by December     statistic summary;
capacity developed.              31, 1999. Business plan     1.3 Training program.
developed and adopted.
1.2 Policy analysis and
evaluation regularized; First
quarterly statistics summary
prepared by the second
quarter of 2000; First annual
social report completed by
December 2001;
1.3 Training program developed
and implemented.



2. Social insurance         2.1 Personal identification     2. MLSPF administrative report
administration strengthened     numbers issued and
accounts opened for 75% of
the working age population in
2001 and 85% in 2003;
2.2 Commencing 2001, number
of personal contributors to the
state pension increases by
5% per year;
2.3 Time to calculate and award
new claims to pension
reduced to 6 weeks or less by
the mid term of the project,
and 1 month or less by the
completion of the project;
2.4 Time to deal with written and
telephone queries reduced to
4 weeks at midterm and 2
weeks by the completion of
the project;
2.5 New procedures that ensure
a pension calculation
accuracy level of at least 95%
by mid term;
2.6 Pension payment will not take
more than 1 month from the
point of authorization to the
point of receipt by the
pensioner in 95% of the
cases by the mid term of the
project;
2.7 Adjudication system
operating by September,
2003;
2.8 First Business Plan
developed by December
2000, and updated regularly
afterwards;
2.9 Transparent budget process;
first annual independent audit
of the Social Fund completed
by June 30, 2000;
3.Stakeholder information,  3.1 Communication Unit be       3. Surveys
education and advocacy          established and staffed by
programs implemented.           December 31, 1999;
3.2 The percentage of the public
understand how their pension
is calculated increase by 10%
by 2001 and 25% by 2003;
4. Project Coordination Unit    4. Satisfactory project     4. Semi-Annual reports
established and operational.   implementation
Project Components/         Inputs: (total budget for each                                  (Components to
Sub-components              component, including                                            Outputs)
(see Annex 2):              contingencies  figures may
not sum due to rounding)     i___________:



NarrativeSumma -ry        Me Pr i                          honitoring andEvtuation              Critka
1.  Social Protection Policy   $0.6 million                 Quarterly reports;               Ability to recruit and
Analysis, Monitoring and                                                                      retain qualified staff in
Evaluation                        $.01 million    civil works                                SPU;
$.09 million    goods
1.1 Establish and develop a       $.50 million    consultants
Social Policy Unit            $.03 million    recurrent
1.2 Monitor the                                 costs
implementation of pension
reform
1.3 Construct a social
protection database
1.4 Prepare regular Social
Report
1.5 Build capacity through
training activities
2.  Social Protection       $12.3 million                   Quarterly reports                 Re-organization
Administration                                                                                consistent with the
$ .75 million   civil works                                pension reform
2.1 Rationalize the               $8.55 million  goods                                        strategy;
organization structure and    $2.25 million   consultants
functions of the social       $ .75 million  recurrent                                    Close cooperation
protection system                           costs                                         between line ministries;
administration.
2.2 Design and implement                                                                      Effective management
human resource                                                                            and qualified staff;
development plan.
2.3 Improve financial                                                                         System design and
management and                                                                            procurement on
accounting practices.                                                                     schedule.
2.4 Design and install
comprehensive
information system.
2.5 Assist the Tax
Inspectorate to improve
contribution collection.
3.  Public Information      $0.6 million                    Information materials created and    MLSPF develops and
Provision &                                             disseminated;                    follows a coherent
Communication               $ .01 million civil works   Quarterly reports;               communication
$ .23 million goods                                          strategy.
3.1 Establishing a              $ .30 million consultants
Communications Unit         $ .06 million recurrent costs                                 Ability to recruit and
3.2 Develop communication                                                                     retain qualified staff.
strategy for the MLSPF
3.3 Organize public opinion
research
3.4 Produce information
materials
4.  Project Coordination    $0.6 million                     Unit functioning well; Quarterly  Good Project
progress reports.                Management practices
4.1. Establish and develop the   $.01 million  civil works                                   in place;
capacity of the PCU.         $.01 million  goods
4.2 Design and implement         $.43 million  consultants                                    Coordination among
project monitoring and       $.14 million  (including PCU                                 components and with
reporting system.                        staff and                                        stakeholders.
Project Audit)
$.01 million  recurrent costs



Annex 2
Moldova: Social Protection Management Project
Project Description
Project Component 1 - Social Protection Policy Anal[ysis, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$ 0.6
million)
The Social Protection Policy Analysis, Monitoring atnd Evaluation Component aims at building the
capacity of the MLSPF to develop social protection policies with a systematic approach and to monitor
policy impacts on a regular basis. A Social Policy Unil: would be established which would work in close
collaboration with other departments of the MLSPF as well as with other Government agencies.
Significant amounts of training will be provided to build in-house capacity. A small amount of computer
hardware and software to provide the Unit with necessary tools will also be financed by the project. The
following activities will be the main focus of the component:
*  Establishing and Developing the Social Policy Unit. The component will support the MLSPF in
developing and implementing a Business Plan for the unit. Technical assistance will be provided to
(1) clarify functional responsibilities of the unit arid establish appropriate linkages between the unit
and other related departments; (2) identify short and long term priorities in policy work; (3)outline
the structure of a monitoring and evaluation system.
*  Monitoring the Implementation of Reformed Pension Policies. The first activity of the Social Policy
Unit will be to assess the current situation pension provision and use the result as a benchmark for the
monitoring of pension reform implementation. Based on this work and enhanced capacity, assessment
and analysis of social protection policies in a broader context will be conducted at a later in stage.
e  Constructing a Social Protection Database. An integrated database consisting of key statistics
related to social protection will be constructed. Regular information exchange with other government
agencies, especially with the MOF, MOER and statistic department will be established.
-  Producing Annual Social Report. The component: will assist the MLSPF to produce annual Social
Report for the government and the public. The Social Report shall (1) assess the situation in areas
related to social protection using empirical data; (2) review the social protection policies adopted and
evaluate their effectiveness; (3) identify pressing issues and make proposals. Policy notes can be
prepared alongside this report to meet immediate requests from the Government regarding new policy
initiatives.
*  Building Capacity Through Training Activities. This component will support the development and
implementation of an extensive training programr. Seminars and workshops will be organized in
economic principles, social insurance modeling, applied empirical methodology for handling and
interpreting data, management and communication, and skills needed for writing policy reports.
Working with foreign experts in the preparation of-the Social Report and in building up the database
will provide staff of the MLSPF on-the-job training opportunities.
Project Component 2 - Social Protection Administration (US$ 12.3 million)
The Social Protection Administration component will strengthen the administrative capacity of the
MLSPF through rationalizing its organizational structbure and functions of the administration, designing
and implementing a human resource development plan, strengthening financial management, and
developing a comprehensive information system. Assistance will also be provided to the Tax Inspectorate
to improve the collection of social tax and ensure efficient cooperation between the tax authority and the



A major part of the expenditure will be in computer hardware and software to provide an integrated system
linking central, regional and local offices to a central data base. The same system would support other functions
of the reorganized administration (accounting, human resources) and be flexible enough for further
development to take on other functions, such as social assistance provision. Equipment would be purchased
(under ICB procedures) and disbursed to the central ministry and its 9 regional and 44 local offices.
Technical assistance and training will be provided to support the following activities:
*  Developing a new organizational structure. This component will support the design of changes to the
organization of pension administration, currently divided between the Social Fund and the MLSPF
administration sections, into a new organization with sole responsibility for the recording of social
contributions, the calculation and payment of pensions and other cash benefits. This will include the re-
design of the organization at all levels and the matching of staff numbers and skills to the future need of the
organization, providing the required re-training and skills building at management and working level.
* Developing a Business Plan for the new Social Protection Administration Assistance will be provided to
develop sound business plans for the new structures to cover resource allocation, target setting and
performance appraisal to support policy initiatives. This is perhaps the most significant part of the TA for
this component as it represents a cultural change to management style and process. Senior personnel
(including Regional Managers and staff) and a small cadre of support staff would be trained together
through a series of workshops throughout Moldova. Senior staff would also have the opportunity for
exposure to the culture of Business Planning in other countries.
*  Risk Management, Quality Control and Fraud detection and Prevention. Technical assistance will be
provided to develop a program within the new administration to devise a comprehensive system of quality
checks and effective feedback with links to training, resource management and customer service initiatives.
Advice on risk analysis and contingency planning would be given, the output of which would be a set of
tested Contingency Plans covering the major risks to the Social Insurance scheme. Detailed plans to
prevent, investigate and detect fraud within the Social Benefits scheme and administrative functions are also
envisaged to be supported.
* Improving Financial Management and Accounting Practices. The component will support the development
of sound accounting system and intemal control procedures through technical assistance and training. The
new information technology system will allow for better financial management and supervision. The project
will also finance independent audits of the Social Fund to identify areas for improvement.
*  Designing Information Technology System and Software Design. The project will continue to support the
IT system analysis and capacity assessment that have started during project preparation. System design will
be refined; detailed specifications for the pilot testing will be prepared; the impact of the testing will be
analyzed; and the system will be replicated throughout offices at all levels. Specialist software will be
developed to provide the range of applications required to run a modern social benefits operation. This will
include the receipt and recording of social contributions on a personal basis, the calculation of pensions and
ultimately other benefits, the award and payment of pensions and other benefits. and public information
access.
* Providing Training for All Staff on the New Computer Programs and Applications. Technical assistance
will be provided to develop training packages suitable for staff at all levels of the organization. Training
will be provided for the staff responsible for delivering the training packages.
*  Assisting the Tax Inspectorate to Improve Contribution Collection. This part of the component will help
the Tax Inspectorate to improve the collection of social tax and to ensure close cooperation between the tax
authority and the social insurance administration. Technical assistance and training opportunities will be
provided for the Tax Inspectorate to take advantage of modem tax targeting techniques, to make better use
of the available information provided by the reformed pension system, and to learn from the experience of



other countries in social tax collection. Software support will be provided to ensure that information can be
exchanged efficiently between the social insurance system, and the tax authority.
Project Component 3 - Public Information Provision & Communication (US$0.6 million)
This component aims at improving the communication of information regarding social protection policies and
services. The project will finance the purchase of basic equipment, and the production of information materials
to be disseminated to various target groups, including the beneficiaries, contributors, employers, the Parliament,
and various stakeholders. Technical assistance and investments will be focused on the following areas:
* Assisting in the Establishment of a Communications Unit. This Unit will be responsible for the
communication work of the MLSPF. The project will specify the work procedures and provide assistance in
developing a range of skills of the staff, including interviews, press briefing, presentation, report
preparation, meeting facilitation, etc.
*  Developing a Communication Strategy. Technical assistance will be given to help the MLSPF to identify
the key target of communication, the proper channel and mneans to reach various audience, and the approach
in formulating messages.
*  Organizing Public Opinion Research. Initial and regular client surveys, focus group studies, and media
monitoring will be organized with input from the Social Policy Unit and the administration departments.
The purpose of the research is to assess the understanding of the public of their rights and responsibilities in
the social insurance system, to identify gap in communicaLtions, and to monitor the client satisfaction of the
social insurance services. Some basic training in surveying methods and data analysis will be provided
jointly with the Social Policy Unit.
*  Producing Information Materials. In consistent with the communication strategy, the project will assist in
designing and producing information brochures and book]lets aimed at various audiences (both internal and
external) to inform them about social protection policies and services.
Project Component 4 - Project Coordination (US$0.6 million)
Project Coordination component would finance operational expenses of the PCU, including staff salaries (non-
civil servants), TA, translations, project auditing and consumables throughout the life of the project. In addition
procurement and accounting assistance to the PCU would be financed by the Credit. This will be key in
enabling the PCU within the Ministry to function effectively and manage the project in a satisfactory manner.
During the initial two years of the project, it is envisaged that a procurement expert will work with the PCU on
a monthly basis to ensure that all procurement requirements are understood by the borrower. This component
also includes financing for a computerized accounting system and annual project audits which would be carried
out in accordance to LACI/FARRAH standards.
The project organizational chart follows as well as the implementation schedule.



Table 2A: Project Organizational Chart
Minister of Labor, Social Protection and Family
/ ~~Steerin-q Commite\
/             *~~~~~Minister\
-Project Director          \                         B
*PCU Director                                 World Bank
-Head of each component working group
(Component Coordinators)
-Working group members as needed
(Send meeting minutes to World Bank projectf
Social Policy               Social Protection              Public Information &             Project Coordination
Working Group                  Administration                 Communication                         Unit
Component I                  Working Group                   Working Group                      Component 4
Component 2                    Component 3



Moldova Social Protection Management Project - Project Implementation
12000             :: 2001                    [20022003                                      2004
ID   Task Name                                        Qtr 2 Qtr 3 | Qtr4 Qtr 1 Qtr 2 Qtr 3 Qtr 4 Qtr1  tr2 Otr 3 Qtrt4 Qtr Itr  Qtr3 Qtr4Qtr i Qtr 2 Qtr 3  Qtr4 Otr I
I   1. Social Protection Policy                       r
2       Appoint Intemational Consultants
3       Writing of the Annual Social Report
4       Monitoring and Evaluation Activies Training
5       Recruit international consultants              i
6       Feedback activities                                                                                           _    _      __._                       _
7       Training                                                                                                                           _
8   2. Social Protection Administration                i
9       2.1 Administration                             .
10           Developing the new organization                                                                         h
11               Recruit Internafional Consultants
12               Developing the New Organization
13               Strategic Business Planning                                    _
14               Developing MIS                                        .___._._.
15               Risk Analysis/contingency planning.
16              Improved Accounting and audit systems            :_                   _     _      :       _     _       _     _     _
17               Fraud Prevention strategies
18               Training of trainers                                   ____
19               Administrative training programs                      .
20           Audit of the Social Fund
21               Identify auditors
22               Begin audit
23               Repeat annually                       I .
24           Assistance to the Tax Inspectorate
25               Recruit Intemational Consultants      {
Page 1



Moldova Social Protection Management Project - Project Implementation
12000                 2001                   2002                  12003                 12004
ID   Task Name                                      Qtr2 Qtr 3 Qtr4Otr I Qtr2 Qtr3 Qtr4  Qtr  Qtr2 Qtrt3 1 Qtr4 Otr 2 Qtrt2 1 Qtr   t4 | tr  Qttr 1
26              Training
27               Software support                                                              -
28       2.2 Designing IT
29           Recruit.international Consultants
30          IT Management Support
31               Develop Requirements of New System
32              Prepare Bidding Documents
33          ICB Bidding process
34           Civil Works preparations                                 _
35           Development and Installation
36   3. Public Information Provision
37       Appoint local advisor
38       Establish the unit                                      -
39       Recruit Internationla Consultants
40       Develop Communications strategies
41      Implement staff development programs                                  ____I     _i_i____           ._________I_i_i                 _ ;;_i_;_ i
42       Conduct surveys                              i_                          _ _ _j   _ j _  _ _ _  __ _i   _;  _  _ _ _;_;__       _ _  _ _    ;,_     ;;
43 4. Project Coordination
44       Develop the unit
45       Various training for PCU and other units              _
46       Recruit International consultants in Proc/Acct.
47       Ongoing assistance in proc./acct./and man.
48       Regular reporting                                                                                    ...._._........
49       Annual audit reports carried out
Page 2



Annex 3
Moldova: Social Protection Management Project
Estimated Project Costs
Summary of Project Costs
The project costs are estimated at $14.1 million, including physical and price contingencies amounting to
$1.5 million or 10.6% of the base costs, and taxes and duties amounting to $2.2 million. The project costs
include civil works, office equipment, computer and related equipment, information materials, technical
assistance and training, and recurrent costs.
Table 3A: Project Cost Summary by Component
(US$)
%     % Total
Foreign    Base
Local       Foreign        Total     Exchange   Costs
1. Policy Analysis, Monitoring and Evaluation    327,368.0    258,346.0    585,714.0       44       5
2. Social Protection Administration            4,885,452.5   6,037,137.5   10,922,590.0    55       87
3. Public Information Provision & Communication  364,152.0    170,732.0    534,885.0       32       4
4. Project Coordination Unit                     311,917.0    236,769.0    548,686.0       43       4
5,888,890.5  6,702,984.5   12,591,875.0    53      100
Physical Contingencies                           316,687.9    467,262.0    783,949.8       60       6
Price Contingencies                              345,132.3    398,059.3    743,191.6       54       6
6,550,710.6  7,568,305.8   14,119,016.4    54      112
Basis of Cost Estimates
The Project costs were estimated in US dollars. The costs of civil works, goods (computer and other
office equipment and printing), technical assistance and training have been estimated based on similar
projects financed by IDA in Moldova and elsewhere in the Region. Cost estimates for foreign technical
assistance include fees, travel, housing, subsistence costs and overheads. Base cost estimates reflect
prices in May 1999.
Foreign Exchange Component
The foreign exchange component was estimated as f:llows: (a) civil works - 10%; (b) computers and
related equipment and supplies, as well as other office equipment - 90%; foreign technical assistance and
foreign training - 70%. The foreign exchange component, including contingencies is estimated at $US
7.6 million, or 54% of total project costs.
Contingency allowances
Price contingencies for all costs are based on estimated international inflation rates of 2.3% per year for
the five years of the project. It is assumed that the rate of exchange will depreciate in step with local
inflation. Physical contingencies were estimated atl 5% for civil works, off the shelf software and
equipment, consumables, printing, and consultants services and training; and at 8% for customized
software and large scale equipment purchases.



Taxes and Duties
Cost estimates include VAT of 20% on civil works, goods (including consumables and printing) and
consultant services and training; and 10% duties on imported goods. The total estimated tax obligation
incurred by the project is $2.2 million. Although the project costs include taxes, exemptions are expected
to be obtained.
Project Financing
IDA will finance, US$11.1 million or 78% of the project. The Government will contribute the amount of
funds needed for recurrent costs, US$.9 million. These consist mainly of the Ministry's operating
expenses during the life of the project, ie. premises (Ministry and local offices), utilities, maintenance
expenses on computers beyond the warrantee period and post delivery, staffing of various units created
during the project, covering travel expenses for staff to attend training at HQ, some cascade training, and
other information dissemination. These costs have been kept to a realistic minimum considering the
difficulty the government has had meeting these its contributions and the significant impact this has had
on the portfolio.
Table 3B
Detailed Costs - Expenditure Accounts by Components
(US$)
Policy
Analysis,                       Public
Monitoring       Social       Information       Project                           Physical
and         Protection     Provision &    Coordination                      Contingencie
s
Evaluation    Adminstration   Communication      Unit          Total       %      Amount
1. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                  4,200.0        652,290.0         4,200.0       4,200.0     664,890.0   5.0    33,244.5
B. Consulting Services        470,200.0      1,914,800.0      272,400.0      361,700.0    3,019,100.0   4.9    148,355.0
C. Training                    36,000.0        112,800.0              -       36,000.0     184,800.0   5.0       9,240.0
D. Information materials       14,400.0                -       166,260.0             -     180,660.0   5.0       9,033.0
E. Furniture                    4,500.0          9,360.0        4,500.0        4,500.0      22,860.0   5.0       1,143.0
F. Equipment                   10,614.0      6,398,740.0        17,055.0       7,506.0    6,433,915.0   7.6   487,121.0
G. Consumables                  9,000.0                -         7,650.0             -       16,650.0   5.0       832.5
H. Software                     8,400.0      1,094,760.0         7,320.0       3,360.0    1,113,840.0   7.9    88,534.8
1. Operating expenses                                 -               -      128,920.0     128,920.0   5.0       6,446.0
Total Investment Costs         557,314.0     10,182,750.0       479,385.0     546,186.0   11,765,635.0   6.7   783,949.8
11. Recurrent Costs
A. Incremental staff           20,400.0         48,000.0        18,000.0             -      86,400.0      -           -
B. Incremental Operating        8,000.0                -         2,500.0       2,500.0       13,000.0
expenses
C. Media campaign                     -                -        35,000.0             -       35,000.0     -            -
D. Management Information             -        691,840.0              -              -     691,840.0
Systems (MIS) activities
Total Recurrent Costs            28,400.0       739,840.0        55,500.0       2,500.0      826,240,0
585,714.0    10,922,590.0       534,885.0     548,686.0   12,591,875.0   6.2   783,949.8
Physical Contingencies         25,265.7        707,688.3       23,686.5       27,309.3     783,949.8      -            -
Price Contingencies            37,128.6        647,145.8       31,566.1       27,351.1     743,191.6   5.8    43,267.2
648,108.3     12,277,424.1      590,137.6     603,346.4   14,119,016.4   5.9   827,217.0
Taxes                          94,320.3      1,890,691.0        87,525.8     107,592.5    2,180,129.6   6.3    137,055.6
Foreign Exchange              287,298.6      6,833,658.5       187,559.2     259,789.5    7,568,305.8   6.5   493,109.7



Annex 4
Moldova: Social Protection Management Project
Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Project costs are expected to include (I) direct costs of US$11.1 million to be repaid to IDA, and (2) costs by
the Government paid in various forms of US$0.9 million (See Annex 3 for cost breakdown).
Project economic benefits. The economic benefits that the project will help to generate can be categorized as
the fiscal savings from the pension reform to be realized through the support of the project, the savings to be
achieved directly from the project investment, and externalities generated by the project activities which are not
quantifiable. It is important to recognize that the main element of the reform requires that individuals' pension
benefit be calculated based on his/her lifetime contribution record. The current administration and information
technology system cannot perform such functions. The no-project scenario is therefore the no-reform scenario.
Fiscal savings will be reflected in lower pension expenditure and higher social tax revenue.
Savings on pension expenditure will be the direct outcome of the reformed pension policies, such as increasing
retirement age, strengthened length of service requirement, andi the elimination of many privileges. Stopping the
practice of payment in kind will reduce the loss of resources. Currently 20% of the value of the in-kind
contributions and payments is charged by the intermediary that handles this process. In 1998, 495 million lei of
contributions and payments was made in kind, not including the settlement of 1996 and 1997 arrears.
Higher revenues will be the outcome of both policy changes and the project. Later retirement would imply more
contributors and higher social tax revenue. Reformed pension policy strengthens the linkage between
individual's pension benefit and contributions paid. That will provide incentives for individuals to participate in
the system and make contributions. The project, on the other hand, will keep individual contributors better
informed by providing them with periodic statement. That would allow them to better monitor the contributions
made by their employers on their behalf. More importantly, the new administration supported by the project will
allow the tax authority to access personal social tax record and obtain information on non-payers. This will
enable the tax inspectors to pursue more active collection enforcement and increase compliance. The potential
increase of collection rate will be significant. A 1% growth of collection rate would have led to an increase in
social tax revenue of above 9.5 million Lei in 1998 alone.
The following table summarizes the financial projection results updated from the initial analysis of pension
reform policy conducted in mid 1998. It indicates the differences in terms of aggregate social tax revenues and
pension expenditures between two project scenarios and the no-project scenario over the project period. The
figures are in 1997 Lei.
Project option I refers to the scenario where all reform policy measures are adopted, however, no major
improvement in collection will be achieved. This is the case where project activities are limited to the
development of the administrative system, without explicit efforts made to assist the tax authority to make
better use of enforcement techniques. The IT system will not be designed to accommodate the transfer of data
back to tax authority to provide them with information on non-payers. Project option 2 is the scenario where all
reform policy measures are adopted and there is significant improvement in social tax collection. It would be
the case of full investment in a client oriented social insurance organization with effective IT and accounting
system, and support provided to.the Tax Inspectorate. Detailed assumptions used in the analysis are given in the
financial projection summary table in the project file.



Fiscal Impact of Alternative Project Options Comparing with the No-Project Scenario
(2000-2004, Net present value in 1997 Lei, million)
Increased Revenue       Reduced           Total Fiscal
Collection        Expenditure           Savings
Project option 1                   406                 393                799
Project option 2                   785                 393                1180
Although these estimates were based on realistic assumptions, they have to be taken with extreme caution and
several things need to be pointed out regarding this projection result. First, despite the tremendous savings the
reform generates comparing with the no-reform scenario, the pension system will be in very difficult financial
position over the next five years. Even in the case of high social tax collection, the system will remain in deficit
until 2003. Second, the estimation is based on long term financial projection using the PROST model. This
projection tool is designed to evaluate the impact of various policy options in the long run. Detailed data and
policy measures that are essential for analyzing short term budgetary situation have not been available or
modeled. Therefore, one should be cautious in interpreting these results.
Administrative savings.  Measuring administrative savings would be difficult as one compares the
administrative cost of two systems that deliver very different outputs. In the no-reform scenario, it will be
virtually impossible to maintain individual record. Any attempts to do so would imply huge staffing
requirement in order to manually process information. The error rate would also be very high. The
administration will be overwhelmed with massive information and cannot deliver pensions as the law requires.
In addition to make the implementation possible, the project will bring savings in administration in the
following areas: (i) reduced processing time for recording, calculating, and paying pensions; (ii) resources
needed to ensure low error rate; and (iii) savings due to strengthened accounting practice and internal control.
Externalities. This project aims to build capacity of the MLSPF. It will enable the MLSPF to better analyze and
monitor social protection policies. It will also assist the MLSPF to better communicate with the public
regarding their rights and responsibilities. Finally, it should provide higher quality services and save the time
spent by the clients.
The project team considered the alternative project designs where the policy and communication components
are omitted. While it is very difficult to quantify the economic benefits of these activities, it is clear from
experience that without a strong policy unit to analyze and monitor policies, pension reform measures may be
reversed over time and financial sustainability of the system would be undermined. Overlooking the need to
inform the public would not only imply the loss of revenues as a result of weaker monitoring, but can also
jeopardize the long term support for the reform.



Annex 5
Moldova: Social Protection Management Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending June 30
(US$ - including contingencies and taxes)
Implementation Period
2000        2001         2002        2003          2004          Total
Project Costs
Investment Costs             285,039.2   4,431,690.6  5,771,849.9  2,161,923.1   593,854.7   13,244,357.5
Recurrent Costs               28,827.8    225,384.1    :365,014.1    218,431.8    37,001.1     874,658.9
subtotal                  313,866.9  4,657,074.7   6,136,864.0   2,380,354.9  630,855.8   14,119,016.4
Financing Sources (% of total
project costs)
IBRD/IDA                    78%         78%          78%          78%          78%           78%
Government                  22%         22%          22%          22%          22%           22%
subtotal
Total                      100%       100%       101%         100%         100%          100%



Annex 6
Moldova: Social Protection Management Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
1. Procurement Management
The newly established Project Coordination Unit (PCU within the Ministry of Labor, Social Protection
and Family (MLSPF) will be responsible for project-related procurement.  The PCU  Director,
Procurement Officer and other staff have little practical experience in international procurement and are
unfamiliar with IDA procurement guidelines. The Appraisal mission conducted a Procurement Capacity
Assessment of the implementing agency. On the basis of its findings, the project has been rated under the
category of high risk insofar as the capacity of the implementing agency to conduct and manage
procurement activities effectively is concerned. In order to address this constraint, the services of an
internationally recruited procurement specialist (package with the services of a project management and
financial management consultant) will be contracted full time during the first 2 years of implementation,
subject to further extension as needed. A Project Launch Workshop is scheduled for October 1999, or as
soon as the experts are in place.
The Procurement Expert would help PCU establish procurement procedures, plan/organize procurement
activities, prepare bid documents, assist in bid evaluation, conduct procurement workshops for other
Ministry staff involved in the project, and establish PCU's procurement records and reporting system.
The PCU will implement all project-related procurement, except for the contracting of small-scale works
which may be carried out by MLSPF local offices under PCU supervision and with guidance from the
Procurement Expert to ensure that procurement is in accordance with agreed procedures. Procurement
activity is expected to be slow during the first year of project implementation, and this would be reflected
in limited disbursements during this period.
The procurement methods and arrangements applicable to the various project expenditure categories are
summarized in Table 6A, and described in more detail in the Project Operational Manual. The World
Bank Procurement Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, published by the
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999
(Procurement Guidelines), and Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers,
(Consultant Guidelines) published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and
January 1999, would apply in awarding contracts presented for IDA financing. The Bank's Standard
Bidding Documents (SBD for goods and works) as well as standard Requests for Proposals (RFP) for
consultant services would be adapted to suit the Project needs in procurement. The Bank's Regional
SBDs will serve as the applicable documentation models for the minor procurement under the Project. A
General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be published in the United Nations Development Business in
June 1999. The GPN will be updated annually for all outstanding procurement.
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to IDA for its review and approval, in accordance with
the provisions of Appendix I to the Procurement Guidelines. A tentative Procurement Plan outlining the
packaging of contracts, procurement procedures used, and timetable of key steps in the procurement
process, is shown in Table 6B. The Procurement Plan would be updated annually to reflect any changes
in the scheduling which could significantly affect the timely and successful implementation of the Project.
The annual Procurement Plan would be agreed with IDA prior to its implementation. The proposed
procurement arrangements for the project are described in the following paragraphs.
Procurement of Minor Works: The project will finance simple refurbishing of existing MLSPF offices
including the Central Office and about 55 geographically scattered local Social Protection offices, in
order to improve the working environment for staff and appropriately accommodate the computer and
office equipment brought in under the project. These refurbishment works are estimated to cost about: (i)



$150,000 for the central MLSPF office; (ii) about $6,000 to $7,800 per local office (aggregate
US$585,000 equivalent including contingencies). Packaging these scattered works into larger contracts is
not feasible, and in any case, would not be large enough to attract foreign works contractors. The larger
works contract (for Central MLSPF) would be procured through National Competitive Bidding in
accordance with the Procurement Guidelines. Small works contracts (less than US$50,000 per contract
up to an aggregate $585,000) may be awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation from the PCU. All works contracts would be
awarded as lump-sum fixed-price contracts. The Bank's Regional SBD for minor works will be adapted
for this procurement. The Invitation to Bid will include a description of the scope of works accompanied
as appropriate by drawings and basic technical specifications, specify the required completion date, and
include a basic form of agreement acceptable to IDA. The award shall be made to the responsive offer
from a qualified contractor which offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and is able to
demonstrate having the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Procurement of Goods: The total estimated cost of goods procured under the project is about US$8.9
million including contingencies and taxes. These goods consist of information technology hardware and
software, office equipment and furniture, informational materials as well as consumables for PCU and
implementing unit operations and for carrying out in-country training programs.  The applicable
procurement procedures are the following:
(a)     International Competitive Bidding (ICB). To the extent feasible, goods contracts would
be grouped into homogenous bid packages large enough to attract wide competition among a large
number of international suppliers and to achieve economy of scale All goods contracts estimated at
more than US$100,000 per package would be procured using ICB procedures as provided for in the
Procurement Guidelines, and use the Bank's SBDs and Standard Bid Evaluation Form for Goods
and Works. The procurement of the information technology (IT) package (hardware and software)
for the MLSPF management information system would be a two-stage bidding procedure
conducted through ICB. The aggregate value of procurement through ICB is estimated at about
US$8 million equivalent. Since there are no domestic manufacturers of the types of goods to be
procured through ICB, the preferential margin in ICB bid evaluation is not applicable.
(b)     International Slhopping (IS): Readily available off-the-shelf goods of small value and
standard specifications, which are estimated at less than US$100,000 per package may be procured
through IS procedures. To assure competitive prices, IS shall solicit quotations from at least three
(3) suppliers from two different eligible source countries as defined in the Procurement Guidelines.
The evaluation of quotations will follow sound public or private sector practices. The aggregate
value of contracts awarded through IS procedure is estimated at about US$530,000 million
equivalent.
(c)     National Shopping (NS): Procurement of readily available off-the-shelf goods which are
ordinarily available in Moldova, and which are estimated at less than US$25,000 per contract may
be procured through NS on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three (3) qualified
domestic suppliers. Such goods (aggregate US$325,000 equivalent) include (i) consumable
supplies and materials needed by PCU and implementing units for executing project-related tasks;
and (ii) informational materials for in-country training and public information promotion programs.
Consultant Services and Training:   The total estimrated cost of consultant services and training is
about $3.6 million equivalent. Consultant contracts will be packaged to combine related skills and
specialist services including staff training and capacity building in the related fields. This would make
the packages more attractive to service providers, widen competition, and reduce the number of
consultant contracts managed by the MLSPF/PCU. About 90 percent of the aggregate value of consultant
contracts are expected to be awarded to consultant firrns. Some consultant services (10 percent of the
aggregate cost) for unrelated fields and local contractual expertise for the PCU, would be more suitable
for individual specialists. All consultant services would be contracted in accordance with the provisions



of the IDA Consultant Guidelines (revised January 1999). IDA's standard RFP documents (July 1997,
revised April 1998) as well as its standard Evaluation Form (date) for Consultant Services will be adapted
for Project use. Table 6C below, summarizes the procurement arrangements for consultant services. The
following paragraphs describe the procurement methods for consultant services and training:
(a)     Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) This procedure will be used for the award of
75 percent of all consultant services and capacity building contracts estimated at about $2.68
million equivalent, in the aggregate. Specifically, the contract for procurement, project and
financial management assistance to the PCU would be packaged such that the services would
initially cover one year, subject to further extensions to meet the project demands and to the
satisfactory performance of the consultant.
(b)     Least-Cost Selection (LCS). This procedure will be used to procure two Audit contracts:
(i) annual audit of the Special Account and project expenditures (aggregate US$100,000); and (ii)
audit of the Social Fund (aggregate US$220,000). The contracts would each span a five-year
period, initially awarded for a one year period, with subsequent extensions subject to the
satisfactory performance of the auditors.
(c)     Individual Consultants (IC). Services of individual consultants are deemed to be more
effective for: (i) organizing local training programs, monitoring, evaluation and preparing social
reports; (ii) local public relations specialist to advise the MLSPF Communications Unit; (iii)
recruiting local expertise for fixed-term assignments to staff the PCU; and (iv) other short-term
project-related tasks requiring local expertise. Individual consultants would be contracted on the
basis of their Qualifications for the assignment in accordance with the provisions of Section V of
the Consultant Guidelines. The aggregate cost of these services is estimated at US$505,000
equivalent.
(d)     Consultants Qualiflcations (CQ). Training activities conducted in-country for MLSPF
employees as well as study tours abroad (aggregate cost US$165,000), would be realized though an
identification of suitable training institutions and programs and review by IDA of annual training
plans under the project. The training institutions (local and abroad) would be selected on the basis
of the CQ procedures described in the IDA Consultant Guidelines.
Review by IDA of procurement decisions
Prior Review. Prior IDA review would be required before final decisions on contract awards are taken
on IDA-financed items for the types of procurement action described below. Prior review for works and
goods contracts would be conducted in accordance with the provisions described in Appendix I of the
Procurement Guidelines, and those described under Appendix I of the Consultant Guidelines for
consultant services and training contracts.
(a) Works:    prior review of the bidding documents, scope of works, bid opening minutes, bid
evaluation report, recommendation for award, as well as a draft contract for the:
(i)    first three Minor Works contracts; and
(ii)   the first works contract awarded through NCB.
(b) Goods:    prior review of the bidding documents (including Invitation to Bid, Instructions
to Bidders, General and Special Conditions of Contract, bid proposal forms and detailed price
schedules, Schedule of Requirements, Technical Specifications), bid opening minutes, Bid
Evaluation Report, recommendation for award, and draft contract for:
(i)    all goods contracts awarded through ICB;
(ii)   the first goods contract awarded through IS;



(iii)  the first three goods contracts aLwarded through NS; and
(c) Consultant services and training: prior review of Terms of Reference (TOR), Letter of
Invitation, Request for Proposals, consultant short lists, terms and conditions of contract,
evaluation reports, recommendation for award and draft contract for the:
(i)    all contracts with consultant firms of US$50,000 and above;
(ii)   all contracts with individual consultants of US$25,000 and above;
(iii)  the proposed annual spending program and qualifications of institutions selected
for local and foreign training; and
(iv)   TORs and shortlists only for subsequent consultant contracts with firms (of less
than US$50,000 per contract), and individual consultants (of less than
US$25,000 per contract);
(d) Contract Amendments: all modifications of works, goods, and services contracts that would
in the aggregate, increase the original amount of the contract by more than fifteen (15%) percent.
Post Review. All other contracts will be subject to post review either carried out by IDA supervision
missions, or as IDA may request. Post review will be conducted in accordance with the provisions of
Appendix 1, para 4 of the Procurement Guidelines for goods and works, and the Consultant Guidelines
for services and training. Table 6D summarizes applicable procurement methods and prior review
requirements. Table 6E contains additional information on procurement.
2. Disbursements
It is expected that the proceeds of the Credit will be disbursed over a period of five years, with a period of
four months after the closing date for completion of accounts and submission of withdrawal applications.
The Project Completion Date is estimated to be September 30, 2004. The Closing Date is estimated
to be March 31, 2005. The allocation of credit proceeds is shown in Table 6F.
Accounting and Financial Management
While, the PCU staff have not yet been formally appointed, during appraisal, a Bank-accredited FMS was
able to meet with the Accountant designated for the position of PCU Accountant and concluded that the
candidate was competent, had the required qualifications and experience for the tasks involved. As for
the Ministry itself, the candidate is new to the Association's procedures for disbursements, operation of
Special and Project Accounts, annual audits and current reporting requirements (not to mention the PMR-
based, disbursements under LACI).  Hence, considerable efforts (by the Ministry as well as the
Association), to train and introduce the candidate to the Association's procedures and requirements and
provide the necessary assistance will be critical for the candidate to become fully operational and to
establish adequate accounting and financial management procedures for the Project. A more detailed
action plan to achieve this is stated in Table 6G.
The mission also provided the candidate the relevant basic documents, discussed, in some detail,
withdrawal procedures (including SOEs), the operation of the Special Account and Project accounts, the
minimum records of payments and receipts to be maintained and periodic reporting to the Association.
These have been well understood and with the help of in-house computer expertise, the PCU should be
able to able to design an adequate accounting system for the initial stages of project operations.
Under the present context, it would not be realistic to expect the project to commence PMR-based
disbursements immediately. It is thus proposed that the Project will commence disbursements under the
traditional method (i.e. establishment of a Special Account and periodic replenishments through SOEs ).
As part of the initial procedures however, it has been agreed that the PCU will submit each quarter, two or
three financial statements required under the LACI, PMRs (essentially, the Sources & Uses of Funds,



Uses of Funds by Project Components and possibly Cash Forecasts). These will be modified and
enhanced as part of the process and an ongoing dialogue with the Bank FMS in this regard. As indicated
in the action plan, it is foreseen that the Project should aim to generate the full set of PMRs and switch to
LACI mode of disbursements latest, by 18 months after Board presentation.
Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs):
Some of the proceeds of the Credit are expected to be disbursed on the basis of Statement of Expenditures
(SOEs) as follows: (a) all contracts for works with the exception of: (i) the first contract for works to be
procured on the basis of national competitive bidding procedures; and (ii) the first three contracts for
works to be procured on the basis of small works procedures for which withdrawals may be made on this
basis of statements of expenditures only after they have been reviewed by the Association; (b) all
contracts for goods costing less than $100,000 equivalent each with the exception of: (i) the first contract
for goods to be procured on the basis of international shopping procedures; and (ii) the first three
contracts for goods to be procured on the basis of national shopping procedures, for which contracts
withdrawals may be made on the basis of statements of expenditures only after they have been reviewed
by the Association; (c) contracts for training and study tours costing less than $10,000 equivalent each;
(d) operating costs of the PCU; and (e) services under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent each
for consulting firms; and (f) services under contracts costing less than $25,000 equivalent each for
individual consultants.
Disbursements against goods and services exceeding the above limits will be made against full
documentation and respective procurement guidelines. SOEs will be certified by the PCU. Related
documentation in support of SOEs will not be submitted to the Association, but will be retained by the
PCU for at least one year, after receipt by the Association of the audit report for the year in which the last
disbursement is made. This documentation will be made available for review by the auditors and
supervision missions. If ineligible expenditures, included those not justified by the evidence furnished, or
amounts in excess of agreed disbursement percentages are financed from the Special Accounts (SA), the
Association will have the right to withhold further deposits in the SA. The Association may exercise this
right until the Borrower has: (a) refunded the amounts involved, or (b) (if the Association agrees)
submitted evidence of other eligible expenditures that the Association can use to offset the ineligible
amounts.
Special Account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower will establish, maintain and operate, under
conditions acceptable to the Association, a Special Account in US dollars in a commercial bank,
acceptable to the Association. During the early stage of the project, the initial aggregate authorized
allocation of the Special Account will be limited to US$200,000. However, when the aggregate
disbursements under the credit have reached the equivalent of US$1.0 million, the initial allocation may
be increased up to an authorized allocation of US$0.5 million by submitting the relevant Application for
Withdrawal. The minimum amount of each application submitted outside the Special Account for direct
payments and for issuance of special commitments should be 20 percent of the authorized amount
allocated in the special account. Withdrawal applications for the replenishment of the Special Account
should be sent to the Association on a monthly basis, or when the balance of the SA is equal to about half
of the initial deposit or the authorized allocation, whichever comes first. The SA would be audited
annually by independent auditors and the audit report would be submitted to the Association for review
and approval within six months of the end of the fiscal year.
Project Account:
A Project Account would be established as a condition of Effectiveness for the deposit of the first year's
cash portion of the Government's contribution (refer to Annex 3 for a detailed description of those costs).



This would be equivalent to US$50,000, and represents about 20% of the 1999/2000 government
contribution.



Table 6A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(LIS$)
Procurement Method
International    National
Competitive   Competitive                          Consulting
Bidding         Bidding          Other            Services          N.B.F.            Total
A. Refurbishing/Construction                        -     148,562.5        581,684.7 a/               -                -        730,247.2
(123.802.1)    (484,737.3)                                           (608,539.4)
B. Equipment and Materials
1. Information Technology             7,998,920.0                 -     233,737.8 b/                -               -       8,232,657.9
(6,733,091.2)                    (195,679.4)                                         (6,874,044.2)
2. Office & Other Equipment                       -               -     343,132.6 ci                -                -        343,132.6
(285.943.9)                                          (285,943.9)
3. Furniture                                      -               -       24,507.7 dl               -                -         24,507.7
(20,423.1)                                           (20,423.1)
4. Informational Materials                        -               -      208,828.0 el               -        17,357.1 k/      226,185.0
(174,023.3)                                          (174,023.3)
5. Consumables                                    -               -       42,103.6 f/               -                -         42,103.6
(35,781.4)                                           (35,781.4)
C. Technical Assistance
1. Consultant Services
Consultant Firms                                -               -               -     2,995,848.8 g/              -       2,995,848.8
(2,497,666.7)                      (2,497,666.7)
Individual Consultants                          -               -               -        502,887.2 h/             -         502,887.2
(412,064.7)                        (412,064.7)
2. Training Programs
Local Training                                  -               -               -        123,966.9 i/              -        123,966.9
(103,305.8)                        (103,305.8)
Training Abroad                                 -               -               -         40,177.5 j/              -         40,177.5
(33,481.3)                         (33,481.3)
D. PCU operating expenses                           -               -               -                 -
E. Operational Costs
1. Incremental Local Staff Salaries               -               -               -                 -      668,773.8 kl       668,773.8
2. Non-Salary Operating Costs                     -               -               -                 -      188,528.0 k/       188,528.0
Total                                    7,998,920.0       148,562.5    1,433,994.4        3,662,880.5        874,658.9       14,119,016.4
(6,733.091.2)   (123,802.1)  (1,196,588.3)    (3,046,518.4)                    -   (11,100,000.0)
Notes: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by International Development Association
N.B.F. = Non-Bank financed procurement
a/ Minor works contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least 3 qualified local contractors.
b/Includes 3 International Shopping contracts
c/Includes International shopping ($315,000 aggregate) and National Shopping ($27,000 aggregate).
d/ Office furniture procured through National Shopping.
el National Shopping for materials used in local training and promotional programs.
f/ Miscellaneous consumable and office supplies for PCU and MLSPF use, procured through National Shopping.
g/Includes procurement of consultant services through QCBS procedures ($2.68 million) and Least Cost Selection for audit services ($320,000 aggregate).
h/ Individual consultants selected on basis of qualifications for the assignment.
i/ Local training institutions selected on qualifications and adequacy of training programs, and subject to IDA approval of annual training budget.
j/ Foreign training institutions for study tours selected on qualifications and adequacy of training programs, subject ot IDA approval of annual training budget.
k/ Financed by Government



Table 6B: Procurment Plan
Date of GPN/ RFPs/Bidding
Number of  Estimated    Procurement    Specific               Docs.        Issuance of    Submission of                 Contract   Completion
Description                                   packages   cost (US$)        Method          Notice        Prepared        RFPs/Bids    Proposals/Bids Evaluation  Signature   of Contract
A. Refurbishing/Construction                     50     581,685          Minor Works 6/30/1999, 9/9  1/00-2001        2/00-2001        4/00-2001        6/00-2001  7/00-2001    6/30/01
I     148,562             NCB        6/30/1999, 9/9 1/00-2001     2/00-2001         4/00-2001       6/00-2001  7/00-2001    6/30/01
B. Equipment and Materials
1. Information Technology                    I      7,998,920           ICB       6/30/1999, 4/0 6/1/00          7/1/00           9/1/00           11/1/00     I/1/01        1/1/02
3     233,737              IS        6/30/00        9/30/00         10/30/00         12/30/00         1/30/01     2/28/01       12/31/01
2. Office & Other Equipment                  4      315,662              IS       6/30/99         9/99-2004      10/99-2004        12/99-2004       1/00-2004  2/00-2004    6/00-2004
2     27,471               NS        6/30/99        9/99-2004       10/99-2004       12/99-2004       1/00-2004  2/00-2004    6/00-2004
3. Furniture                                 4      24,507               NS       6/30/99         9/99-2004      10/99-2004        12/99-2004       1/00-2004  2/00-2004    6/00-2004
4. Informational Materials                   8      208,828              NS       6/30/99         9/99-2004      10/99-2004        12/99-2004       1/00-2004  2/00-2004    6/00-2004
N/A    17,357               NBF       N/A
5. Consumables                              N/A    42,103                NS       6/30/99         9/99-2004      10/99-2004        12/99-2004       1/00-2004  2/00-2004    6/00-2004
C. Technical Assistance
1. Consultant Services
Consultant Firms                        9     2,675,848           QCBS       6/30/99        10/99-2003      11 /99-2003      1(00-2003        2/00-2003  2/00-2003    2/2002-2003
2*     320,003              LC       6/30/99         10/99-2003     11/99-2003        12/99-2003       1/00-2003  1/00-2003    6/00-2003
Individual Consultants**               10     502,887              IC        6/30/99        9/99-2004       10/99-2004       11/99-2004       12/99-2004 1/00-2004    1/00-2004
2. Training Programs"*'
Local Training                         15     123,967              CQ        6/30/99        9/99-2004       10/99-2004       11/99-2004       12/99-2004 1/00-2004    7/00-2004
Training Abroad                         4     40,178               CQ        6/30/99        3/00-2004       4/00-2004        5/00-2004        6/00-2004  7/00-2004    2/2001-2004
D. Operational Costs
1. Incremental Local Staff Salaries         N/A    668,774              NBF                                                         N/A
2. Non-Salary Operating Costs               N/A    188,528              NBF                                                         N/A
114,119,016    _
ICB1l3ternational Competitive Bidding, NCB=National Competitive Bidding, IS=lntemational Shopping, NS=National Shopping, QCBS=Quality and Cost Based Selection, LC=Least Cost Selection, tC=lndividual Consultants
NBF=Non-Bank Financed, N/A=Not Applicaple, in the case of number of contracts under NS, consumables would have many small contracts.
* I contract valued at $100,000 for the project audit covering 4 years; I contract for the audit of the Social Fund, valued at $220,000 covering 5 years. Contracts may be split into smaller contracts.
*F Includes PCU staff selected on the basis of a review of CVs acceptable to the Association.
Annual training program approved by IDA.



Table 6C: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method                         Total Cost
Consultant Services                                                                 (including
Expenditure Category                                                               contingencies)
QCBS      QBS        SFB       LCS       CQ        IC*
A. Firms                   2.68                           .32                            3.0
(2.27)                        (0.27)                          (2.54)
B. Individuals                                                                .5          .5
(.4)        (.4)
C. Training Institutions                                            .16                   .16
(.13)                 (.13)
Total    2.68                            .32      .16       .5          3.66
(2.27)                        (0.27)    (.13)      (.4)       (3.07)
Note:
QCBS  = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS   = Quality-based Selection
SFB    = Selection under a Fixed Budge
LCS   = Least-Cost Selection
CQ     = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
IC*    = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial Practices, etc.
- includes individual consultants, and PCU contractual staff.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit.



Table 6D: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure         Contract Value          Procurement        Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)              Method             Prior Review /
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior Review
US $ thousands                               US $ thousand
1. Works
$585            Minor Civil Works           $20
(below $25)          (Ist 3 contracts)
$150            NCB                        $150
(above $25)          (1I" contract)
2. Goods
$8,000            ICB                       $8,000
(above $100)          (all)
$530            International Shopping     $100
(below $100)          (1" contract)
$325            National Shopping           $50
(below $25)          (ISt 3 contracts)
3. Services              $2,680            QCBS                      $2,680
(above $50)
$320            Least Cost (Audits)        $320
($300)
$505            Individual Consultants     $505
(above $25)
$11,825
Total



Table 6E: Procurement Information
Section 1: Procurement Review
Procurement of Goods    ICB            NCB                      is STNS                             Other Methods
& Works
1. Procurement method   >100,000        ->US$25,000 (works)    <US$1 00,000    <US$25,000
thresholds                                                                      (goods);
<US$50,000
(works)
2. Prior Review        All              -First contract         First contract  First three
Procurement of              QBS                QCBS                  CQ             Least Cost      Individual
Consultant Services
1. Procurement method                  >none                                    none                <US$25,000
thresholds
2. Prior Review                         All contracts US$50,000   All contracts  All contracts      All contracts above
and above; TORs/        US$50,000 and   US$50,000 and       $25,000, and TORs/
Shortlists of all contracts  above; TORs/    above; TORs/   shortlists below.
below.                  Shortlists of all   Shortlists of all
contracts below.  contracts below
3. Ex-post Review              _                                 -Training      All                 All other contracts
Section 2. Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance requirements
1. A Procurement Capacity Assessment was conducted at Appraisal. The finding are that the PCU and Procurement Officer have limited
experience in intemational procurement and World Bank procurement procedures. A Procurement Specialist will be recruited to build the
capacity of the PCU in procurement management and implementation. Full time services of a procurement specialist will be contracted during the
first two years of project implementation, and extended as necessary to build procurement capacity in the PCU. Given the lack of procurement
implementation capacity this project is rated as high risk and therefore the thresholds for prior review are below normal.
2. Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country Procurement Strategy Paper status: A new Procurement    3. Are the bidding
Law was passed by Parliament in April 1997 and became effective in February 1998. The Law was drafted with    documents for the
Bank technical assistance. No CPAR has been done to date.                                          procurement actions of the
first year ready by
negotiations:
Aside from TA contracts,
no major bidding is
expected to take place in
the first year. TORs for
most of the main TA
activities reviewed in draft
during appraisal.
Section 3. Training, Information and Development on Procurement
I. Estimated date of Project Launch  2. Estimated date of General       3. Indicate if contracts are subject to  4. Domestic
Workshop:                           Procurement Notice publication: After   mandatory SPN in Development     Preference for
| negotiations (June 30, 1999)        Business: All contracts above       Goods:
October, 1 999               lUS$200,000
none
5. Retroactive financing:  No                    6. Advanced Procurement: None
7. Procurement Monitoring System: PMU to report procurement actions in quarterly progress reports.
Section 4. Procurement Staffing
I. Indicate name of Procurement Staff as part of Project Team            UNIT                             Ext.
Leonardo M. Concepcion                                                ECSHD                            32859
2. Explain briefly the Expected role ofthe Field Office in Procurement: Field Office staffto facilitate and follow up on procurement reporting to
IDA and provide Bank SBDs to PCU.



Table 6F: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category              Amount in US$     Financing Percentage
1. Works                                        550,000       85%
2. Goods                                       6,500,000       100% foreign
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures, (ex-
factory cost) and 80%
of local expenditures for
other items procured
locally
3. Consultant Services, including audits of the  2,600,000     100%
SF and training
4. PCU Operating costs                          175,000        100%
5. Unallocated                                 1,270,000
Total    11,100,000



Table 6G: Action Plan - Financial Management and PMR-based Disbursements
1. The PCU Accountant will be formally appointed, released from her present tasks and be available
full-time for the PCU latest, by June 1, 1999.
2. For immediate training, soonest after appointment, the Accountant will be exposed to other
IDA/IBRD financed projects both in Moldova and with the help of the Association, possibly to other
projects in the Region. As appropriate, the Association will also make arrangements for short visits
by experienced financial staff of IDA/IBRD-financed projects in the Region to visit the Project.
3. Efforts will be made for the Accountant to participate in the first available Disbursement and
Procurement seminars within the Region.
4. Soon after project effectiveness, the Resident Mission, Moldova, will provide the required
assistance for establishment of Special and Project accounts and submissions of initial SOEs and
withdrawal applications for replenishments.
5. With the help of computer expertise within the Ministry, the PCU will establish an accounting
system to record the receipts and payments out of the Project funds adequate to generate the required
summary statements for the Project Monitoring Reports.
6. Within 30 days after the end of the quarter in which project disbursements commence (i.e., by
January 30, 2000 assuming disbursements commence in the last quarter of 1999), PCU will prepare
and submit to IDA, the Project Sources and Uses of Funds, Uses of Funds by Project Components and
Special Account Statement (Reports 1-A, I-B, and l-E of Annex 7 of the Bank's Project Financial
Management Manual of February 1999). In addition to these, the PCU will also attempt to prepare
Reports l-D, I-Fl and l-F2.
7. Upon receipt and review of these reports, the Association will provide comments and additional
guidance to improve and complete the quarterly PMRs. In particular the Association will need to
assist the PCU in formulation of appropriate contents for the Output Monitoring Reports (Reports 2-A
and 2-B of the Manual annex) and in integrating the Procurement Plans for the project in the four
PMRs (Reports 3-A, 3-B, 3-C and 3-D) as part of future PMRs for the project. (Procurement Tables
of the Manual were also discussed, in much detail, with the PCU Procurement officer).
8. At the time of their first visit, the auditors will be required (as part of their TORs), to review the
accounting system initiated, provide an opinion on the accuracy and reliability of the PMRs being
generated and make practical recommendations for further improvements.
9. As the project transactions increase, PCU may consider installing a more sophisticated accounting
software. As appropriate, it will discuss such alternatives with the auditors or obtain other external
technical assistance if this appears necessary.
10. The PCU (and the Association) will aim to have PCU produce quarterly PMRs fully satisfactory
to IDA latest by the end of four quarters after the commencement of project disbursements, by
December 31, 2000, which is consistent with the LACI guidelines of producing a full PMR 18 months
after Board presentation. The Project may, in discussion with the Association, switch to quarterly,
PMR-based disbursements thereafter.



Annex 7
Moldova: Social Protection Management Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                       Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
$179.6                 TBD
B. Project Schedule                              Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      12 months            12 months
First Bank mission (identification)              05/1998              05/1998
Appraisal mission departure                      03/1999            04/06/1999
Negotiations                                   05/24/1999           05/25/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  _9/30/1999           _9/30/1999
Prepared by: Ministry of Labor, Social Protection and Family
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant $500,000; additional co-financing will be sought.
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Specialty
Alan Thompson, ECSHD                       Program Team Leader
Xiaoqing Yu, ECSHD                             Economist
Maribeth Macica, ECSHD                       Operations Analyst
Alexei lonascu, ECSHD                        Project Assistant
Elena Nikulina, ECCO7                          Economist
Mala Johnson, ECSHD                          Team Assistant
Leonardo Concepcion, ECSHD                   Procurement Specialist
Abdul Haji, AFTS2                   Financial Management Specialist
Zoe Kolovu, LEGEC                              Counsel
Marie KhouryJNicholay Chistyakov, LOAEL             Disbursement Officer



Annex 8
Moldova: Social Protection Management Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Draft Project Operational Manual
Project Implementation Plan
Detailed cost tables
Project management agreements
Terms of reference
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Working paper on component I
Working paper on component 3
Working paper on component 4
LACI Assessment
Procurement Capacity Assessment
C. Other
Consultants mission reports (IT, Public Relations)
Pensioner Survey
Moldova pension reform policy notes
Moldova Pension Administration Reform Report (EU TACIS)
*Including electronic files.



Annex 9
Moldova Social Protection Management Project
Statement of Loans and Credits
Difference Betweeni expected
and actual
Original Amouint in US$ Millions                    disbursements a!                   Last PSR
Fiscal                                                                                                                                                                                      Supervision Rating b/
Project ID       Year                   Borrower                                  Purpose
IBRD        IDA            Cancel.         Undisb.         Orig  Frm Rev'd          Dev Obj      Imp Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 4
Active Projects
MD-PE-8561           1996    REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA                     PRIV. SECT. DEV. I                                 35.00           0.00          0.00            10.57          7.93           0.00        S            S
MD-PE-8556           1996    REPU)BLICOFMOLDOVA                      AGRICULTUREI                                       10.00           0.00          0.00             3.01           1.51          0.00        S            S
MD-PE-8555           1996    REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA                     ENERGY                                             10.00           0.00          0.00            4.21            1.41          0.00       U             S
MD-PE-35811          1997    REPUBLICOFMOLDOVA                       PSDII                                   .           0.00           9.00           0.00            8.57          3.31           0.00        S             S
MD-PE-8558           1997    REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA                     GENERAL EDUCATION                                  16.80           5.00          5.00            15.80          4,70           1.10        S            U
MD-PE-44147          1998    REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA                     SAL 11                                             55.00          45.00          0.00           65.22          35.00           0.00       U             S
MD-PE-35781          1998    GOVERNMENT OF MOLDOVA                   RURAL FINANCE                                       0.00           5.00          0.00            3.45            -.28          0.00        S            S
MD-PE-35771          1998    REPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA                     FIRSTCADASTRE                                       0.00          15.90          0.00           15.66           2.39           0.00        S            S
MD-PE-44840          1999    GOVERNMENT OF MOLDOVA                   SOCIALINV. FUND                                     0.00          15.00          0.00           14.85           0.00           0.00
Total                                                                                                                  126.80          94.90           5.00         141.34          55.97           1.10
Active Projects        Closed Projects              Total
Total Disbnrsed (IBRD and IDA):                              72.93                   45.82                  218.75
of which has been repaid:                                 0.00                    2.16                     2.16
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                            216.70                   143.67                  360.37
Amount sold           :                                       0.00                    0.00                    0.00
Of which repaid                                             0.00                    0.00                     0.00
Total Undisbursed                                           141.34                    0.00                  141.34
a.  Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b.  Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio Performance (ARPP), a letter based systein was introduced (HS = highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, UJ  unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed
Improvements in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.



Moldova at a glance                                                                   12V99
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Central      Low-
Moldova        Asia  income          Development diamond
1997
Population. mid-year (  <n%exr/                          3.6       476      2.048                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Adarmnho  tw;                           540      2,320       350
GNP /Aelacme4od ZL4tk*xit                                1.9      1,106      722
Average annual growth. 1993-97
Population 14                                            -0.1       0.2       2.1
Labor force (4                                          -11.1       0.5       2.3      GNP                               Gross
per                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest gear available. 1993-97)                                  capita                        enrollment
Poverty                                                  19c' a eak tp w e/  18
Urban population 57CceV'cWWSfMb??                        53         87         28
Life expectancy at birth (ox'rs/                         67         88         59
Infant mortality (pn CtV7iieM'                           20         25         78
Child malnutrition (dteese'5?                                   ..             ..                Access to safe water
Access to safe water (;                                  62          ..        71
Illiteracy        f a  04                  ..                         ..       47
Gross primary enrollment   9sca  pc ?CMkb                96         82         81                  Aswe
Male                                                    $6                  100              -
Female                                                  95         ..        81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986       1996      1997
Economic Fatios'
GDP f$A       tr                                ..        ..        1.7       1.8
Gross domestic investmenttGDP                   ..        ..       24.4      24.2
Exports of goods and servicesiGOP                ..       ..       56.2      52.6                      Trade
Gaross domestic savingslGDP                     ..        ..        5.6       0.3
Gross national savingslGDP                       ..       ..       11.7       7.8
Current account balancetGDP                      ..       ..      -12.6     -16.5
Interest paymentslGOP                            ..       ..        1.4       2.0      Domestic                     investment
Total debtlGDP                                   ..       ..       50.8      57.6      Savings            f
Total debt servicelexports                      ..        ..        5.5       11.8
Present walue of debt/GDP                        ..       ..       45.0
Present value of debtlesports                    ..       ..       76.3
Indebtedness
1376-86 1987-97       1396       1997  1998-02
g-_pe -.is*cwhj
GDP                                    ..    -14.1      -7.8       -1.3      -0.2               -   A st
GNP per capita                        2.5     -11.7     -8.4       -2.5      -0.2
Exports of goods and services           ..     6.4       15.1       11.1      2.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986       1996      1997        Growth rates of output and investmen
Agriculture                                      ..       ..       30.5      31.4      10 
Industry                                        ..        ..       32.4      34.9       50 -
Manufacturing                                   ..2.0                       27.8
Services                                         ..       ..       37.1      33.7                    93 96                  97
Private consumption                             ..        ..       67.2      73.6     -
General government consumption                   ..       ..       27.1       28.1
Imports of goods and services                    ..       ..       75.0      76.5                       GO       o  GDP
1976-86 1987-97        1996       1997       Growth rates of exports and imports I
Agriculture                                     ..    -7.8        -11.9      10.7    40 -
Industry                                         ..    -12.3       -6.5      -7.0     20
Manufacturing                                   .         ..
Services                                                -19.1      -4.7      -21.1            92       f94   ss   96   97
Private consumption                              ..    10.4         5.8      12.3     -4
General government consumption                   ..     -0.1       -4.1      -2.8
Gross domestic investment                        ..    -22.1       -8.6       -2.1    -60
Imports of goods and services                    ..      11.2      30.3       21.3             -     Exports   ---- Importn
Gross national product                         3.4    -14.5        -8.5      -2.7
Note: 19S7 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four keq indicators in the countrq fin boldl compared with its income-qroup averaqe. If data are missinq, the diamond will
be incomDiete.



Moldova
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986        1996      1997       Inflation (XJ
1.00Oa
Consumer prices                                  ..       ..       23.5      11.8      0<>
Implicit GOP deflator                            ..       ..       28.2      14.5      6     J
400 /
IRobexAe,'ai   hbaizc                                 200 
; gacv.zz  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~zo   ,        
Current revenue                                                    36.5      39.S               S2   93   94   is   96   97
Current budget balance                                             -7.       -7.3                   GDP deflator    o  CPI
Overall surplusideficit                                            -7.6     -10.2               -
TRADE
1976    1986        1996      1997       Expoirt and import levels (USS
Total exports (fob)                                                822        851     1,400
Commodity 1                                                        75        75      1o200
Commodity 2                                                        86        110    1.000 .
Manufactures                                                      103        59      soo.
Total imports (cif)                                               1.056     1.235      64o .
Food                                                               50    85   400F i  FVnElIIrf
Fuel and energy                                                   316       337       2O0 ,    _ _
Capital goods                                                      0        13 
Export price index /XAF?j                        ..       ..        S8        33             91  02   93  i4   05   96   97
Import price index 6,F=?                         ..       ..        98        S3                a Expom;       a Importu
Terms of trade (K=A7A                            ..        .        100       100
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976    19Se        1S99      1997      GCurrent account balance to GOP ratio
Exports of goods and servioes                    ..       ..       936       983       0
Imports of goods and servioes                    ..       ..      1.248     1.430      -    2- 01     03   04   05   01
Resource balance                                 ..       ..       -312      447       -4-
Net income                                       ..       ..       -40        -62      6                                   H
Net current transfers                            ..       ..       143       200      10
Current account balance                          ..       ..      -203      -309      12
Financing items (net)                            .         ..      242       353      16 ,
Changes in net reserves                          ..       ..       -33       -50      1 -
Reserves including gold fl&5$mgs.                          .        315      366
Conversion rate IZL7Y ~k-X&                      ..        ..       4.6       4.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     190S       1996      1997
gM;$fmv-/                                                                             Composition of total debt. 1997 (US$
Total debt outstanding and disbursed             0        0        844      1.078
IBRD                                           0         0        142       135                        G: 21  A: 135
IDA                                            0         0          0        35
Total debt service                               0         0        54        125         F: 273                       :35
IBRO                                           0         0         10         9
IDA                                            0         0          0         0
Composition of net resource flows                                                                                        C: 233
Official grants                                0         0         10
- Official creditors                              0        0         74        48
Private creditors                              0         0         63       136
Foreign direct investment                      ..                  ..        ..            E: 230
Portfolio equity                                        -..        ..        .. -:13
World Bank program
Commitments                                    0         0         55       131     A - IBRD                       E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                  0         0          0        40     B - IDA    D- Othor multilottral   F - Privztc
Principal repayments                           0         0          0         0      C -IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                      0         0          0        40     ___
Interest payments                              0         0         10         3
Net transfers                                  0         0        -10        31
Development Economics                                                                                                    1127099



MAP SECTION



IBRD 24285R3
28.
Dnes > HtrX  To Nemirov                                     M   O  L D   O V A
MoiIiv-     U K R A I N E
' )'ski X tty  To Yinnitsr              0   SELECTED CITIES
Briceni
X    \4<NATIONAL CAPITAL
C~~~~~< X < \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~RIVERS
-48'                Riscani                                    48'             RPAILROADS
4\orest<                                  l;> ROADS
<; w _9i / Ribnitra  ;_\t 6~ - INITERNAFIONAL
afie   /    --XF<ti   Rezinrr t)/            BOUNDARIES
O\hei                        Th.  b-cgAiL., -o n7
lic~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ lo a)                                           pl,  f. t    fs:
0  R O M A N I A  tX          /            v r   O desa~~~~~~~~baat-  R W- B
(f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- dgWg- - t-t,.                     z.J L
0  tf            /  0   2 ToArfsiz              ToTafarbunar~~~~~~tt. f y  f-i j
X                                                     VulccinesXo 80igrod t ~~~~~~~~Casen  nstov
   )   w      /5     trt,/ainod5cOnhsotT. rBi,i.  1 w           %      0t
0  25 ~~~~~~ 50 ?             -:              =          rgrs@g0}rg6 I~~~~~~~~T A,~i  T
KILOMETERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PRL19



