Report No. PID7257
Project Name                     Moldova-Social Insurance Management...
Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Human Development
Project ID                       MDPE51173
Borrower                         Government of Moldova
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Labor and Social
Protection of the Family
1 Hincestri Street
Chisinau, Moldova
Tel:    72-96-90
Fax:    73-51-81
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           December 22, 1998
Projected Appraisal Date         March 20, 1999
Projected Board Date             June 29, 1999
Country and Sector Background
1. The current social insurance system in Moldova inherited from the pre-
transition era cannot deliver effective social protection due to its poor
policy framework, fragmented institution structure, extremely weak
administrative capacity, as well as the lack of communication with and
understanding of the public about the system. The overall economic
difficulties faced by the country further undermine the sustainability of the
system.
2. Policy Framework. The underlying policies that govern Moldova's current
social insurance system require fundamental reform. The pension system does
not treat people equally in the sense that the benefit one receives does not
depend on his/her contributions. A variety of privileged groups still enjoy
preferential treatment based on either their occupations or their family
status. The heavy hidden redistribution makes the system non-transparent and
unjust, and overall policies are not consistent with the principle of
financial sustainability. There is a lack of financial discipline; the
responsibilities of individuals and the state are not clearly defined. Despite
the high social tax rate, pension finances in Moldova have deteriorated
significantly, leading to long delays in pension payment, placing the system
effectively in bankruptcy. Adding to this, the current social insurance system
is intermixed with various social assistance programs. No careful assessment
has been done to asses the need for, and impact of, social assistance
programs. Social protection policies are in general not formulated based on
adequate economic analysis, and the impact of such policies is not monitored
and evaluated. As a result, little is known about the efficiency and
effectiveness of social insurance policies.
3. Administrative Capacity. The state social insurance system has serious
problems in its organizational structure and capacity. First, the



responsibilities of social tax collection and inspection is unclear. In 1996,
the Tax Inspectorate was given total responsibility for the collection of
social tax revenues. However, the Social Fund continues to exercise its role
in collecting large amounts of contributions in the form of goods and services
leaving the system extremely vulnerable to evasion and abuse. Second, the
management of the pension system is inadequate and inefficient. Accounting
practices are not consistent with international standards, and there are no
internal controls in place to ensure financial integrity. Information
technology is inadequate and lacks the ability to maintain individual
contribution records.
4. There is no long term human resource development strategy and training is
limited to on the job instruction for new staff. The lack of a career
structure makes it difficult for the ministry to recruit qualified staff,
while existing staff are not motivated, and prolonged wage arrears for civil
servants has only worsened the situation. An over involvement in day to day
problems leaves the MLSPF and Social Fund without strong management control,
or strategy.
5. Communications. The level of awareness of the general public about their
rights and responsibilities, and the operation of system is extremely low.
There is a general lack of understanding in the MLSPF of the importance of
information and communication, and as a consequence, lack of a long term plan
to educate and inform the stakeholders. Information provision is done in a
very passive fashion, which further increased the difficulty in promoting
reforms. At every level, there is serious lack of capacity to design,
implement, and evaluate communication programs. No institutional arrangements
are in place, no in-house technical skills are available, and no baseline data
is collected regarding the awareness and perceptions of stakeholders.
6. In sum, today's social insurance system in Moldova cannot deliver the much
needed protection to the elderly in particular, and the poor in general. The
government strategy in commencing the new pension law is the first step
towards a reformed system, but will also place additional demands on an
inadequate administration.
Government Strategy
7. Since independence in 1991 the Government of Moldova has been faced with a
series of short term economic crisis. Revenues to the Social Fund have been
falling and political pressures to maintain and increase pension levels have
continued, while at the same time the number of Moldovans living in poverty is
increasing. In recent years various attempts have been made to re-structure
the pensions and social assistance provisions, but these have either had a
short term focus, or where a longer-term view has been taken it has been
overturned in the short term by either political pressure, or changing
circumstances.
8. In early 1997, with assistance from the Bank and the EU, the MLSPF started
to work on a longer term pension strategy. A strategy paper was produced in
spring 1997, and proposed legislation in October 1997. Unfortunately the
proposed legislation again focused on addressing the short to medium term
problems without producing any structural change or a longer term pension
strategy. Intensive work in the MLSPF, with Bank support, during the early
part of 1998, resulted in a revised long term pension strategy and draft
- 2-



legislation.
9. The new government have declared their intention to re-focus their
attention on longer-term reform policies and one of the first indications of
this was the pension legislation finally approved by Parliament in December
1998. This now forms a clear longer term pension strategy, removing all the
previous privileges and providing a clear link between social contributions
paid and pensions earned. The new pension legislation retains the PAYG
concept with a significantly reduced redistributive element, but provides PAYG
pensions in a way that can be adapted in future into either a notional or
fully funded scheme when the macro economic position would support it.
The Proposed Loan/Credit
10. The basic thrust of the project is to develop the capacity of the MLSPF to
administer the reformed pension strategy. To do this will require a mixture
of new administrative activities, and improvements in current activities. New
administrations will be created to record and make use of personal social
revenue data, and to provide for the revised calculation of pension benefits.
Improvements will be sought in the general administration of pensions covering
the speed and efficiency of the provision of pensions. The project will
support the development of a consistent social protection policy framework
through the creation of a trained Policy Unit within the MLSPF and the
strengthening of the current monitoring and evaluation system; improved
administration, by building capacity in the areas of organizational
development, human resource development, accounting and information systems;
and the strengthening of the MLSPF's capacity to design and implement
information, education and advocacy programs; and a project management
component.
Objectives
11. The proposed project would support the development of the Social
Protection System and would aim to improve the provision of the 'right social
protection benefit, to the right people in the right time according to the
principles of social justice, equity, individual rights and responsibility'
(as defined by the MLSPF in their mission statement). The project would aim to
increase the economic sustainability of the system through the improved use of
resources, improved benefit delivery, and the better use of information to
improve social contribution compliance.
Description
12. It is envisaged that the project will have four components:
a) Social Protection Policy Analysis, Monitoring and Evaluation: This
component would develop a consistent social protection policy framework
through the creation and strengthening of a Policy Unit and Policy Working
Group within the MLSPF, the development of the information collection and
analysis, the creation of an integrated monitoring and evaluation system and
the provision of technical assistance in the area of policy and legislation
development.
b) Social Protection Administration: This component is aimed at strengthening
the capacity of the social protection system administration through
-3 -



rationalizing the structure and functions of the administration, the design
and implementation of a human resource development plan, and design and
installation of a comprehensive information system. The component would
finance consultant services, training, equipment, hardware/software and some
small civil works.
c) Public Information Provision and Communication: This component would
strengthen the capacity of the MLSPF to design and implement a national
information, education and advocacy program through the creation of a Public
Relations Unit within the ministry, training, social surveys and technical
assistance to design and implement a comprehensive strategy.
d) Project Coordination: This component would develop and operationalize a
Project Coordination Unit through the identification and training of staff,
the provision of equipment and software and the creation of a project
monitoring and reporting system.
Financing
13. The project would cost a total of US $14.5 million.     IBRD/IDA would
finance US $10 million. The Government would finance US $3 million, and donor
funds would be sought for $1.5. The traditional investment lending instrument
would be used.
Implementation
14. It is envisaged that the project would be implemented over a four year
period through the MLSPF. The project will be under the overall management of
a Project Director, a senior official in the MLSPF. Each component will
appoint a Component Manager. A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) established
within the Ministry, will be staffed with a PCU Director, an accountant, and a
procurement officer. A Project Steering Committee would be established,
consisting of the component managers, the PCU Director, and chaired by the
Project Director. The Project Director would provide the strategic link
between the implementation of the pension reform and effective delivery of the
project. The PCU would become the key point of communication on the project
and the Ministry's tool for facilitating project preparation, implementation,
and monitoring.
Sustainability
15. The project will be sustainable as improvements in efficiency should will
free resources and reduce the drain on federal budget. A closer review will
be done in the context of the overall economic analysis of the project.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
16. Lessons from social sector lending in the ECA region and also Bankwide have
shown that (a) integration of administration in policy design is extremely
important - attention must be given to the institutional aspects of reform in
order for the objectives of the reform to be achieved; (b) investment to
support structural adjustment is essential; (c) projects which are overly
complex often do not implement well; (d) monitoring and evaluation of project
progress is important; (e) early consideration of project implementation
arrangements can help to avoid future delays; (f) careful attention should be
given to ensure that the government does not over extend itself on its
commitment for counterpart funds; and (g) clear communication and earlier
ownership of the project are key factors to its success. The project team has
- 4 -



taken care to keep these in mind throughout the design stage. Agreement on
project design has been sought and ownership built up through a stakeholder
workshop. Key steps for processing have been outlined with the Government to
avoid delays.
Poverty Category - N/A
Environmental Aspects
17. The project is aimed at institutional capacity building and is not
envisaged to impact the environment. Some minor civil works may be financed
by the project, but they would not effect the environment.
Program Objective Categories
18. The Economic Management category was chosen for this project since it is
directly linked to the public sector reform objective of the CAS with the aim
to improve the quality of public spending and expenditure management.
Project Benefits
19. The benefits of the project are: (1) the ability to implement the pension
reform for the public of Moldova; (2) . strengthened institutional capacity
for the MLSPF: more relevant policies through increased analytical capacity,
and an improved pension administration through better management practices,
increased efficiency, and transparency of financial systems. Local offices of
the Ministry will be more accountable through decentralization and provision
of tools to enhance their performance; (3) increased efficiencies are expected
to free up scarce resources and be less of a drain on the federal budget; (4)
removing the responsibility for collection of "in-kind" social taxes from
the Social Fund would allow the Tax Inspectorate to gain tighter controls and
could have an positive effect on collection action.
Project Risks
20. Efforts are being made to mitigate the project risks which are: (1) Tax
collection office does not improve its ability to collect taxes; (2) Budget
allocations to social protection do not remain constant; (3) Improved SP
policies and legislation not approved by parliament.; (4) Lack of Government
commitment to social protection reform; (5) Burdens on the Social Protection
system increase; and (6) MLSPF leadership are not committed to the vision for
reform and manages the change process ineffectively. These risks may also
change during preparation.
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Alan Thompson, ECSHD
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:(202) 458-5864
Fax No.:             (202) 522-3504
Email: AThompsonl@Worldbank.org
- 5 -



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending January 15, 1999.
- 6 -



