Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.9134
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1831-UR)
NOVEMBER 16, 1990
.1 Operations Division
Fartment IV
.ca and the Caribbean Regional Office
has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
uties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: New Peso (NU$)
Exchange Rates: at December 31st
1978  US$     NU$    6.97
1979                  8.41
1980                  9.92
1981                11.50
.982                28.21
1983                42.50
1984                 71.93
1985       =       124.70
1986       =       177.38
1987               274.59
1988               443.95
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system has been used throughout the report
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BROU     Bank of the Republic of Uruguay
CB       Central Bank
EEC      European Economic Community
FG       Livestock Fund
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
INC      National Settlement Institute
LCB      Local Competitive Bidding
LIBOR    London Inter-Bank Offered Rate
MGAP     Ministry of Livestock, Agriculture and Fisheries
OPYPA    Agricultural. Planning and Policy Index
PBPI     Producer Basket Price Index
PCR      Project Completion Report
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PLAN     Plan Agropecuario (Honorary Commission of the Livestock Plan)
UNDP     United Nations Development Program



FOa OMPCIAL USE ONLY
THE WOtLD SANK
Washington, DC 20433
USA
DirectntCoal
November 16, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs Project Completion Report on Uruguay
Agricultural Development Project
(Loan 1831-UR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Uruguay - Agricultural Development Project
(Loan 1831-UR)' prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional
Office. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations
Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a rtricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the PSrformance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World ank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUA1Y
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 1831-UR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface .........................................................    i
Evaluation Summary .............................................. iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity .                                                        1
Background .                                                              1
Introduction .                                                       1
Evolution of Bank Lending to Livestock Sector .                      1
Project Institutions .                                               2
Policy Impact on Bank Lending for Agriculture .                      3
Project Description .                                                     4
Project Objectives .                                                 4
Project Organization and Management .                                5
Project Cost and Financing .                                         5
Project Organization and Design .                                         6
Introduction .                                                       6
Small Farmers' Participation and Diversification Issues .            6
Improved Pasture Technology .                                        6
Indexing of Subloans .                                               7
Appraisal and Negotiation .                                          7
Project Implementation .                                                  8
Introduction .                                                       8
Modification of Subloan Indexation ..8
Amendments to the Loan Agreement .                                   9
Demand for Credit ...........................................        9
Studies and Procurement .....................................    10
Performance of Implementing Agencies ........................    10
Project Results .................................................    11
Introduction ................................................   11
Subloans and Investments ....................................    11
The Effectiveness of the Improved Pasture Technology ........   12
The Profitability of Investment .....         .......................    12
Government Policies and External Effects ....        ...............    13
Institutional Support ......................................    13
Sustainability ...........       ......................................    13
Bank and Borrower Performances ..................................    14
Consultant Services for Studies ................................    14
Project Documentation and Data ..............................          15
Lessons Learnt ...........       ......................................    15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bl' recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



'ABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
Page No.
?ART II:    PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ........           17
?ART III:  STATISTICAL INFORMATION ............................          21
rable 1:   Related Bank Loans for Agriculture, 1960-1986 ......          23
rable 2:   Project Timetable .......................                     24
rable 3:   Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements ......          24
rable 4:   Project Implementation Schedulet On Farm
Investment Credit ...... .. .........        .. .          25
rable 5:   Project Costs and Financing
A.  Project Costs ..................................          26
B.  Project Financing ..............................          26
rable 6:   Project Results
A.  Direct Benefits .......                        ...        27
B.  Financial Impact  ... ..       .........   ........       27
C.  Economic Impact ...... .... . ...................         28
D.      Studies.  .....  .*.*............................ .  .............. 29
rable 7:   Status of Compliance with Main Loan Conditions .....          30
rable 8:   Use of Bank Resources
A.  Staff Inputs ............................ .               32
B. Missions ............ . ...................... * ............  33
kNNEX I
Fables
table 1:   Investment Plans by Type, 1980-88.                            35
table 2:   Number of Programs Prepared, 1980-87 .36
table 3:   Credit Assistance Programs Distribution by
Farm Type, 1980-879      8     0     -7..........           37
Table 4:   Relative Evolution of Input and Output Prices,
1978-87.                                                    38
rable 5:   Evolution of Areas Under Improved Pastures,
1961-86.. .....................                            39
Table 6:   Net Farm Income of Livestock Production ............          40
Graphs
Graph 1:   Subloans Prepared, by Type, 1980-88...........,               41
Graph 2:   Evolution of Pasture Improvement Programs
Prepared by Plan Agropecuario, 1980-87........              42
Graph 3:   Number of Programs Prepared by the
Plan Agropecuario, 1980-87) ............ .......            43
Graph 4: Live Cattle Prices, 1978-87                                      44
Graph 5: Wool Prices, 1978-87                                             45
Graph 6: Milk Prices, 1978 .8 -8                                          46
Graph 7:   Wheat and Sunflower Prices,  1978-87.                         47
Graph 8:   Fertilizer Prices, Superphosphate, 1978-87                    48
Graph 9:   Diesel Fuel Prices, 1978-87 .          ..                     49
Graph 10:  H.P. Tractor Prices, 1978-87.                                 50
Graph 11:  Wage Rates, 1978-87.                                          51
MAP   IBRD 21503



URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 1831-UR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
1.       This Project Completion Report (PCR) has been prepared for the
Uruguay Agricultural Development Project for which Loan 1831-UR in the
amount of US$24 million was approved by the Board on April 15, 1980 and
signed on April 22, 1980. The original Closing Date of September 30, 1986
was extended first to December 31, 1987 and again to December 31, 1988.
The Loan Account was closed on November 8, 1989, and the outstanding
balance of US$1.45 million cancelled. The final disbursement was made on
August 25, 1988.
2.       This is a new-style PCR which was prepared by the Agriculture
Operations Division IV of the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional
Office, on the basis of the Project Brief, Appraisal and President Reports,
Loan Agreement and its Amendments, Supervision Reports, the Borrower's
Progress Reports, and the correspondence files (ten volumes). The Project
Performance Audit Reports for the Third and Fourth (first stage) Livestocl
Projects, Fourth (second stage), Livestock Project, the PCR of the Fifth
Livestock Project, and the Staff Appraisal Report for the Second
Agricultural Development Project were also used.
3.       On January 25, 1990, the Bank sent the Borrower a letter
reiterating its obligation to prepare the Part II of the PCR and on April
23, 1990 forwarded Parts I and III for the Borrower's comment, which was
received on July 21, 1990.



- i1i -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUA'Y
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 1831-UR)
Evaluation Summary
Obiectives
1.       The Agricultural Development Project was essentially a
continuation of previous Bank lending for livestock development in Uruguay
which started in 1959. The objectives of the Project were: (a) to
continue assistance provided under earlier Bank-financed projects to
promote livestock, and dairy development and exports; (b) to promote
agricultural diversification by supporting cultivation of crops in
association with livestock; and (c) to assist farmers in five settlements
of the National Settlement Institute (INC) to improve techniques and
produ.ction patterns on their farms, which had suffered frc-:. soil erosion
and depi.etion.
2.       These objectives were to be achieved through three project
components: a line of credit for on-farm investment for about 3,020
enterprises engaged in livestock and mixed farming; provision of technical
services, training and studies; and construction of 60 kilometers of feeder
roads. The line of credit was to support investments in pasture
improvements, fertilizer, watering facilities, fencing, machinery, and
equipment (including milk handling equipment) for 1,900 livestock, 600
mixed crop/livestock, 300 dairy and 220 mixed dairy/crops INC farmers. The
provision of technical services, training and studies consisted of: the
replacement of vehicles, purchase of machinery and office equipment, and
materials for demonstration works; 88 months of consultants time to enhance
the technical services provided by the implementing agencies; 148 months of
training for the staff of implementing agencies locally and abroad; and a
fund for surveys or studies which might be needed for the preparation of
the small farmer component of a future agricultural project. The new roads
were to permit efficient collection and transport of milk from project
armers in the INC settlement areas to local processing plants, and were to
De built through agreements with the relevant municipalities.
3.       Projece management and organization were to be undertaken by three
institutions: Plan Agropecuario (PLAN), INC, and the Bank of the Republic
of Uruguay (BROU). PLAN, which had managed the earlier Bank-assisted
livestock projects under the direction of the Ministry of Livestock,
Agriculture and Fisheries (MGAP), had the overall responsibility for
project implementation. BROU, a state-owned Bank, continued as under the
previous Bank livestock projects, to channel credit to farmers to implement
the investment plans designed or approved by PLAN and INC technicians. INC
was to establish a project implementation unit and a monitoring and
evaluation unit (the latter under the supervision of PLAN) to manage INC
cumponent.



- iv -
ImPlementation Experience
4.      Implementation of the project was not smooth.  Delays occurred
both before and after the date of Loan effectiveness, caused by adverse
economic conditions, low profitability of investments and high indebtedness
Fmnong agricultural producers, especially INC farmers. The number of
technical assistance programs prepared and subloans made was high between
1980-82 but collapsed between 1983-85 and made a slow recovery from
1986-on.
5.       To encourage lending, the Bank agreed to several changes to the
Loan Agreement on subloan indexing procedures, to allow for switching
between the original product basket price indices (PBPIs) and the US
dollar-based index, and later between PBPIs and the Consumer Price Index
(CPI). These switching arrangements allowed for potentially negative real
interest rates, but given the depressed state of the sector and the
possibility of a reversal of government policies and the cancellation of
the loan by the Government, the Bank decided that the compromise was
justified.
6.       To encourage further lending and to increase the disbursement
rate, the Bank made a number of amendments to the Loan Agreement, the main
provision of which were: (a) to increase the Bank's share of reimbursement
of BROU's expenditure to 5OZ (January 1985) and then to 652 (February
1986); (b) to expand the definition of farmers to include crop producers
and extending the scope of credit for INC to settlements throughout the
country; (c) to increase the upper limit for subloans to US$300,000 (from
US$150,000); (d) to allow the purchase of fattening cattle within an
approved farm investment; (e) to allow financing of vehicle spares and
parts, and increasing the Loan allocation for additional purchases of
vehicles and spare parts; and (f) to approve the opening of a Special
Account.
7.      Demand for credit (with the exception of the INC subloans) grew
rapidly during 1986-88, partly due to these measures, to some policy
reforms and to improving external conditions. Specifically, these
included a reduction in export taxes, elimination of tariffs on imports of
agricultural inputs, and increases in the international price of and demand
for beef. To accommodate the increased demand for credit, the Loan's
Closing Date was further extended to December 31, 1988 and Loan proceeds
were reallocated between categories in January ane July 1988. The on-farm
development credit component was fully committed by about July 1988. The
Bank declined the Government's request for a "bridge loan" of US$4 million
for the period July 1988 - January 1989, but BROU issued a resolution which
allowed the credit facility to continue uninterrupted through 1988 using
BROU's own resources. Disbursement under the INC subloans became non-
existent after 1984. This was mostly due to high indebtedness of the
farmers, especially as the interest payments on new subloans would coincide
with the amortization of old debt.
8.      PLAN's credit promotion and technical assistance deteriorated as
its autonomy and budget were reduced. Its staff worked only part-time
because of inadequate salaries, its vehicles lacked spare parts and fuel to
operate adequately, and the technical package of improved pastures promoted
by the PLAN did not show the permanency expected. INC also suffered from



v 
inadequacy of its budget and training of its staff at the initiation of the
project. BROU's lending policies and operations may also have contributed
to slow disbursement under the project. Rural creditworthiness criteria
were cumbersome, emphasizing high collateral and guarantees rather than
future income prospects, subloans were approved annually rather than for
the entire period of the investment plans, the staffing of BROU's Project
Unit was inadequate, and good coordination between BROU and technical
assistance staff was lacking.
Results
9.       The results of the project were mixed.  Direct assessment of
results is not possible because of a lack of technical data; indirect
indicators on the use of project components have therefore being used.
Because the provision of credit for on-farm investment was the most
important component of t'is project (902 of project cost), it has been used
as an indirect indicator of the results. Four sets of results were
obtained: (a) the total actual level of investment was equal to or greater
than the level predicted at appraisal; (b) the level of investment
fluctuated during project execution; (c) the type of beneficiaries and the
amounts borrowed were different from that predicted at appraisal; and (d)
the types of investment undertaken were different from those planned at
appraisal. The importance of machinery in investment plans is particularly
marked. The major changes in the process of liberalization made forage
conservation a profitable undertaking in livestock production, and caused a
surge in demand for tractors and big-bale machinery. Subloan repayment was
good, and BROU did not invoke the government guarantee it had to claim
reimbursement from Government for non-performing sub-borrowers because of
the very low level of default.
10.      The variance between the planned and actual level and pattern of
subloans and investments was due to four main factors: (a) the
effectiveness of the improved pastures technology; (b) the profitability of
investment; (c) Government policies and external effects; and
(d) institutional support. The project was originally designed on the
assumption that existing improved pasture technology was suited to
Uruguayan conditions, and had increased the resistance and persistence of
improved pastures which would last for 20 years. Later investigation,
however, confirmed earlier warnings that there were technical problems
affecting the persistence of pastures, which in practice typically last for
only 3-4 years. This lack of persistence implies that investments by
livestock farmers have had a lower rate of return than predicted at
appraisal. To a degree, investment by dairy producers was less affected by
problems of pasture persistence given the shorter rotations practiced on
dairy farms, which helps to explain dairy producers' higher participation
in the project. In particular, forage conservation and intensive pasture
use using electrified fencing became widespread during the project's life.
11.     Low profitability of investment is cited as another factor in
explaining the cyclical and different pattern of beneficiaries and subloan
use. The low profitability of investment was caused by low producer prices
and high input costs during 1983-84 that were, in part, caused by
unfavorable economic policies and external circumstances. Reforms
undertaken in August 1978 improved the incentive structure in the
agricultural sector. However, the speculative pressures caused by the



- vi -
tablita and the indebtedness and recession provoked by its collapse
overwhelmed these improvements, and only with the stabilization and
improvement in macroeconomic policy after 1985 did the improved incentive
environment have any real impact.
12.      The low level of effectiveness of the extension services supported
under the project, PLAN and INC, compared with other (private sector)
extension services could also explain the differences in the pattern of
subloan use. PLAN's operations and the motivation of its staff suffered
during project execution. INC staff underwent training during the project,
but the execution of the project in the early years, when sub-borrowers's
demand was highest, suffered because of inadequate preparation of the
technical staff. BROU's performance has already been mentioned above.
Sustainability
13.      Given the highly abnormal macroeconomic conditions which prevailed
in the first half of the project's life, which provoked the worst recession
in Uruguay's history, the achievements of the second half of the project
are of most importance. Demand for credit rose strongly as farmers
responded to the Government's policy of resource allocation by market
forces, accompanied by good prices both for wool and beef. Project
authorities became acutely aware of deficiencies in the pasture technology,
and made major efforts to overcome them; the diagnosis of the problems was
used to prepare a research component in the follow-up project (Loan
3131-UR), designed specifically to overcome the problems. The project saw
the uptake of agricultural technology not foreseen ac appraisal, as well as
that included in project des' I, catalyzed by macroeconomic policy designed
to remove major discrimination against the sector. This policy framework
remains in effect. As a result of recent institutional changes,
agricultural research has been restructured and producers have more role in
defining the research agenda, which should stimulate a response to the
problems with pasture technology. The follow-up project also includes a
liberalized approach to the provision of technical assistance, emphasizing
the private sector, and the inclusion of other financial institutions
besides BROU in the intermediation of agricultural credit. External
factors will also affect product and input prices, and hence incentives, as
they have done in the past, but their harmful influence can be lessened
through well-managed Government policies.
Findins and Lessons Learned
14.     This operation aimed at increasing livestock and dairy production
and exports, promoting agricultural diversification, and assisting INC
settlers to improve techniques and production levels. Using the on-farm
credit component as an indicator of results, the total value of investment
(credit) at Loan Closing was about the level predicted at appraisal. The
credit was used mostly by dairy farmers, not by beef and wool livestock
producers as anticipated under the project. The investments probably
contributed to an increase in net farm income. The project did not,
however, lead to any increase in the total area of improved pastures, which
in fact declVned during 1980-86. The reasons for the inadequate
performance of pastures were both technical and economic.
15.      The lessons learnt are, therefore, as follows:  (a) the Bank
should proceed carefully at the design stage of projects that rely on



- vii -
controversial technical packages; (b) adverse Government policies and
external conditions can distort incentives and jeopardize the viability of
the project; (c) the fundamental issues of negative interest rates and the
relative ineffectiveness of the financial intermediary need long-term
solutions; apd (d) more care should be taken in appraisal of the project
implementing agencies to ensure that their budgets and the training and
motivation of their staff are adequate. The use of alternative private
extension services, could have increased project effectiveness.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVKLOPMENT PROJECT
Loan 1831-UR)
PART I
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Protect Identity
Project Name:        Agricultural Development Project
Loan No.:            1831-UR
RVP Unit:            Latin America and the Caribbean
Country:             Uruguay
Sector:              Agriculture
Subsector:           Livestock
Background
1.       Introduction.  Agriculture is an important source of foreign
exchange for the Uruguayan economy. Although it only contributes 122 to
GDP and employs 11Z of the labor force, it generates 582 of total value of
exports. Within agriculture, the natural resource base has led to a strong
comparative advantage in the livestock subsector which has made it the key
to the sector's growth. Livestock accounts for two-thirds-of agricultural
output (beef contributes one-third) and about 772 of its exports. Crops,
mostly cereals, make up the rest, forestry and fishing being small by
comparison.
2.       Because of the importance of the livestock subsector in increasing
agricultural production and exports, Bank lending has focused on this
subsector. The evolution of Bank lending, the institutions involved, and
the Government policies in agriculture which led to the project under
review are described below.
3.       Evolution of Bank LendinR to Livestock Subsector.  Post-war
assessment of the agricultural sector served as the foundation of the
Livestock Development Projects launched by the Government. The main
objective of those projects was to increase beef production and exports by:
(a) introducing technological improvements in livestock production;
(b) strengthening institutions; and (c) improving sector and economic
policies.  The key element of technological change. was the introduction of
improved pasture cultivars to replace much of the low yielding natural
sward.1 to expand feed production and the national herd and flock numbers.
4.       The Bank supported these projects through seven loans (prior to
Ln. 1831-UR) amounting to US$71.7 million beginning in 1959 (See Part III,
Table 1). The First Livestock Development Project (Ln. 245-UR, for US$7.0
million) demonstrated methods of pasture improvement on a large sample of
1/ This technology is described in "Uruguay Agricultural Sector Review,"
Report No. 7502-UR, November 14, 1988, Annex I.



sheep and beef cattle farms and supported practical research needed to
adjust the new technology to local conditions between 1961-65. The Second
Livestock Development project (Ln. 407-UR, for US$12.7 million) benefitted
a large number of commercial farms during 1965-70. The Third and Fourth
Projects, first and second stages (Ln. 698-UR for US$6.3 million; Ln.
773-UR for US$11.2 million, and Ln. 940-UR for US$13.5 million) were
implemented during 1971-74. These projects, in addition to lending for the
development of sheep and beef cattle production, involved the Bank in
lending for dairy and pig production, in the rehabilitation and development
of small mixed -rop/livestock farms located in the south and south-west of
Uruguay, and in a dialog for changes in livestock sector policies. The
Fifth Livestock Project (Ln. 1166-UR for US$17.0 million) continued to
support the expansion of livestock (beef and milk) production and export,
and the improvement of Government sectoral policies. The project also
initiated product diversification on small farm holdings.
5.       The performance of the Livestock Development Projects up to 1975,
though delayed in the early years because of problems in the adaptation of
new technology, was considered to be satisfactory. During 1961-74, some
31,000 subloans for on-farm development were made by PLAN and BROU, of
which 83Z were actively drawn down. Some 2.5 million ha of improved
pastures were developed, of which about 1.6 million ha still existed in
1974/75.2 The area under improved pastures deteriorated, however, during
the following five years and by 1980 had declined to about 1.1 million ha.
6.       Project Institutions.  Central to the achievement of the
objectives of these projects was the provision of producer credit through
BROU and of supervision and technical assistance through PLAN, a special
unit created in 1957. The beneficiaries of colonization schemes sponsored
by INC were also eligible to participate in later projects with the
approval of the institution, which guaranteed the repayment of subloans to
BROU. BROU, a state-owned Bank, was the only participating bank on-lending
the loan funds. Despite efforts to include private banks in the Third
Livestock Project, no private bank participated in the previous projects.3
The Livestock Development Projects Unit in BROU handled the lending and
supervised the procedures for indexing the subloans under the Bank-financed
projects. Project subloans were made only after a technical appraisal by
PLAN; BROU's approval was required for sub-borrowers' creditworthiness,
collateral and tax payments status.
7.       PLAN was an autonomous agency organized to provide technical
assistance to the livestock sector. Its objectives were: (a) to increase
livestock production by assisting farmers to prepare suitable investment
plans; (b) to recommend these to BROU for financing; and (c) to furnish
technical assistance and supervision during the disbursement period. PLAN
also provided extension services to non-borrowers, supported applied farm-
level research, and helped in monitoring and evaluation of the livestock
projects. PLAN was run by an honorary commission made up of the
representatives of MGAP, the Central Bank, BROU (one delegate each) and the
farmers' associations (four delegates). It had an average full-time staff
of 100 professionals, 40 administrative and service personnel, 80Z of whom
were stationed in field offices. Administration expenses of PLAN were
financed by the Government through annual budgets. PLAN's performance was
2/ Uruguay, Agricultural Sector Review, 1988.
3/ PPAR, Uruguay Third and Fourth Livestock Projects, Report No. 1321,
Oct. 20, 1976, p. 19.



satisfactory up to the early 1970s.4 Thereafter, PLAN was gradually
downgraded administratively and was absorbed into MGAP and its daily
management and operations deteriorated.
8.       INC was established in 1948 and is an autonomous entity with
responsibility for rural settlement and land redistribution. It has a
priority option in the purchase of land from private owners. It can also
expropriate land for special settlement projects if the land is
consistently under-used. Land acquired by INC is subdivided in
economically-viable lots and distributed either for purchase in
installments or for rent, among selected settlers. INC has also provided
limited technical and financial assistance to its settlers, support in
marketing agricultural products, and help in developing infrastructure
through its agreements with other national and local agencies.5
9.       Policy Impact on Bank Lending for Agriculture.  Until 1970,
Government policies imposed heavy implicit and explicit taxation on the
agriculture and livestock sector. These policies were: (a) price controls
on agricultural products; (b) export taxes on traditional commodities such
as beef and wool; (c) high tariffs on industrial imports, including
agricultural machinery; (d) an over-valued currency; and (e) subsidies to
inefficient state enterprises through direct government control of
industries, such as meat packing. The effect of these policies was to
reduce the profitability of the sector and to foster inefficient land use.
10.      Beginning with the Third Livestock Development Project in 1971,
the Bank and the Government reached an understanding that agricultural
prices, taxes and subsidies should encourage producers to undertake
investments which would improve the productivity of pastures. The
Government took measures to bring input and product prices more in line
with international prices. It eliminatel export taxes on beef, mutton and
wool and suspended subsidies on phosphate fertilizers. However, the
adverse effects of the recession induced by the oil shock of 1973 and the
closure of the European Economic Community (EC) market to Uruguayan beef
exports reduced the impact of these policy changes. As a result beef
prices fell and improved pastures deteriorated throught overgrazing.
11.      Because of these events, there was a perceived need to diversify
the sector away from traditional beef and wool products. The Bank
supported the idea of diversification6 and in 1975 United Nations
Development Program (UNDP), the Government and the Bank agreed on an
Agricultural Diversification Study for which UNDP would finance the foreign
exchange cost, (US$354,000) and the Government would meet the local cost,
with the Bank acting as the executing agency. After this study, the Bank
prepared, appraised, and negotiated in 1976 an Agricultural Diversification
Project for US$30 million which was oriented towards crop devel pment,
4/ PCR, Ln. 1166-UR, Report No. 4271, Dec. 30, 1982, pp. 17-21.
5/ Appraisal Report, Agricultural Development Project Report No. 2779a-UR,
March 27, 1980, p.8 and 39.
6/ During the presentation of the Fifth Livestock Product (Ln. 1166-UR),
the Board queried the lack of diversification efforts in the past Bank
agricultural projects in Uruguay, the large size of the farm area held
by prospective sub-borrowers and the small amount of the loan devoted
to small-scale farmers. The latter issue is discussed in PCR, Ln.
1166-UR, Report No. 4271, Dec. 30, 1982, p.7.



mostly in the western and south-west mainly (litoral) areas, related grain
storage facilities, and some feeder roads. The Government, though
committed to the concept of diversification, decided in May 1977 not to
proceed with the project.7    The main reasons stated were that: (a) MGAP
lacked the organizational capacity to carry out the project; (b) the
interest rate for small farmers implied a negative spread that the
Government did not wish to cover; and (c) the price of wheat was so low
that the Government was afraid that farmers' expectations would be too
limited to allow them to undertake the sizeable investment envisaged under
the project. There was also strong opposition from the management of BROU,
which found the project, especially its component Plan Agricola, too
ambitious and costly, involving too many entities.
12.      Apart from these concerns there were a number of sector policy
issues whose resolution was considered by the Government to be a
prerequisite for pursuing agricultural diversification. These issues were
eventually addressed in August 1978 with the following reforms: (a) the
elimination of fixed livestock and crop prices; (b) the elimination of
export duties and geographical barriers for beef and wool marketing8
(c) the establishment of a uniform import duty of 30Z for crops; (d) the
removal of import restrictions on agricultural machinery (including
tractors), establishment of a 1OZ maximum tar-iff on assembled tractors and
farm machinery and elimination of tariffs on all other agricultural inputs;
(e) the sale of state-owned meat plants to the private sector; and (f) the
modification of the tax on imputed agricultural income from a gross to a
net basis.
13.      Because of the decision not to proceed with the Diversification
Project, the Bank's strategy in Uruguay was changed from supporting a
comprehensive diverbification in agriculture to supporting a gradual one,
which would proceed through a series of conventional operations. The
Agricultural Development Project (Ln. 1831-UR) marked the beginning of this
era. This project was prepared from July 1978 to June 1979, appraised in
July and October (with post-appraisal in 1979), and was approved on April
15, 1980.
Project Description
14.      Proiect Objectives.  The project had three major objectives:
(a) to continue assistance made under earlier Bank-financed projects
to promote livestock and dairy development and exports, for which
the country has a comparative advantage;
(b) to promote agricultural diversification by supporting cultivation
of crops in association with livestock; and
(c) to assist settlers in five INC settlements in the Quebracho and
Snlto areas to improve techniques and production patterns on their
farms, which had suffered from soil erosion and depletion.
15.      Project components were:  a line of credit for on-farm investment;
provision of technical services, training and studies; and construction of
feeder rcads.
7/ Letter May 11, 1977 from Minister of Agriculture.
8/ The lifting of price and marketing restrictions led to an immediate
increase of the price of beef by 20Z.



- 5 -
16.      The line of credit was intended to finance three-year, on-farm
investment plans for about 3,020 enterprises. The proposed enterprises
consisced of about 1,900 beef/sheep ranches; 600 crop/livestock farms;
300 dairy farms, and 220 mixed dairy/crop INC farms. Pasture improvement
was to be the major investment item in beef/sheep ranches, with smaller
investments in fencing, water points, stock handling facilities, and
machinery and equipment. Fertilizer for crop production and pasture
improvement was to be the major investment in mixed crop/livestock farms
with additional investment in machinery and equipment. Milk handling
equipment (including milking machines, milk sheds and cooling tanks),
fencing and watering facilities were to be the major investments in dairy
farms and INC settlements. Additional investments for dairy stock and crop
production were also to be supported for INC farms.
17.      The second component involved the provision of technical services,
training and studies. This component included: replacement of vehicles,
purchase of machinery and office equipment, and materials for demonstration
work: 88 months of consultants' time to enhance the technical services
provided by PLAN and INC; 148 months of scholarships for training PLAN and
INC technicians abroad and locally; and a fund for surveys or studies which
might be needed for the preparation of the small farmer component of a
future agricultural project.
18.      The third component was construction of about 60 kilometers of
feeder roads to serve a small number of INC project settlements. These
roads were to permit efficient collection and transport of milk from
project farms to local processing plants, and were to be built through
agreements with the relevant municipalities, which were to execute the work
on force account (and contribute one-third of its cost).
19.      Project Organization and Management.  There were three
institutions involved in project management, PLAN, BROU, and INC. PLAN,
which had managed the earlier Bank-assisted livestock projects under the
direction of MGAP, had the overall responsibility for project
implementation. BROU also continued, as under the previous Bank livestock
projects, to channel credit to farmers in order to implement the investment
plans designed or approved by PLAN and INC technicians. INC was to
establish a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) under a Technical
Coordinator, who was to work under the supervision and guidance of the
Technical Directorate of PLAN. INC was also to establish in its Special
Projects Department a small monitoring unit based on norms designed by
PLAN.
20.      Under the project, producers with farms over 1,000 ha had to
secure technical assistance through private consultants. PLAN was also
responsible for prequalification of these consultants and for approval and
supervision of investment plans prepared by them.
21.      Project Cost and Financing.  As finally approved, the project's
total costs were estimated at US$110 million (including taxes and duties of
US$3.4 million), of which US$58.5 million (53Z) represented the foreign
exchange cost. The Bank undertook to finance US$24 million (22Z of the
total project cost and 41Z of the foreign exchange cost). The bulk of the
Bank's share, equivalent to US$19.6 million, was allocated to on-farm
investment credits: US$2.8 million (12Z) for INC settlers and US$16.8
million (70Z) for other farmers. Of the balance of US$4.4 million, US$1.1
million (52) was for technical advisory services training and studies;



US$0.8 million (3Z) for vehicles, machinery and equipment; US$0.5 million
(2Z) for construction of rural roads; while US$2 million (82) was
unallocated.
22.      The Loan was for a term of 15 years including three years of
grace, at an interest rate of 8.25Z per annum to the Government which was
to assume the foreign exchange risk. The Government was to on-lend the
proceeds of the investment credit component of the Loan, through Fondo
Ganadero (FG) in the Central Bank (CB), to BROU. BROU, in turn, was to
make subloans to the project beneficiaries (INC settlers and other farmers)
upon evaluating their subloan applications based on farm investment plans
already approved by PLAN. The interest rate on subloans was to be 3Z of
those farms of less than 500 ha with CONEAT 100 equivalent9 and 5Z for
those above. The principal of the subloans was to be adjusted by one of
three PBPIs (see para. 30) chosen by PLAN depending on the type of farm.
The Bank was to finance 31Z of the amount disbursed by BROU for subloans to
INC settlers, 25Z for other farmers; 1002 of the foreign exchange cost of
expenditure on vehicles, machinery and equipment; and 60Z of the
expenditure on construction of feeder roads.
Project Organization and Design
23.      Introduction.  The Government assumed responsibility for
identification and preparation of the project through an interagency team
headed by the Director of the MGAP planning office (OPYPA), which included
representatives from PLAN, BROU, OPYPA, CB and INC. The Bank assisted in
the preparation effort through its preparation missions.
24.      Project design followed that of the previous Bank-financed
livestock projects which had emphasized livestock and dairy development
through a line of credit and technical assistance. In addition, four major
design issues which had been raised through the previous projects, small
farmer participation, diversification, improved pasture technology, and
indexing of subloans, were elaborated during the preparation of this
project.
25.      Small Farmers' Participation and Diversification Issues.  A new
component to assist small farmers was added to the project at the Bank's
suggestion. This involved providing credit and technical assistance to INC
settlers, mostly crop farmers, to reorient their production to crop/
livestock (mainly dairy), to increase their net income and at the same time
reh. ilitate their soil. This component was introduced as a pilot project
to b   ? five settlements in the Quebracho and Salto areas, and was
expa&tWed in March 1979 to include a feeder road component. Studies on
small farmers were also included to serve as the basis for future lending
to these farmers. On the diversification issue, the Government introduced
diversification through the financing of mixed crop/livestock enterprises
mostly in the litoral area, in line with the Agricultural Diversification
Project (1976). This objective was strongly supported by the Bank's
preparation missions.
26.      Improved P  .ur  Technology.  During preparation there was
considerable concern ovex the use of improved pasture technology as a
basis for further lending. The PPAR for the Third and Fourth (first stage)
Livestock Projects, and the PPAR for the Fourth (second stage) Livestock
9/ For the definition of the GONEAT system of land classification, see
Uruguay; Agricultural Sector Review, 1988.



Project Projectl0 cautioned against any further lending based on this
technology. These reports maintained that: (a) the use of improved
technology would remain limited to about 11.5Z of the total pasture area if
the conditions since its introduction prevailed; (b) the maximum number of
adopters had nearly been reached; (c) the principal reasons for
non-adoption were that the technology was not suited to the soils in some
regions of Uruguay; and that high risks due to biological, managerial, and
economic factors had also discouraged its use; (d) the marginal
profitability of improved pastures declined as the proportion of pasture
area so utilized on the individual farms increased; (e) credit subsidies,
provided through Bank-assisted subloans with indexing at less than the rate
of general price inflation, did not appear significantly to have increased
the total investment in improved pastures; and (f) fertilizer subsidies had
increased fertilizer use but by a smaller amount than had been anticipated.
These conclusions were qualified, however, by mentioning that a fundamental
change in the price of beef, beyond the usual beef cycle, could increase
diffusion of improved pasture technology.
27.      The predominant opinion in the Bank was, nevertheless, to continue
with the project baseu on the existing pasture technology. It was believed
that the diffusion process was significantly influenced by actual or
expected profit margins which, in turn, depended on the input/output price
relationship, on improvements in basic technology, and on a multitude of
institutional factors. The Bank referred to data provided by MGAP which
confirmed that the persistence and resistance of pastures had been
increased as a result of the introduced technology. Furthermore, the
Government had undertaken a series of reforms in the agricultural sector in
August 1978 which were expected to improve incentives in the sector and
which could raise the ceiling on the potential pasture improvement area.
28.      Indexing of Subloans.  Indexing of subloans to allow for the
effects of inflation had been addressed in the previous Bank projects, but
had not achieved real positive interest rates. The real annual interest
rate on the Bank's subloans was estimated to be -l0Z.11   Pressures to
correct the situation did not exist locally because there was no private
bank participation, BROU's deficit could be made up by funds from the
national budget, and there was a strong lobby from PLAN and ranchers to
keep the subsidy to promote pasture improvements.
29.      In response to concerns expressed in the PPARs, the Bank sought to
change the indexing under this Loan. The principal (and therefore
interest) of subloans was to be adjusted by one of three PBPIs: livestock,
livestock/crops, or dairy, chosen by the PLAN technician according to the
type of the sub-borrower's enterprise. The index, once chosen, was to
remain fixed during the life of the subloan; the adjustments to the subloan
were to be compounded; and the lag between calculating the index and
applying it to the subloan was to be reduced from six to two months.
30.      Appraisal and NeRotiation.  Loan processing was delayed at
appraisal (July 1979) due to a change of the Agriculture Minister. The
project scope, financing and subloan indexing therefore had to be
finalized during a post-appraisal mission in September 1979. During this
mission, the proportion of financing by the Bank was set at 272 of
10/ PPAR Reports No. 1321 (October 20, 1976) and No. 2572 (June 1979)
respectively.
11/ PPAR of Third and Fourth Projects, 1976.



- 8 -
subprojects for INC settlers and 20Z for other borrowers (later changed
again to 312 and 25Z, respectively); and subloan indexing was to be based
on the three agreed PBPIs. The mission also acknowledged that, although
domestic beef prices had increased by 40Z and the Government was under
increasing pressure to intervene, it had not done so and no reversal of the
August 1978 policies had been undertaken.
31.      At a Decision Meeting on Nov. 5, 1979 it was decided that:
(a) the policy reforms of August 1978 provided adequate incentives for
producers to undertake investments under the project, and a covenant was to
be included in the Loan Agreement to ensure this; (b) to ease the
procedural aspects of indexing, the post-appraisal mission was to prepare a
draft circular of detailed instructions from BROU: the circular was to be
negotiated with the Government and its adoption was to become a condition
of Loan Effectiveness, and at the same time, agreements were to be reached
to avoid establishment of competing lines of credit; (c) funds to help MAGP
prepare the next project were to be included in the Loan, to ensure that
the Government would address the problems faced by lower income farmers;
and (d) the issue of a single, higher interest rate for all categories of
sub-borrowers was not to be pressed.
32.      These issues were negotiated and agreement was reached to:
(a) maintain current policies in the agricultural sector established
through the 1978 reforms; (b) index each subloan by one of the three PBPIs
according to the type of product established by PLAN for each sub-borrower;
(c) set a global limit of US$150,000 for each sub-borrower; and
(d) establish an implementation unit of seven members for reinforcing INC
supervision, as there was some uncertainty about this late-prepared
component. The adoption of the circular by BROU had occurred before
negotiations. The negotiations did rot pose much difficulty and these
agreements were incorporated in the Loan Agreement.
Proiect Imolementation
33.      Introduction.  Implementation of the project was not smooth.
Delays occurred both before and after Loan Effectiveness, which slowed
project execution. Loan Effectiveness was postponed for a month to August
21, 1980, due to delays in signing the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
the CB and BROU.
34.      Once effective, Loan disbursement was very slow and it reached a
trough in 1984 when only 29Z of the appraisal target was reached.
Unfavorable economic conditions, in particular those resulting from low
international beef prices in the early years and the introduction of export
taxes in 1983, low profitability, high indebtedness12 in the agriculture
sector in general and among INC settlers in particular, and ineffectiveness
of the implementing agencies, greatly discouraged long-term lending.
35.      Modification of subloan Indexation.  To encourage lending, the
Government proposed several changes to the Loan Agreement concerning
indexing of subloans. In March 1981, the Government requested the Bank to
change the indexing system to base the on-lending rates on either a US
dollar-adjusted index or PBPIs, whichever showed the lower growth. The US
dollar-indexed subloans were to carry higher interest rates of 8-10z. The
12/ This was worsened by a fall in prices of land (by 50Z in 1981-82) which
reduced the value of the collateral for new loans, thus limiting the
access of farmers to credit under the project.



- 9 -
reason for the request was the Government's pre-announced exchange rate
policy (tablita) that had caused the currency to devalue less rapidly than
the CPI had increased. The Bank presented a counter-proposal in the form
of a choice between three indices (i.e., the appropriate PBPI, CPI or US
dollar) which would remain fixed once decided. The Government reiterated
its position several times for a year, but the Bank declined. The
Government finally sent a negotiating team during February 16-18, 1982 that
agreed on the final changes which included switching by the producer at the
time of his annual repayment between a PBPI (with interest rates charged as
before) and a US dollar index. Under the dollar index, if chosen, the
interest rate would vary from 5X for INC farmers to LIBOR plus 5% for farms
above 3,000 ha.
36.      These switching arrangements above allowed for potentially
negative real interest rates, but given the depressed state of the sector
and the possibility of a reversal of government policies and the
cancellation of the Loan by the Government, the Bank decided that
compromise was justified. The Loan Amendment, however, limited the use of
this indexing to a specific time period (18 months or two lending seasons,
to April 30. 1984) and to a specified amount of disbursement (US$7.0
million)13 to verify its effect on disbursements. The Loan Agreement was
amended twice more, extending the limit to the period to December 31, 198414
and December 31, 1985 and the disbursement limit to about US$10 million in
the former case only.
37.      The indexing mechanism was changed again to a choice between PBPIs
and the CPI (with interest rates of 3 to 5% depending on farm size)
effective January 1, 1986, when real interest rates became too high (5-172
in real terms). In September 1986, the Government proposed that subloans
contracted during 1980-85 be adjusted according to the CPI. The Bank
agreed when BROU submitted its Board's resolutions of November 11, 1986
approving: (a) the use of CPI indexing for subloans granted during
1980-82; (b) the reduction of interest rates to 5a and 8% for subloans
granted during 1983-85 for which US dollar index was applicable; and (c)
the entry into effect of the changes on December 1, 1986.
38.      Amendments to the Loan Agreement.  To encourage further lending
and to increase the disbursement rate, the-Bank made a number of amendments
to the Loan Agreement, the main provision of which were: (a) to increase
the Bank's share of reimbursement of BROU's expenditure to 502 (January
1985) and then to 65Z (February 1986); (b) to expand the definition of
farmers to include crop producers and the scope of credit for INC from the
pilot area to settlements throughout the country; (c) to increase the upper
limit for subloans to US$300,000 (from US$150,000); (d) to allow the
purchase of fattening cattle within the approved farm investment; (e) to
allow financing of vehicle spares and parts and to increase the Loan
allocation for additional purchase of vehicles and spare parts; and (f) to
approve the opening of the Special Account.
39.      Demand for Credit.  With the exception of the INC subloans, demand
"ir credit grew rapidly during 1986-88, as a result of the changes referred
to above (para. 39), policy reforms, and external conditions. The latter
13t See memo Feb. 1982, for details of indexing.
14/ The Government request of December 15, 1983 stated that not enough time
had elapsed between the signing of the previous amendment in October,
1982 and its implementation by BROU in March 1983 for the impact to be
felt on sub-borrowers' incentives.



- 10 -
two included reduction in export taxes, elimination of tariffs on imports
of agricultural inputs, increases in the international price of and demand
for beef. To accommodate the increased demand, the Loan's Closing Date was
further extended to December 31, 1988 and funds were reallocated between
categories in January and July 1988. The on-farm development credit
component was fully committed by about July 1988. The Bank declined a
Government request for a "bridge loan" of US$4 million for the period July
1988-January 1989, but BROU issued a resolution which allowed the credit
facility to continue uninterrupted through 1988 using BROU's own resources.
40.      Disbursement under the INC subloans ceased after 1984.  This was
mostly due to high indebtedness of the farmers, especially as the interest
payments on the new subloans would coincide with the amortization of their
old debt. Other components of the Loan, such as construction of the feeder
roads, training for INC and PLAN technicians, and consultants to retrain
PLAN technicians, were carried out largely as foreseen.
41.      Studies and Procurement.  The preparation and processing of a new
project (the Second Agricultural Development Project, Ln. 3131-UR) used the
funds under this Loan for studies. Other studies involved research in
pasture improvements and future requirements for increasing the production
and profitability of the Uruguayan sheep flock. The studies on lower
income farmers envisaged at appraisal were not undertaken.
42.      Procurement of civil works, goods and services was arranged at
appraisal as follows: (a) vehicles, machinery and equipment (about
US$800,000) were to be purchased by International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
under the Bank's Procurement Guidelines whenever the size of individual
contract exceeded the threshold of US$100,000, and by Morrower's internal
procurement procedures including local competitive bidding (LCB) whenever
the contracts fell below the threshold; (b) individual investment items in
the sub-borrowers plans, such as fertilizer, seeds, machinery (about US$74
million) were to be obtained through local commercial suppliers; and
(c) civil works were to be carried out under force account (about
US$600,000) by the municipalities. The items and the works procured under
(b) and (c) did not pose any problems. The Bank allowed an exception to
ICB on the procurement of spare parts for cars and office equipment during
1982, through direct purchase in the former case and LCB for the latter.
The spare parts were for specific cars in existence, and office equipment
could not be grouped together. In 1987, the Bank objected to the award of
a contract for 35 vehicles because the Borrower's choice did not reflect
the lowest evaluated bid and the Bank had reservations on the procedures
followed. The Bank mentioned cancelling an equivalent amount of the loan
if the Government insisted on going ahead with the contract. The
Government did not purchase the vehicles, but raised the issue again in
1988. The Bank objected again as the Borrower's procedures for ICB did not
meet the Bank guidelines; the vehicles were not, therefore, procured with
the Loan funds.
43.      Performance of Implementing Agencies.  Slow disbursement under the
project up the mid-1980's was partly caused by ineffectiveness of the
project implementing agencies, PLAN, INC and BROU. PLAN's credit promotion
and technical assistance deteriorated as its autonomy and its budget were
reduced. Its staff worked part time due to inadequate salaries, its
vehicles lacked spare parts and fuel to operate adequately, and the
technical package of improved pastures promoted by PLAN did not show the
permanency expected. The budgetary problems were somewhat alleviated with



- 11 -
the help of another Bank loan,15 but the lack of flexibility for
transferring funds between expense categories reduced the budget
effectiveness. INC also suffered from inadequacy of its budget and
training of its staff at the initiation of the project. There was also
resistance on the part of INC borrowers to vigorous interference by the
technical assistance agents.
44.      BROU's lending policies and operations may also have contributed
to slow disbursement under the project. Rural creditworthiness criteria
were cumbersome, emphasizing high collateral and guarantees rather than
future income prospects, subloans were approved annually rather than for
the entire period of the investment plans, the staffing of BROU's Project
Unit was inadequate and good coordination between BROU and technical
assistance staff was lacking. Lack of flexibility regarding guarantees
adversely affected smadl producers, as their subloans had to be guaranteed
by INC. The hardship of small farmers was somewhat relieved under the Loan
because the Government compensated BROU for any loss of income incurred due
to the default of any sub-borrower. This compensation was increased from
25X in 1980 of the loss to 65Z in 1986.
45.      Some of these problems were also addressed in the Agricultural
Sector Loan (Ln. 2468-UR).  In particular, the requirements regarding
creditworthiness were softened, BROU's credit assistance to multi-year
investments increased, and its staff's training in credit handling
improved.
46.      The recently-approved Second Agricultural Development Project
(Ln. 3131-UR) also addresses some of these implementation issues.
Technical assistance is to be provided more routinely provided by private
technicians and consultants; private bank participation is-included; and
subloan indexing, which can be based on PBPI, CPI or a US dollar cannot be
switched once chosen.
Proiect Results
47.      Introduction.  The results of the project, in terms of achieving
its objectives, were mixed. Direct assessment of results was not possible
due to lack of technical data; indirect indicators on the use of project
components were therefore used. Because the provision of credit for on-
farm investment was the most important component of this project (90Z of
project cost), it has been used as an indirect indicator of results. The
actual use of the credit component compared to its planned use at appraisal
is shown in Part III, Table 4. Four sets of results are obtained: (a) the
total actual level of investment was equal to or greater than the level
predicted at appraisal; (b) the level of investment fluctuated during
project execution; (c) the type of beneficiaries and the amount borrowed
were different from those predicted at appraisal; and (d) the types of
investment undertaken were different from those planned at appraisal.
48.      Subloans and Investments.  The total disbursed investment credit
(i.e., project cost for the credit component) was about or above the level
predicted at appraisal. A total of 3,020 beneficiaries were to undertake a
total investment of US$100.2 million at appraisal. The total investment
(project cost) by the end of 1987 was approximately US$74 million; which
when added to the sum of investment subloans prepared by PLAN during 1988
(of US$22.7 million) and the borrowers' contributions (of US$10.6 million),
15/ Agricultural Sector Loan, Ln. 2468-UR, PCR, November 17, 1988, p.17.



- 12 -
seemed to be close to or to exceed the predicted value. Investment and
borrowing levels were cyclical, with peaks during 1980-82 and 1986-88 and a
trough between 1983 and 1985. The use of credit was about US$9.5 million
per year during 1980-82 then fell to about US$2 million in 1983-85, before
recovering to US$16-22 million between 1986-88.
49.      The planned pattern of lending at appraisal was skewed toward
livestock and mixed crop/livestock producers. At appraisal, about two-
thirds of project beneficiaries (1,900) were meant to be livestock farmers
who were to borrow 32% of total project funds worth US$25.7 million, mainly
for investing in improved pastures. In practice, a quarter of the project
beneficiaries were livestock farmers who borrowed 26Z of the project funds
worth US$11.5 million by the end of 1987. Dairy producers were foreseen at
appraisal to be one-tenth of beneficiaries and to borrow 1OZ of project
funds. In practice, they represented about two-thirds of the beneficiaries
and borrowed 55Z of the project funds by the end of 1987. The proportion
of subloans borrowed by mixed livestock-crop farmers and by INC producers
was small. Mixed farmers only borrowed 152 of the appraisal estimate by
the end of 1984 and only 46% by the end of 1987. INC farmers only borrowed
17% of the Loan funds predicted at appraisal by the end of 1984 and none
thereafter.
50.      At appraisal, borrowing was planned to be about ''JZ for improved
pastures, livestock producers and mixed livestock-crop farmers. Actual
borrowing, as indicated by investment plans, was in line with the predicted
pattern up to 1984, but it changed in the latter half of project execution,
emphasizing borrowing for machinery and equipment.
51.      The variance between the planned and actual level and pattern of
borrowing was due to four main factors: (a) the effectiveness of the
improved pasture technology; (b) the profitability of investment; (c) the
Government policies and external effects; and (d) the institutional
support.
52.      The Effectiveness of the Improved Pasture Technology.  Although
the level of the investment undertaken was more or less as predicted, the
productivity of these investments was the subject of much debate. The
project was originally designed on the assumption that the improved pasture
technology was suited to Uruguayan conditions and had increased the
resistance and persistence of pastures which were to last for 20 years.
Later investigation, however, confirmed earlier warnings that the
technology has certain shortcomings under Uruguayan conditions and that
there are technical problems that reduce pasture persistence--which
typically last for only 3-4 years.16 This lack of persistence implies that
investments by livestock farmers had a lower rate of return than had been
predicted at appraisal.
53.      Investment by dairy producers, by contrast, was less affected by
the issue of pasture persistency due to quicker pasture rotation on dairy
farms, which is one of the reasons for dairy producers' higher thar.
anticapated participation in the project.
54.      The Profitability of Investment.  Low profitability of investment
is cited as another factor in explaining the cyclical and different pattern
of beneficiaries and subloan use. The level of investment was cyclical
partly due to low profitability of investment caused by low pic'ducer pzices
16/ Uruguay: Agricultural Sector Review 1988.



- 13 -
and high input costs during 1983-84. The price of steers and finished cows
fell by about half and by less for wool, while input costs, notably for
foot-and-mouth disease vaccines and fertilizers after 1982, either
increased or decreased by a lesser proportion than that of output prices.
The variation in input prices exceeded the proportion predicted (261) in
the analysis of the project viability at appraisal.
55.      The different pattern of beneficiaries and subloan use could also
be explained by investment profitability. Higher participation by dairy
producers was partly due to more stable and attractive farmgate
prices--although this was more important for the quota milk rather than for
industrial milk (Table 1 and 4, and Graph 6).
56.      Government Policies and External Effects.  Low profitability of
investment was, in part, related to poor economic policies and external
circumstances. Although the August 1978 reforms made structural
improvements in the incentives for the agricultural sector, these effects
were overwhelmed during the first half of the project's life by major
macroeconomic distortions. Inflationary pressures due to adverse
macroeconomic and financial policies during 1979-82 provoked serious
indebtedness and a major recession, and a partial reversal in policy
improvements; export taxes were introduced in 1983, administrative
guidelines on prices for live cattle were introduced, and licences to
export live cattle were denied. Producers also suffered a financial
squeeze as prices of land began to fall due to Government deflationary
policies, so they could no longer service their debts. These policies
adversely affected producers' expectations at the time when international
beef prices had also declined by 40X in real terms (between 1979-83) and
interest rates had risen. Significant improvements in policies and prices
after 1985 generated a surge in investment.
57.      Institutional Support.  The performance of the project
institutions was discussed in the previous chapter. The poor performance
of the extension services supported by the project, PLAN and INC. vis-a-vis
.other extension services could explain part of the differences in the
pattern of the subloan use. PLAN's operations and the motivation of its
staff suffered during the project's execution. The number of technical
assistance programs (only) was virtually c6nstan. (Annex I, Table 2); of
the combined credit and technical assistance programs, between 40-602 was
devoted to dairy farmers (Annex I, Table 3). INC staff underwent training
during the project, but the execution of the project ia early years, when
sub-borrower's demand was hib'-est, suffered because o. inadequate
preparation of the technical staff.
58.      BROU's performance has already been discussed.  In addition, the
lack of coordination of BROU's staff with that of an extension Tqrvices in
the field negatively affected the level of investment.
59.      Overall, the training and study tours supported unde; the project
did not significantly increase the effectiveness of the project executing
agencies, especially PLAN and INC, in promoting the technical package, and
did not bring about the institutional strengthening expected-
Sustainability
60.      Given the highly abnormal macroeconomic conditions which prevailed
in the first half of the project's life, which provoked the worst recession
in Uruguay's history, the achievements of the second half of the project



- 14 -
are of most importance. Demand for credit rose strongly as farmers
responded to the government's policy of resource allocation by market
forces, accompanied by good prices both for wool and beef. Project
authorities became acutely aware of deficiencies in the pasture technology,
and made major efforts to overcome them; the diagnosis of the problems was
used to prepare a research component in the follow-up project (Loan
3131-UR), designed specifically to overcome the problems. The project saw
the uptake of agricultural technology not foreseen at appraisal, as well as
that included in project design, catalyzed by macroeconomic policy designed
to remove major discrimination against the sector. This policy framework
remains in effect. Agricultural research has been restructured and
producers have more role in defining the research agenda, which should
stimulate a response to the problems with pasture technology. The follow-
up project also includes a liberalized approach to the provision of
technical assistance, emphasizing the private sector, and the inclusion of
other financial institutions besides BROU in the intermediation of
agricultural credit. External factors will also affect product and input
prices, and hence the incentives, as they have done in the past, but their
harmful influence can be lessened through well-managed Government policies.
Bank and Borrower Performance
61.      The project's objectives were similar to those of previous Bank-
supported livestock projects and included increasing production and exports
of livestock and dairy farmers mostly through promoting the use of improved
pastures. In addition, this project aimed to encourage the diversification
of production into mixed livestock/crop farms and to assist small farmers
re-orient their farming from crop to mixed crop/livestock undertakings.
62.      Bank performance during the project might have been improved if
several design and implementation issues had been considered more
thoroughly. At the design stage, the Bank sh,ild have carried out more
studies on the condition of small farmers and should have paid more
attention to the warnings expressed in earlier PPARs on pasture technology.
During implementation, several technical and financial aspects needed more
attention. On the technical aspects of the project, the status of pastures
on the farms of project beneficiaries needed more attention. On the
financial aspects, the Bank resisted changes in subloan indexing for a
year, but in the end gave in to pressures from the Government. By doing
so, the problem of negative real interest rates, which prevailed in the
previous Bank livestock projects, remained unsolved. The Bank, however,
was flexible in suggesting other solutions to increase Loan disbursement
which did have success.
63.      The performance of the Borrower's agencies in general, was weak.
The extension agencies, especially INC. suffered from inadequate budgets,
from poor training and motivation of their staff, and from inadequate
solutions to technical problems in the package they were promoting.
Project lending also suffered from an inadequate number of staff in BROU's
Livestock Project Unit, BROU's cumbersome lending procedures, and the lack
of coordination of its activities with the extension services.
Consultant Services for Studies
64.      The small farmer study initially envisaged under the project was
never realized. A long-term consultant was retained by the Agricultural
Machinery Division of PLAN to help provide training to staff. The bulk of
consultant services, however, was used for studies to prepare the new



- 15 -
project, which were undertaken after considerable delays in 3arly 1988
despite attempts to initiate them since 1986. These studies are listed in
Part III, Table 6D.
Project Documentation and Data
65.      The quality of the project data sent by the implementing agencies
was good. The PLAN sent regular Progress Reports which included
comprehensive data on the number and the type of beneficiaries and the
amount of the investment and subloans planned. BROU also provided Bank
missions with comprehensive data on the subluans granted. However, despite
several Bank requests, the data from these two institutions were not
combined to show the number of the sub-loans rejected. This lack of data
coordination has produced so,ne inconsistencies in the data presented to the
Bank. The PCR promised by the Borrower in the aide-memoire of the last
supervision mission was not received, but its Part II, provided after Parts
I and III were sent for its consideration, is included in this PCR.
Lessons Learnt
66.      Although it is still too early to evaluate this project fully,
some tentative results are available and some lessons can be learnt.
Results show that the total value of investment (credit) at Loan closing
was about the level predicted at appraisal. The credit was mostly taken up
by dairy farmers and not by livestock (beef and wool) producers, as was
expected under the project. The investments probably contributed to an
increase in net farm income as shown in Annex I, Table 6. The project did
not, however, lead to any increase in the total area of improved pastures,
which in fact declined during 1980-86. The reasons for the inadequate
performance of pastures were both technical and economic.
67.      The lessons learnt are, as follows:
(a) The Bank needs to proceed carefully at the design stage of
projects that rely on controversial technical packages. In the
case of this project, the problem was confirmed only at the
implementatiorn stage through an Agricultural Sector Review.
(b) Adverse Government policies and external conditions can distort
investors' incentives and jeopardize the viability of a project.
Although this project attempted to safeguaLd against adverse
policies through a Loan Covenant, which was reinforced later by a
sector loan, these did not mitigate the zyclical pattern of the
Loan disbursement.
(c) The fundamental issues of negative interest rates and relative
ineffectiveness of the financial intermediary needed to be solved
through long-term solutions. Short-term flexibility, as in the
case of subloan indexing, did not address the problem.
(d) More care should be taken in evaluating project implementing
agencies to ensure that their budgets, training and the motivation
of their staff are adequate. The use of alternative private
extension services, as now encouraged under Ln. 3131-UR, could
have increased project effectiveness.



- 17 -
PART II
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
68.         The present Project Completion Report on Loan 1831-UR differs from
that of previous projects.   On January 30, 1990 PLAN received the report
preparation guidelines, whereby it was to prepare Part II, which deals
exclusively with institutional relations. Throughout the project execution and
monitoring period, the PLAN Economics Division continuously compiled and sent
statistical information on the project to the Bank. These data, assembled by
PLAN as a basis for the final report, were used by the Bank to produce Chapters
I and III.
69.         The Agricultural Development Project (Loan 1831-UR) was approved on
April 15, 1980. The Loan Agreement, calling for a September 30, 1986 closing
date, was signed on April 22, 1980. At the Borrower's requect, however, the Bank
granted two extensions -- the first to December 31, 1987 and the second to
December 31, 1988 -- although the loan account was not closed until November 8,
1989.
70.         The deAays in disbursement did not stem from difficulties with the
Bank but were ca.ccG by Uruguay's internal problems, as clearly explained in
Chapter I of the re,:-rt, which is based in part on information provided by PLAN.
The following facton. figured prominently in those causes:
(a)   The pre-announced exchange  rate policy implemented by the BCU
triggerl.' exchange lags that began in March 1979 and which steadily
worsened. zulminating in an abrupt devaluation in November-December
1982.
(b)   The exchane-' lags resulted in a sharp drop in prices  for the
principal -igricultural commodities, measured in constant terms.
Between Januar:y 1980 (when the project started) and November 1982,
the prices for staples in the livestock basket did not rise, even
in current terms.   Some of the prices even fell.   As a result,
profitabilitv declined, thus discouraging investmient.
(c)   At the same time, the abrupt devaluation of November-December 1982
sharply increased the indebtedness accrued in previous years, since
most of the debt had been contracted or refinanced in dollars. This
further exacerbated the disincentives for investment in the sector,
in addition to the factors described in the preceding paragraph.



- 18 -
(d)   Moreover., PLAN was unable to sidestep the severe spending constraints
imposed by the government. Pursuant to Article 96 of Law 15,167,
the allocation for its 1981 operating expenses from the government
in office at the time amounted to N$30,070,000, a figure that
remained constant in current terms for the next two years -- during
which time there was concomitant inflation of about 53Z between
January 1981 and January 1983.
Along with monetary restrictions, the government imposed a draconian
fuel-savings program applicable to all public offices and still in
force today.
(e)   Under the program, fuel coupons were issued and even when supplies
were available PLAN's purchases were limited, thereby restricting
its rural activities.
(f)   These constraints made it very difficult for the PLAN Technical Team
to operate properly. They also sharply reduced the efficiency of
the extension service, owing to factors beyond PLAN's control.
(g)   In addition to the serious problems facing the establishments from
the mid-70s until the end of that decade, PLAN itself underwent many
changes, most of them counterproductive. The quality -- as well as
the quantity -- of its previously excellent technical service to the
producer declined. Even today, numerous technical problems in the
field have yet to be addressed.
Effective action is urgently needed in various areas to remedy this
state of affairs.
(h)   At the time the democratic government took office in 1985, increases
in some of the international prices for farm commodities exported
by Uruguay boosted producer prices.
(i)   At the same time, a clearcut agricultural policy was established
and remained in effect until the end of the project, instilling
confidence in the agriculture sector and heightening incentives for
on-farm investment.
(j)   These factors are clearly illustrated in Graph 1 of Annex 1, which
lists the subloans prepared by type, in thousands of current dollars.
In the same Annex, Graph 2 shows the pasture improvement programs
in hectares while Graph 3 depicts the number of programs prepared
by PLAN throughout the entire project execution period.
71.         The concessions granted by the Bank in response to requests from
the Borrower, which eased the impact of the problems described at the start of
this chapter, should also be highlighted.
The most important of those concessions were:



- 19 -
(a)   The introduction of the dollar index as the ceiling on producer
basket prices as of 1983.
(b)   The shift from the dollar index to the consumer price index as of
1986, also as the ceiling for producer basket prices.
(c)   The  combination  of  livestock  and crop  farming programs,  with
substantial financial incentives for producers in this category,
plus additional advantages in the items that could be financed under
this heading.
(d)   An increase in the percentage of the investment financed by the
Bank, which was raised from the initial 302, first to 50Z and later
to 65Z.
72.         All of these concessions were granted as a result of negotiations
initiated by the Borrower, at meetings attended by IBRD technical staff who were
thoroughly conversant with the difficult situation confronting the agriculture
sector at the time. This resulted in favorable amendments to the terms of the
loan agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
73.         Finally, invaluable assistance was provided by Bank technical staff
in identifying, preparing, implementing and monitoy:ing the project in the course
of the 31 missions sent by the Bank, as described in Table 8 in Chapter III.



- 21 -
PART III
STATISTICAL INFORMATIO
5



PART III
TABLES
Table 1: Releted Bank Loans for Arieculture 19W-1OS)
Total
Loan     Project                                         Coments
Approval/    Closing  Amount      Cost
Effective     Date/    (USS)       (US)
Project                      Date        Status  (million  (d;llion)       Types of Producers                 Components Financed
FIRST LIVESTOCK PROJECT
(Loan 245-UR)              12/29/69    6/30/1965   7.0         11.1     Sheep and Beef Cattle;             Improved Pasture Seed        Demostrated method
12/2/1960                       Livestock/Cropping; and            Fertilizer, Fencing          of pasture
Dairy Farms. 600 total,           Water Points, Building       improvement on
of which 500 would be             Materials (sheds, yards)   large number of cow
financed.                         Machinery for Farmers        successful farms.
Machinery for Contractors
Technical Assistance
Training
SECOND LIVESTOCK PROJECT
(Loan 407-UR)              02/23/65    6/30/1970   12.7        36.0     Sheep and Beef Cattle Farms.       As above, plus Livestock   As above.
12/28/1965                                   3,600 total, of which              Purchases.
2,600 would be financed.
THIRD LIVESTOCK PROJECT
(Loan 698-UR)              06/30/70    6/30/1973   6.3         13.1     Sheep and Beef Cattle Farms.       As above.                    As above.  Also
(First Tranche)            2/11/1971                                    Up to 3,000 total, of which                                     supported
about 2,000 may already have                                   Government program      r
earlier Plan lnvolvement under                                 of livestock
the First or Second Projects.                                  development for 1971
(Loan 773-UR)              06/10/71    12/31/1972  4.0         8.3                                                                      while Government
(Second Tranche)           10/18/1971                                                                                                   attended the sector
policies.
FOURTH LIVESTOCK PROJECT*
(Loan 816-UR)              04/26/72    3/13j1974   11.2       65.7      Sheep and Beef Cattle, Dairy,    As above, plus Dairy,          Financed Government
(First Tranche)            6/13/1972                                    Beef and Pork Production Units.  Beef and, Pork                 Livestock Program of
Up to a total of some 7,600       Production.                  1972 and 1973. As
(Loan 940-UR)              10/23/73    5/20/1977   13.5                 subloans (many expected to         Seed Production and          above but for 1974 A
(Second Trancho)           1/22/1974                                    be repeater subloans taken out   Processing.                    1975.
under the PLAN).
FIFTH LIVESTOCK PROJECT+
(Loan 1166-UR)             10/07/75    3/13/1981   17.0        30.4     Sheep and Beef Cattle; and         As above (with the
2/13/1976                                .  Dairy Forms.  Up to 5,200           exception of Pork
subloans including                Production).
repeaters.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR LOAN
(Loan 2468-UR)             8/28/84      9/30/1986   60.0       60.0     Indirectly through policy          General imports.
12/27/84                                     changes.
Total                                        131.7      213.6
e   The Fourth Project took longor than expected because of successive devaluation of Peso which reduced the required Bank Share in Peso terms.
Delays by Central Bank in claiming reimbursement from the Bank also reduced the Dollar disbursement becaus of Peso devalustion.
* Tho Project was two years behind of schedule because of the reasons under the fourth project and low information of beef prices.
Source: Uruguay Agricultural Sector Review, October 14, 1988, page 69 and aStatement of Loans', October 1989, pagos 475-79



- 24 -
Table 2: Proiect Timetable
Date                     Date                    Date
Item                    Planned                  Revised                  Actual
Identification                April 1977                                        March 1978
Preparation                   July 1978 1/                                      June 1979 2/
Appraisal Mission             April 1989               July 1979                October 1979 8/
Loan Negotiations             February 26, 1980                                 March 3, 1980
Board Approval                                                                  April 16,1980
Loan Signature                                                                  April 22, 1980
Loan Effectiveness            July 22, 1980                                     August 21, 1980
Loan Closing                  September 30, 1988       December 31, 1987        December 31, 1988
Loan Completion               March 31, 1988           December 31, 1988        December 31, 1988
1/   First Preparation Mission.
V/   Last Preparation Mission.
3/ Post Appraisal.
Table 8: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
FY81  FY82  FY83   FY84   FY86   FY88   FY87     FY88   FY89
----------------(US million ---- -------------------
Appraisal Estimate                    2.6   6.2   7.8    5.2    2.2
Cumulative                            2.8   8.8  16.6  21.8  24.0
Actual                                1.2   2.?   1.6    1.2    0.7    2.8    4.6       6.9    2.2
Cumulative                            1.2   3.9   5.6    6.7    7.4  10.0  14.6        20.4  22.8
Total                        7.8  21.6 e 1.6  34.9  34.3  12.8  19.0    26.8  24.8
Actual as percent of Est.imate (X)
Date of
Finol Disbursement: August 26, 1988



- 25 -
Table 4. Proiect Impl-mentatlon Schedule: On-Fare Investment Credit
Livestock     Mixed      Dairy     INC         Price
I.    Appraisal Estimates                 Forms       Farms      Farms     Forms      Contingency        TOTAL
No. of Sub-loans                     1,900        e00         300       200        ----           3,020
Lending by BROU 4 BANK             26,700      18,900       7,900      7,000       21,300       80,800
(USS '000)
Sub-Borrowers' Contributions        6,400       4,800       2,000      1,000        6,200       19,400
Total Investment (USS'000)         32,100      23,700       9,900      8,000       28,600      100,200
II.   Implementation as of
December 31. 1984
1. Planned Investments
a. No. of Plans                   999      1,010     1,989      ----      ----             3,998 !/
b. Loans Planned (USSI00O)      8,819      9,877    16,032      ----      ----            33,728 _/ c/
c. Sub-Borrowers
Contribution (US 00W)       4,009     4,863      7,324     ----       ----            15,997 d/
2. Subloans Granted
a. No. of Loans                 1,187        630     3,066      ----      ----             4,763
b. BROU & BANK !/ (US8'000)    7,083       2,890    14,067      ----      ----            24,030
8. Total Investment
(USS'000) f/                  11,092     7,663    21,881      ----       ----            40,027
III. Implementation as of
December 31, 1988
1. Planned Investments
a. No. of Plans                 2,693      2,670     6,604      ----      ----            11,867 !/
b. Loan Planned (USS 000)      20,622    22,498    39,510       ----      ----            82,628  c/ S/
c. Sub-Borrowers
Contribution (USSt000)      9,703    10,887    18,902      ----       ----            39,492 d/
2. Subloans Granted
a. No. of Loans                 2,020      1,076     6,415      ----      ----             8,610
b. BROU A BANK !/ (US8000)   12,619       9,629    28,997      ----      ----            49,046
3.  Total Investment Credit        22,222    20,416    46,899       ----      ----            88,637
!/   Includes 64 INC beneficiaries.
b    Includes US1161.2 thousand in loans to INC benoficiaries.
e/   Includes US89,299,160 for 1980 for which the number of loans and the breakdown into different farm
categories are not available.
d/   Estimated using tho ratio of sub-borrowers contribution during 1981-84 to loans planned during 81-84.
*/   Exchange rate used wos  mid period Peso/USS from IMF, International Financial Statistics for 1980-87 as
fol lows:
1980   1981    1982    1983    1984      1986    1986    1987    1988
N8P*rUSS      9 1   10.82   13.91   34.64   6. 12   101.43  161.99  228.67  369.44
f/   Tentative estimates as they include sub-loans grented (BROU and Bank shares and PLAN estimate of
sub-borrowors' shares.
g/   Includes only subloans financed by the project (Bsank A BROU) and not the ones financed lOOX by BROU
alone.
Source:  PLAN and BROU Progress Reports 1988-89 and SPR dated November 3, 1988.



- 26 -
Table 6: Prolect Costs and Financins
A. Prolect Costs
Appraisat  Ectimato                    Actual (Estimste)
Local       Foroign                    Local      For-ign
Item                             Costs    Exchan9o Costs   Total       Cost*    Exchango Costs    Total
---       (US$ million)--------
On-Farm Dovelopment 1/            88.0          40.7          73.7       PIU was unable to collect
Technical Services                 4.9           1.6           6.5       these data.
Foeedr Roado                       0.4           0.2           0.6
Contingencies                     14.2          16.0          30.2
TOTAL                           52.6          68.6         111.O
1/ Credit
Comments
The project was closed on Docember 31, 1988 and a balanco of USS3,461,699.01 was cancolled on
November 8, 1989.
B. Proloct Financing
Appraisal                                            Estimato
Sourco                   (Loan Agroeeont)       S          Rovised          X        Final           X
CUSe'W6)                     (US'00)                 (USS'006)
BRD                           24,000           22          24,660
1. Credit
- Subloans to
INC Settlers             2,88W           12    )
)    21,844 !/                20,712.8
-Subloons to                                      )
othor isrmero           16,800           70    )
2. Technical Assistance        1,100            6           1,1W6                      806.6
S. Technical Advisory S-rv.
Training A Studies          960            3            768                       768.1
4. Infrastructure                560            2             866                      272.7
6. Unallocated                 2,060            8             -6-                    1,461.6 k
Domestic
(a)  BROU                     67,606          6S
(b)  Sub-borrowers            19,400           18
TOTAL                       111,000          too         110,998.7
!/  The two sub-loan categories wore unified in January 7, 1988.
b/ Loan balance cancelled on November 8, 1989.



- 27 -
Table 6: Project Rosults
A. Direct Benefits
ApPrOiUal Estimate               Estimated at
Production               Without Project  With Project 1/    Closins Dote 3/
---------(100 tons)---------
Wheat                           7860            109.0
Sunflower/Soybean                8.8             31.0
Beef V                          61.0            108.0
Sheep                           10.6             23.0
iMilk                           60.0            129.0
Wool                             7.0             10.0
1/ Full development (1990).
J Live weight.
3/ No aggregat. data for the project's Impact Is available.
S. Financial ImDact
At Appraisal
Form Models
Model I n/ Model II b/ Model III S/ Model IV _/
------        -----(      s     )---   ------(USS-000)
Averagn  Form Size (he)                SOO         320           150           200
Investment Cost                         16.9        89.6          33.1          36.6
Subloan Amount                          13.5        31.6          26.5          31.8
Not Income
Without Project                          8.8         9.1           7.4           3.6
At Full Development */                  16.7        20.8          23.2          13.3
Incremental                              6.9        11.7          16.8           9.8
Relative Increase (X)                   78.0       129.0         214.0         280.0
Debt Service J                           3.2         6.5           5.6           6.6
Net Income After Debt Service 1/        12.6        14.3          17.6           6.8
Financial Rate of Return (%)            23          21            25            22
!/ Represents a 600-hn livestock form.
b/ Represents a 320-ha mixed farm.
S/ Represents a 150-ho dairy farm.
d/ Represents a 200-ha INC settlement developmnt form.
o Full development sill be reached In year 9 for model III and In year 10 for the rest.
!J At full development.



- 28 -
Table 6 (Continued)
C. Economic Impact
At Appraisal
Bank Price      Base Year
Components                         Forecasts        Prices
-----------(Z) ---------
Livestock Development                  22              24
Mixed Farm Development                 37              36
Dairy Farm Development                 26              29
INC Settlement Development             24              25
Total Project           26              28
=          ~~~==
Assumptions at Appraisal
(a)   Base year prices of inputs and outputs were assumed to change
according to Bank price forecasts where available (i.e., beef, wheat,
soybean, fertilizer and fuel); estimates assuming unchanged base year
relative prices are also shown;
(b)   Labor costs were evaluated at the on-going rates since rural
unemployment is practically non-existent;
(c)   Deductions were made for prevailing taxes and duties;
(d)   Incremental herd and flock va ues were credited to the project at the
end of the project period (20 years);
(e)   Costs of technical assistance, road construction and administration
(BROU) were charged to the project; and
(f)   A general Conversion Factor of 0.8 was assumed to derive border
prices.
It was not possible to make a reliable assessment of financial
performance of farm models or of economic impact of the project due to
lack of data, This was associated with a general decline in the
performance of PLAN as the main executing agency,



- 29 -
Table 6 (Continued)
D. Studies
Studies
"Consultants Report on Research of Pasture Stability in Uruguay".
September 1988, by Drs. G.W. Sheath, R.P. Pottinger and
I.S. Cornforth, New Zealand.
"Future Requirements for Increasing the Production and Profitability of
the Uruguayan National Sheep Flock", September 1988, by Dixon Wright and
Gerald Scales, ANZDEC LTD., Agricultural Consultants, Auckland,
New Zealand.
"Relevamiento de Pasturas Naturales y Mejoramientos Extensivos en Areas
Ganaderas del Uruguay", June 1987, FUCREA - Jackson Consultants,
Montevideo, Uruguay.



- 30 -
Table 7: Status of Compliance with Main Loan Conditions
Section of
Loan Agreement      Conditions Summary                           Status of Compliance
3.02 (a)            Central Bank to maintain a Livestock         In compliance.
Fund.
3.02 (f)            Central Bank to maintain separate            In compliance.
project accounts within the Livestock
Fund.
3.03                Banco de la Republica to maintain a          In compliance
separate department for the carrying
out of Part A of the project and of
its obligations with the Central Bank,
under a full-time manager assisted by
qualified staff.
3.04 (a)            INC to enter into contractual                In compliance.
arrangements with local Intendencias
to establish responsibilities,
functions and administrative
procedures in respect to carrying out
Part D of the project.
3.04 (b)            INC to: (i) establish and maintain a         Partial.  Only two technicians
3.06                special unit for the carrying out of         were left in the project area
the project; (ii) employ a qualified         (including the project
project coordinator and seven                coordinator).
qualified technicians; and (iii)             In compliance.
provide such special unit with all
necessary resources for its efficient
operation.
3.09 (a)            The Government (borrower) to ensure          In compliance with some delays.
the availability of tested foot-and-
mouth vaccines, and ensure that all
livestock of the farmers participating
in the project is vaccinated
periodically.
3.09 (b)            Comision and INC to: (i) prepare semi-       In compliance.
annual progress reports; (ii) furnish
to the Government and to the Bank such
progress reports within two months
from the end of each semester; (iii)
prepare annual evaluation reports on



- 31 -
the carrying out of the project; and
(iv) furnish to the Government and to
the Bank such evaluation reports
within four months from the end of
each year.
3.12                Comision and INC to prepare promptly         In default.  Despite various
after completion of the project, a           telexes and conversations held,
project completion report and submit         no PCR received yet.
it to the Bank within six months after
the closing date.
4.02                Government to provide Comision and INC       In compliance.
with all funds and resources necessary
to cover their operating and
administrative costs, and with
adequate facilities.
4.03 (a)            Government to ensure that roads              Partial compliance.  Project
constructed under Part D of the              accounts will be disclosed in
project are adequately operated,             financial statements and
maintained, renewed and repaired.            supplementary audit opinion
issued on these accounts.
4.04 (a)            (i) accounts referred to in Section          In compliance.
4.03 (a) to be audited yearly by
independent auditors; and (ii) audit
reports to be furnished to the Bank no
later than four months after the end
of each year.
4.04 (b)            (i) the accounts of the Livestock Fund       In compliance.
at Banco Central to be audited yearly
by independent auditors; and (ii) the
audit report to be furnished to the
Bank within four months after the end
of each year.
4.07                Banco Central to prepare quarterly           In compliance.  (No defaults
statements of source and application         reported).
of funds of the Livestock Fund, and to
furnish it to the Bank no later than
30 days after the end of each quarter.
The Government to compensate Banco de
la Republica for 652 of any loss in
income incurred due to default of any
subborrwer in the payment of principal
or interest. (as per amendment to the
Loan Agreement on February 13, 1986).



- 32 -
Table 8: Us. of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of
Pro3ect Cycle      FY77  FY78  FY79  FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY86  FY88  FY87  FY88  FY89  TOTAL
Through Apprailal 0.56   0.67   23.72                                                                           24.84
Appraisal                        13.75  82.06                                                                   76.81
Negotiations                             8.31                                                                    8.81
Supervision                              2.73  5.24   14.67  5.82   10.8   11.40  8.13   7.26   6.92   5.22   75.78
Total                                                                                                184.74



- 33 -
Table 8 (Continued)
S.  missions
No. of           Days      Sp.c'allzations
Date       Fersons        in field       Represented
(mo. /yr.)
Through Appraisal
1.    Identification !/             03-04/77        1              16             (f)
2.    Identification/
Preparation                 07-08/77        3              10 _/
S.    Identification/
Proparation                 10/78           1              ?              ---
4.    Identification/
Preparation                 03/78           2              7              (b)
6.    Preparation                   07/78           1               3            ---
6.    Preparation                   08/78           1               6             ---
7.    Preparation                   09/78           1               3
8.    Preparation                   11/78           1               6
9.    Preparation d/                02/79           8               9 c-
10.   Preparation                   03/79           2               6            ---
11.   Preparation                   05/79           3              10  -/
Appraisal Through
Board Approval
12.   Appraisal f/                  06-07/79        6              16 2/
13.   Post Appraisal h/ 1/          09/79           2               7 i/
Board Approval Through
Effectiveness
14.   Supervision/Operation        06/80            2              6 k/
16.   Operations                   06/80            1               1             (f).
16.   OperatIons                   07/80            1              4             (g)
-/     Also an operation mission, May 18-19, 1977; (f).
b/     One person, 5 days.
;/     One person, 6 days
d/     Also an operation mission, Feb 18-20,79; (f).
e/     One person, 6 days.
f/     Also an operation mission, July 23-30,79, (g); Augusit 20-24, 79; (4).
a/     One pelson, 8 days.
h/     Also an operation mission, Sept. 13-21; (f).
;/     Operation miasion, Oct. 28, 79, (9); Feb. 8, 80; (f).
i/     One person, 3 days.
k/     One person, 2 days.
Key to Specialization:
(a) = inanclal analyst; (b) m economist; (c) * agriculturalist; (d) = livestock specialist.
(.) = agricultural economist; (f) = Loan Officer; (g) = Division Chief; (h) = Lawyer
Key to Performance:
1 = problem-free or minor problems; 2 = moderste problems; 3 = major problems;
4 = major problems, objectives sill not be met.
Key to Ty." of Problems:
F = financial; i = managerial; T = T = technical; P a political.



- 34 -
Table 8B, Missions (Continued)
No. of           Days        Specializations    Performance   Type of
Date      Persons         in field        Represented         Ratino      Problems
(mo ./yr.)
,~~~~~~~~~~~~., ./ r.
Board Approval Through
Effectiveness
17.  Supervision  1          12/80           1               4              (d)                       (2)         (PTM)
18.  Supervision  2 1/       04-05/81        1               9              (d)                       (2)         (OFP) !/
19.  Supervision  3 m/       12/81           2              12              (d) (b)                   (2)         (OFP) a/
20.  Supervision  4 n/       07/82           1               6              (d)                       (2)         (OFP) !/
21.  Supervision  6          12/82           1               6              (o)                       (2)         (OFP) b/
22.  Supervision  6          06/83           1              5               (d)                        _            _
23.  Supervision  7          12/83           2              10              (d) (s)                   (2,         (0) S/
24.  Supervision  8          10-11/84        1               7              (a)                       (2)         (FMP)
26   Supervision  9          04/85           2               9              (a) (c)                   (2)         (FMP)
28.  Supervision 10          01/88           2               8              (a) (c)                   (2)         (MO) S/
27.  Supervision 11          10/88           2              10              (a)                       (2)         (MF)
28.  Supervision 12          12/87           2              10              (e) (d)                    -
29.  Supervision 13          03/88           1              12              (o)
30.  Supervision 14          07/88           2               6              (a) (i)                    -            -
31.  Supervision 16          10/88           1               7              (b)                       (2)         (MT)
I   Also operation mission, July 28-Aug. 3, 81; (d)
m/  Also operation mission, May 81, 82; (f)
n/ Also operation mission, Aug. 30, 82; (h); Nov. 30, 82; (f).
Key to Specialization:  (a) * financial analyst; (b) a economist; (c) a agriculturalist; (d) c livestock specialist.
(o) = agricultural economist; (f) r Loan Officer; (g) a Division Chief; (h) = Lawyer.
(i) a project advisor
Key to Performance:       1 = problem-free or minor problems; 2 = moderate problem*; a - major problemn;
4 = major problems, objectives will not be met.
Key to tyge of Problems: F = financial; M = managerial; T = technical; P = political; 0 = Other
!/  Indexing problem
b/  Government sectoral policy
c/  Normal conditions



- 35 -
ANNEX I
Table l
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 1831-UF)
Investment Plans by Type, 1980-88
(L'S 5)
WATER                                                                          8ENEFI-       TOTAL
YEAR       FENCING POINTS    CATTLE           SHEEP    PASTURES MACHINERY  OTHERS   LOAN             CIARIES    INVESTMENT
TOTAL        4709715   3729740    8264354   I7O0T1?   21386750   3324321    44034    5           8    34235   122025147
196M-        1208202    477722    2020539    507921    2703701   1478533   1390O    226h    1   10407254    33293917
1"8-le       6596484    350720    1261371    26684        196394    3347916    S1346    8421790    4IS2105    12573896
19M-2o       548516    327002       739168    41073       739797   10830617      3692   14264471    6455151    20720021
198-T        619777    500181    2767085    371194    2133069    6931381   12715   14598                6410255    21404123
1987-        336504    226357    135938?    249933    1649787    22?4214    689084    6790646    3112413             9917729
1967-20      283273    27324    1407696    121261          463282    4657167    582101    703220    349842    11486394
19"6-t       4062"    379347        867169    154451    1357927    3409051    724620    7294531    3697281    1096138
16-let       233028    248420       448645      70633    1215278    171733       359324    4292665    2327950        6620614
1986-20       13270    130928       418524      83819      142449    1691713    365295    3001866    139332          4375523
1985-T        156784    297769      268029    18s539       502919    1"6105    810477    42250          2380275      6606064
1985-Is       60954      5310      112109      39832      368567      296702      61459     992053      610057      1W02111
1t5-20         95830    262459      155640    146807       134352    1609403    749010    3233755    1770218         5003913
19 84-        10063      50210      265732      2S314      648214      382971    148344    1621546    1005353        2626981
1ss4-te       64         4074?      221600      10213      625014      282874    102360    1371107       829536      2200643
194-20         125"       9531       "132       is5o1       23200      100102     45986      250441      175617       426258
193-T        235524    1769         289395      56831    2084156       623072    325233    376090    2066493         5647591
1983-sv       10.66      59063      183383      23307    1452696       299120    154579    22863?    1240643         3533306
293-2          94556    119611      106012      33524      631462      323944    1606454    14933        81750       2314265
1962         678194    473381       566047      50741    4786517    1980159   1252425    979513    4735347    14530831
2961         676966    526565       5t4395    223162    2844903    2141678   2232535    9230u9    404124            13271689
16            627136    645771      635964    118294    432342    1651164   1295486    929160    4148733    13441593
Source:    'Proyecto  1831-tR.  Informe  Final  Correspondiente  a  1988",  Economic
Division. Plan Agropecuario, April, 1989.



_ 36 -
ANNEX I
Table 2
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 1831-UR)
Number of Programs Prepared
(1980 - 1987)
YEAR    Technical Assistance        Credit Assistance       TOTAL
1980             515                      1756              2271
1981             560                      1201              1761
1982             583                      1418              2001
1983             555                       895              1450
1984             568                       484              1052
1985             455                       627              1082
1986             539                      1098              1637
1987             628                      1721              2349
Source:  ' royecto 1831-UR, Informe Final Correspondiente a 1987', Economic
Division, Plan Agropecuario, April, 1988.



- 37 -
ANNEX I
Table 3
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 1831-UR)
Credit Assistance Programs
u1strioution ov Farm ivD,e
YEAR     LIVESTOCK      DAIRY       OTHER      TOTAL
(Z)         (2)         (2)        No.
1980          30         40          30        1756
1981          25         46          29        1201
1982          26         48          26        1418
1983          27         50          23         895
1984          20         63          17         484
1985          19         58          23         627
1986          23         55          22        1098
1987          19         62          19        1721
'Proyecto 1831-UR, Informe Final Correspondiente a 19870, Economic
Division, Plan Agropecuario, April. 1988.



- 38 -
ANNEX I
Tablo 4
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rolative Evolution of Input and Output Prices
(1978-1987)
Dec. 1976      198       1981    1982     1988      1984     198S      1986     1987
PRODUCT
Finished Steers MS/Kg               1W1.e      84.7    65.J    61.7      69.8     99.9     84.6      94.4     114.3
Finished Cows NI/Kg                 109.6      78.5    48.9    87.0      58.6     97.7      79.5    9W.7      107.8
Wool 8/1 NI/lOkg                    1oo.9      62.1    46.2    56.8      84.4     96.9      85.9     59.8      79.1
Industrial Milk NI/Kg               Lee.9      70.6    70.C    66.6      76.7     72.1     88.8      65.6      68.7
Quote Milk NS/Kg                   1W.O       98.8   98.2    98.0       97.8     98.1    192.0      96.6      88.8
Wheat N9100 Kg                      10W.9      92.8   86.1    76.2       85.8     91.0      99.7     89.1      67.4
Sunflower N9110  Kg                 111.6      39.9    88.0    32.8    68.6       82.6      75.6     89.2      36.9
INPUTS
Diesel Fuel NS/Liter                1SO.O    121.4   114.7   110.8    189.3    176.7    204.2    183.7        149.9
W  Tractor                          111.9      68.7    69.8    68.7    104.5      74.4      76.6     78.4      80.0
Fencing Wire 17/16 NI/Roll          111.6      68.9    61.9    67.S      90.8    193.0    127.0    108.4      125.1
Superphospate NI/102Kg              11.9       95.8    84.1    76.4    118.7    106.1      99.4      86.4      88.9
Foot end Mouth Veocine NI/100c      100.0    165.0   147.6   132.6    158.9    221.4    226.6    168.7        160.9
Parasite Control NI/Kg              100.0      98.9    90.8    89.0    126.0    102.6       87.4     62.2      67.3
Dolry Rations NI/Kg                 111.9      98.9    75.4    79.1      98.4    104.9      98.9     82.2      85.7
Laborer NI/month                    100.9    86.9   86.0    84.0         69.1     86.8     79.6      77.7      81.6
Source:  *Proyecto 1831-UR, Infora Final Correspondiento a 1987?, Economic
Division, Plan Agropecuario, April, 1988.



- 39 -
A!,!,  I
Table  5
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Evolution of Areas Under Improved Pastures
('000 ha)
Annual Planting                      Cumulative   Depreciation!l   Existing    'mlroved
Financed by   FLnan,ced by   Total Annual        Total                         Impruved   Pasture in
PLAN         Producers        Increment                                     Pastures   Ptodu.t;.
Be turo   : -c .                                                   128                            129
1Iol               13               5               18             146             10             136           128
1462               14              10               24             170             11             149.          130
14o3               21              11               32             202             12             169           149
190.               36              32               68             270             14             223           169
19e5               51              40               91             361             18             296           223
14o6                75             55              130             491             24             402           296
1967               80              65              145             636             32             515           402
19od              150              75              225             861             41             699           515
1969              120              80              200           1,061             56             843           699
1970              110              50              160           1.221             67             936           843
1971              234              36              270           1.493             75           1.131           936
1972              183             137              320           1.811             90           1,361        1.131
1i73              206             102              308           2.119            109           1.560         1.361
1974              116             166              282           2,401            203           1.639         1.560
1975                37             64              101           2.502            230           1.510        1.639
1976               43              44               87           2,89            227           1.370         i.13
1977                54             41               95           2.684            274           1.191         1.370
19/8                44             47               91           2.775            238           1,044         1.191
19t9               81             189              270           3,045            209           1.105        1.044
1980               31             151              182           3.227            221           1,066         1.105
1961                 5            134              139           3,366            267             938         1,066
1982               61              79              140           3.506            235             843           938
19S3                39             80              119           3.625            211             751           843
1;-.                23             74               91           3,722            188             600           751
1935                17             93              110           3.832            lb5             605           6v
1 i. o                                                                                                         605
Source: 'Uruguay: Agricultural Sector Review", Annex II. p. 80.
Nov. 14. .988.



- 40 -
ANNEX I
Tab:e 6
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Net Farm Income of Livestock Production
(NUS per ha)
Beef                  Sheegmeat and Wool                      Milk
Traditional   Improved        Traditional   Improved         Traditional    Improved
Technology   Technology       Technology   Technology        Technology    Technology
Gross Value of Production        8.003        10.877            6.044         9,118             19.948        41.439
Direct and Indirect Costs        4,225         5.110            4,360         5.611             20,341         33.492
Net Incone                       3.778         5.767            1.884         3.50)               -393          7.947
Source:    'Uruguay : Agricultural  Sector  Review',  Annex  II.  p.  106,
Nov. 14, 1988.



- 41 -                            A';';-:
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Subloans Prepared, by Type
(1980-88)
Fenses and      Livestock        Pastures         Machinery          Others
Waterooints
rOOO OF CURRENT USS
1 6000-
14000 t
12000
10000                                                                        /
8000 
6000/
4000-
2000
1980  1951  1982  1953  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988
I/ First Semester                                                              YEAR
Source: Economic Division - Plan Agropecuario



- 42-                             w:ar  2
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Evolution of Pasture Improvement Programs Prepared by Plan Aeropecuario
(1980-87)
2/                  3/                 4/
HECTARES
'I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
_- ,,*.-
1;8K     1981    1952    1983    1984    198Q             18-6    198.
I/ Fertilization of natural pastures
21 Sod seeding and oversewing, replacing part of natural pastures
3/ Improved pastures establishment
4/ Refertilization of all previously improved pastures
Source: Economic Division - Plan Agropecuario



- 43 -                             A.- -:
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Nunrber of Programs Prepared by the Plan Agropecuario
(1980-87)
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                 CREDIT ASSISTANCE
NUMBER OF PROGRAMS
1600
1400
1200
1000
800 
600 
400
200
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
YEAR
Source:  Economic Division - Plan Agropecuario



AN':-X :
Gra-h 4
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Live Cattle Prices
(1978-87)
STEERS                           COW
t80 N$/KG                                          -
160 /
140 .
120 -..
100
80
60
40
20
0    .          * .     * .     * .     * .  ,  .
DIC78   1980   1981    1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
YEAR
Source: Economic Division - Plan Agropecuario



AN'EX .
Grap1h 5
- 45 -
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Wool Prices
(1978-87)
8000 N$/I  KG
8000
2000
1000
01C78   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
YEAR
Source: Economic Division - Plan Agropecuario



- 46 -                          AN TE v
Graph 6
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Milk Prices
(1978-87)
Industrial                 Quota
50 N$/Liter
45
40
30
25
20
15         I   .   * I      I       I       I        I       I   .  ....*
DIC78   1980   1981    1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
YEAR
Source:  Economic Division - Plan Agropecuario



47 -                          AtNEX I
Graph 7
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Wheat and Sunflower Prices
(1978-87)
WHEAT                         SUNFLOWER
_... ....
N/1 00 KG
loomo
4000.
3OW
7000 *                      '-' 
DI0078    I980   1Q81   1982    1983   1984   1985    1986   1987
YEAR
Source: Economic Division - Plan Agropecuario



- 48 -                          ANNEX 1
Graph 8
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fertilizer Prices
(1978-87)
SUPERPHOSPHATE
4     Nt/Ton.
38000
32000
28OW\
26000
22000
20000    *     .    I    . _I   *          *   '  *   ' I    
DIC'78   1980   1981    1982   1983   1984   1285   1986   1987
YEAR
Source: Economic Division - Plan Agropecuario



- 49 -
ANN-v n
Graph 9
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Diesel Fuel Prices
(1978-87)
N$/Liter
140
130
120
110
0100
90
so 
70
60
50
40    .    g   *   I   *   I           *   I     .  I   * 
DIC7a   1980   1981    1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
YEAR
Source: Economic Division - Plan Agropecuario



- 50 -.
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMEN7 PRC2 ECT
H.P. Tractor Prices
(1978-87)
sm   N$/H.P.
75OW -
70000_
55000
50000
45000
40000
35000
3000            *   .    *        *   .        *      .    ,   .    ,  .
DIC'78   1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
YEAR
Source: Economic Division - Plan Agropecuario



- 51 -                           ANNEX 1
Graph 11
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Wage Rates
(1978-87)
LABORER N$/MONTH
N$/MONTH
18000  ' 
17000
15000.A
14OW 0
1300
12000
11000.
100           *    !               *        t  .  I  .  I   .   I
.ww
DIC'78   1980   1981    1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
YEAR
Source: Economic Division - Plan Agropecuario



t$tBeIIa Unids         B   Sr ~ IL                                      54.        URUGUAY
I               xella Uniy    \ W  B R A Z i L                                 AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
/   rtigas                                                          PROJECT 11
&kli                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Areas oF forest priority
V                                                     0  8   /  ;                            -2  M ain roads
ARGENTINA                                                                                                              S /  --Secondary roads
j  /~~~~~~                       775~~~~~~Riers
'QConstitucidn    i:'-71                  ---4-    5 j  .                                        Bridges
,,Onsiuci                  -                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Airports
if                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ports
/                                                              -  ^ gft   \)%  v ................. - Department boundories
.4.                      'N                                                                    . . . \-.-International boundaries
-JR | I       F   A         \           K.io,ese- o    20  4D0  f0   s   lO0
.    Ta ua  Vicder  Miles 0   20      40      60
Tacuorem                                  0Vich6dero
-32-                   __edrPAYoSAN32L
Sornnt           G FANO  ra                                        _ 
R I 0                                    c~~~tInt    e      AIAII L    CFAR G   RortoEnco             mt,
N E G NTE d L       nideo d
~~Puntad.lE   ntot T
55                                 5~~~~~ 



I
I



