Document of
The World Bank                  FILE C01 I
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2779a-UR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 27, 1980
Regional Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(December 10, 1979)
US$1.00          =        NUr$ 8.35
NUr$ 1.00        =        US$0.120
NUr$ 1 million  =         US$120,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectares (ha)                      10,000 m2  =  2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)           =         0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)  =          0.39 sq. miles = 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)            =         2.20 pounds
1 litter (1)               =         0.26 gallons
1,000 kg = 1 metric ton   =          0.98 long ton
GOVERNMENT OF URUGUAY
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Glossary of Abbreviations
ARU            Rural Association of Uruguay
BCU            Central Bank of Uruguay
BROU           Bank of the Republic East of the Uruguay River
CIAAB          Agricultural Research Center "Alberto Berger" (La Estanzuela)
CIDE           Inter-Ministerial Commission for Economic Development
CIVET          Veterinary Research Center
CHPA           Honorary Commission for the Agricultural Plan
CKO            Comission for Ovine Improvement
CONAPROLE      National Dairy Products Cooperative
CONEAT         National Commission for Land Agro-economic Studies
CREA           Regional Centers for Agricultural Trials
DIEA           Directorate of Agricultural Economics Studies
DINACOSE       National Directorate for the Comptroller of Livestock Numbers
EEC            European Economic Community
FAO            United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization
FG             Livestock Fund
FRU            Uruguayan Rural Federation
FUCREA         Uruguayan Federation of Regional Centers for Agricultural Trials
IAIAS          Inter-American Institute of Agricultural Sciences
INAC           National Beef Institute
INC            National Settlement Institute
LAFTA          Latin-American Free Trade Association
MAP            Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
MEF            Ministry of Economy and Finance
OPYPA          Office for Agricultural Planning and Policy
PLAN           Agricultural Plan
SEPLACODI      Secretariat for Planning, Coordination and Information
SERPA          Economics and Registration Office of the Agricultural Plan
SIL            International Wool Secretariat
SUL            Uruguayan Wool Secretariat
[ This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ....................        ...1.......... 
A.   Major Characteristics ..............................               1
Background ................     ..1.................. 
Sector Composition and Production Trends    ......          1
Productivity ..................................             2
Resource Endowment and Farm Size ..............             3
Economic Policies ..... ..............                      4
Marketing and Prices .....         .....................    5
Exports ........... ..................                      6
Taxation    ......................................          6
B.   Agricultural Services ..............................               6
Extension ...... ................                           6
Education and Research ..... .............                  7
Rural Settlement .... ..................                    8
C.   Agricultural Credit ................................               8
D.   Performance Under Previous Projects ................9 
Gcneral ......................................              9
Institution Building ........... ..         .............    10
OED's Project Performance Audit Report ........    10
II.   THE PROJECT             .............................................    11
A.   Introduction .......................................    11
B.   Brief Description ..................................    11
C.   Detailed Features           ..................................    12
Project Area ......         ............................    12
On-farm Development .....         ......................    13
Technical Services and Training ............       ...    16
Feeder Road Construction ..................       ....    16
D.   Project Cost ......       .................................    17
E.   Financing             ..........................................  18
F.   Procurement .......      ..................  . . .........    19
G.   Disbursement .......................................    19
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission (Messrs. M.
Ballesteros, G. Soto, J. Glenn and F. Miyanaga (Bank) and M. Rossi (Consultant)),
which visited Uruguay in June/July 1979, and a post-appraisal mission (Messrs.
Ballesteros and Miyanaga) in September 1979.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
III.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..........  ................ . . . . . .           21
A.    Organization and Management .........   * ..............            21
B.    Policies and Procedures Under the Lending Program ..                22
C.    Accounts and Audit ............. . ..  ......................    24
D.    Monitoring and Evaluation   ..........................              24
PLAN Farm/Ranch Development   ...................    24
Rehabilitation of INC Colonies ................    25
E.    Progress Reporting  .......    ..........*...........**....         25
IV.    TECHNICAL COFFICIENTS ........... . ..................... .    25
V.    PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES ..........                 .........       27
A.   Production ........................................                  27
B.  Markets and Prices ..# .              ......... ...   27
Beef ...........   .       ...............................    27
M,ilk ............................................ s .o...... ...    28
Wool and Mutton ............      ...................         28
VI.    FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ......................................    29
A.    Sub-borrowers'  Benefits and Financial Rates of Return    29
B.    Project Cash Flow ...        .................................    32
VII.   ECONOMICANALYSISANDJUSTIFICATION ..................                        32
A.   Economic Analysis. .                     ..................          32
Rate of Return   .                    .32
Sensitivity Analysis ..          .     ..............        33
B.   Project Justification ..............................    34
Economic Policy, Production and Exports .......               34
Income Distribution               ........                   34
Fiscal Revenues                  ... 35
C.   Project Risks ................................                       36
D.   Environmental Impact ............. .............                     36
VIII.    SUMMARY OF AGREENENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ... .....    37



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
ANNEXES
1      Rehabilitation of INC Settlements ....................       ....    39
Table - Farm Size Distribution in the
INC Colonies Included in the Project .....    48
Chart - INC Organizational Chart .................      ..    49
2      The Banking System and Agricultural Credit ... ..           .....     50
T.1   - Income and Expenditure Statement of BROU
(year ended December 31) ... ...............    54
T.2   - Balance Sheet of BROU (as of December 31)              55
Chart - Organization Chart for Bank of the
Republic East of the Uruguay ....        .......    56
3      Indexing of Project Subloans ............ ..         ..............    57
4      Supporting Tables and Chart
T.1   - Gross Output of the Livestock Sector,
1965-76 .62
T.2   - Area, Yield and Production of Selected
Crops, 1970-77 .63
T.3   - General Information on the Rural Sector,
1970 .64
T.4   - Beef Exports by Destination, 1970-77 .65
T.5   - Performance Under Previous Projects:  Number
and Volume of Loans by Size of Farm.               66
T.6 - Project Cost  . .67
T.7  - Technical Services Project Costs            ..          68
T.8  - Feeder Road Construction - Cost Estimates               69
T.9  - Estimated Project Cost and Phasing                      70
T.10 - Technical Coefficients   .              .71
T.11  - Farmgate Prices for Agricultural Products              72
Farm Model I: 500-ha Beef Cattle/Sheep Ranch
T.12 - Projected Land Use    .               .73
T.13 - Herd Projection.                                        74
T.14 - Flock Projection   .                .75
T.15  - Investment Cost Projection.                            76
T.16  - Sales and Operating Costs Projection .77
Farm Model II: 320-ha Crop/Beef Cattle/Sheep Farm
T.17 - Projected Land Use                  . .78
T.18 - Herd Projection    .                .79
T.19 - Flock Projection   .                .80
T.20  - Investment Cost Projection.                            81
T.21  - Sales and Operating Costs Projection  ..               82



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
Farm Model III: 150-ha Dairy Farm
T.22  - Projected Land Use        .........................   83
T.23  - Herd Projection .... .. ..... . . .  ....................... .    84
T.24  - Investment Cost Projection .................    85
T.25  - Sales and Operating Costs Projection .......   86
Farm Model IV: 200-ha INC Settlement Crop/
Dairy/Sheep Farm
T.26 - Projected Land Use ............. .............   87
T.27 - Herd Projection .............. ...............   88
T.28 - Flock Projection ......... . .................... .    89
T.29 - Investment Cost Projection        ..................   90
T.30 - Sales and Operating Costs Projection ........   91
Farm Cash Flow
T.31 - Model I:  500-ha Livestock Farm .............   92
T.32 - Model II:  320-ha Mixed Farming  .     .93
T.33 - Model III:  150-ha Dairy Farm ............. ..   94
T.34 - Model IV:  200-ha INC Settlement Farm ..          95
T.35 -BROU Project Cash Flow ................     * .....   96
T.36 - Economic Rate of Return Calculation .... .....   97
MAP       -    IBRD 14493 - Major Project Areas and INC Colonies
Included in the Project



URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Major Characteristics
Background
1.01      Uruguay has a population of about 2.8 million, growing at about
0.8% per year; per capita income in 1978 was US$1,610. About 90% of the
population is urban, with greater Montevideo (the Departments of Montevideo
and Canelones) accounting for almost three-fifths of the total. About
two-fifths of the total population is economically active, one of the
highest rates for any country in South America. Some 51% of this active
population is employed in the services sector, about one-half of it in the
public sector. Industry absorbs 29%, and agriculture 20%.
1.02      Agriculture plays a fundamental role in Uruguay.  Although this
sector accounts for only about 15% of GDP, agricultural products in various
stages of processing represent nearly 90% of total merchandise exports. The
importance of agriculture in Uruguay's external trade reflects basic under-
lying characteristics of the country such as relative abundance of land suit-
able for agriculture and grazing, a small population, and a lack of known
mineral resources.
Sector Composition and Production Trends
1.03      The agricultural sector of Uruguay consists of two well-defined
and geographically separate subsectors: livestock and crops. Livestock
accounts for 60% to 70% of agricultural output and consists primarily of
extensive cattle and sheep raising; dairy, swine and poultry farming are
still relatively minor enterprises. The crop subsector is dominated by
cereals, mainly wheat; in recent years, however, the dynamism to the
subsector has been provided by two new types of activities; rice growing
in the central-eastern part of the country, and fruit, mainly citrus and
grapes, in the central-western area.
1.04      Physical, climatic, economic and social factors have combined
to give Uruguay a comparative advantage in livestock production which has
historically dominated, and is expected to continue to dominate, agricultural
activity. Extensive areas of shallow or very shallow soils best suited for
pasture; a predominant prairie-type vegetation; and a relatively homogenous
temperate climate which facilitates improved pasture grass and legume develop-
ment and adaptation of most of the recognized livestock breeds for production
of beef, milk, and wool have resulted in the predominance of the livestock
subsector over crops.



- 2 -
1.05      The fact that 90% of the country's area is well suited to native
or improved pasture production, while only a much smaller proportion of the
soil is suitable for cropping, is the principal factor behind the comparative
advantage of livestock over farming. This advantage is accentuated by the
high irregularity of precipitation, with wide variations around the yearly
average of 1,000 mm, which poses a more serious risk to agricultural crop
development than to livestock. This risk, however, can be lessened by a
livestock-crops rotation as recommended in the technological package of the
proposed project. This rotation incorporates the use of a minimum cost
fertilization package, basically phosphorous, which stimulates plant growth.
This mineral is particularly important to allow for legume production, which,
in turn, increases the nitrogen reserves of the soil. The nitrogen build-up
after a four- to five-year period in legume-grass pastures provides the basis
for crop production with minimum levels of nitrogen fertilization.
1.06      Livestock production in Uruguay has shown sharp fluctuations over
the past 15 years. Thus, the late 1960s saw a significant growth (an annual
rate of about 6.3%) but some of this ground was lost in subsequent years,
primarily as result of cyclical changes in international prices and, in part,
because of unfavorable price-cost relationships resulting from adverse economic
policies (para 1.12). For the period as a whole, livestock production has
remained basically unchanged (Annex 4, Table 1). Beef is the principal
livestock sector product. Annual production is about 350,000 to 400,000 tons,
of which 50% to 60% is consumed domestically and the rest is exported. Wool
production is about 60,000 tons per year, and 90% is exported. About 100,000
tons of mutton are produced annually and the bulk is locally consumed. Milk
production stands at about 700,000 tons; exports of dairy products such as
cheese and powdered milk have been increasing recently and represent about 4%
of total milk production.
1.07      During the past 15 years there has been an increase of about 25% in
crop production basically due to increases in fruit and sugar-bearing crops
(cane and beets) (Annex 4, Table 2). There has been little change in the
aggregate production of grains, by far the largest component of traditional
crop production. A significant change has occurred, however, in the composi-
tion of grain production, with a decrease in wheat production at a rate of
about 2% per year, and an annual increase in rice at about 8%. Wheat produc-
tion currently hovers around the self-sufficiency level of about 400,000 tons
per year; during the past three years, however, annual imports of 110,000 tons
to 220,000 tons have been necessary to make up for production shortfalls due
largely to adverse weather. Rice, on the other hand, has expanded rapidly in
the center-east of the country, outside the traditional cropping areas; rice
exports have more than doubled in the past six years to about 130,000 tons.
Rice has become the third largest export commodity, after beef and wool.
Productivity
1.08      Uruguayan agriculture is predominantly extensive, with yields that
are substantially below those obtained in countries with a similar natural
resource endowment. The adoption of relatively intensive production techniques



- 3 -
based on pasture improvement has been limited by the unfavorable economic
position of the sector. Improved pastures, introduced in the early 1960s,
reached a peak level of 12% of total grazing land in 1973, but the low price
of cattle in subsequent years resulted in a reduction of this proportion to
8.5% in 1977, as previously improved pastures were overgrazed in an attempt by
producers to wait out the low prices, and little refertilization was practiced
due to poor benefit/cost relationships. The resulting limited carrying
capacity of unimproved land in the livestock sector (less than one animal unit
per ha), is reflected in low production of beef per hectare at 45 kg/ha which
is only 56% of the level reached in Argentina and 32% of that reached in New
Zealand. A similar situation is found in the wool subsector. The cattle
slaughter/stock ratio provides further evidence of the low productivity of
beef production in Uruguay. During the period 1971-76, this indicator averaged
16% in Uruguay compared to 33% in New Zealand.
1.09      Low yields are also a common feature of the crop subsector.  On the
average, yields in Uruguay for such traditional crops as wheat and sunflower
are about one-half of those obtained in comparable countries. Wheat, the
country's main crop, has experienced a noticeable stagnation in yields despite
the well-known technological improvements in production available since the
early 1960s. The same is true of other crops with the exception of rice and
sorghum, both relatively new crops in the country. The poor yield perform-
ances are largely explained by the low levels of technology employed and the
effect of erosion on soil quality; erosion, in turn, is the combined result
of thin topsoil conditions and inadequate soil management practices. The
extent to which crop production can be increased through expansion in the
area cultivated might vary considerably depending on how much of the land
classified as potentially arable is free from erosion problems. On the other
hand, ample room exists for increasing crop yields.
Resource Endowment and Farm Size
1.10      Uruguay's ample endowment of land resources and limited rural
population makes inevitable the predominance of large farms (by international
standards), albeit with low average income per hectare. Furthermore, land
distribution and agricultural production closely follow the soil conditions
which have widely varying suitability for agriculture and productivity levels.
Agricultural crops are concentrated largely on the deep productive soils of
the Western Littoral (along the Uruguay River) and rice and other irrigated
crops in the Northeast. As a consequence of suitable soil conditions and the
market opportunities provided by Montevideo (about 65% of the population),
truck crop and dairy activities are concentrated near the capital. Beef and
sheep are raised in the remaining parts of the country on medium- or large-
sized farms (500 ha or above) due to unsuitability of physiographic conditions
for most agricultural crops although, in some areas, deeper and more productive
soils allow cultivation of grains or other annual crops. Thus, a farm of 500
ha in Uruguay represents a reasonable average between the deep productive
soils of the Western Littoral and the shallow, pasture-adapted conditions of
other regions; this is also the average of the size of various types of farms
(livestock, mixed livestock/crops and mixed dairy/crops).



- 4 -
1.11      While within each type of farming, income is roughly proportional to
size, overall agricultural income is far more evenly distributed than land,
because of different types of farming e.g. livestock vs. the more intensive
dairying. The number of farms below 500 ha--which has come to be adopted in
Uruguay as the rough dividing line between the smaller farms and the others--is
about 88% of the total number of farms in the country, covering about 28% of
the total agricultural area--mostly around Montevideo and in the Littoral
areas (Annex 4, Table 3). This proportion, however, is somewhat exaggerated
since it includes a number of small holdings which have either mixed rural/
urban characteristics or are being used as part- or full-time homes by people
employed in towns.
Economic Policies
1.12      Until recently, economic policy in Uruguay focused primarily on
inward-oriented industrialization. Many of the policies that were instituted
and pursued over the years, with some modifications from time to time, acted
to depress agriculture by transferring resources from rural to urban activities.
Thus, policies such as: (a) price controls on agricultural products; (b) export
taxes on traditional commodities such as beef and wool; (c) high tariff duties
on industrial imports, including agricultural machinery; (d) an overvalued
exchange rate; and (e) subsidies to inefficient state enterprises through
direct government control of industries such as meat packing, reduced the
profitability of agriculture and fostered an inefficient system of land use.
1.13      Government policies began gradually to acknowledge the country's
dependence on agricultural growth in the mid-1970s. Finally, in August 1978
a set of policy measures was announced that reflected the high priority
accorded to the development of the agricultural sector, particularly the
livestock subsector where the country's greatest comparative advantage lies.
The measures included: (a) elimination of fixed livestock and crop prices;
(b) elimination of export duties and geographical barriers for beef and wool
marketing; (c) establishment of a uniform import duty of 30% for crops;
(d) removal of import restrictions on agricultural machinery (including
tractors), establishment of a maximum 10% tariff on assembled tractors and
farm machinery and elimination of tariffs on all other agricultural inputs;
(e) sale of state-owned meat plants to the private sector; and (f) modifica-
tion of the tax on the average potential yield of farms from a gross to a
net income basis. Except for the sale of meat plants, which is in process,
and the tax reform, which is before the Council of State, all these measures
have been implemented.
1.14      The adoption oi these free-market policies for agricultural produc-
tion coincided with a general upward swing in world prices, particularly for
beef. In the span of one year, beef prices tripled in Uruguay. Producers
responded by greatly increasing their plantings of feed crops and their
investments in improved pastures. Fertilizer use in 1979 was proceeding at a
rate 200% above the average in the previous three years.
1.15      Production in 1979 will not show gains comparable to input use.
This is to be expected, however, given the normal retention of animals during
the rising price phase of the cattle cycle and the likely substitution of
feed crop for food crop plantings during the past year. In addition, the



first six months of 1979 were exceptionally dry. In the medium-term, however,
adherence to the free-market policies in the context of generally favorable
world prices, should bring about a prompt recovery followed by substantial
growth of the agricultural sector of Uruguay.
Marketing and Prices
1.16      Marketing of crops is handled by the private sector without Govern-
ment interference and no major problems are evident. The Government did,
however, have a significant intervention in beef marketing via regulation
of the meat-packing industry and direct operation of five state-owned meat
packing plants that supplied most of the domestic market (the Montevideo-
Canelones area). In August 1978 these intervention measures were abrogated
and the meat packing plants are now being sold to private entrepreneurs.
1.17      There are three distinct markets for meat, each absorbing roughly
one-third of the total supply: the export market, the capital city area
(Montevideo-Canelones), and the interior or rest of the country. Processing
facilities are correspondingly differentiated. The export market is supplied
basically by ten modern and efficient packinghouses that meet the hygienic
and sanitary standards required. The Montevideo-Canelones market has been
largely supplied by the five state-owned meat packing facilities which are
now being transferred to private ownership. This transfer is expected to
improve operating efficiency and reduce processing costs, which were running
as much as one-third higher than in export market packinghouses. The interior
is supplied from smaller local slaughterhouses which are typically simple,
low-cost operations. Although some of the existing processing plants are
currently antiquated, aggregate capacity is considered sufficient to handle
the increased production expected under the proposed project.
1.18      Milk processing and marketing has been historically dominated by
the National Dairy Products Cooperative (CONAPROLE). The system works effi-
ciently and ensures ready availability of dairy products throughout the
country. Additional processing and distribution facilities are being currently
installed outside CONAPROLE's system (Annex 1, para 19), which should ensure
continued efficiency in processing and domestic marketing as well as expansion
into export markets in other Latin American countries.
1.19      Prices of agricultural products and inputs were subject to numerous
direct and indirect controls, the net effect of which was a massive transfer
of resources from agriculture to the rest of the economy. It has been esti-
mated, for example, that in 1976/77, when beef export prices increased sharply
from the depressed levels of the previous two years, input and output price
manipulations were equivalent to a tax of 63% of the total value of beef
production, in addition to the 23% collected as taxes.
1.20      Crop and meat prices were decontrolled in August 1978.  Given the
extremely depressed state of crop agriculture as a result of past policies
and unfavorable weather, a protective duty of 30% is currently in effect.
The only price that continues to be established by the Government is that of
high grade fluid milk, which currently covers about 60% of total production;
this price is revised quarterly to allow for changes in the cost of inputs.
The price of milk for industrial processing is market-determined.



-6-
Exports
1.21      The aggregate value of merchandise exports during 1976-78 was about
US$600 million per year, of which 16% were beef, 20% wool, 5% rice and 4%
hides and skins. Exports of manufactured goods accounted for 42% of the
total, compared to about 10% a decade earlier. Since the bulk of these non-
traditional exports, predominantly textiles and leather goods, continue to be
produced from agricultural raw materials, agriculture remains the principal
source of Uruguay's merchandise exports.
1.22      There has been a significant shift in the destination of Uruguayan
exports since the mid-1970s, following the closing of EEC's markets to beef
(Annex 4, Table 4). Latin American Free Trade Association countries have
emerged as major markets for meat, rice and the newly developing exports of
dairy products. Exports to the US and the Middle East have also increased
considerably. The market outlook for Uruguayan exports, traditional as well
as non-traditional, is favorable.
Taxation
1.23      The principal direct tax on agricultural incomes is IMPROME (Impuesto
a la Produccion Minima Exigible - established in 1968), which is a tax on
the average gross potential income of each farm. IMPROME accounted for 40%
of all agricultural taxes and 31% of all taxes on income and profits in 1977.
The level of taxation is linked to a potential and predetermined level of
production, irrespective of whether or not it is actually reached. This poten-
tial level of production on a particular farm is arrived at by applying an
index of the productive potential of the corresponding land compared to the
average for the country. These indexes are calculated by an agency under
the Ministry of Agriculture (Comision Nacional de Estudio Agroeconomico de
la Tierra - CONEAT) on the basis of countrywide soil surveys. One hectare
of average productive potential is commonly referred to as 1 ha with CONEAT
index 100.
1.24      IMPROME thus constitutes a fiscal instrument which incorporates
incentives to achieve at least average productivity. This administratively
complex tax is workable because of: (a) accurate studies about soil utiliza-
tion; (b) relatively uniform soil types; and (c) a generally efficient civil
service to supervise the program and ensure its equitable application. Tax
reform legislation is currently under consideration that would substitute
net income for gross income as the tax base of IMPROME, and would consolidate
into a single tax a variety of other levies that account for about 20% of
agricultural tax collections. The reform does not seek to increase the tax
burden on agriculture, but rather to simplify the present system and render it
more equitable.
B. Agriculture Services
Extension
1.25      The Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries (MAP) is assigned exten-
sion functions, but its activities in this field are limited. A reorganiza-
tion of MAP is being considered that would systematize and increase the



scope of the extension services. At present, the bulk of public technical
assistance is provided by the Agricultural Plan (Plan Agropecuario, PLAN), an
autonomous agency under the supervision of MAP. PLAN has been the executing
agency of previous Bank-financed livestock projects (para 1.37). It provides
support and assistance to farmers in improving livestock and pasture management
practices. The PLAN has made efforts in recent years to give special attention
to the needs of groups of smaller farmers such as milk producers and mixed
farmers in different parts of the country. The National Settlement Institute
(INC), an autonomous agency under the MAP, provides limited technical assis-
tance to farm settlers.
1.26      Private technical assistance services have developed considerably
in recent years. Two major forms exist. One is crop-specific and production-
oriented assistance provided by agroindustrial concerns to producers of their
respective crops, such as rice, soybeans, sugarcane and beets, barley, and
milk. The other is assistance, mainly on farm management, sought by producers
that form groups for that purpose. Some of these groups follow the patterns
of the Regional Centers for Agricultural Trials (CREA) that have emerged in
Argentina following models developed in France. The 40 CREA groups spread
throughout Uruguay and covering more than 400,000 ha are associated into a
national institution, FUCREA, 1/ which provides support to individual groups
by disseminating the CREA approach to agricultural development, coordinating
technical assistance, assisting in the formation of new groups and improving
the technical level of CREA members and technicians through training courses,
study groups, seminars, and such and the publication of a specialized magazine
and technical reports. FUCREA also provides a list of approved agricultural
advisors to farmers wishing to contract technical assistance directly.
1.27      A separate type of technical assistance is that provided by the
Uruguayan Wool Secretariat (SUL) to sheep ranchers and farmers through its
Commission for Ovine Improvement (CMO). SUL's affiliation to the Inter-
national Wool Secretariat (SIL) provides an opportunity to improve local
technologies through experience gained in other countries, supported by local
research.
Education and Research
1.28      Agricultural education at the university level is a responsibility
of the National Faculty of Agronomy which works in close coordination with
MAP's system of six agricultural research centers organized around the central
experiment station, the "Alberto Berger" Agricultural Research Center (CIAAB),
better known as "La Estanzuela." This center, which in the past enjoyed a
high prestige in Latin America, has suffered serious and continuous financial
and staffing deterioration in recent years. Research, and the transfer of
results to farmers, is the responsibility of the Agricultural Research and
Technical Assistance Program, a specialized division in the Ministry of
Agriculture, largely concentrated on improving methods for the transfer of
technology. In addition, the MAP operates a Center for Veterinary Research
1/   Uruguayan Federation of Centers for Agricultural Trials.



- 8 -
and, in recent years, has been emphasizing agro-economic research through its
Directorate for Agricultural Economics Research (DIEA), which produces most
of the published agroeconomic data in the country. A National Commission for
Land Agro-economic Studies (CONEAT) is actively engaged in collecting and
analyzing information related to land tenure, management and other geo-agro-
nomic aspects to be used in the improvement of agricultural policies.
Rural Settlement
1.29      Responsibility for rural settlement and land redistribution in
Uruguay lies with INC (Annex 1). INC has a priority option in the purchase
of land from private owners and, in some special cases, is legally authorized
to expropriate land which is required for special settlement projects or
which is consistently not used or underutilized. Land acquired by INC is
subdivided into smaller but economically viable lots and distributed for
purchase in installments or rental among selected settlers. The agency also
provides limited technical and financial assistance to its settlers and,
through agreements with other national and local agencies, provides support
in marketing agricultural products and in developing basic settlement infra-
structure.
C. Agricultural Credit
1.30      Institutional agricultural production credit is provided almost
exclusively by the Bank of the Republic East of the Uruguay River (BROU), a
multipurpose state-owned bank (Annex 2). BROU provides several short-term
lines of credit for the agricultural sector through its 82 branch office
network covering the entire country. Except for loans made under the Bank-
financed PLAN program for livestock development and some machinery loans with
a two-year repayment period (only 5% of its portfolio), BROU's lending until
now has been all short-term. During the past five years, BROU made about
50,000 loans per year amounting to about US$180 million for agricultural
production. BROU establishes a ceiling on the credit amount per ha for each
crop and finances a higher proportion of the total production cost for small-
scale and medium-scale farmers following a policy of assisting smaller
producers (Annex 2, para 15). Interest rates have been generally below the
high inflation rates that have prevailed in Uruguay over the past 10 years.
1.31      The Bank-financed PLAN livestock development program has been the
major source of long-term development credit in the agricultural sector. 1/
The proceeds of the Bank loans and Government counterpart funds were made
available to the Livestock Fund (FG) in the Central Bank which, in turn,
rediscounted the subloans made by BROU under the technical supervision of
1/   BROU recently established a long-term credit facility for forestry
projects.



PLAN. Indexing of subloans was introduced in 1969 in view of the prevailing
and expected high inflation. However, the indexing procedure suffered from
a few major shortcomings that detracted from effective repayment correction
(para 3.12).
1.32      There are 21 private banks in Uruguay.  Their agricultural sector
operations, while representing 30% of their total loan portfolio, are heavily
concentrated on marketing financing rather than production activities.
D. Performance Under Previous Projects
General
1.33      The Bank has made seven loans to Uruguay, amounting to US$71.7
million, to help finance five livestock development projects in support of the
National Development Plan launched in 1957. Project objectives have been to
increase beef production and exports through the introduction of technological
improvements in livestock production and through institution-building.
1.34      The First Livestock Development Project, initiated in 1961 and
completed in 1965, demonstrated methods of pasture improvement on a large
sample of commercial farms and this was continued under the Second Project,
which was completed in 1970. The Third Project supported continuation of the
livestock program for 1971 while the Government resolved remaining sector
policy issues, especially in the meat packing industry, and thereby restored
the confidence of ranchers so that they would once more invest in ranch
development. The Fourth Project, started in 1972, was financed in two stages:
Loan 816-UR (US$11.2 million), which was intended to finance operations in
1972 but actually covered operations for both 1972 and 1973, and Loan 940-UR
(US$13.5 million), which was intended to finance 1974 operations but in fact
financed 1974 and 1975 activities. The main reasons why the Fourth Project
covered a longer period than anticipated were, firstly, repeated devaluations
of the peso following appraisal which reduced the amount of dollars needed to
cover the Bank share of the expenditures made in pesos, and, secondly, delays
by the Central Bank in claiming reimbursements from the Bank which had the
effect of reducing the dollar disbursement by the Bank because of changes
in the exchange rate between the time subloans were financed and the time
disbursements were made actually by the Bank. These same factors partly
influenced disbursement of the Fifth Livestock Project (Bank Loan 1166-UR
for US$17.0 million) which is about two years behind the schedule estimated
at appraisal. In addition, the project life has coincided with the trough of
the international beef price cycle. However, policy changes made in August
1978 to encourage increased long-term investment and increased world beef
prices have significantly increased loan disbursements during 1979. About
US$1.5 million remained undisbursed as of January 11, 1980.
1.35      Each of the five projects has financed ranch improvements to in-
crease the livestock carrying capacity of the pastures and the production of
beef and has also covered technical and consultant services. In addition,
the Third and Fourth Projects financed the purchase of equipment and machinery



- 10 -
to produce, harvest and process high quality legume and grass seed and hay
and improvements in the meat inspection, hygiene, and processing services
designed to raise the quality of meat exports. Approximately 59% of the
project subloans has been made for pasture improvement; 20% for machinery and
equipment; 6% for fencinR: 5% for water points, and 10% for miscellaneous
investments. Participating farmers have financed about 35% of their on-farm
investments, considerably in excess of the minimum 20% required. Approxi-
mately 70% of the number of loans and 40% of the volume of credit have gone
to farmers with less than 500 ha (Annex 4, Table 5).
1.36      All five projects have been executed by PLAN, which also assists
ranchers and farmers in the preparation and evaluation of their investment
proposals. Under the First and Second Projects, funds for the lendinR proRram
were channeled through a Livestock Fund established in BROU. Commencing with
the Third Project, however, on-lending funds have been channeled through the
FG established in the Central Bank. FG partially reimburses BROU for subloans
made to ranchers.
Institution Building
1.37      The period of implementation of the five livestock projects has
witnessed the parallel growth of the PLAN which has won recognition by the
livestock production sector as the prime source of technical assistance. The
location of its technicians throughout the country allows frequent contact
with all strata of producers. This reputation has caused the agency to
attract a number of responsibilities in addition to serving project clients,
such as providing technical assistance to producers who wish to invest private
funds, supervising complementary lines of credit of BROU, and acting as a
fiscal agent for the Government in the evaluation of ranch investments, which
qualify as deductions from the IMPROME tax base.
OED's Project Performance Audit Report
1.38      The OED's PPAR of the Fourth Livestock Development Project (Second
Stage, Loan 940-UR) dated June 29, 1979 highlighted four issues: (a) the fact
that the diffusion of improved pastures appeared to be reaching a plateau
under the price, technological, and management conditions prevailing through
1977; (b) the effect of sectorial economic policy during 1976-78 on project
investments, and the announcement of major policy changes in August 1978;
(c) the development of the project monitoring and evaluation component; and
(d) the continued use of imperfect monetary correction on project subloans
(PPAR, para 7).
1.39      Regarding the diffusion of improved pastures and sectorial economic
policy, the PPAR concluded that "further improved pasture diffusion is possi-
ble, but were (it) to become significant, a set of sectoral conditions must be
altered. The policy changes initiated in August 1978, which the Bank has
encouraged, move clearly in this direction" (PPAR, para 7). The August 1978
agricultural sector policies would be maintained under the project (para 7.11).
The PPAR rated as "of high standard" the monitoring and evaluation system
established by the Plan (PPAR, para 43). Finally, the imperfections in
carrying out the monetary correction on project subloans would be remedied
in the proposed project (paras 3.12 to 3.14).



- 11 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Introduction
2.01      The Government of Uruguay has requested a Bank loan to help finance
an agricultural development project that would provide further assistance to
Uruguay's national livestock and crop development program by making available
medium- and long-term credit to beef cattle, sheep and dairy producers for
pasture and associated crop improvement and other on-farm investments (tradi-
tional component) and by assisting selected colonies of the INC to convert
from traditional crops to dairy or mixed dairy-crop farming in areas where
continuous cropping and erosion processes have resulted in continuously
decreasing agricultural yields (INC component). The proposed project was
prepared by the Government with Bank assistance and appraised in July, 1979.
2.02      The proposed project constitutes the entire program of official
medium- and long-term credit for agriculture during the next three years. It
aims at accommodating an expanded demand for investment credit by producers,
in response to the favorable outlook of domestic and world market prices and
the new economic policies of the Government. Since individual on-farm
investments would be carried out over three years, the proposed Bank loan
would have a three-year commitment period with disbursements over five years.
B. Brief Description
2.03      The project's objectives would be to consolidate and to expand
countrywide the transfer of technologies developed through the programs of
research and the experience of earlier livestock development programs and to
emphasize the improvement of agricultural crops in traditional agricultural
areas where low fertility and soil erosion constitute a limiting production
factor. Through this program, the Government proposes to (a) increase produc-
tivity in beef cattle and sheep ranches already under production, thus in-
creasing production and exports of these products for which the country has a
comparative advantage; (b) promote improved cropping practices in areas to
which the crops are ecologically suited, ensuring a rational use of land
through adequate rotation systems; (c) increase milk production and make
use of the favorable market for export of dairy products; and (d) increase
the income of smaller farmers by reorienting their production patterns in
such a way as to control erosion and improve soil fertility and provide use
of farm family labor throughout the year.
2.04      To meet project objectives, funds would be made available for
(a) on-farm investment, including seeds, fertilizers, fencing, water points
and small irrigation works and equipment, corrals, farm machinery, dairy farm
equipment and facilities, and breeding stock; (b) construction of rural roads
in the selected INC colonies to facilitate marketing of their products; and



- 12 -
(c) improvement of technical assistance facilities (vehicles, office equip-
ment, and such) and services as well as training abroad and in-country of
PLAN and INC technical staff and short time consultants for both institutions
to assist in resolving specific technical issues.
2.05      Three agencies would be involved in project implementation:  PLAN
with overall responsibility for project implementation, INC and BROU. PLAN
and BROU are agencies well known to the Bank, having been associated with the
implementation of five Livestock Development projects. INC would be involved
for the first time in a Bank-financed project, bringing thereto a considerable
element of institution-building.
2.06      The project would provide credit to participating ranchers and
farmers through the BROU on the basis of farm investment plans approved by
PLAN technicians. Technical assistance by PLAN and INC technicians would be
provided free to farmers with less than 1,000 ha. Larger producers would
have to purchase technical advice from private technicians prequalified by
PLAN; PLAN approval would also be required of private technicians' farm
investment plans before presentation to BROU to request credit under the
project.
C. Detailed Features
Project Area
2.07      The project would be countrywide in scope.  However, the largest
development is expected in the following areas: (a) cattle and sheep ranch-
ing, in the central and northwestern areas of the country with basaltic and
crystalline soils; (b) crop/livestock mixed farming in the western littoral
area; and (c) dairy development in the south-central Montevideo basin. The
INC colonies included in the project are located in the littoral region
(see map).
2.08      Basaltic Region.  This extensive area covering about 3.5 million ha
(21% of the country's area) comprises mainly dark clay loam to sandy loam
soils derived from basaltic rocks. Effective depth is shallow to very shallow
and, except for widely scattered and limited areas of deeper soils, generally
in the area of contact with the alluvial soils of the littoral, these lands
are best suited for pasture only or in rotation with small grain. It is in
this area, as well as in the Crystalline, that the majority of the cattle-
sheep ranches can be found.
2.09      Crystalline Region.  This region comprises some 3.9 million ha and
is subdivided into two areas. The first one (2.6 million ha) occupies a
large portion of the central part of the country and comprises deep soils of



- 13 -
medium texture and generally low inherent fertility, derived from the under-
lying crystalline rocks. These soils are highly susceptible to drought and
erosion and, except in limited areas on the eastern and southern borders of
the region, are mainly suited for pasture and some grain. The second area,
located in the eastern part of the country, covers 1.3 million ha and has
soils very similar to the first but even more vulnerable to drought and
erosion risks. Both the areas together represent 23.5% of the country's
surface and account for a large number of the cattle and sheep ranches of the
country.
2.10      Littoral Region.  Suitability to crop production and geographic
location along the Uruguay River have been the two major criteria for iden-
tifying this region, which covers about 1.4 million ha. Soils are extremely
variable ranging from deep, heavy, productive soils of basaltic origin with
somewhat limited internal drainage in the northern Artigas and Salto Depart-
ments, to moderately deep light textured soils of low fertility associated
with more productive soils in the southern portion of the region. In the
central area, mainly in the Paysandu Department where the selected INC colonies
are located, the soils are much lighter in texture and lower in inherent
fertility, thus being more susceptible to chemical depletion and erosion.
In the northern part of the region, where the "Dr. Antonio Rubio" settlement
is located, however, there are .areas of deep soils of basaltic origin which
do not correspond to the typical shallow Basalt Region nor to the predominant
soils of the Littoral and have therefore not been included in either category
in the map. These lands show signs of depletion after years of continuous
cropping but have a marked response to crop-pasture rotation and to the
introduction of improved pastures including legumes.
2.11      Southern Region.  This region, extending around the capital city of
Montevideo to the north, east and west, covers about 900,000 ha of mainly
deep, heavy, productive soils with medium to high fertility. Dairy and truck
farming dominate the agricultural activities in this region, close to the
nation's largest domestic market and main export point. Except for some
isolated milksheds throughout the country, the majority of dairy farming
activities included in the proposed project would be located in this region.
On-farm Development
2.12      Farm plans have been developed for enterprises that are represen-
tative of farms in the various areas of Uruguay. The illustrative models
correspond to four types of enterprises; cattle-sheep ranches, crop-livestock
farms, dairy farms and INC mixed dairy-crop farms. Greater variability as to
farm size and level of development exists in the typical cattle-sheep area
which accounts for the majority of the land area of the country, while dairy
crop-livestock and INC models would have smaller variations around the models
presented. Throughout this report, farm size is expressed in ha with CONEAT
index 100 (para 1.23).
2.13      Livestock Development (Farm Model I).  The beef-cattle-sheep model
represents a 500-ha farm in the basaltic and crystalline geographical areas
where extensive production is traditional. There are natural soil fertility
differences in these zones, which could give an advantage in levels of production



- 14 -
to the crystalline zone, but due to the overriding importance of management
of pastures and cattle for productivity and the lack of significant difference
in these human-influenced factors among zones, it is considered permissible
to group them in the models. The model illustrates a beef-sheep complete
cycle production scheme with the production of fat steers and lamb for
slaughter. Improved pasture is increased from 1% of total pasture area
without project to 20% at full development. Pasture improvement is the major
investment item, with smaller investments in fencing, water points, stock
handling facilities, and machinery and equipment. About 1,900 beef-sheep
ranches would be expected to participate in the project.
2.14      Mixed Farm Development (Farm Model II).  This represents a 320-ha
crop-livestock farm situated in the littoral or south-central-western part
of Uruguay, the traditional grain producing areas. Due to the high cost of
nitrogenous fertilizers, there is an ever increasing interest in the use of
pasture-crop rotations, utilizing phosphatic fertilizers to stimulate legume
growth in pastures and taking advantage of the natural nitrogen build-up
during this rotational phase to produce grains in the crop rotation with
relatively low levels of chemical nitrogen application. Because of the
relatively longer period required for pastures in the rotation, the proportion
of total farm area dedicated exclusively to crops decreases from 38% to 34%,
but an additional 11% is planted with crops in association with new pastures.
Area in improved pasture increases from 7% of total land area to 56%, permitting
the farmer to continue a complete cycle for sheep and to shift from breeding
to fattening for cattle. The investment to be undertaken is primarily in
pastures, with machinery and equipment and livestock management infrastructure
having secondary importance. About 600 mixed farms would participate in the
project.
2.15      Dairy Farm Development (Farm Model III).  The 150-ha dairy model is
representative of farms on better soils located near the main population
centers, especially Montevideo. These are primarily family-owned and operated
units with a relatively large percentage of improved pasture without project
(40%) which is increased to 83% at full development. In addition to pasture
improvement, investments are to be made in milk handling facilities (milking
machines, milk sheds, cooling tanks), fencing and watering facilities. About
300 dairy farms would participate in the project.
2.16      INC Model (Farm Model IV).  The INC rehabilitation model utilizes
an approximate average farm size of 200 ha. The project would encourage a
shift in production from a basically crop to mixed farming system with emphasis
on dairy cattle. Farmers would continue to produce crops but would decrease
from 37% to 30% the farm area in cultivation and increase area in improved
pasture from 25% to 54%. This should result in better utilization of family
labor by increased emphasis on dairy cattle and sheep production, and allow
for improvement in soil conservation and fertility. On-farm investment would
be primarily in pasture improvement, machinery and equipment and livestock
management facilities. The INC project component would include about 220
farms.



- 15 -
2.17       The following table shows the type and average cost of the three
year investment plans expected for each farm category:
Number of Subloans                Investment 1/
-------Year                   ---(US$'000)---
1      2       3    Total   Average   Total    %
Livestock ranches (F.M. I.)  620    640    640   1,900           16.9    32,100   44
Mixed farms (F.M. II)           200    200    200       600     39.5    23,700   32
Dairy farms (F.M. III)          100    100    100       300     33.1      9,900   13
INC farms (F.M. IV)             70      75      75     220      36.5      8,000   11
Total               990  1,015  1,015   3,020                 73,700  100
1/   Excluding price contingencies.
2.18      The composition of investments in each farm model would be as
follows:
Farm Model
Investment                     I    II    III    IV          I    II    III    IV
(US$ '000)           (% of Total Investment)
Pasture Establishment        10.2  22.4  12.3   9.3         60    57      37    25
Fencing                       1.5   3.4   1.8   2.1          9      9      5      6
Water points/Irrigation         .2   2.3   1.0   4.1         1      6      3    11
Buildings & Construction       -      -    1.9   1.7         -     -       6      5
Machinery and Equipment       5.0  11.4  12.1  11.3         30    28      36    31
Cattle                         -      -    4.0   8.0         -     -      13    12
Total                   16.9  39.5  33.1  36.5       100   100    100   100
2.19      The investment costs per farm are substantially higher than those
in previous projects in Uruguay. To a considerable extent, this is explained
by (a) the increased cost of fertilizer and petroleum products, which weigh
heavily in the cost of establishment of improved pastures, and (b) the longer
investment period (three years, instead of one or two) contemplated under the
proposed project. In addition, investment costs are high because of increased
investment expected in farm machinery.
2.20      Under the proposed project, the investment in machinery is based on
purchases of tractors and equipment by one-third or one-half of the participa-
ting farmers, depending on the model. This relatively high proportion follows
from the low rate of acquisition of machinery and equipment in recent years
due to the high import duties prevailing. Since 1978 those duties have been
reduced to 10% and a general replacement of equipment is now practical not-
withstanding the considerable increase in prices in the international market.



- 16 -
2.21      The above considerations also apply to the INC settlers and lead to
a high investment per farm. The possibility of equipment sharing by these
producers was investigated, but was not deemed feasible due to the seasonality
of equipment use. This substantial investment in machinery by one out of
every two INC settlers and the significant investment in construction and in
livestock are called for by the shift which they are seeking to achieve from
a purely crop production pattern to a mixed crop-dairy system.
Technical Services and Training
2.22      Technical services provided by PLAN and INC would be supported under
the project. Training would be provided both locally and abroad to PLAN and
INC technicians, particularly to new (replacement) PLAN technical staff and
to the INC technicians assigned to work with the selected settlements.
Additional funds would be provided for replacement of vehicles, machinery,
office equipment and materials for demonstration work and technical assist-
ance. Short-term consultant services would be provided to strengthen both
the PLAN and the INC programs for a total of about 88 man-months. Training
for agents of both institutions would be provided for a total of 120 man-
months of fellowships for PLAN and 28 man-months for INC.
2.23      Work on a future project, for possible Bank financing, with emphasis
on support to small farmers is expected to be undertaken in Uruguay during
the life of the proposed project. Adequate expertise for project preparation
is available in the country as is relevant statistical data for the tradi-
tional components, from the PLAN's monitoring and evaluation system and other
sources. Some field surveys and other prefeasibility studies may, however,
be needed to investigate the position of small farmers in different regions
and to spell out specific steps for dealing with their problems. In partic-
ular, as the pilot program included in the present project for rehabilitatiiig
a few INC settlements is to be extended to the whole western littoral regio)
in a second stage operation, studies are likely to be required for identifyit-g
suitable settlements and determining appropriate agricultural, agroindustriaL
and infrastructural investments necessary for their rehabilitation. A sum of
up to US$200,000 would, therefore, be available under the technical assistance
component of the proposed project for financing consultant services and o_her
expenditures for such studies and surveys for the preparation of a future
project, as and when needed, on the basis of specific proposals received from
the Government and acceptable to the Bank.
Feeder Road Construction
2.24      About 60 km of farm-to-market roads would be built under ti- project
to serve INC project colonies at a cost of US$600,000. About 35 km would
be in the Quebracho area of the Department of Paysandu and 25 km in Colonia
Rubio in the Department of Salto. These roads would permit efficient collec-
tion and transport of milk from project farms to local processing plants.
Construction and maintenance of these roads would be included in the existing
agreements between INC and the corresponding municipalities, which execute
the works on force account. INC finances 70% of the costs and the municipality
absorbs the remaining 30%. This arrangement has been in operation satisfac-
torily for several years.



- 17 -
D. Project Cost
2.25      Total project cost, including price contingencies, is estimated at
US$111.0 mill _n (including taxes and duties amounting to US$3.4 million),
of which US$58.5 million, or 53%, represents foreign exchange costs. Project
costs have been estimated on the basis of January 1979 prices, and a price
contingency amounting to 37% of baseline costs, has been added. Price contin-
gencies are based on a phasing of investment over a five-year period. The
expected price increases are 11% in 1979, 9% in 1980, 8% in 1981 and 7%
thereafter. A physical contingency of 15% has been applied to civil works
for feeder road construction. The average cost of consultancy services is
estimated at US$5,000 per man-month. The project's total consultant require-
ments are estimated at 88 man-months. Project costs by component are summarized
in the table below.
Project Cost
Foreign
Project Cost         Baseline   Exchange
Local  Foreign  Total       Costs       Costs
---(US$ million) ----    --------(%)--------
On-Farm Development
Livestock Development            14.4    17.7    32.1           40        55
Mixed Farm Development            9.7    14.0    23.7           29        59
Dairy Farm Development            4.4      5.5      9.9         12        56
INC Settlement Development        4.5      3.5      8.0         10        44
Subtotal                      33.0    40.7    73.7          91         55
Technical Services                  4.9      1.6      6.5          8         23
Feeder Roads                        0.4      0.2      0.6          1        30
Total Baseline Costs          38.3    42.5    80.8         100         53
Contingencies
Physical                       0.2       -      0.2          -         30
Price                         14.0    16.0    30.0          37         53
Sub-Total                     14.2    16.0    30.2          37         53
Total Project Cost            52.5    58.5   111.0         137         53
Note: A list of investment items which would be financed under on-farm
development appears in Annex 4, Table 6. See also Tables 7 and 8,
Annex 4, for details on Technical Assistance and Feeder Road Project
Costs, and Table 9 for estimated project phasing.



- 18 -
E. Financing
2.26      Financing of the project would be shared in the following amounts
and proportions:
Sub-borrowers        BROU           Bank
Amount  %       Amount  %      Amount  %      Amount
Project Components           -------------------- US$ million-------------------
Livestock development          6.4   20        19.3   60       6.4   20      32.1
Mixed farm development         4.8   20        14.1   60       4.8   20      23.7
Dairy farm development         2.0   20         5.9   60       2.0   20       9.9
INC settlement development   1.0   13          4.8 I  60       2.2   27       8.0
Technical services              -      -        4. 9   72      1.6   23       6.5
Feeder roads                    -      -       0.2-' 40        0.4   60       0.6
Total Baseline Cost        14.2   18       49.2   60      17.4   22      80.8
Contingencies               5.2   18       18.4   60       6.6   22      30.2
Total Project Cost         19.4   18       67.6   60      24.0   22    111.0
1/   Government's contribution.
2/   INC would contribute 10% and municipalities 30%.
2.27      The proposed Bank loan of US$24.0 million would finance 41% of the
foreign exchange cost or 22% of the total project cost. Project beneficiaries
would finance US$19.4 million, representing about 18% of the total. US$60.0
million, or 54%, would be financed by BROU and US$7.6 million, or 6%, by the
central government through PLAN and INC and by municipalities. The Bank loan
would be made to the government at the Bank lending rate prevailing at the
time of loan approval, for a term of 15 years, including three years of grace.
The Government would assume the foreign exchange risk and would on-lend the
proceeds of the on-farm investment component of the loan to BROU through the
FG in the Central Bank; BROU, in turn, would make subloans to project benefi-
ciaries. Lending terms and conditions between Government and BROU and between
BROU and project beneficiaries would be set in a subsidiary loan agreement to
be entered into by the Central Bank and BROU (para 3.16).



- 19 -
2.28      The project's credit program would be financed as follows:
BROU           Bank       Total Lending
Amount  %     Amount  %         Amount  %
------------(US$ million)----------------
Beef-sheep ranches              19.3   75        6.4   25       25.7  100
Crop-livestock farms            14.1   75        4.8   25       18.9  100
Dairy farms                      5.9   75        2.0   25        7.9  100
INC farms                        4.8   69        2.2   31        7.0  100
Price contingency               15.9   74        5.4   26       21.3  100
Total                     60.0   74        20.8   26       80.8  100
F.  Procurement
2.29      Under the project, international competitive bidding following Bank
Guidelines for Procurement, would be required in the procurement of vehicles,
machinery and equipment directly imported by PLAN and/or INC, amounting to
about US$800,000, whenever the size of individual contracts exceeds US$100,000.
Both PLAN and INC would be encouraged to bulk such items into large contracts,
either individually by each agency or jointly, whenever possible. Similar
type contracts of less than US$100,000 would be awarded in accordance with the
borrower's internal procurement procedures, which include local competitive
bidding, acceptable to the Bank. The investment items such as fertilizer,
seeds, machinery and equipment to be procured by approximately 3,000 project
sub-borrowers throughout Uruguay over a three-year commitment and five-year
investment period are varied and not suitable for bulk procurement through
international competitive bidding. These goods, and services such as technical
assistance (together amounting to about US$73.7 million), required under the
sub-borrowers' investment programs would therefore be obtained through local,
well-established, competitive commercial suppliers. Adequate servicing
facilities are available for the machinery and equipment. Civil works for
the feeder road construction, amounting to about US$600,000, would be done on
force account by the municipalities. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the procurement procedures outlined would be followed.
G. Disbursement
2.30      The Bank would disburse over a period of five years:
(a)  25% of the total amounts previously disbursed by BROU
for subloans to project beneficiaries of the traditional
component, amounting to US$16.8 million;



- 20 -
(b) 31% of the total amounts previously disbursed by BROU
for subloans to project beneficiaries of the INC component,
amounting to US$2.8 million;
(c)  100% of total expenditure for technical advisory services,
training, and studies, amounting to US$1.1 million;
(d) 100% of the foreign exchange expenditures for vehicles and
equipment under the technical service component, amounting
to US$0.8 million; and
(e) 60% of total expenditures for feeder road construction,
amounting to US$0.5 million.
A sum of US$2 million would remain unallocated.
2.31      The Bank would reimburse for the project subloans made by BROU to
project beneficiaries against a certificate of expenditure, the documentation
for which would not be submitted for review, but would be retained by the
BROU for inspection during the course of Bank supervision missions. Certifi-
cation by BROU and the PLAN Technical Director would be required. All other
disbursements would be made against normal documentation.
2.32      As in recent projects, the Bank, in converting local currency to
foreign currencies, would use the exchange rate prevailing at the mid-point
of the month in which subloans were made and not the exchange rate existing
on the day the Bank disbursement is actually made. This disbursement pro-
cedure would enable the Bank to achieve its objective of contributing its
full share under the high inflation in Uruguay and the Government's policy of
frequent mini-devaluations.
2.33      The estimated schedule of Bank disbursements, assuming that the
date of effectiveness of the proposed loan would be no later than June 30,
1980, would be as follows:
Bank FY              1981          1982           1983           1984          1985
FY Semester       1       2      1      2       1      2      1       2      1      2
Disbursement
During semester  0.9    1.7    2.6    3.6    3.8    4.0    3.0    2.2    1.2    1.0
Cumulative       0.9    2.6    5.2    8.8   12.6   16.6   19.6   21.8   23.0   24.0



- 21 -
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
3.01      The agencies involved in executing the project would be PLAN, INC
and BROU. PLAN would have overall responsibility for project implementation,
INC would be responsible for settlement rehabilitation, and BROU would be
responsible for the provision of credit to farmers for carrying out investment
plans designed or approved by PLAN and INC technicians. PLAN and BROU are
agencies well known to the Bank, having been associated with the implementa-
tion of five Livestock Development projects (paras 1.34 to 1.37), while this
would be INC's first experience in a Bank-financed project. INC would estab-
lish a Project Implementation Unit in the project area, which would provide
technical assistance to settlers under the supervision and guidance of the
Technical Directorate of PLAN. Since, under the proposed project, producers
with more than 1,000 ha would have to secure their own technical assistance
from private professionals, either individually or through groups such as
CREA, PLAN would also be responsible for prequalification of private
consultants and for approval and supervision of investment plans prepared
by them.
3.02      PLAN has responsibility for preparing farm and credit plans as well
as for provision of technical assistance to producers who wish to invest in
their establishments with either borrowed funds or with their own. PLAN
technicians are also responsible for verifying farm and ranch investments
that are claimed as deductions on IMPROME taxes. These activities are carried
out under the direction of a Technical Director and an Assistance Technical
Director through a field staff consisting of five area supervisors, 15 zone
supervisors and 80 field technicians, most of them agronomists. The Central
Office in Montevideo also contains an Economics Section (SERPA) which collects
field data to monitor the economic effects of investments and management
practices and to disseminate the results to participating farmers. There are
also sections of extension, water resources, seeds and agricultural machinery
and a laboratory for soil microbiology and inoculant control.
3.03      PLAN's responsibility for maintaining high standards for farm and
credit plans and for technical assistance would continue under the new project
and would be extended to include training of INC technicians and approval and
supervision of farm and ranch plans of these professionals as well as of
private consultants who would be providing paid technical assistance to medium
and large producers. At present, all PLAN staff are locally recruited and,
with the exception of short-term consultants, would continue to be so in the
proposed project.
3.04      All PLAN activities are carried out at the direction of an Honorary
Commission and specifically through the President of the Commission and the
PLAN technical director. The administration and data analysis activities are
directly supervised by the technical director while field direction is chan-
neled through the technical subdirector to the area supervisor, thence to the
zone supervisors and finally to the field-level technicians.



- 22 -
3.05      There appears to be reasonable contact between technicians and
producers. Each technician is provided with a vehicle to carry out his work.
Because of low salaries relative to the private sector, basically technicians
of all levels have part-time jobs and dedicate about 60% of their time to
PLAN activities. There is no proposal for an increase in PLAN technical staff
for the proposed project since a large portion of their technical assistance
functions would be assumed by private agro-professionals. This lessening of
duties should more than offset the increased responsibilities of training of
INC technicians, review of INC credit plans, and supervision of private
consultants, apart from assistance to other smaller farmers, including dairy
and mixed farmers, who will receive greater attention than hitherto.
3.06      INC's responsibilities cover a variety of activities related to
settlements of about 2,400 small farmers on land purchased by the Government.
These activities include financing of land purchases, capital for farmers'
cooperatives, and public services such as installation of small agroindus-
tries; construction of infrastructure related to settlements; storage, market-
ing and transport of agricultural products and inputs; coordination with
educational institutions and public agencies; and a variety of social and
cultural activities geared to settled farmers and their families.
3.07      INC is directed by a five-member board and administered by a General
Manager and his support staff. The staff of INC, which totals about 260,
includes 62 university-level professionals, of which 35 are agronomists; an
additional 32 subprofessional level technicians; and 160 administrative
officials. These personnel are distributed in seven central divisions and
12 departmental and 14 regional offices located in actual or potential settle-
ment areas though 70% are assigned to Montevideo.
3.08      INC's financial resources originate mainly from rentals charged for
settled lands (about 62%), with grazing fees, and contributions from Govern-
ment making up the remainder. The major part of this income is taken up by the
operational budget of the agency, and, because funds for expansion or develop-
ment are very scarce, the decision was made to concentrate its limited resources
on the execution of a small rehabilitation project in one of the critical settle-
ment areas. Even the limited support for the project's settlement rehabilita-
tion component would require assignment of specialized staff to assist in the
preparation of farm plans and coordinate and supervise their execution. In
this task they would receive support and supervision from PLAN to ensure a
uniform technological level throughout the country. INC would establish a
Project Implementation Unit consisting of one coordinator and seven technicians
and required administrative staff. The coordinator should have qualifications
and experience acceptable to PLAN and to the Bank. Assurances to that effect
were obtained at negotiations. Establishment of the Project Implementation Unit
would be a condition of disbursement against the INC component of the loan.
Further, the execution of a contract satisfactory to the Bank embodying
arrangements between INC and the municipalities for the construction of feeder
roads would be a condition of disbursement of the Bank loan for the feeder
roads component.
B. Policies and Procedures Under the Lending Program
3.09      Credit to sub-borrowers would be channeled through BROU under a
subsidiary loan agreement with the Government as represented by the Central
Bank. BROU, through its Plan Agropecuario Department, would extend subloans



- 23 -
to finance up to 80% of investments under the traditional project component
and up to 87% under the INC component. Subloans would be made on the basis of
farm plans approved by PLAN and prepared by PLAN or INC technicians or by
private consultants previously authorized by PLAN (para 3.01). The cost of
fees for technical assistance to prepare farm plans for subloan applications
and for advisory services during the implementation of the on-farm investments,
up to a maximum of 10% of the amount of the subloan, could be included as an
investment item to be financed. Evaluation of the creditworthiness of subloan
applicants and analysis of the investment plans would be carried out by BROU.
3.10      Project subloans would have repayment terms ranging to a maximum of
10 years, including grace periods of up to five years. Repayment and grace
period terms for each subloan would be established by BROU in consultation
with PLAN or INC technicians on the basis of the cash flow projection of the
corresponding farm plan. Loans from the Government to BROU would have the
same repayment terms as provided by BROU to its subborrowers.
3.11      The Government would on-lend the proceeds of the Bank loan to BROU
'in local currency equivalent, assuming the foreign exchange risk. However,
the principal outstanding on Government loans to BROU and on the subloans
made by BROU to project sub-borrowers would be adjusted in accordance with
variations in one of three indexes of producer prices that would be calculated
and published monthly by the Directorate of Agricultural Economics Studies
(DIEA) of the MAP and the Directorate General of Statistics and Censuses of
the Planning Ministry.
3.12      Indexing practice under previous Bank-financed projects experienced
three major shortcomings that detracted from effective repayment correction.
They were (a) stipulation that the applicable index would be the lower of a
meat/wool index or the consumer price index; (b) addition rather than compound-
ing of successive adjustment factors; and (c) a six-month lag between the
dates of calculation and of application of the adjustment. These shortcomings
would be eliminated under the proposed project.
3.13      Adjustment of principal under the proposed project would be based
exclusively on indexes of producer prices. Given the objective of production
diversification, the varying patterns of short-term price movement among live-
stock, crops, and dairy products, and the extreme awareness and sensitivity
of producers to these differences and their impact on the cash flow of their
enterprises, three indexes would be employed, incorporating weights for these
products derived from the corresponding farm models (meat/wool, crops/meat,
and milk/meat). The index to be applied to any subloan would be determined by
the technician from PLAN in accordance with the output mix reflected in
the sub-borrowers' farm plan. Furthermore, successive adjustments would
be compounded, and the lag between calculation and application would be
reduced to two months. Further details are in Annex 3.
3.14      The methodology and operational aspects of the proposed indexing
have been discussed and agreed upon by officials of all agencies involved in
project design and implementation. The principles and procedures of the



- 24 -
proposed indexing have been detailed in a circular issued by the BROU on
December 27, 1979, which is satisfactory to the Bank. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that these indexing principles and procedures
would be maintained in future years.
3.15      Prnducer's minimum contribution would be 20% of the investment
cost, except project INC settlers who would contribute 13%. The maximum loan
to any participating farmer would be US$150,000 (at 1979 prices). The Govern-
ment, making use of reimbursements from Bank loan proceeds, would on-lend to
BROU 25% of the value of BROU project subloans to traditional farmers and
31% of subloans to project INC farmers. Annual rates of interest charged by
BROU to sub-borrowers on the adjusted principal would be 5% for farmers with
500 ha or more, and 3% for those with less. The BROU would receive a margin
of two percentage points on Government loans. This interest rate structure
has been selected to encourage investment in farming, benefitting smaller
producers and to maintain the financial soundness of the institution.
3.16      The Government, through the Central Bank, would enter into a sub-
sidiary loan agreement with the BROU, incorporating terms and conditions of
the lending operations specified in the preceding paragraphs. The execution
of the subsidiary loan agreement, acceptable to the Bank, would be a condi-
tion of loan effectiveness. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that subloans would be made under the terms and conditions stated above, and
that, in accordance with the recent decision of the Government's Economic
Council, BROU would refrain from offering to producers lines of credit for
purposes covered by the project on conditions more favorable than those
agreed under the project.
C. Accounts and Audits
3.17      Separate project accounts would be maintained by the Central Bank,
BROU, INC and PLAN. Accounting procedures for these institutions are ade-
quate. All project accounts would be audited by independent auditors accept-
able to the Bank. Auditing to date, carried out by the Government Court of
Accounts (Tribunal de Cuentas), has been satisfactory. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that certified copies of the audited financial
statements and signed copies of the auditors' reports in respect of all the
project accounts would be sent to the Bank within four months after the end
of the fiscal year.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
PLAN Farm/Ranch Development
3.18      Project monitoring for the farm/ranch development component would
be carried out by PLAN's existing monitoring unit, Economics and Registration
Office of the Agricultural Plan (SERPA). The unit would prepare annual



- 25 -
monitoring reports for the component and make them available to the Govern-
ment, to the PLAN Honorary Commission, and to the Bank. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that PLAN would furnish the annual monitoring
reports to the Bank within four months following the end of each project year.
Rehabilitation of INC Colonies
3.19      Monitoring facilities for the INC project component do not exist
at present. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that a minimal monitoring
unit based on the norms designed by PLAN would be established within the
Special Projects department of INC. This unit could later be expanded in the
event of a follow-up project to cover additional settlements under the rehabil-
itation program. As in the case of PLAN, reports would be prepared and made
available to Government, to the INC Board, and to the Bank within four months
following the end of each project year. Assurances to this effect were
obtained during negotiations.
E. Progress Reporting
3.20      Semi-annual progress reports would be prepared by PLAN and INC on
their respective components. The reports would be sent to the Government and
to the Bank not later than two months following the end of each semester.
PLAN and INC would also prepare comprehensive draft completion reports for
the farm/ranch development and rehabilitation of settlements components,
respectively. These completion reports would be submitted to the Government
and to the Bank not later than six months after the closing date of the
project. Assurances on these points were obtained during negotiations.
IV. TECHNICAL COEFFICIENTS
4.01      The project area would encompass the entire range of geographic,
climatic, farm size and soil type variations in Uruguay. Four farm/ranch
models have been developed for the purpose of project budgeting and financial
studies (Annex 4, Tables 10 to 34). Actual and projected technical coeffi-
cients were based on experiences of (a) the first five livestock projects;
(b) data supplied by DIEA; (c) data from the project preparation staff; and
(d) experience gained from field visits and producer interviews during appraisal.
The technical coefficients applied in this report are as follows:



- 26 -
Livestock      Mixed Farm        Dairy            INC
Model I        Model II       Model III      Model IV
500-ha ranch   320-ha farm   150-ha farm   200 ha farm
WP 1/  FD 2/      WP    FD      WP      FD     WP      FD
Weaning Rate, %
Cattle                    59     71        59     - 3/  60       74     55      75
Sheep                     72     82        64    80       -       -     70      86
Off-take Rate %
Cattle                    16     23        20     - 3/  27 4/  32 4/  31 4/  34 4/
Sheep                    20      40        24    38       -      -      24       -
Stocking Rate
(AU/ha)                   0.6    0.8         .87  1.1    0.8    1.0    0.69   1.14
Pasture Improvement
(% Improved area/
ranch)                    1     20         7    56      40     83      25     54
Meat Production
(kg liveweight/ha/year)
Beef                      37     64.5      75.9 135.4   61.7  107.7   36.6   84
Sheep                      5.5    8.9       4.5  19       -      -       1.2   11.7
Milk Production
(liters/ha/year)          -       -         -     -    736  1,920    554  1,120
Wool Production
(kg grease wool/
ha/year)                  5.2    7.0       4.9  15.9    -       -       0.8    6.7
Crops: (kg/ha)
Sunflower                 -       -         -   900       -      -    500    900
Wheat                      -      -       900 1,500       -       -    800  1,500
Soybeans                  -       -         - 1,400       -      -       -      -
Area in Crops                -      -        38      -      -       -      -       -
(% of total farm)         -       -        38    34       -      -      37     30
1/ Without project.
2/ At full development.
3/ After year 4, the breeding enterprise ceases.
4/ Male calves sold at birth.



- 27 -
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES
A. Production
5.01      Annual output of the major commodities of the project farms without
and with the project would be approximately as follows:
With Project   Incremental Production
Without      at Full       as Percentage of 1974-78
Commodity                   Project   Development    Average National Production
(tons '000)                       (
Wheat                        78.0         109.0                      8
Sunflower/Soybean             3.3          31.0                     44
Beef 1/ 2/                   51.0         108.0                     14
Sheep 1/                     10.0          23.0                     12
Milk                         50.0         129.0                     12
Wool                          7.0          10.0                      5
1/   Liveweight.
2/   Includes breeding heifers available for sale.
5.02      At full development, it is estimated that annual incremental produc-
tion resulting from the project and its proportion to the country's 1974-79
average production would be respectively, about 27,600 tons and 44% for
sunflower and soybean; 57,000 tons and 14% for beef; 79,400 tons and 12% for
milk; 13,000 tons and 12% for sheep; 3,000 tons and 5% for wool. Using
1978/79 farmgate prices, the total value of annual incremental production due
to the project would be about US$55 million and the incremental herd value
would amount to US$28 million at full development.
B. Markets and Prices
Beef
5.03      Incremental project production of beef would be largely for export.
Uruguay exported 100,000 tons to 150,000 tons (carcass) of meat each year
during 1974-78, or about one-third of production. The long-term market out-
look for beef export is favorable. The Bank projections are that beef exports
from developing countries should grow at more than 5% per year. Prices are
also projected to increase from US 95.6 cents per kg in 1978 to US 119.5 cents
per kg in 1985 (Argentine frozen manufacturing beef export to the European
Economic Community (EEC)), both expressed in 1978 constant dollars. Uruguayan
exports have met some problems in the three major import markets, the USA,
Japan and the EEC. The USA and Japan do not accept uncooked beef from coun-
tries affected by foot-and-mouth disease and the EEC, the major market for



- 28 -
Uruguayan beef until 1973, imposed a virtual ban on imports from non-EEC
and associated countries in July 1974. While this ban has been gradually
relaxed, EEC remains an uncertain market for large exportable surpluses of
beef. Consequently, Uruguayan beef exporters have been actively seeking
outlets in other areas where there is a growing demand, e.g. other Latin
American countries, non-EEC countries in Europe, the Middle East and some
countries in Africa. In 1978, for example, Brazil and Egypt were the largest
importers of beef from Uruguay, together accounting for about 70% of the
total export volume. Thus, the incremental beef production envisaged under
the project should find a good export market. The marketing system and
processing facilities for beef (para 1.17) are adequate to meet project
needs.
Milk
5.04      Milk production in Uruguay has been about 680 million liters per
annum in the last five years, most of which is consumed domestically.
Domestic demand has been mostly satisfied by local production, but small
amounts of powdered milk are imported to fill a supply gap in wintertime.
The present internal market for dairy products is about 210 liters per capita,
which represents a high level of consumption. An efficient processing and
distribution system ensures that dairy products are available throughout the
country (para 1.18). Most of the milk produced is marketed by CONAPROLE.
5.05      All incremental production under the project would be for industrial
processing. Uruguay's exports of dairy products have been growing rapidly
in the past five years, rising from 2,000 tons in 1973 to 5,000 tons in 1977.
Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA) countries, especially Brazil,
Peru and Mexico, have been importing about 80% of the total. Since LAFTA
countries are expected to have a deficit of dairy products amounting to
4 million tons annually over the next decade, the incremental milk production
under the project should find readily accessible export markets. Best export
opportunities at present are in specialized hard cheese and highly refined
casein.
Wool and Mutton
5.06      Production of wool in Uruguay has been around 60,000 tons per year
and 90% of the production is exported mostly in the form of grease wool (about
35%) and tops (about 40%). Wool contributes 20% of Uruguay's export earnings
and Uruguay accounts for 3% of the world's wool exports. The principal export
market for Uruguay's wool are European countries.  EEC countries import 50%
of the total and East European countries, 20%. Export market prospects for
incremental wool production are good.
5.07      Lamb and mutton are a secondary consideration in sheep raising.  About
1.0 million head are slaughtered for sale and 80% of these (about 5,000 tons)
are exported. Additionally 2 million head are consumed on the farm. There
is room, therefore, to expand both exports and domestic consumption. Accord-
ing to a MAP study, per capita annual consumption of sheep meat in Montevideo



- 29 -
is about 0.7 kg, whereas the national average is 4.3 kg, reflecting the
preference of urban population for beef over sheep. Rising beef prices should
eventually change the consumption pattern of urban dwellers and good quality
sheep meat, especially lamb, is expected to find an expanding market. In any
case, the increasing demand for sheep meat in Europe, the USA, Japan and the
Middle East should readily absorb any incremental production under the project
which could not be sold in the domestic market.
5.08      The project would be expected to have a sizeable impact on the
production of oilseeds in which Uruguay has a considerable deficit. The
edible oil deficit is currently about 8,000 tons per year. Soybean is a
relatively new crop to Uruguay, but an increasing number of more progressive
farmers are growing it successfully. The strong demand on world markets makes
soybean an important future crop for Uruguay, not only for import substitution,
but also for export of beans and/or by-products at a later stage. Additional
sunflower seed production under the project should also find a ready market
domestically, and existing plant capacity is adequate for processing it.
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Sub-borrowers' Benefits and Financial Rates of Return
6.01      Sub-borrowers' benefits have been analyzed on the basis of the farm
models detailed in Annex 4, Tables 31 to 34. The technical assumptions for
these models are given in Chapter IV. The financial assumptions underlying
the models reflect input (investment and operating expenditure) and output
prices of the respective harvesting seasons of the 1978/79 crop year. On
these assumptions, sub-borrowers' benefits and financial rates of return have
been calculated and are summarized in the following table:



- 30 -
Farm Model
Model I    Model II    Model III   Model IV
___-------        (US$ 000)
Average Farm Size (ha)               500          320           150         200
Investment Cost                       16.9         39.5          33.1        36.5
Subloan Amount                        13.5         31.6          26.5        31.8
Net Income
Without Project                        8.8          9.1           7.4         3.5
At Full Development 1/                15.7         20.8          23.2        13.3
Incremental                            6.9         11.7          15.8         9.8
Relative Increase (%)                 78          129           214         280
Debt Service 2/                        3.2          6.5           5.6         6.5
Net Income After Debt Service 2/   12.5            14.3          17.6         6.8
Financial Rate of Return (%)          23           21            25          22
1/   Full development would be reached in year 9 for Farm Model III and in
year 10 for the rest.
2/   At full development.
6.02      The financial rates of return are satisfactory, ranging from 21%
for the mixed farm development model to 25% for the dairy farm development.
6.03      Tests have been made of the sensitivity of the financial rates of
return to differences in required investment in machinery and equipment.
This test applies to Models II-IV, and arises from likely before development
differences in the stock of machinery and equipment owned by participating
farmers. It has been assumed that 50% of farmers in Models II and IV and 60%
of those in Model III own before development a full set of machinery and
equipment, including tractor and implements. The total investment in machinery
and equipment under the project has, therefore, been estimated as 50% of the
total cost in the case of Model II and IV farmers, and 60% for model III
farmers. Maximum, minimum and average investment are defined as 100%, 0% and
50%-60% of the total cost of investment in machinery.



- 31 -
6.04      Tests were also made of the impact of changes in prices or quan-
tities of inputs and outputs on the financial viability of the proposed
investments. the resulting rates of return (see table) indicate that the
investments would remain financially viable under the assumptions tested.
Sensitivity Analysis
Farm Models
Model I   Model II    Model III   Model IV
 __  __  ____ _____ ___(% )___ _ __ _ __ _
Extent of Investment in Machinery
Minimum Investment                       23          16          18           17
Maximum Investment                       23          29          36           33
Average Investment                       23          21          25           22
Changes in Benefits and Costs
(a) Benefits
(i)  -5%                           22          16           23           20
(ii)  -10%                          20          11           21           17
(b) Investment Costs
(i)  +5%                           22          19           24           21
(ii)  +10%                          21          18           23           20
(c)  Operating Costs
(i)  +5%                           23          17           25           21
(ii)  +10%                          22          13           24           20
(d) Combination of
(i)   (b)(i), (c)(i)
and (d)(i)                    20        n.r.l/        21           17
(ii)  (b)(ii), (c)(ii)-
and (d)(ii)                   18        n.r.l/         17          12
1/   "Not relevant":  44% of the value of output and 25% of operating costs
consist of fat steers and lean steers, respectively, the prices of which
cannot move in opposite directions for any length of time. Because of
this, all other rates shown for this model also have a downward bias.



- 32 -
B. Project Cash Flow
6.05      The estimated project cash flow of the lending program to be handled
by BROU is given in Annex 4, Table 35. The cash inflow would be derived from
Government le-ding of the proceeds of the Bank loan, from BROU's own resources,
and repayment of subloan principal and interest. The cash outflow consists of
subloans to project beneficiaries, repayment of own resources and Government
loans, and administrative costs. Since loans are indexed, all calculations
have been made at constant prices. The calculations indicate that the 2%
gross margin allowed to BROU over the indexed capital on-lent to project
beneficiaries would be sufficient to cover costs and that, during the 12-year
period of project operations, they could accumulate net earnings amounting to
US$5.5 million.
VII. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Economic Analysis
Rate of Return
7.01      The economic rates of return of the project have been calculated
separately for each project component, as shown in the table on page 33,
on the following basis:
(a)  Base year prices of inputs and outputs were assumed to change
according to Bank price forecasts where available (i.e. beef,
wheat, soybean, fertilizer and fuel); estimates assuming
unchanged base year relative prices are also shown;
(b)  Labor costs were evaluated at the on-going rates since rural
unemployment is practically non-existent;
(c)  Deductions were made for prevailing taxes and duties;
(d)  Incremental herd and flock values were credited to the project
at the end of the project period (20 years);
(e)  Costs of technical assistance, road construction and adminis-
tration (BROU) were charged to the project; and
(f)  A general Conversion Factor of 0.8 was assumed to derive
border prices.



- 33 -
7.02      Based on these assumptions, the project's economic rate of return
is estimated at 26%. The economic rate of return and net present value on
individual project components is estimated as follows: livestock development,
22%; mixed farm development, 37%; dairy development, 26%; and INC settlement
development, 24%. The project's rate of return is 28% when unchanged base
year relative prices are assumed.
Rate of Return       Net Present Value 1/
Bank Price   Base Year   Bank Price  Base Year
Components                           Forecasts      Prices     Forecasts    Prices
----------(%) --------    -----(US$ million)---
Livestock Development                    22          24          28.8       33.6
Mixed Farm Development                   37          36          30.2       31.6
Dairy Farm Development                   26          29          11.0       13.1
INC Settlement Development               24          25          5.8         6.6
Total Project                       26         28          75.8        84.9
1/   Opportunity cost of capital 11% was assumed.
Sensitivity Analysis
7.03      The switching value analysis, shown below, indicates that the
project would still be economically justified even if one of the following
three situations occurred: (a) prices or productivity decreased by 26%;
(b) investment cost increased by 101%; and (c) operating cost increased by
52%. The project is relatively sensitive to price changes and least sensi-
tive to changes in investment cost.
1/Operating 1
Component                        Benefits 1/    Investment 1/         Costs--/
 _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ (%)__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Livestock Development                -33             + 86           +111
Mixed Farm Development               -21             +128            + 32
Dairy Development                    -32            +104            + 86
INC Settlement Development           -22            + 77            + 44
Total Project             -26             +101            + 52
1/   Assuming an opportunity cost of capital of 11%.



- 34 -
B. Project Justification
Economic Policy, Production and Exports
7.04      The proposed project would support the liberalization policies
recently adopted by the Government. These policies, complemented by an
appropriate technical assistance and credit program, as envisaged in the
proposed project, promise to lead to an unprecedented development of the
livestock industry, accompanied by progress in dairying and crops (see
para 7.11). The principal orientation of the proposed project is towards
increasing production from the depressed levels of the last several years.
Expected increases in production are shown in paragraph 5.01.
7.05      The project would also help the agricultural sector continue as the
main source of foreign exchange earnings and increase the comparative advan-
tage that Uruguay enjoys through the use of modern technology. The value of
incremental exports at full development is estimated at about US$42 million
(1978 prices), of which beef would account for 58%, dairy products for 21%,
wool for 13%, and mutton for 8%. There would also be considerable foreign
exchange savings due to the increased production of edible oil crops, mainly
soybean and sunflower.
Income Distribution
7.06      Considering the progress already made by Uruguay in the areas
of welfare and income distribution, the primary objectives of the project
would be production, export and economic policies as mentioned above. There
would be, however, a number of features aiming at support to small-scale
farmers. The principal one is the project's INC component, which aims at
providing technical and credit assistance to a group of farmers with incomes
of about 40% of the national average. Unlike the traditional component, the
number of beneficiaries and volume of credit in the INC component are firm
estimates based on existing farmers and conditions in the two selected INC
settlements. The project would provide the required institutional support to
reach these farmers adequately and to enable them to use effectively 10% of
the total volume of credit.
7.07      The farm models used in the traditional component of the project
correspond to enterprises that generate net incomes approximately equal to the
national average of about US$8,000 per family. These models may therefore be
considered the boundaries between smaller and medium-sized farmers. On the
basis of the experience in previous projects, it can be expected that about
70% of project participants would be smaller farmers, i.e., with farm enter-
prise size or incomes below those shown in the models, and about 30% would
be medium-sized and larger farmers (para 1.35). Trial models indicate that
smaller farmers and larger enterprises should obtain roughly comparable rates
of return. Again as in previous projects, smaller farmers would be expected
to receive about 40% of the volume of credit. Since an additional 10% would
go to INC settlers, smaller farmers would benefit from about half of the total
volume of credit provided under the project.



- 35 -
7.08      In addition, the farms below 500 ha will benefit from a lower
real rate of interest (3%) than the larger farmers who will pay 5%. Also,
the larger farmers will have to contract directly and defray the full cost
of technical assistance, whereas the smaller farmers will not be charged.
The proposed project, as designed, represents, in fact, the country's entire
agricultural lending program and would imply a significant increase in invest-
ment in the countryside as compared with the historical record, and would meet
the expected demand for credit among different classes of producers in the
coming three years.
Fiscal Revenues
7.09      Uruguay has a fairly advanced agricultural taxing system, which is
based on presumptive yields of farms, irrespective of whether the potential
productivity levels are actually realized (IMPROME, para 1.23). The produc-
tion levels are estimated on the basis of actual average yields obtained for
each kind of soil, thereby implicitly assuming average technology. The tax
thus constitutes a fiscal instrument aimed at achieving at least average pro-
ductivity. The calculation of average potential yields should in time reflect
superior technological levels and bring in larger tax revenues, since the tax
base is revised every five years on the basis of field surveys. Now that
policy conditions have been improved so as to enable the agricultural sector
to increase productivity, the tax system is likely to work effectively directly
by providing an incentive to those producers who would be willing to invest
to reach higher production standards and, indirectly, by forcing farmers
who remain significantly below the average production levels to ultimately
sell all or part of their holdings.
7.10      While no immediate increase in tax revenues from IMPROME collections
would be expected, there would be significant increases in central and local
government collections from existing sales and other indirect taxes. Incre-
mental tax collections during the investment period would be about US$3.4
million and they would stabilize at about US$1.8 million per year at full
development, as indicated below:



- 36 -
Incremental Fiscal Revenues
During Investment
Period                     At Full Development (Annual)
Tax Paid         Tax Paid
Number       Tax on Investment         by Farmers         by Agents
of          Per
Model   Farms         Farm         Total         Per Farm         Per Farm         Total
(US$)     (US$'000)         (US$)             (US$)        (US$'000)
1     1,900        681         1,294            216               21              450
II       600      2,173          1,304         1,259              685            1,166
III        300     1,545            464           158                 -              47
IV       220      1,316            290           319              236              122
3,352                                           1,785
C. Project Risks
7.11      The project faces no unusual risks.  There is, however, a considerable
element of uncertainty concerning producer demand for project investment loans.
There is, first, the extent to which producer expectations and world market
prices for project output and input follow the course forecast in the analysis.
In addition, and perhaps more importantly, is the issue of whether the Government
would adhere to the free market policies adopted in August 1978 and summarized
in paragraph 1.13. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Govern-
ment would maintain agricultural policies contained in the decrees issued by
Government in connection with the August 1978 policy reforms, and would afford
the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views on any new policies or
measures which should have the effect of amending, suspending or abrogating
said reforms.
D. Environmental Impact
7.12       The environmental impact of the proposed project would vary within
the different agro-ecological areas, but it would, in general, have a positive
influence on the restoration and conservation of Uruguay's land resources.
Emphasis on improved pasture establishment and conservation in areas of
shallow soils of basalt and crystalline rock origin represent a rational use
of these agriculturally limited lands, while increased introduction of legumes



- 37 -
would considerably improve the generally low nitrogen content of the soils.
The recommended crop-pasture rotations and the presence of livestock on the
land during the major portion of the rotation would result in raising and/or
maintaining fertility levels in most areas. In the case of the Quebracho INC
settlements, where the predominantly deep sandy soils have been seriously
depleted by continuous cropping and are subject to intensive erosion processes,
the impact of the project would be expected to restore and maintain levels of
productivity which these areas have lost.
VIII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(a) INC would appoint a Project Coordinator with qualifications
and experience acceptable to PLAN and to the Bank (para 3.08);
(b) The subloan indexing principles and procedures detailed in
the circular issued by the BROU on December 27, 1979 would
be maintained (para 3.14);
(c) The Central Bank (CB) and BROU would enter into a subsidiary
loan agreement that specified lending terms and conditions
between CB and BROU and between BROU and project beneficiaries
(para 3.16);
(d) Certified copies of the audited financial statements of FG,
BROU, INC and PLAN and signed copies of the auditors' reports
of each institution would be sent to the Bank within four
months after the end of the fiscal year (para 3.17);
(e) PLAN would furnish annual monitoring reports to the Bank
within four months following the end of each project year
(para 3.18);
(f) INC would establish within its Special Projects Department
a minimal monitoring unit based on the norms designed by
PLAN, and that this unit would prepare annual reports and
make them available to the Government (MAP), to the INC
Board and to the Bank within four months following the
end of each project year (para 3.19);
(g) PLAN and INC would prepare semi-annual progress reports that
would be sent to the Government and to the Bank within two
months following the end of each semester, and comprehensive
draft completion reports for their respective project components
that would be submitted to the Government and to the Bank
within six months after the closing date of the project
(para 3.20); and



- 38 -
(h) Government would maintain agricultural policies contained
in the decrees issued by the Government in the context of the
August 1978 reform of agricultural market policies, and would
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views on
any new policies or measures which should have the effect of
amending, suspending or abrogating said reforms (ps-a 7.11).
8.02      Condition of effectiveness would be that the subsidiary loan agree-
ment satisfactory to the Bank between CB and BROU had been executed (para
3.16).
8.03      Condition of disbursement against the INC component of the project
would be that INC had established the Project Implementation Unit. Further,
a condition of disbursement against the feeder roads component would be the
execution of a contract satisfactory to the Bank embodying arrangements
between INC and the municipalities for the construction of the said roads
(para 3.08).
8.04      With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project
constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan to the Government of Uruguay
for US$24 million for a term of 15 years, including three years of grace,
with interest at the rate prevailing at the time of loan approval.
March 27, 1980



- 39 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rehabilitation of INC Settlements
A. The National Colonization Institute (INC)
1.        The institution responsible for rural settlements in Uruguay is
the Instituto Nacional de Colonizacion (INC), established by Law 11,029
of January 12, 1948. This autonomous entity is entrusted with carrying out
all necessary measures to promote a rational distribution and utilization of
land as well as the increase and improvement of agricultural production and
the settlement and welfare of the rural population. 1/ INC is linked to the
Executive through the Ministry of Agriculture and Fishing (MAP).
2.        Services provided by INC to settlers include credit, industrial,
construction, commercial, coordination and socio-cultural activities. The
Institute provides loans for purchase of land to individual settlers and
capital for establishing and operating agricultural cooperatives. In addi-
tion, it provides credit for amortization of lands mortgaged to the Banco
Hipotecario de Uruguay (BHU) and for improvement of settled areas, including
infrastructure, drainage, irrigation, power supply or establishing services
for the community. It can install or assist in the installation of agro-
industries related to settlement production, and construct facilities for
cleaning, controlling, classifying, storing or transporting agricultural
products from its settlements, as well as housing, fences and other required
farm improvements. INC can administer farms for either public or private
entities; market agricultural products either directly or for the settlers;
transport agricultural production; import farm machinery and equipment for
use in its settlement and sell fertilizer and other agricultural inputs to
agricultural communities. It is also entitled to administer government grain
storage, in agreement with the Bank of the Republic East of the Uruguay River
(BROU), and act as an intermediary between agricultural producers and land-
owners in the purchase or rental of agricultural land. Finally, INC is
responsible for organizing training courses in various agricultural fields for
settler farmers as well as in home economics for settlers' wives and daughters.
Other socio-cultural activities include establishing clubs and settlers'
organizations, the promotion of mutual help schemes, and provision of fellow-
ships for selected settlers and members of its own agricultural staff.
1/   Article 1 of Law 11,029, January 12, 1978.



- 40 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
Organization and Management
3.        INC management is directed by a five-member Board which includes
a president, designated by the Executive; a delegate from the Ministry of
Economics and Finance (MEF); a delegate from MAP; a delegate selected by the
Executive from a list consisting of two candidates from the University of the
Republic and two from the University of Labor; and a delegate selected by the
Executive from among candidates proposed by national producer organizations,
agricultural cooperatives and development societies, each of which proposes
one candidate.
4.        Under the Board of Directors (Chart 1), there is a General Manager
and a number of advisory services which include planning and coordination,
public relations, audit, program and budget, data-processing, information and
preselection of settlers, and legal advice; a complex scheme of directorates,
divisions, departments, and sections carries out the management activities of
the institution. This system is run by a staff of 260 persons of whom 100
(38%) are of professional level and the remaining 160 are administrative
officials. The agency has a technical staff of 62 professionals, including
agricultural engineers, accountants, architects, lawyers, and the like, 46 of
whom are permanently stationed in Montevideo to provide services to the
settlers while the others are stationed directly in the regional offices close
to the INC settlements. The largest group of professionals are the agricul-
tural specialists (35) of whom 40% are stationed in the field. Limited
resources (para 5) and low salary scales have resulted in technical staff
erosion and prevented expansion of the required field technical services.
Other results of the limited funds include obsolete office equipment, insuffi-
cient and wornout vehicles, and lack of modern data-processing equipment.
Financial Resources
5.        To carry out its many functions, INC must count on Government con-
tributions and income arising from administration of its own land resources:
rentals (62%); grazing fees (1%); interests due and interests over-due (14%
and 18%) and others (5%). Total income from both sources amounted to US$1.2
million equivalent of which 69% were absorbed by the operating budget, leaving
only US$350,000 equivalent for necessary investments. On the basis of these
resources, it has been impossible for INC to initiate significant development
plans for its settlements which would require substantial investments and
availability of agricultural credit. However, with the identification of a
critical area of settlements in which a pilot program for agricultural develop-
ment is initiated under the proposed project, the stage is set for a more
extended effort in a future project, based on identification of suitable areas
for the purpose among the settlements along the Western Littoral region.



- 41 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
B. Settlement Operations
6.        INC is authorized to acquire land through various means specified
in its basic law. 1/ These include expropriation of (a) uncultivated or
undercultivated land close to population centers, roads or highways, shipping
ports or agricultural products processing plants; (b) large size farms that
are located in priority areas and have high soil productivity but inadequate
management practices; (c) all lands capable of economic agricultural transfor-
mation; (d) irrigated land or areas that could be irrigated or for which
irrigation plans have been approved; and (e) areas of minifundia where the
present lots are too small to support a family. In all cases, preference for
expropriation will be lands whose owners are absent or incapacitated, reside
outside the country, own more than one farm; do not farm the land personally,
charge high rent or operate under any other anti-social circumstances. In
addition, priority is given to expropriation of lands subject to severe
erosion through mismanagement by the owner or the tenants. In any case, land
owners within areas specified by the Executive, before selling farms of over
1,000ha, are obliged to offer them to the INC which will have priority over
all other buyers.
7.        On the basis of this legal backing, INC had by 1977 settled 308,420
ha during its 29 years of existence, although progress was not made at an even
pace due to varying decrees of support given at different times by Government.
In terms of decades, the rate of colonization has been as follows:
Annual
Decade                   Ha            %           Average (ha)
1948/57                149,671        48.5           14,967
1958/67                 21,526         7.0            2,153
1968/77                137,223        44.5           15,247
These lands were acquired by INC through expropriation (66.8%); through first
option (25.6%); and through direct purchase (6.5%). All other forms of land
acquisition account for only 1.1% of the total. The varying rates of coloniza-
tion in the three periods illustrated indicate varying financial support to
INC rather than different levels of demand for settlement farms. While INC
expands its colonization area in accordance with availability of funds and/or
purchasable land, rather than in direct response to demand, there is no
indication that pressure for new settlements is great and the policy of the
agency tends towards increased support of already existing settlements rather
than expansion, as is common in other Latin American countries.
8.        The 308,420 ha settled in 1977 has been subdivided into 2,343 lots
varying in average size from 68 to 280 ha according to location (distance to
markets, road transportation, availability of services, and such); to land
suitability which determines agricultural production; and to the different
1/   Chapter VIII, Law 11,029.



- 42 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
policies adopted by changing managements on the size of economic unit and the
selection of settlers. The average size lot in the most recent significant
settlement was 132 ha. Some of the earlier settlements resulted in lots too
small to be economically productive and INC has attempted to correct this
situation by absorbing some of these smaller lots into larger units as some of
its land becomes available.
9.        In addition to small lot size and the constant change in product
and input prices which have influenced the success of individual settlers,
unstable tenure is considered to be a negative factor and efforts by the
INC have concentrated in recent years on assisting settlers to purchase
land without being separated from the settlement movement. By 1977, 62% of
INC-settled land was owned by the farmers and, with recent increases in agri-
cultural product prices and plans to improve technical assistance and farm
plans, this figure is expected to rise significantly.
10.       The present staff of 35 agronomists (para 4) is clearly insufficient
to provide the required technical assistance to the some 2,400 settled lots,
with an average of almost 70 farms per agricultural technician. This situa-
tion is further aggravated with the national problem of low salaries which,
as in other institutions, tends to erode the availability of technical staff
either by loss to other better-paying jobs or by the fact that they devote
a large part of their time to other activities for supplementing their income.
11.       To complement its settlement activities, INC provides, in addition
to credit and technical assistance, services related to water supply, land
reclamation, road transportation and nurseries for fruit trees and forestry
species. In the course of the 1976/77 exercise, INC constructed 45 farm ponds
and drilled 104 wells in its settlements in the departments of Artigas, Salto,
Rivera and Florida. In addition, 3,000 ha were placed under irrigation for
sugarcane and rice production. Other land reclamation activities include
drainage schemes in Canelones, Rivera and San Jose and soil conservation
programs in Canelones, Colonia, Paysandu and Rio Negro. To provide the
settlements with the required road network, the Institute has entered into a
series of agreements with the corresponding municipalities in which the cost
of road construction, improvement and maintenance is shared by the settlers,
INC and the municipality. These municpalities in most cases have the neces-
sary equipment and work in what amounts to an effective system of force
account. Three large INC nurseries in Canelones, Rio Negro and Paysandu
provide seedlings for fruit trees, particularly citrus, and for reforestation,
an activity which the institution has recently been trying to promote. In
the 1973-76 period these nurseries provided about 1.8 million forest seedlings
and some 270,000 fruit trees, particularly in the Paysandu area where citrus
cultivation has become important and in 1977 citrus seedling production
reached about 60,000 plants.
12.       To assist its settlers in the marketing of their products, INC
enters into agreements with other organizations providing agricultural
products for agro-industrial or other purposes. Such marketing agreements
include tomato production for BROU and with the Catholic Relief Service;
marketing agreements for corn with the Industrializadora de Maiz S.A. (IMSA),
a maize processing plant, and an agreement with the Third Division of the
Uruguayan army for the use of forest products from INC-settled lands.



- 43 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5
C. Institutional Evaluation
13.       The INC of Uruguay provides an important service to the country's
agriculture and rural development which can be more clearly assesed from the
cooperative spirit developed in many of its settlements than by the production
levels reached by the farmers. An institution traditionally plagued by lack
of financial support, emphasizing small farmers and agricultural crops in a
country of predominant large land holdings and extensive livestock activities,
it has managed to survive and slowly but steadily extend its settlement opera-
tions and to provide technical and financial assistance to its settlers
regardless of its limited resources.
14.       In recent years, INC management has embarked on a program of insti-
tution building and laid plans for development of its colonies starting with
a pilot program to assist some of the settlements which are facing critical
conditions and for which alternative economic activities have already been
identified. This effort is to be complemented by identification of rehabili-
tation priorities among the colonies located in the Western Littoral of
Uruguay, along the Uruguay River, the most productive agricultural crop area
in the country. It is expected that with adequate Government support these
efforts would result in strengthening the rural settlement effort in Uruguay
and promote much desired agricultural diversification in the country.
15.       The present organizational and financial structure of INC is ade-
quate for the limited level of operations which the institution is carrying
out. An effort to strengthen the institution and expand development opera-
tions to other settlements will necessarily imply a review of the effectiveness
of the organizational structure and steps are already being taken in that
direction through the creation of a Special Studies Unit and the incorpora-
tion of additional staff for the proposed pilot project in the Quebracho and
Salto settlement.
D. Pilot Rehabilitation Project for Selected INC Settlements
16.       In an effort to strengthen the institution's capacity to assist
settlers in overcoming low-income situations and contributing to the
rational use of land resources in settled areas, the INC proposes a pilot
project in a group of settlements which are in an economically depressed
stage and for which production alternatives have been identified (para 14).
This pilot project would be complemented by further efforts to identify other
settlements in the Western Littoral region to which similar improved assis-
tance could be provided in the future. Selection of settlements on which to
base the proposed pilot project was largely influenced by the critical situa-
tion of INC settlements in the Quebracho area of Paysandu and of one settle-
ment in the Department of Salto for which alternative production has been
clearly identified. The total selected project area encompasses about 93,300
ha and 464 farms, of which about 220 farms (47%) are expected to participate
in the project.



- 44 -
ANNEX 1
Page 6
Objectives
17.       The general objectives of the proposed pilot project are (a) to
increase productivity levels in the eroded and depleted settlement areas;
(b) to re-orient agricultural production in these settlements so as to reduce
cropping in the more affected areas, allowing steps to be taken to rehabilitate
the soils; and (c) increase the income level and standard of living of the
settlers in the proposed project area.
Quebracho Settlements
18.       A group of four INC settlements ("Las Delicias", "Dr. Luis Citraro",
"Dr. Baltasar Brum" and "Dr. Horacio Ros de Oger") with a total of 409 farms
covering 82,535 ha are located in the Quebracho area of the Department of
Paysandu. Average farm size is about 200 ha, the area used for the corres-
ponding farm model (Annex 4, Tables 19-23).
19.       The Quebracho area of Paysandu consists mainly of sandy and sandy-
loam soils of low to medium fertility and highly susceptible to sheet and gully
erosion. Forty years of continuous cropping without conservation practices
have seriously depleted the soils and created erosion problems in the most
susceptible areas. Present agricultural activities in the area include crops
(mainly wheat and sunflower), dairy and beef cattle and sheep. In view of the
very low crop yields in recent years which have resulted in lowering incomes
and increasing debt for the settlers, alternatives have been sought for land
use which can increase farmers' incomes while allowing recuperation of soil
fertility through non-crop use and/or conservation practices. One such alter-
native is the introduction of tree crops, mainly citrus, which combined with
such conservation practices as terracing and contour planting will assist in
rehabilitation of the depleted soils. A more important change is that from
the present low-yielding crops to dairy operations which offer an increased
income and provide conditions for soil conservation and rehabilitation. The
possibility of success of this alternative has been greatly enhanced by the
recent construction of a 80,000 1/day dairy processing plant close to
Paysandu and within reasonable distance from the Quebracho settlement. In
addition, the Quebracho settlers' association has initiated construction of
a smaller processing plant (30,000 1/day) in the village of Quebracho (Colegue)
and have purchased transport facilities to collect milk from the settlement
farms. The total milk-processing capacity in the area by end-1980 will thus
reach 260,000 1/day. Through an agreement between INC and the local munici-
pality, 73 km of road have been constructed and some road infrastructure has
been constructed or repaired. To complete the milk collection and transport
scheme, however, some 35 km of farm roads remain to be constructed and, in
order to accelerate the development of the area, have been included into the
proposed project.
20.       The average farm size of 200 ha for settlers participating in the
proposed project is based on the consideration that lots smaller than 50 ha
are not expected to participate in the program since most of them are used
for residential purposes or to provide services to the community, mainly



- 45 -
ANNEX 1
Page 7
in the population centers of Quebracho and Chapicuy. Other small farm units
which are used for agricultural purposes constitute a problem of minifundia
and are being handled by INC in the context of their program of farm conso-
lidation to obtain economically viable farms, which will be carried out
parallel to the proposed pilot project. Of the farms larger than 50 ha,
the project would include those farms for which short-term rehabilitation
and development can be accomplished. Some of the settlers in this larger
stratum may not require the assistance of the program and still others for
whom no short-term recuperation is envisaged would be handled through a
special programs being prepared jointly by MAP, BROU and INC at the national
level.
Salto Settlement
21.       The "Dr. Antonio Rubio" settlement in the Department of Salto is
the fifth settlement to be included in the pilot project and includes 54
farms covering a total of some 10,750 ha. Average size for these farms is
also 200 ha since lots smaller than 50 ha or larger than 500 ha are non-
existent. Physical conditions in the area are not as severe as in the
Quebracho settlements and the development program for this area is based mainly
on an expansion of dairy activities to compensate for dwindling crop yields
and to take advantage of increasing dairy operations in the area. The dairy
processing plant in Salto which has been receiving milk from the Quebracho
area will soon see its supplies reduced because part of the milk will be
diverted to the new Quebracho and Paysandu processing plants. In addition,
increasing markets for dairy products, particularly cheese, butter and "dulce
de leche", a heavy sweetened milk paste used by confectioners throughout Latin
America, has resulted in projected expansion of the local processing plant
from a present input of 35,000 liters of milk per day to 60,000 liters per
day.
22.       In view of the diminishing crop yields and expanding demand for
dairy products, the development strategy for these settlements would be
based mainly on re-orienting agricultural activities towards expanding
dairy operations and providing the necessary financial and technical support
to achieve this change in orientation. The secondary result will be a reduc-
tion in crop areas which will allow the soils to recuperate their fertility
level. To facilitate milk collection in the settlement, 25 km of additional
farm roads have been included in the project. As in the case of Quebracho,
these roads would be constructed by the municipality of Salto which has
already constructed 25 km through an agreement with INC. Under these agree-
ments, the corresponding municipalities, which are equipped to construct this
type of low-cost all-weather roads, would contribute 33% of the cost with the
balance being provided by INC and the settlers.
Pilot Project Components
23.       The basic components of the proposed pilot project are (a) agricul-
tural credit; (b) technical services; and (c) required infrastructure (i.e.
farm roads).



- 46 -
ANNEX 1
Page 8
24.       Agricultural Credit.  An agricultural credit program of about
US$8 million in a five year disbursement period (Annex 4, Table 30) would be
applied to the proposed INC project settlements. This credit would be pro-
vided by BROU on the basis of farm development plans approved by PLAN. In
cases where no subsidiary guarantee is required from INC, farm development
plans would go directly to PLAN for approval and to BROU for financing.
Sub-loans requiring INC subsidiary-guarantee (i.e. tenant settlers) would
first be authorized by the INC Board and then sent for approval by PLAN.
The Project Coordinator (para 28) will periodically provide the Special
Projects Unit of INC with the number and amount of approved sub-loans under
the pilot project. Once approved by PLAN and, when necessary, by INC, the
loan applications will follow the approved procedures for the overall credit
component of the Agricultural Development Project (paras. 3.09-3.16 of the
main text).
25.       Technical Services.  A total of about US$1 million (Annex 4,
Table 32) would be allocated to provide technical services to the partici-
pating settlers in the pilot project. These services would include the
technical and administrative staff required to provide technical assistance
and administrative support as well as the vehicles, office equipment and
operating expenses necessary for efficient implementation of the proposed
project. Included in the technical services are also 28 man-months of train-
ing for the technical staff and 12 man-months of consultant services to
provide technical support in special problems encountered during project
implementation.
26.       The technical staff of seven professionals (one technician per 30
farms) would be initially trained by PLAN in the formulation of farm develop-
ment plans and would later provide assistance to the settlers in the prepara-
tion of their individual development plans, the processing of sub-loans under
the project and throughout the implementation of the approved farm develop-
ment plans. To ensure high quality technical assistance the proposed project
provides for training of the technical staff in the areas identified as
necessary to provide the services required by the settlers. In particular
cases where a special expertise is required, the services of consultants
would be used to provide the desired assistance. The funds allocated to
training and consultant services would be disbursed through a three-year
period.
Infrastructure
27.       To complement the farm roads required for efficient collection of
milk and other agricultural products in the participating INC settlements,
US$600,000 would be provided under the project to construct 60 km of roads,
35 km in the Quebracho settlements and 25 in the "Dr. Antonio Rubio" settle-
ment. These roads would be constructed by the corresponding municipalities
(Intendencias) through existing agreements with INC under which the munici-
palities would provide one-third of construction cost with INC and the
settlers providing the other two-thirds. Specifications for these roads have
already been established since the municipalities have already constructed



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
Page 9
98 km of farm roads in the participating settlements. The roads ate low-cost,
all-weather and provide access to the farms and outlet for agricultural
products, particularly milk which must be quickly and efficiently trans-
ported to the processing plants.
Organization and Management
28.       The proposed pilot project would be entirely managed by the INC,
with PLAN providing training for technical staff assigned to the project
and approving farm development plans to be presented for financing by BROU.
The pilot project would be linked to INC through the institution's Special
Projects Unit, a special group working directly under the General Manager
(Chart 1). For the purposes of the project a Coordinator would be responsible
for the overall program and seven new technicians would be employed to provide
the required assistance to participating settlers. These new technicians,
trained by PLAN and provided with additional training as required through the
project's technical assistance component, would possibly constitute the core
of an expanded program to provide similar services to a larger number of
settlements throughout the Western Littoral region.
Pilot Project Costs
29.       Total cost of the proposed rehabilitation project would be about
US$10 million including contingencies of which 84% would be for agricultural
credit, 10% for technical services, and 6% for infrastructure (Annex 4,
Tables 32-33).



URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fac,n Si.e Distrib.tion in the INC Colonies Included in the Project
Fa.r  Size            "Dr. Antonio R,obin"                "Las Deliciaes"                  "Dr. L.is Citraro"                  "Dr. balt.s.r Brum"            "Dr. Horacio Ros de Oger"                       TOTAL
(ho)          Ilo.Fomos     7.      h.      X   Ng.Farms      7.      ha      7.   No.Fars       7.      h.       7.   No.Farms       7.    ha      7.   No.Far         7       ha      7.    No.Foru       7.      h.      1
0-  49              4         7       50     -        6         6       33     -        -                  _                19        1.1     356    1        15        1        238      1      44           9      677    1
SO - 199            33       60    6,017    56       68         68   7,146    41         -          -       -        -       86         52  11,088   32        58         42    7,468    25       245          54   31,719   34
20)0 - 499          iU        33    4,671    43        22        22   6,910    40         5         100    1,576   IO        48         29  14,173   42        57         41   16,746    57        150         32   44,076   48   
500                 -          -       -       -      4           4   3,235    19        -          -       -        -       13          8   8,527   25         8          6    5,039    46         25          5   16,081   17
To.l1             55        100   10,738  100      100        100  17,324   100         5         100    1,576    100    166         100  34,144  100        138       100    29,491   100       464        100    93,273  100
Average Size                            195                              173                                 315                                206                                 214                                  2t1
So-,rc-.  IntitSLto Nacio-al de Colonizacion (INC)
Septe,ber 25. 1979



URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INC ORGANIZATIONAL CHART
LS~~~~~~~~~~~Drco tochsica
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rgog Planning D&eo
B..,d f~~~~~~~~~~~~~n Stleet
1 l _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eteet                                             OpSerationsa
|   M~~~~~~~~~Rgoal                      Op          p            p           p
De"v~~~~~14 Dept OptO
SoreIC Oraiainl Storotor P; ecro I aum 1,1_7I 
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uol annd -upie                                                             20868 <
D,wtarial- f        1          n     n    e    l          |         _          l          P
D ~ p t   D .p t   D p t   D   t   D p t   D p t   D p t   D p e   _   | 7 ; ;   D n a i   D p t   D p t   D p t   D p t
Dpt~ ~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Dptrnin Dp  Dp   Dp  [)Ptce Dp    DptDt  
S.u,c. INC. Org-nai-lnal St-rt-r Eff-ct-v J ...ary 1, 1979.
tProceedinqs 3322. Res. 125)
W.,ld 6-k - 20868 



- 50 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
The Banking System and Agricultural Credit
A. Structure of Banking System
1.        The banking system in Uruguay consists of 5 official banks and 21
private banks (10 of which are branches of foreign banks). Of the Government
banks, the most important are the Central Bank (BCU) and the Republic Bank
(BROU).
The Central Bank (BCU)
2.        BCU was established in 1967 and has gradually taken over most
of the regulatory functions from BROU. Its major activities in regulating
banking system are related to stabilization measures, such as (a) control
of interest rate; and (b) changes in legal reserve requirements. However,
under the new economic policy, BCU freed oil interest rates in September
1979 and actual interest rates on loans and deposits are determined by
market forces. Legal reserve requirements and rediscounting operations
were discontinued in May 1979.
3.        By a law passed in January 1970, BCU was made administrator of Bank
project funds. BCU, accordingly, established the Livestock Fund (FG) in
September 1970 as a separate unit, with authority to hold, manage and reinvest
all funds made available for carrying out Bank livestock projects as well as
the funds accruing to it as a result of lending to project beneficiaries.
The Republic Bank (BROU)
4.        BROU, a multipurpose Government-owned bank established in 1896, is
the most important credit institution in Uruguay. It handles all of finan-
cial transactions of the central and provincial governments and also finances
30% to 35% of private sector lending. It has 82 branches in the interior
and 16 in Montevideo. BROU's major activities, besides commercial banking
business for the private sector, are agricultural credit, foreign business
transactions, social and consumer credit, and industrial credit for beef
packing plants.
Private Commercial Banks
5.        The number of private banks in Uruguay has decreased from 48 in
1970 to 21 in 1979 because of the deterioration of economy, together with high
inflation and the unjustified proliferation of private banks. These banks
have some 240 offices, of which about a half is in Montevideo. Ninety percent
of the loans of private banks are for the private sector, mainly the indus-
trial and commerce sectors, and on terms shorter than six months, with a high
proportion for only 30 days.



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
6.        Besides their own equity, the private banks make use of deposits,
rediscounts at BCU and short-term borrowing from foreign banks. R-cently,
private banks have made use of lines of credit extended by the Bank, USAID,
and central banks of other countries, such as Brazil and Argentina, for
importation of capital goods. The private banks have freedom to establish
interest rates, within the ceiling, taking into account the risk and credit-
worthiness of borrowers. Their effective lending rates average around 71%
per annum and deposits rates 43% for six-month deposits 45% for deposits over
12 months.
B. Agricultural Credit
7.        Nearly all institutional agricultural production credit is provided
by BROU. BROU has made about 50,000 loans per annum in the past five years
for the agricultural sector through 82 branch network throughout the country.
Except for loans made under the Bank-financed PLAN program for livestock
development and some machinery loans with two-year repayment period (only 5%
of its portfolio), BROU's lending has been all short-term. BROU establishes
a ceiling on the credit amount for each crop and finances a higher proportion
of the total investment for small and medium farmers following the policy of
assisting small producers. Interest rates have been generally below the
high inflation rates prevailing in Uruguay over the past ten years.
8.        The role of private banks in agricultural credit is very limited.
The agricultural sector represents about 30% of their loan portfolio, of
which 85% are granted for cattle purchases at public auction markets adminis-
tered by the same banks and 15% for wool shearing and crop harvesting. As
a result, practically all lending by private banks is to finance marketing
and cannot be considered as production loans.
C. The Republic Bank (BROU)
Organization and Management
9.        After a reorganization in 1974, BROU operates with three opera-
tional divisions (Annex 4, Chart): (a) Banking Business Division handling
regular commercial banking business including foreign exchange transactions
and reception of deposits; (b) Development Division handling industrial and
agricultural lending; and (c) Social Credit Division handling mainly consumer
credits. It also has three Service Divisions: (a) Foreign Commerce Control
Division for inspections, controls and regulations; (b) Accounting Division;
and (c) General Services Divisions. The Development Division is divided
into two separate activities; Agricultural Development, which provide prac-
tically all agricultural credit; and Industrial Development. The former is
further divided into Livestock Projects, which handles only PLAN funds,



- 52 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
Rural Credit and Livestock Market. Most of the agricultural credits are
approved at branch level, and larger loans are usually approved by Develop-
ment Division Manager at the headquarters.
Sources and Applications of Funds
10.       BROU's banking operations can be classified into two different
types of business. The first, BROU's Government-BCU transactions, consists
of a multitude of service and financial transactions mostly conducted
through temporary accounts and special deposits. The second deals with bank-
ing operations for the private sector and autonomous Government entities.
From an analysis of BROU's financial statements, it is estimated that about
US$370 million, or 31% of BROU's assets (US$1,140 million) was related to
Government-BCU transactions in 1978. The share of private sector lending
increased from 59% in 1976 (US$480 million) to 67% (US$760 million in 1979).
11.       Sources.  BROU's equity represented 45% of sources of funds for
private sector operations in 1978, deposits from private sector 27%, re-
discount 11% and others 17%. BROU's equity has been increasing as a result
of reserve funds increase from US$168 million in 1976 to US$375 million in
1978. Most of the private sector deposits are current accounts, with only
14% being fixed-term deposits for six to 12 months. Rediscounts are also
short-term except for PLAN funds (US$9.6 million in 1978).
12.       Application of Funds.  Among the private sector operations, loans
to private sector represented 59%, cash and banks 19% and others 22% at the
end of 1978. Since the greatest number of loans are made for the period of
three to six months, the balance sheet figures at the year end only reflect
the position as on that date and are not representative of the transactions
during the year.
Lending Operations
13.       BROU's loan portfolio in the private sector increased by 72%
in real terms during 1973-1978, amounting to US$483 million at the end of
1978, while the total loan portfolio decreased by 18% during the same
period. As a result, the share of private sector loans in the total loan
portfolio increased from 30% in 1973 to 61% in 1978. The composition of the
private sector loan portfolio, as indicated by the outstanding loan balance
as of December 31,1978, is the following: (a) agricultural credit 31%;
(b) export credit 22%; (c) industrial credit 20%; and (d) the rest 27%.
14.       Agricultural Credit.  BROU's loans in the agricultural sector are
mostly for crops (41%), livestock marketing (26%) fixed assets (13%) and
livestock (10%). The most import crops financed by BROU are wheat, rice and
sugarcane, and about 77% of the fixed assets loans are for agricultural
machineries. The use of the land title as a collateral is rare and chattel
mortgages are often used.



- 53
ANNEX 2
Page 4
15.       BROU has a precise formula for determining credit amounts to be
financed. Based on the costs of different inputs and operations involved,
the ceiling on the amount to be financed is established on a per hectare
basis for each crop. In the case of wheat, farmers with less than 300 ha can
be financed up to 100% of that celing; those with 301 to 500 ha up to 82%;
those with 501 to 750 ha up to 62%; and those above 750 ha up to 41%.
Similar arrangements are applied for other crops.
Interest Rates
16.       Deposit rates of BROU are fixed at 32% annual effective for savings
accounts and 39% to 42% for fixed-term deposits. BROU's interest rates on
loans vary widely depending upon the purposes of loans, reflecting the
priority among economic activities without considering the cost of funds.
Industrial credits are charged between 43% and 53%. Within agricultural
credits, crop loans are charged from 37% to 48% and livestock 41% to 55%.
The only lines of credit that are indexed are the PLAN livestock development
program (indexed with producer prices) and the recently established forestry
development program (indexed with the exchange rate).
Operational Results and Financial Condition
17.       BROU's overall banking operations over the last five years have
been profitable as shown in Annex 4 Tables 5 and 6 which can be attributed
to: (a) continuous increase in interest rates and commissions; (b) low
administrative costs which decreased during 1976-78 period in real terms;
(c) low costs of financial resources; and (d) cautious and conservative
lending policy. At no time have the overdues exceeded 10% of the outstanding
loan portfolio and bad debts have been less than 2%. In the case of PLAN
program, delayed payments have not exceeded 2% and no bad debts are known.
The financial position of BROU has been satisfactory; its assets consisted
mainly of a sound short-term loan portfolio (67%) and cash and banks (13%);
its outside liabilities were mainly short-term deposits and accounted for
39% of its total liabilities reflecting its strong equity position.



- 54 -                     ANNEX 2
Table 1
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Income and Expenditure Statement of BROU (year ended December 31)
(US$ million)
1976            1977            1978
1. Income
Interest  on loans                      58.1            65.7            89.0
Commission on services                  18,2            18.4            19.4
Income from purchase and sale           23.2            34.1            25,4
and revaluation of assets
Other revenue                            1.1             1,3             1.4
Total Revenue                     100.6           119.5           135,2
2. Expenditures
Administrative Expenditure
a.  Salaries                            11.0            13.0            14,8
b.  Other                               10.7            12.8            13.7
Subtotal                           21.7            25.8            28.5
Interest and other
expenditure                          63.5            54.0            45.3
Total Expenditure                  85.2            79.8            73.8
3.  Net Income (3 5 1 - 2)                     15.4            39.7            61.4



-55-                          ANNEX 2
Table 2
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Balance Sheet of BROU (as of December 31)
(US$ million)
1976             1977           1978
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and Banks                        120.5            117.9          160.4
Other Current Assets                   20.6             26.3           55.2
Total Current Assets            141.1             144.2          215.6
Loans and Other Earning Assets
Private Sector
- Agriculture                         112.9            131.5          146.7
- Industry                             79.0             83.5           95.6
- Export                               54.4             67.9          107.2
- Import                               32.8             53.1           47.9
- Other                                66.5             69.1           85.7
Subtotal                        345.6            405.1           483.1
Banking Sector                         35.2             40.0           30.2
Public Sector                         194.2            214.6          218.5
External Sector                        34.7             73.1           65.6
Total Loans and Other Earning
Assets                        609.7            732.8           797.4
Fixed Assets                             15.7             14.5           56.6
Temporary Assets  1/                     46.6             75.6            70.3
Total Assets                    813.1             967.1        1,139.9
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Liabilities
Deposits 2/                           300.5            372.0          439.4
Borrowings                            143.0            138.7          112.4
Total Liabilities               443.5             510.7          551.8
Temporary Liabilities1/                 201.3            215.6          213.1
Equity                                  168.3            240.8          375.0
Total Liabilities and Equity  813.1               967.1        1,139.9
1/    A part of Government- BCU transactions.
2/    Include Government - BCU accounts amounting to US$73 million in 1976,
US$ 197 million in 1977 and US$220 million in 1978.



URUGUAY
LIVESTOCK AND AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART FOR BANK OF 'THE REPUBLIC EAST OF THE URUGUAY
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
GENERAL MANAGER
BANKING              DVLPETSCA                                  INTERNATIONAL     ACONIGGENERAL                                 0
0BUSINESS             DTVISIOEVLONT        CREIT                                  ACCOURCCNTIN D    SERVICES
DIVISION                     N             DIVISION             TROL DIVISION                       DIVISION
INDUSTRIAL    AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT   DEVELOPMENT
PROMOTIONAL     |        INDUSTRIAL                  RURAL                    LIVESTOCK               LIVESTOCK
CREDIT                   CREDIT                      CREDIT                   PRQjYCT                MA@ 
DEPARTMENT               DEPARTMENT                  DEPARTMENT               DEPARTMENT              DEPARTMENT



- 57 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Indexing of Project Subloans
A.  Index
Basic Information Gathering
1.        The Bureau of Agricultural Economics in the Ministry of Agriculture
is responsible for gathering monthly farmgate product price data. The data are
taken from all over the country to derive the national average of farmgate
price indices. The Bureau has been gathering and processing these data as a
part of its routine operation.
Calculation of Three Indices
2.        The Bureau of Agricultural economics is also responsible for calculat-
ing three indices based on the farmgate prices estimated by the Bureau. The
following table shows the composition of the indices and weights assigned to
each index.
Index                  Commodities         Weight
(%)
1.  Meat/Wool                    Beef             57.14
Wool             31.16
Mutton            8.20
Hides             3.50
2.  Crops/Meat                   Crop             68.82
Meat             22.15
Wool              7.41
Hides.            1.62
3.  Milk/Meat                    Milk             88.04
Meat             11.96
Publication of Indices
4.        The Directorate General of Statistics and Censuses is responsible
for publishing and sending a copy to BROU the three indices calculated by the
Bureau of Agricultural Economics each month within 30 days from the last day
of the month for which these indices are estimated.
B. Adjustment of Subloan Principal
Selection of Index
5.        BROU has the responsibility to determine the applicable index for
each sub-borrower in accordance with the output mix reflected in the sub-
borrowers' investment plan and projected cash flow. As a general rule, the
meat/wool index would be applied to livestock farms, the crop/meat index



- 58 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
to mixed farms and the milk/meat index for dairy farms. The index thus
selected should be reflected in each subloan agreement and cannot be modi-
fied later on.
Adjustment
6.         BROU would adjust the outstanding principal periodically for each
sub-borrower using the index selected. Adjustment would take place when
the installments become due by compounding the rate of increase between
the applied index two months before and the index for the same month in
the previous year. The detail of calculation is shown in numerical examples
(para 8). Interest to be paid would be calculated on the adjusted principal
amount. The reference period for the index calculation has been November
to October under the on-going projects; the adjustments for April 30, 1979
were made on the basis of increase in average prices from November 1976/
October 1977 to November 1977/October 1978. This arrangement was possible
because all sub-borrowers had to pay back on April 30 each year. As a result,
the lag between the date of adjustment and the reference date of the index
has been exactly 12 months. The revised adjustment mechanism proposed would
allow BROU to make adjustments every month for those sub-borrowers whose
installments fall due during that month, using indices with only two-month
delay. The proposed change is expected to reduce BROU's peak work loads and
to distribute them evenly throughout the year.
C.  Numerical Examples
Calculation of Indices
7.        The following table shows how the three indices would be calculated
under the proposal, assuming that the indices are calculated for September
1980.
September       September       Percentage
1979            1980           Increase
(%)
Basic Data
Beef                           120.0           180.0              50
Wool                           130.0            195.0             50
Crops                          125.0           200.0              60
Milk                           135.0            189.0             40
Hides                          110.0           176.0              60
Mutton                         115.0            184.0             60
Meat                           120.0            174.0             45
Indices
Meat/Wool                      122.36           184.86            51
Crops/Meat                     124.02           193.48            56
Milk/Meat                      133.21           187.21            41



- 59 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
For example, the Crop/Meat index would be calculated as follows:
Index (September, 1979)
=   125.0  x  0.6882
+120.0  x  0.2215
+130.0  x  0.0741
+110.0  x  0.0162
= 124.02
Index (September, 1980)
=  200.0  x  0.6882
+174.0  x  0.2215
+195.0  x  0.0741
+176.0  x  0.0162
= 193.48
Increase = Index (September 1980)/Index (September 1979)
= 193.48/124.02
= 1.56
Adjustment of Principal
8.        We assume a sub-borrower whose characteristics are summarized below:
(a)  Amount of Loan:        N$ 120,000 (as of November 1979)
(b)  Index assigned:        Crop/Meat
(c)  Final payment date:   November 1983
(d)  Interest rate:         5% on the adjusted principal
Then the amortization would be calculated in the following way for the
installment due on November 1980:
Adjusted Principal
= N$ 120,000 x 1.56 (or 193.48/124.02)
= N$ 187,200
Interest Payment for November 1980
= N$ 187,200 x 0.05
= N$ 9,360



- 60 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4
Principal Repayment
=  N$ ii,200 . 4 1/
= N$ 46,800
Total Debt Service
= N$ 9,360 + N$ 46,800
= N$ 56,160
Outstanding Principal after Debt Service
= N$ 187,200 - N$ 46,800
= N$ 140,400
9.        Assume that the crops/meat index increased to 334.25 on September
1981, i.e., a 75% increase over September 1980. The steps in the preceding
paragraph yield the following results for the installment due on November
1981:
Adjusted principal: N$ 140,400 x 1.75 = N$ 245,700
Interest payment for November 1981 = N$ 245,700 x 0.05 = N$ 12,285
Principal repayment:  N$ 245,700 .- 3 = N$ 81,900
Total debt service: N$ 12,285 + N$ 81,900 = N$ 94,185
Outstanding Prindipal after debt service: N$ 245,700 i N$ 81,900 =
N$ 163,800
Compounding vs. Adding Adjustments
10.       The following example is intended to illustrate the differences
arising from adding, instead of compounding, the annual adjustment factors.
To simplify the presentation, a grace period of four years for loan repayment
is now assumed, unlike in the previous example (paras 8-9), where the grace
period was nil. Assume, then, that (a) the loan in question (N$ 120,000)
had a grace period of four years, i.e, that the repayment of principal started
only in November 1984 (and not in November 1980 as assumed above); and (b) the
crops/meat index increased by 56% in 1980, 75% in 1981, 80% in 1982 and 90% in
1983. Interest payments during the grace period would be as follows:
1/   Principal repayment would be equally distributed among 4 years
(1980-1983) on the adjusted principal.



- 61 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5
1980: N$ 120,000 x 1.56 x 0.05 = N$ 9,360
1981:  N$ 120,000 x 1.56 x 1.75 x 0.05 = N$ 16,380
1982:  N$ 120,000 x 1.56 x 1.75 x 1.80 x 0.05 = N$ 29,484
1983:  N$ 120,000 x 1.56 x 1.75 x 1.80 x 1.90 x 0.05 = N$ 56,020
The outstanding principal on November 1983 would be:
N$ 120,000 x 1.56 x 1.75 x 1.80 x 1.90 = N$ 1,120,392
Alternatively, the adjustment factor (9.3366) could be
calculated by dividing the index for 1983 (1,157.93)
by the base year index (124.02 in 1978) and could be
multiplied by N$ 120,000 to derive the outstanding
principal on November 1983 (N$ 1,120,392).
11.       If the annual percentage increases in the crops/meat index were
added instead of compounded, the annual interest payments would be:
1980:   N$ 120,000 x 1.56 x 0.05 = N$ 9,360
1981:   N$ 120,000 x (1 + .56 + .75) x 0.05 - N$ 13,860
1982:   N$ 120,000 x (1 + .56 + .75 + .80) x 0.05 = N$ 18,660
1983:   N$ 120,000 x (1 + .56 + .75 + .80 + .90) x 0.05 = N$ 24,060
The outstanding principal in November 1983 would be:
N$ 120,000 x (1 + .56 + .75 + .80 + .90) = N$ 481,200
12.       The figures illustrate clearly that adding instead of compounding
the annual adjustment factors is not only conceptually wrong but can also
have considerable quantitative importance. In the example, annual interest
payments become an increasingly smaller proportion of the correct amount, and
the outstanding principal at the end of year 4 is only 43% of the correct
value. The procedure set out in paragraph 10 above should, therefore, be
followed.



ARICULTUUAL DrVmEH   ?
Gross Output of the Livestock Sector L1965-76
1965           1966          1967           1968           1969           1970           1971           1972            1973           1974           1975            1976      1977
A.  Value of _Gros
(iA '000 IUrl &t cOnrstat 16 utrices)
Meat                         975          1,051           934          1,04o          1,040           1,210          1,145          1,081          1,202           1,137          1,126            951    1.059
Beef                      (754)          (829)         (744)          (853)           (857)       (1.024)           (960)          (898)        (1,017)           (954)          (941)          (760)      (863)
Mutton                    (118)          (112)          (87)            (85)           (75)           (69)           (61)           (55)            (60)           (58)           (60)            (63)      (69)
Pork                      (103)          (110)         (193)          (102)          (108)           (117)          (122)          (128)          (125)           (125)          (125)          (128)      C127)
Wool                         471             525          483             507            483            481            474            340             342            318            333             362       376
Milk                         428            431            360            395            443            443            410            422             392            413            433             445       424
145
Poultry Products             120             127          120             103            117            131            169            188             160            139            121             125
Poultry                    (36)           (41)          (41)           (35)            (42)           (56)           (84)           (97)           (78)            (64)           (53)           (53)
Eggs                       (84)           (86)          (709)          (68)            (75)           (75)           (85)           (91)            (82)           (75)           (68)            (72)
Bees                            1              2             2              2              2              2              2               2              2              2               2              2         2
Total                    1,995          2.136         1.899          2,047          2.085          2,267          2,198          j2033           2,098          2.009           2,015          1,885    2,0o6
B.  Price Indices (1961 = 100)
Meat                          382.8          702.9        953.1        1,635.4         2,159.0        2,924.4        3,704.1       10,821.6       21,026.0        29,067.7       33,213.6       42,348.4                 1
Beef                      (377.1)        (721.0)       (93. 2)      (1,610.2)      (2,036.1)      (3,033.0)      (3,958.9)    (11,774.1)    (21,986.3)    (30,761.1)    (33,527.1)    (38,676.3)
Mutton                    (468.6)        (782.1)    (1,117.2)       (1,527.1)      (2,808.0)      (2,266.7)       (2,465.6)      (6,370.9)    (26,908.3)    (26,470.7)    (42,496.7)    (74,687.3)                    0'
?'rk                      (326.2)        (486.4)       (958.3)      (2,446.1)      (2,684.3)      (2,361.5)       (2,318.9)      (6,052.3)    (10,388,8)    (17,348.8)    (26,370.4)    (48,234.4)
Wool                          246.9          614.5         723.6       1,237.9         2,023.8        1,376.1        1,358-4        2,469.1       13,795.0        21,957.5       23,748.0       61,541.4
Milk                         280.1           506.3         969.7       2,662.8        2,542.9         2,488.7        3,442.4        5,971.1       12,460.2        24,834.i       4i,540.9       50,291.2
Poultry Products             4D5.0          492.9       1,178.3        2,601.0        3,209.4         2,940.5        4,118.3        7,600.0       15,134.4       24,468.3        35,956.2       58,958.4
Poultry                   (311.1)        (536.6)    (1,053.7)       (1,722.9)      (2,500.0)      (2,694.6)       (3,614.3)      (7,135.1)    (14,015.4)    (22,457.8)    (31,269.8)    (51,905.7)
Eggs                      (445.2)         (472.1)    (1,243.0)      (3,052.9)      (3,606.7)      (3,124.0)       (4,616.5)      (8,095.6)    (16,198.8)    (26,184.0)    (39,608.8)    (64,150.0)
Bees                          150.0          450.0        600.0        1,250.0         1,850.0        2,300.0        3,000.0        6,000.0       18,100.0        29,250.0       43,100.0       60,300.0
Total                      330.0          628.8         911.7        _l808.8        2,278.8        2,511.1         3,180.7        8,115.2       17,794.7       26X753-9        33,396.7       49,029.9
Source: Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
1



- 63 -
ANNEX 4
Table 2
AGaCULYJAL DEVELOPMENT PROrJCT
Aru . Tiel4. and Production of Selected Crop    1970-77
(area in '000 has.; yield in tons per ha.; production in '000 tons)
1970        1971          1972         1973         1974         1975         1976         1977
Wheat
Area                  450.5        336.7         339.6        185.0        304.0        456.6        462.9        543.5
Yield                   0.99          1.15         0.89         1.01         0.98         1.15         0.98         0.93
Production            446.9        388.3        301.6        186.5         296.8        526.5        455.7        504.9
Corn
Area                  227.0         180.2        181.0        225.8        201.0        152.4        176.7        158.5
Yield                   0.83          0.92         0.78         1.01         1.12         1.03         1.19         0.76
Production            189.4        166.0        141.2         228.6        225.         157.1        210.4        121.0
Rice
Area                   35.7          31.4         31.1         34.5         42.7         46.9         52.3         56.8
Yield                    3.88         3.89         4.11         3.96         3.70         4.02         4.14         4.02
Production            138.6        122.2         128.0        136.9        157.9        188.5        216.5        228.3
Bailey (malting)
Area                    35.6        48.1          28.6         30.9         32.6         32.8         48.8         40.0
Yield                    1.11         0.59         0.93         0.92         0.87         0.85         0.69         1.18
Production             39.6         28.6          26.6         28.4         28.4         28.0         33.5         47.0
Sorghum
Area                   31.6          54.0        42.2         112.8        111.1         59.3         58.6        106.7
Yield                   1.14          1.34         1.35         2.00         1.74         1.10         2.02         1.52
Production             36.2          72.2         56.9        225.0        192.9         77.0        118.4        161.8
Oats (grain)
Area                   66.6          83.0         69.1         65.1         78.1         61.3         95.0         65.5
Yield                   0.57          0.94         0.87         0.90         0.71         0.76         0.65         0.73
Production             37.6         78.0          60.0         58.5         55.3        46.6          61.4         47.9
Potatees
Area                   22.1         24.0          23.3         24.5         26.0         25.8         25.8         ...
Yield                   4.81    t 6227             4.56         5.44         4.97         4.68         6.41
Production            106.4        150.4        106.1        133.3        129.2         120.8        165.7        119.9
Sunflower
Area                  123.7          71.5       103.0         108.6        104.4        104.1        136.1        102.3
Yield                   0.42         0.68          0.58         0.65         0.46         0.49         0.57         0.34
Production             52.4         48.8         59.8         71.1          48.4         51.4         77.1         34.4
Linseed
Area                  144.3          91.6         73.6        47.9          43.4         71.0        102.5         73.9
Yield                   0.62         0.46          0.58         0.62         0.61         0.55         0.60         0.63
Production             89.6         41.9         42.5          29.5         26.3         39.3         61.7        46.4
Peanuts
Area                     3.5          3.0          3.5          2.6          2.9          3.2          4.1          4.0
Yield                   0.94          0.76         0.84         0.80         0.82         0.82         0.90         0.41
Production              3.3          2.3           2.9          2.1          2.3          2.6          3.7          1.6
Sugar beet
Area                     9.9         14.7         15.7         15.2         13.9         22.1         27.6         23.7
Yield                  27.77        30.67         21.76        24.38        31.24        25.94        30.19        25.19
Production            274.9        450.9        341.6        370.5        434.2         573.3        833.2        596.9
Sugarcane
Area                     3.0          3.5          5.3          7.3          6.9          8.3         10.0         11.3
Yield                   35.80       45.31         31.55        36.62        34.77        45.27        32.62        53.04
Production            107.4        158.6         167.2        267.3        239.9        375.7        326.2        599.3
Improved pasture
Area                  112.5         318.3        212.9        272.4        144.5         52.3         56.7         50.1
Source:  "Evolucion del Sector  Apropecuario" and "Estadisticas Agricolas", Ministry of Agriculture; Central Bank



URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
General Information on the R.ral Sector, 1970
Six. of Holding (ha)                                               __     _
Total        S-4         5-9       1  1-1       2U-49       50-)9      100'-JY    20-499   5)0-599  100-_2,449            I. 1U.CUM
Total Agricultural Area ('000 ha)  16,517.73         29.96       80.10      168.61      411.17      559.40     930.83   2,133.40   2,560.56   4,304.84   2,962.b0   1,643.71           732.35
Total number of haldinga             77,163      11,085      11,697      12,259      13.071       7,927      6,603       6,374       3,626       2,7J4         669         25l          5S
% of Area                              100.0        0.2         0.5         1.0         2.5         3.4         5.6       12.9        15.5        26.1        17.9        10.0         *.4
7. of Land holdings                    100.0       14.4        15.4        15.9        16.9        10.3         8.6        8.7         4.7         3.6         1.1         0.3         0.1
Lfnd Tenure ('000 ha)
Owner                              10,993          21          56         ilO         247         325        513       1,193       1,542       2,871       2,170       1,290         652
ReSter                              A. a79(         3          11          37         122         184        340         784         894       1,281         749         322          68
Sharecropper                          288.          1           5           7          ;2          i7         22          75          61          52          12           a           I
Sq,tter (Occupant)                    275           3           6          11          23          24         30          52          40          5l          20           4          10
O.her                                 165           I           1           2           6           9          14         27          23          50          10          19           2
Rural Per,ulation
Total                               318,166      39,464      43,644      46,764      51,045     31,364      26,411      27,834      16,298    17,145        10,068       4,502       3,627
0-er.                              17,998       2,726       2,970       2,698       2,630      1,574       1,177       1,176         757        87Z          491         301         226
Renters                             6,060         420         597         914       1,276         782        673         647         320        279          118          29           5
Sharecroppers                         893         112         246         204         137          67         53          48          14         10            -           2
Other                               6,864         688         551         660         o62         713        738         912         539        553          398         118         132
Laborers                            181,206      17,158      21,469      24,632     27,427      17,423      15,363      17,817      11,838    14,138         7,378       4,349       2,214
Producera
Cooperative members                15,999         788       1,226       1,369      2,184       1,982       2,166       2,705       1.646       1,359         434         120          20
Rural Association Members           8,606         622         915       1,009       1,098        821         849       1,083          808        9D3         346         121          31
Farm mechanization
Tractors (from 18 hp to 65 hp)   29,577           849       2,183       2,954      4,253       3,721       3,930       4,494       2,689      2,644        1.129         507         204
Percentage of holdings with
tractor                              .)3          8          18          24          33         47          60          71          74          96         130         200         371
Fertilizer InuRe
Holdinrg  that usa fertilizer      26,043       2,630       4,338      4,769       4,b38       2,516       2,121       2240n       1,262      1,159          336         104          30
Percentasg                           34          24          37         39          35          32          32          33          35         42          39          41          56
Area' fertilized ('000 ha)          1,030.47        4.35       13,76       20.47       33.48      41,91       66.50      148.69      161.41     271.82       226,53       86.71       54.84
Perceotage                            6          15          17          12          8           8           7           7           6          6           4           5            8
Sonurce: 1970 Agriculturol Cenous.
I FI
m 



URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Beef Exports by Destination, 1970-77
(in tons)
1970       1971         1972       1973        1974         1975         1976         1977
C.E.E.                     45,804      37,980      44,520      37,044        8,591     18,781       32,384        7,598
United Kingdom               -           -           -           -            -        495          704          266
West Germany            14,994      6,760       10,864       9,543       2,774       5,058        7,983        1,674
Italy                   18,249     19,760       11,088      13,163       3,137       7,761       10,468        2,188
Netherlands              8,899      5,135        2,478       2,850          584      1,664        2,366          554
France                   2,138      4,276       18,533       8,592        1,350      3,568       10,727        2,816
Belgium                  1,524      2,049        1,537       2,896          746        235          136          100
Rest of the World          85,668     4_1763       59,037      61,348      93,986      58,669      113,358      100,845
Spain                   12,082      5,958       23,142      31,991      15,888       4,184       21,097        7,409
Switzerland                245        356        1,123         295       2,409       1,700          151
Greece                  12,889     11,045        5,210       2,108       7,608       8,963       16,040        3,033
Israel                   7,751      3,912        3,658       3,485       4,351       6,759        2,768        5,579
East Germany            26,656       1,417       5,467       3,240          310           -           -        6,011
Checoslovakia           15,397         410           -           -            -           -           -
Brazil                   2,397      7,851        1,002           -      48,567      23,658       20,438       26,380        1
Egypt                    3,887      3,546        2,986       1,000            -      5,416       29,162       24,507      aO
Peru                       300         388         102         622          473      2,803        1,994        1,488
Bulgaria                 1,474           -           -           -            -           -           -            -
Hungary                  1,004         209       2,929       1,942            -           -           -
Portugal                   500      2,519        7,577       4,825        2,537      1,160        8,230       19,890
Chile                      502      3,903        5,097           -           59           -           -
Poland                     159           -           -      10,753          241           -           -
Austria                      -          33         744         787            -         366       1,816          208
Tunisia                      -          -            -         300            -           -       1,471
Argentina                    -           -           -           -       10,536                        -
Iraq                         -           -           -           -        1,007           -           -
Zaire                        -           -           -           -            -       1,211       1,904          106
Ghana                        -           -           -           -            -      2,428        3,702        4,272
Morrocco                     -           -           -           -            -           -       3,073          738
Ivory Coast                  -          -            -           -            -           -         847          666
Other Countries            425         216           -           -            -          21         665          558
Total                     131,472      79,743     103,557      98,392      102,577      77,450      145,742     108,443
Source:  Instituto Nacional de Carnes                                                                                           



- 66 -                          ANNEX 4
Table 5
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Performance Under Previous Projects:
Number and Volume of Loans by Size of Farm
Overall Performance           Recent Performance (1978/79)
Farm Size                1961-1979                                    Volume of
Strata                  Number of                 Number             Loans
(ha)                    Loans                   of Loans           (NUr$ '000)
0-50                    4,586                       371                 2,844
51-100                  3,473                       291                 5,396
101-200                 3,877                       327                 9,561
201-500                 5,297                       448                22,103
501-1,000               3,544                       286                24,360
1,001-2,500             3,098                       256               24,539
Over 2,500                828                        96                18,097
Total                  24,703                     22075               106_900
Source: Plan Agropecuario
January 21, 1980



- 67                        ANNEX 4
Table 6
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Cost
Foreign
Project Cost          Baseline   Exchange
Local   Foreign   Total    Costs          Costs
------(US$ million)----    ---       (%)-------
On-Farm Development
Pasture improvement             16.3      22.2      38.5      48          58
Fencing                          4.0       2.0       6.0       7         33
Water points/irrigation          2.3       0.7       3.0       4          25
Machinery and equipment          6.8      15.6      22.4      28          70
Buildings and construction       0.7       0.2       0.9       1         20
Livestock                        2.9        -        2.9       3          0
Sub-total                     33.0      40.7      73.7     91          56
Technical Services                   4.9      1.6       6.5       8          25
Feeder Roads                         0.4      0.2       0.6       1          30
Total Baseline Costs            38.3      42.5      80.8    100          53
Contingencies
Physical                         0.2        -        0.2       -         30
Price                           14.0      16.0      30.0      37         53
Sub-total                     14.2      16.0      30.2     37          53
Total Project Cost          52.5      58.5    111.0    137           53



URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Services Project Costs
(US$'000)
Foreign
Unit Cost    Number    Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Total    Exchange
(US$)
1. PLAN
Technical Staff
Director                           750/month       1           9.0        9.0        9.0        9.0       36.0      -
Senior Economist                   600/month       1           7.2        7.2        7.2        7.2      28.8       -
Supervisors                        600/month      18         129.6      129.6      129.6      129.6     518.4       -
Field Technicians                  550/month      80         528.0      528.0      528.0     528.0   2,112.0        -
Administrative Personnel                                      123.0      123.0      123.0      123.0     492.0        -
Administrative Expenses                                        50.0       50.0       50.0       50.0      200.0       -
Operating Expenses                                            222.0      222.0      222.0      222.0     888.0        -
Vehicles                            12,000         36         144.0      144.0      144.0        -        432.0      95
Office Equipment                                               15.0       15.0       15.0        -         45.0      67
Training                             5,000/m/mr   32          160.0      160.0      160.0        -       480.0    100           m
Consultants                          5,000/m/m    36           60.0       60.0       60.0        -        180.0    100
Total Cost PLAN Technical Services                          1,447.8   1,447.8   1,447.8   1,068.8   5,412.2         21
2. INC
Technical Staff
Coordinator                        600/month       1           7.2        7.2        7.2        7.2        28.8     -
Field Technicians                  550/month       7          46.2       46.2       46.2       46.2       184.8     -
Other
Administrative Personnel                                       47.8       47.8       47.8       47.8       191.2      -
Operating Expenses                                             23.0       23.0       23.0       23.0        92.0     -
Vehicles                            12,000          9          60.0       24.0       24.0        -         108.0    95
Office Equipment                                                5.0        5.0        5.0        -          15.0    67         e t
Training                            5,000/m/m      28          60.0       60.0       20.0        -         140.0   100
Consultants                         5,000/m/m      52         120.0      120.0       20.0        -         260.0   100         X X
Administrative Expenses                                         5.0        5.0        5.0        5.0        20.0      -        . ,
Total Cost INC Technical Services                             374.2      338.2      198.2      839.8     1,039.8   49
Total Cost Project Technical Services                       1,872.0   1,786.0    1,646.0   1 198.0       6,452.0   25



- 69-                         ANNEX 4
Table 8
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rehabilitation of INC Settlements
Feeder Road Construction - Cost Estimates
(US$'000)
Unit
1/  Cost                                                            Foreign
Feeder Road Construction-    (US$)         Number   Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Total    Cost
"Dr. Antonio Rubio"
Settlement                10,000/km   25 km    62.5        187.5        -         250.0    30
Quebracho Area Settlements   10,000/km   35 km    87.5          262.5        -         350.0    30
Total Feeder Road
Construction                                    150.0      450.0        -         600.0    30
1/   30%of feeder road cost would be contributed by the
corresponding municipalities according to existing
agreements with INC.
December 17, 1979



URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Project Cost and Phasing
(USS 000)
Foreign Exchange
1            2            3             4            5       lOTALS      Component
ON--FARM DEVELOPMENT
LIVESTOCK DEVELOOPMENT             5338          9211        10757         5293          1473        32073          55
MIXED FARM DEVELOF(MENT            4398          5849         7901         3504          2052        23703          59
DAIRY FARM DEVELOPMENT             1496          2818         3313         1817           495         9940          56
INC SETTLEMENT DEVELOPME           1635         2310          2710          984           386         8025         44
BASE COST                       12867        20188         24682        11598          4406        73740         55
PRICE CONTINGENCY                  2560          5954         9516         5597          2583        26211          55
SUBTOTAL                        15427        26142         34198        17194          6989        99951         55
TECHNICAL SERVICES
BASE COST                          1822          1786         1646         1199             0         6452          25
PRICE CONTINGENCY                   750           921         1026           S32            0         3529          25
SUBTOTAL                         2572         2707          2672         2030             0         9981.         25            1
MARKET ROAD CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                          O
BASE COST                            150          450            0             0            0           600         30
PHlYSICAL CONTINGENCY                 22           67            0             0            0            90         30
PRICE CONTINGENCY                     70          264            0             0            0           334         30
SUBTOTAL                          243          781             0            0             0         1024          30
TOTAL PROJECT COST
ON--FARM DEVELOPMENT              12867        20188         24682        11598          4406        73740          55
TECHNICAl SERVICES                 1822          1786         1646         1198             0         6452          28
MARKET ROAD CONSTRUCTION             150          450            0             0            0           600         30
BASE COST TOTAL                 14839        22424         26328        12796          4406        80792          53
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES               22            67            0             0            0            90         30
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                3391          7138        10542         6429          2583        30073          53
----        - - - -- - - - - - - - -0                                                                
TOTAL PROJECT COST            18242        29630        36870         19225         6989        11f0956



- 71 -                            ANNEX 4
Table 10
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Models
Technical Coefficients
Model I         Model II             Model III        Model IV
500 ha          320 ha               150 ha           200 ha
Lly stoc        Mixed Farming-        Dairy             INC
WP-   FD-      WP        FD          WP     FD        WP      FD
Weaning Rate, %
Cattle                          59    71      59       -4/          60      74        55     75
Sheep                           72    82      64       80            -       -        70     86
Off-take Rate, %
Cattle                          16    23      20       -4/          275-   3251/      3151/   345/
Sheep                           20    40      24       38            -       -        24     36
Stocking Rate
(AU/ha)                       0.66   0.8    .87       1.1          0.8    1.0      0.69   1.14
Pasture improvement
(%Improved area/ranch)           1    20       7       56           40      83       25      54
Meat Production
(kg liveweight/ha/year)           -      -
Beef                            37  64.5      75.9   135.4          61.7  107.7       38.6   84
Sheep                          5.5   8.9       4.5    19             -       -        1.2   11.7
Wool Production
(kg grease wool/ha/year)        5.2   7.0        4.9    15.9          _       _         0.8    6.7
Crops: (kg/ha)
Sunflower                        -      -      -      900            -       -      500    900
Wheat                            -      -    900   1,500             -       -       800  1,500
Soybeans                         -         -   -        -            -       -        -       -
Area in Crops
(% of total farm)                 -     -      38       34            -       -       37      30
I/ Livestock production coefficients based on hectares of pastures not farm total.
2/ Without project.
3/ At full development.
4/ Farm only fattens cattle after Year 4.
5/ Male calves sold at birth.
January 17, 1980



- 72 -
URUGUAY                                ANNEX 4
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                     Table 11
Farm Models
Farmgate Prices for Agricultural Products-
(US$)
Unit        Price
Crops
Wheat                                                   ton         164.20
Sunflower                                                "          228.57
Soybeans                                                 it         257.14
Cattle
Cull Bulls                                              kg            0.39
Cull Cows    (thin)                                     "             0.39
Cull Cows    (fattened)                                 "             0.45
Calves2/      (35 kg)                                   "             0.43
Heifers       (1-2 years)                               "i            0.43
Heifers       (2-3 years)                               it            0.43
Steers        (2-3 years)                               "             0.50
Steers        (3-4 years)                               "             0.50
Steers        (5+ years)                                "             0.50
Sheep
Cull Rams                                               head         25.00
Cull Ewes                                                "           25.00
Lambs         (25 kg)                                    ,,          12.50
Wethers                                                  "           20.00
3/
Milk-
Direct Consumption                                      liter         0.119
Industrial Use                                           "            0.114
W,ool-/
Tops                                                    kg            2.20
Tailings and Tags                                       "             1.20
Lamb                                                    it            1.70
5/
Hides-
Cattle                                                  hide          7.00
Sheep                                                                 7.00
1/  December 1978 prices.
2/ 150 -ha model only.
3/ 50% of milk sold in Year 0 is for direct consumption and 50% for industrial
use; all incremental production is assumed to be for industrial
use only.
4/  Price of tops represents an average for the flock; tailings and tags assumed
to be 11% of tops; lambs' wool estimated as 0.8 kg per lamb.
5/  Assumes sales of hides from 80% of dead cattle, 35% of dead sheep, and 100%
of sheep killed for farm consumption.
August 27, 1979



- 73 -
ANNF- 4
Tabi: 12
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model I: 500-ha Beef Cattle/Sheep Ranch
Projected Land Use
(ha)
- ---------------Y E A R------------------
0     1      2     3     4      5     6-20
Total Non-improved Natural Pasture       496   446   400   400   400   400        400
Improved Pasture
Over-seedin,g or sod-seeding
New Pastur ~_1/     2/                         50    34    _      _      _       _
Established Pasture-                     1      1    51    85    85    85        85
Conventional Pastures
Year of Seeding                         -      -     12    -      -     -        -
Established Pasture                      3      3     3    15    15    15        15
Total Improved Pasture                      4    54   100   100   100   100       100
Area Percentage
Non-improved Natural Pasture            99    89    80    80    80    80         80
Improved Pasture                         1    11    20    20    20    20         20
Carrying Capacity (Animal Units)
Assigned to Cattle                     225   225   240   260   260   260        260
Assigned to Sheep                      128   128   140   150   150   150        150
Total Carrying Capacity                  353   353   380   410   410   410        410
1/ Year of seeding.
2/ More than one year
August 27, 1979



-74 -
ANNEX 4
Table 13
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model I: 500-ha Beef Cattle/Sheep Ranch
Herd Projection
(head)
Y E A R
0    1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9-20
Stock 1/
Bulls                                3    3    3    3    3    3    4    4    4             4
Cows                                87   88   95  100  109  114  125  125  125    125
Fattening Cull Cows                 17   17   17   18   20   21   22   25   25            25
Female Calves                       27   27   29   31   36   39   41   45   45            45
Heifers 1-2 Years                   25   26   26   28   30   35   38   40   44            44
Heifers 2-3 Years                   17   21   19   18   14   15   10   -    -             -
Male Calves                         27   27   29   31   36   39   41   45   45            45
Steers 1-2 Years                    25   26   26   28   30   35   38   40   44            44
Steers 2-3 Years                    24   24   25   25   22   24   21   22   20            21
Steers 3-4 Years                    18   19   14   12   18   11   -    -    -             -
Total Head                         270  278  283  294  318  336  340  346  352    353
Total Animal Units                 204  209  214  222  234  249  252  257  253           254
Purchases
Bulls                                1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1             1
Total Purchased                      1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1             1
Sales
Cull Bulls                           1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1    1             1
Cull Cows Thin                        6    6    5    6    5    5    6    8    6             6
Cull Cows Fat                       10   11   11   12   12   14   16   18   25            18
Heifers 2-3                          4   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    12            15
Steers 2-3 Years                    -    -    -    -        5    6   13   15   20         21
Steers 3-4 Years                     5    5   10   12   12   11   23   20   22            19
Steers over 4 Years                 17   18   18   14   12   12   11   -    -             -
Total Sold                          43   41   45   45   47   49   70   62   86            80
Technical Coefficients
Weaning Rate %                      59   59   64   64   71   71   71   71   71             71
Adult Mortality %                     2    2    2    2    2    2    2    2    2             2
Age of Steers Sales                3-4  3-4  3-4  3-4  2-4  2-4  2-3  2-3  2-3    2-3
Cow Culling Rate %                  20   20   20   20   20   20   20   20   20            20
Bull/Cow Ratio %                      3    3    3    3    3    3    3    3    3             3
1/ End of year inventory.
August 28, 1979



- 75 -
ANNEX 4
Table 14
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model I: 500-ha Beef Cattle/Sheep Ranch
Flock Projection
(head)
---------------------Y E A R----------------------
0    1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9-20
S tocki'
Rams                               17   17   18   19   20   22   24   24   24         24
Ewes                             400  428  452  471  500  545  596  600  600    600
Cull Ewes                          65   54   59   66   79   78   86   84   94         94
Female Lambs                      132  132  128  163  179  190  145  136  137    141
Female Yearlings                  126  126  147  142  158  150   -    -    -          -
Male Lambs                         66   67   73   82   89   -    -    -    -          -
Male Yearlings                     32   32   19   21   -    -    -    -    -          -
Total Heads                       838  856  878  964 1P25  985  851  844  855    859
Total Animal Units                128  131  135  144  151  159  141  142  144    144
Purchases
Rams                                3    3    4    5    5    6    6    5    5          5
Total Purchased                     3    3    4    5    5    6    6    5    5          5
Sales
Cull Rams                           3    3    3    4    4    4    4    5    5          5
Cull Ewes                          44   38   28   19   34   42   19   72   44         41
Lambs                              66   66   73   82   89  190  269  317  319    315
Wethers                            32   32   45   50   79   -    -    -    -          -
Total Sold                        145  139  149  155  206  236  292  394  368    361
Consumption
Ewes                               52   48   47   59   56   78   78   78   78         78
Wethers                            26   30   31   19   21   -    -    -    -          -
Total Consumed                     78   78   78   78   77   78   78   78   78         78
Technical Coefficients
Weaning Rate  %                    64   64   67   71   75   75   80   80   80         89
Adult Death Rate %                  4    4    3    3    3    3    3    3    3          3
Age of Lamb Sales (mos)            15   15   15   15   12   12   10    8    8          8
Ewe Culling Rate %                 20   20   20   20   20   20   20   20   20         20
Ram/Ewe Ratio %                     4    4    4    4    4    4    4    4    4          4
17 End of year inventory.
December 10, 1979



URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model I: 500-ha Beef Cattle/Sheep Ranch
Investment Cost Projection
(US$)
---------------- Y E A R--------------------------
Unit        1         2            3          4-5        6-8          9    Total (1-3)
Pasture Improvement
Area
- Conventional Pasture (establishment)   ha           -          12           -           -          -           -         12
- Over-seeding or Sod-seeding               "        50          34           -           -          -           -         84
- Refertilization (200 kg)                            4          50          46          12          -           -        100
- Refertilization (100 kg)                            -           4          54          88         84         34          58
Cost
- Fertilizer                                      1,396.50   2,488.50   1,533.00   1,176.00    882.00    357.00    5,418.00
- Seeds                                             560.00   1,004.90         -           -          -           -      1,564.90
- Innoculant and Binder                             139.00      119.30        -           -          -           -        258.30
- Cultivation                                       237.60   1,060.20       440.00      440.00    369.60    149.60    1,737.80
- Freight                                           299.50      533.40      328.50      252.00    189.00       76.50    1,161.40
Sub-total                                       2,632.60   5,206.30   2,301.50   1,868.00  1,440.60    583.10  10,140.40
Others
Fencing                                             763.00      763.00        -           -          -           -      1,526.00
Water Points                                        214.00        -           -           -          -           -        214.00
Equipment                                         5,000-00        --                                             -      5,000.00
Sub-total                                         5,977.00      763.00        -           -          -           -      6,740.00
Total Investment Cost                 8,609.60   5,969.30   2,301.50   1,868.00  1,440.60    583.10  16,880.40
August 27, 1979



- 77 -
URUGUAY                                                                   Table 16
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model I: 500-ha Beef Cattle/Sheep Ranch
Sales and Operating Costs Projections
------------------------------------------- Y E A R --------_---_________________________________ ---
0          1          2          3          4          5          6          7          8          9        10-20
Sales
Cattle                                   8,475      8,254       9,403      9,202      9,597      9,941     14,295     11,999    16,400    15,111    15,111
Sheep                                    2,640      2,490      2,588      2,600      3,643      3,525       3,938     5,888      5,213      5,088      5,088
Wool                                      7,109      7,248      7,636      8,651      9,448      9,217      8,197      8,058      8,162      8,162      8,162
Hides                                       691        691        705        719        685        683        678        707        707        707        707
Total Sales                             18,915     18,683    20,332    21,172    23,373    23,366    27,108    26,652    30,482    29,068    29,068
Operating Costs
Labor Costs
Hired Labor-         2'                  2,708      2,708      2,708       2,708      2,708      2,708      2,708      2,708      2,708      2,708      2,708
Social Security Tax-                    '  550        550         550        550        550        550        550        550        550        550        550
Pasture
Refertiliza,Pion 3/                       -           -          -          -          -          -           428        428        428      1,285      1,868
Reseeding                                 -           -          -          -          -          -            90         90         90         90         90
Livestock
Bull Replacement 1                          532        532        532        532        532        532        532        532        532        532        532
Ram Replacement6 /                          426       -           639        639        639        426        426        426        426        426       426
Veterinarc Expenses 7/                    1,030     1,055       1,080      1,151      1,233      1,252      1,172      1,180      1,198      1,186      1,186
Shearing -/                                419        427        439        482        493         426        422        428        429        429        429
Operation and Maintenance
Gas and Oil 9                               643        643        643        643        643        643        643        643        643        643        643
Water Poirt, Building, Fences Lo/           731        731        767        767        767        767        767        767        767        767        767
Machinery                                   214        214        302        302        302        302        302        302        302        302        302
General Operating Costs
Sales Freight 2       13/                  278        281         286        317       335         357        462        364        474        474        474
Other L s Expensesi                       1,187     1,159      1,265      1,301       1,452      1,461      1,763      1,770      2,070      1,957      1,957
Taxes -                                     973       973         973        973        973        973        973        973        973        973        973
Other '5/                                   450       450         450       450         450        450        450        450        450        450        450
Total Operating Cost                    10,041      9,723    10,634    10,815       11,077      10,847    11,688    11,611       12,040    12,772    13,355
1i  One foreman (US$1,436.59/year): one stockman (US$1,271.48/year)'  and one cook (US$1,105.18/year).
2! US$1.10/ha according to Government regulations.
3/ Fertilizer applied up to 1,000 kg/ha is considered an investment cost (Table 8).
4/ 20% of total improved pasture reseeded annually after Year 5.
5/  US$500/head plus 6.5% purchasing expenses (freight, commissions, etc).
6/ US$200/head plus 6.5% purchasing expenses.
7'  US$1.50/head of cattle' US$0.72/head of sheep' US$0.50/lamb.
8'  US$0.50 per head sheared.
9/  About 1,200 km/year (US$0.064/km).
10/ 3% of inventory value.
11/ 6% of inventory value.
12/ Truck transportation over 150 kmt US$0.71/km/steer (for 26 head): US$0.07/km'ton of lambs: US$0.13/km/ton of wool over 350 km.
13/ 7%, of total value on steers sold at packing plants- 8.5% on other categories of cattle and on sheep sold at local auctions'
4.5% on sales of wool.
14/ US$1.95/ha IMPRONE and land taxes.
15/ Includes insurance, license tax, administration expenses (mail stationary, etc).
September 5, 1979



- 76 -
ANNEX 4
Table 17
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model II. 320-ha Crop/Beef Cattle/Shee-, Farm
Projected Land Use
(ha)
---------------Y E A R----
0      1       2       3      4      5-20
Total Non-improved Natural Pasture              166    166      83      46      31     31
Improved Pasture
Over-seeding or Sod-seeding
New Pasture-I/                                -      -       -       30     -       -
Established Pasture2/                          7      7       7       7     37      37
Conventional Pasture
New Pasture-/                                 -      72      36      36     36      36
Established Pasture                           14     14      86    108    108    108
Total Improved Pasture                           21     93    129    181    181    181
Annual Pasture
Winter Annual Pasture                          9     -       -       -      -       -
Total Annual Pasture                              9      -      -       -       -      -
Annual Crops
Wheat                                        124     61    108       72     72      72
Sunflower                                    -       -       -       36     36      36
Total Annual Crops                              124      61    108    108    108    108
Area Percentage
Non-improved Natural Pasture                  52     52      26      14     10      10
Improved Pasture                               7     29      40      52     56      56
Annual Pasture                                 3      -       -       -      -       -
Annual Crops                                  38     19      34      34     34      34
Carrying Capacity (Animal Units)
Assigned to Cattle                           138    104    153    149    146    156
Assigned to Sheep                             40     55      60      70     80      90
Total Carrying Capacity                         178    159    213    219    226    246
1/ Year of seeding.
2/ More than one year.
_/ In association with wheat crop.
August 28, 1979



- 79 -                                              ANNEX 4
URUGUAY                                                 Table 18
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model II   320-ha Crop/Beef Cattle/Sheep Farm
Herd Projection
(head)
----------------------------------Y E A R-------____________________
Stockl/                              0         1        2         3         4         5         6         7        8        9-20
Bulls                                2         1        1         1         -         -         -         -         -         -
Cows                                60        30       30        23         -         -         -         -         -         -
Fattening Cull Cows                 12        12        6        15        23         -         -         -         -         -
Female Calves                       18        18       10        10         8         -         -         -         -         -
Heifers 1-2 Years                   17        17       18        10         -         -         -         -         -         -
Heifers 2-3 Years                    8         -        -         -         -         -         -         -         _         _
Male Calves                         18        18       10        10         8         -         -         -         -         -
Steers 1-2 Years                    17       17       118        50       110       108       130      120       120         120
Steers 2-3 Years                    17       13        13        87        36        81        79        96       88          88
Steers 3-4 Years                    10       10         6         3        21         9         -         -        -          -
Total Heads                        179      136       212       209       206       198       209       216      208         208
Total Animal Units                 135      107       143       151       139       138       141      148       143         143
Purchases
Steers 1-2 Years                     -          -     100        40       100       100       130       120      120         120
Total Purchased                      -         -      100        40       100       100       130      120       120         120
Sales
Cull Bulls                           -         1        -         -         1         -         -         -        -          -
Cull Cows Thin                       4       35         4         4         7         -
Cull Cows Fat                       12         7       27         5        10        16         -         -        -          -
Calves                               -         -        -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Heifers 1-2 Years                    -         -        -         -        10         8         -         -        -          -
Heifers 2-3 Years                    3        11        9         9         9         -         -         -         -         -
Steers 2-3 Years                     -         4        4        29        12        27        26        32       29          29
Steers 3-4 Years                     7         7        6        10        64        27        79       78        94          86
Steers over 4 Years                 10       10        10         6         3        21         9        -         -          -
Total Sold                          36        75       60        63       116        99       114      110       123         115
Technical Coefficients:
Weaning Rate    %                   59        59       64        64        64
Adult Mortality  %                   2         2        2         2         2         2         2         2         2          2
A8g  of Steer Sales                3-4       3-4      2-4       2-4       2-4       2-4      .2-3       2-3       2-3        2-3
Cow Culling Rate %                  20        20       20        50       100
Bull/Cow Ratio  %                    3         3        3         3
1/ End of year inventory.
December 10, 1979



- 80 -                          ANNEX 4
Table 19
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model IL, 320-ha Crops/Cattle Beef/Sheep Farm
Flock Projection
(head)
---------------------Y E A R-
Stock-/                                  0    1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9-20
Rams                                    4    8    8    9   10   11   13   14   14    14
Ewes                                  100  194  196  218  249  286  322  350  350   350
Cull Ewes                              30   30   40   40   44   50   57   64   70    70
Female Lambs                           33   64   70   78  100  116  130  141  141   141
Female Yearlings                       13   13   24   20   15   19   -    -    -          -
Male Lambs                             33   64   70   78  100  116  130  141  141   141
Male Yearlings                         32   32   61   68   53   70   56    0    0           0
Total Heads                           245  405  469  511  571  668  708  710  716   716
Total Animal Units                     36   55   66   71   74   87   90   86   87    87
Purchases
Rams                                   -     5    1    2    2    2    4    3    2          2
Ewes                                   -   100   -    -    -    -    -    -    -          -
Total Purchased                        -   105    1    2    2    2    4    3    2          2
Sales
Cull Rams                              -     1    1    1    1    1    2    2    2          2
Cull Ewes                              -    -    -    -    -    -    -         4   11    11
Lambs                                  -    -    -    -    23   30   58  161  204   204
Wethers                                 8    8    8   47   52   42   66   56   -          -
Total Sold                              8    9    9   48   76   73  126  223  217   217
Consumption
Ewes                                   29   29   29   39   39   43   43   52   52    52
Wethers                                23   23   23   13   13    9    9   -    -          -
Total Consumed                         52   52   52   52   52   52   52   52   52    52
Technical Coefficients
Weaning Rate %                        64    64   70   75   80   80   80   80   80    80
Adult Death Rate %                     33    3    3    3    3    3    3    3    3           3
Age of Lamb Sales (mos)               15    15   15   15   12   12   10    8    8           8
Ewe Culling Rate %                    30    30   20   20   20   20   20   20   20    20
Ram/Ewe Ratio %                        4     4    4    4    4    4    4    4    4          4
1/ End of year inventory.
September 5, 1979



URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model II: 320-ha Crop/Beef/Sheep Farm
Investment Cost Projection
(ha)
---------------Y E A R ----------------------------
Unit       1           2         3          4         5          6         7-10     11 and 16    Total(1-3)
Pasture Improvement
Area
- Conventional Pasture
(establishment)                  ha         72.00       36.00     36.00     -          -          -         -          -              144.00
- Over-seeding (establishment)     "          -          -          30.00     -          -          -         -          -               30.00
- Refertilization (200 kg/ha)      "          -           72.00     36.00     36.00      -          -         -          -              108.00
- Refertilization (100 kg/ha)      "          -          -          72.00    102.00    102.00       66.00     30.00      -               72.00
Cost
- Fertilizer                               3,024.00   3,024.00  3,969.00  1,827.00  1,071.00    693.00    315.00         -           10,017.00
- Seeds                                    2,898.00   1,449.00  1,971.00      -          -          -         -          -            6,318.00
- Innoculant and Binder                      149.00       74.50    156.10     -          -          -         -          -              379.60
- Cost of Cultivation                      1,729.40   1,015.20  1,153.10    288.40    213.20    137.90        62.70      -            3,897.50
- Freight                                    555.20     555.50    729.20    335.80    196.80    127.40        57.90      -            1,839.90
Sub-total                               8,355.60   6,118.20  7,978.40  2,451.20  1,481.00    958.30    435.60          -          22,452.20
Others-/
Fencing                                    1,139.00   1,139.00  1,139.00      -          -          -         -          -            3,417.00
Water Points             2/                1,143.00       -      1,143.00      -         --                              -            2,286.00
Machinery and Equipment -                 11.350.00       -         -          -                6.800.00      -         6.800 Q.00    11,350.00
Sub-total                                13,63200   1,139.00  2,282.00        -          -          -         -         6,800-00    17,053.00
Total Investment Costs               21,987.60   7,25720 10,260.40  2,451.20  1,481.00  7.758.30    435.60    6,800.00    39,505.20
1/ Cattle investments include only purchase of 1 to 2 year steers recorded in operating costs (Table 19).
TI 50% of project beneficiaries purchase a tractor and implements with a tractor replacement in Year 11
and the rest will replace a tractor in Years 6 and 16.                                                                                      o 8
mA  >
August 29, 1979                                                                                                                                  C



- 82 -
URUGUAY
ANNEX 4
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                     Table 21
Farm Model II   320-ha Crop/Beef Cattle/Sheep
Sales and OperatinRg Costs Projections
-----------------------------------------------Y E A R---------------------------------------------------
0         1          2          3          4          5         6          7          8          9         10-20
Sales
Cattle                                   6,988    12,231    11,463    12,344    22,624    20,086    25,135    23,950    26,950    25,150    25,150
Sheep                                      160        185       185        965      1,353      1,240     2,095      3,283      2,875      2,875     2,875
Wool                                     2,032      3,385     3,909      4,621      5,434      6,506      5,666      6,707    6,956       6,956      6,956
Hides                                      420        434       441        434        427        434        441       455        434        434        434
Crops                                   19,353    28.225    29,178    29.418    31.064    32.838    34,02.1   34.L021    34021    34.021    34.021
Total Sales                            28,953    44,460    45,176    47,782    60,902    61,104    67,358    68,496    71,236    69,436    69,436
Operating Costs
Labor
hired Labor I/                           2,705     2,705      2,705      2,705      2,705      2,705      2,705     2,705      2,705      2,705      2,705
Social  Security Tax2/                     586       586        586        586        586        586        586       586        586        586        586
Crops and Pasture
Fer 4lizer3                                890     4,167      5,016      4.034      5,903      6,798      7,245     7,693      7,693      7,693      7,693
Seed-                       5           2,303      3,935      4,379      4,922      4,922      4,922     4,922      A,922      4,922      4,922      4,922
Herbicides and Insecticides-               821      1,607     1,693      1,280      1,280      1,280      1,280     1,280      1,280      1,280      1,280
Livestock
Bull Replacement-                         -          -         -          -          -          -          -         -          -          -          -
Ram Replacement/-                                     213       213        213        213        213        426       426        426        426        426
Steer Purchases_/                         -         -         9,585      3,834      9,585      9,585    12,460    11,502    11,502    11,502    11,502
Veterinary Expenses2-                      434        494        746       694        785       .846        818        911       905        905        905
Shearingi2/                                123        203       235        256        286        334        289       355        358        358        358
Operation and Maintenance
Harvesting R 2/                          1,935     2,822      2,917      2,942      3,106      3,284      3,402     3,402      3,402      3,402      3,402
Gas and Oil                      13/    2,873       1,930     2,803      2,910      3,648      3,855      3,892     3,930      3,930      3,930      3,961
Water Points, Buildings, Fences-         1,234      1,302     1,337      1,405      1,405      1,405      1,405      1,405     1,405      1,405      1,405
Machineryl4/                             1,362      1,362     1,362      1,362      1,362      1,362      1,362      1,362     1,362      1,362      1,362
General Operating Costs
Crop Insuranc15/                           849        911        986       986        986        986        986        986        986       986        986
Sales Freight16/    1/                     862     1,372      1,423      1,483      1,660      1,784      1,908     1,959      1,972      1,972      1,972
Other Sales Expenses-/                   1,414     2,266      2,265      2,374      3,262      3,172      3,553     3,621      3,805      3,679      3,679
Taxes18/                                   936        936       936        936        936        936        936       936        936        936        936
OtherL9/                                   570        570       570        570        570        570        570       570        570        570        570
Total Operating Cost                    19,897    27,381    39,757    33,492    43,200    44,623    48,745    48,551    48,745    48.619    48,650
1/  One worker (US$1,271.43/year)- one specialized worker (US$1,326.17/year) plus casual labor (30 man/days at US$3.60/day).
2   US$1.83/ha according to Government regulations.
3/  Phosphatic (US$105/ton) and nitrogenic (US$275.14/ton) fertilizers.  Fertilization up to 1,000 kg/ha in years 1-3 is
considered an investment and recorded in Table
4/  Seed for new pasture is considered investment until rotation is stabilized and included in Table 18.
5/  Herbicide only in Year 0 and herbicide and insecticide in years 1-20.
6'  US$500/head plus 6.5% purchasing expenses (freight, commissions, etc).
7/ US$200/head plus 6.57. purchasing expenses.
8J US$0.50 per 180 kg steer plus 6.5% purchasing expenses.
9/ US$1.50 per head of cattle US$0.72 per head of sheep: US$0.50 per lamb.
10/ US$0.50 per head sheared.
11/ Includes harvester rental, casual labor, bags and thread (US$0.0164/kg of wheat and US$0.0229/kg of sunflower seed).
12/ Vehicle costs for about 12,000 km/year (US$0.064/km) and tractor costs for crop cultivation (wheat and sunflower).
13/ 37. of inventory value.
14/ 6% of inventory value.
15/ US$6.85/ha including wheat in association with pasture.
16/ Truck transportation over 150 km; US$0.71/Ins/steer (for 26 heads): US$0.71/km/ton of lambs.  US$0.13/km/ton of
wool over 300 km. Grains are sold locally.
17/ 7/ of total value for steers sold at packing plant' 8.5% for all other categories sold at local auctions:
4.5% for wool and grains.
18/ US$2.92/ha including IMPROME and land taxes.
19/ Includes insurance and administrative expenses (mail, stationary, etc).
September 5, 1979



-3 -                          ANNEX 4
Table 2Z
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model III: 150-ha Dairy Farm
Projected Land Use
(ha)
- ------------------Y E A R-----------------___
0     1      2     3      4     5      6     7-20
Total Non-improved Natural Pasture        90    80    70    54    38    32    32         32
Improved Pasture
Fertilized Natural Pasture                10    10    10    10    10    10    10         10
Conventional Pastures
New Pasture1 /                         22    18    18    24    18    18    18         18
Established Pasture-2/                  6      6    22    38    60    60    60        54
Old Pasture- /                          6      6     6      6     6    12    12       18
Total Improved Pasture                    24    40    56    78    94   100   100    100
Annual Pasture
Winter Annual Pasture4/                18    30    24    18    18    18    18         18
Summer Annual Pasture-                 18    12      6      6     6      6     6       6
Total Annual Pasture                      36    42    30    24    24    24    24         24
Area Percentage
Non-improved Natural Pasture           60    53    47    36    25    21    21         21
Improved Pasture                       16    27    37    45    63    67    67         67
Annual Pasture4/                       24    28    20    16    16    16    16         16
Carrying Capacity (Animal Units)
Assigned to Cattle                    130   150   160   180   200   200   200    200
1/ Year of seeding.
2/ More than one year.
3/ Pastures five years or nine after seeding.
4/ Part of the land is in double pasture cropping.
August 28, 1979



- 84 -
URUGUAY                                 ANNEx 4
Table'23
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model III: 150-ha Dairy Farm
Herd Projection
(head)
---------------------Y E A R----------------------
Stock-Y                                  0    1    2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9-20
Bulls                                   2    2    3    3    3    3    3    3    4          4
Cows                                  65   80   92   87   87   94  112  116  120   119
Fattening Cull Cows                   12   12   15   18   18   18   18   22   23    23
Female Calves                         20   20   25   32   30   34   35   42   44    45
Heifers 1-2 Years                     19   17   17   22   27   26   30   31   26    27
Heifers 2-3 Years                     16   18   13   13   11   13   -    -    -           -
Total Head                           134  149  165  175  176  188  198  214  217   218
Total Animal Units                   118  133  147  153  156  166  176  193  195   195
Purchases
Bulls                                 -    -       1   -      1   -      1   -      2      1
Cows/Heifers                          -    15   10   -    -    -    -    -    -          -
Total Purchased                       -    15   11   -        1   -      1   -      2      1
Sales
Cull Bulls                            -    -    -       -    1   -       1   -      1      1
Cull Cows Thin                          6    4    5    4    4    4    4    4    5          5
Cull Cows Fat                         13   10    9   10   13   12   14   14   16    17
Calves                                20   20   25   32   30   34   35   42   44    45
Heifers 1-2 Years                       2    2    2    2    2    3    3    3   14    15
Heifers 2-3 Years                       2   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -          -
Total Sold                            43   36   41   48   50   53   57   63   80    83
Technical Coefficients
Weaning Rate %                        60   60   60   67   67   74   74   74   74    74
Adult Mortality %                       4    4    4    3    3    3    3    3    3          3
Milk - Liters/Day                       8    8    9   10  10.5 10.5 10.5  10.5 10.5  10.5
Cow Culling Rate %                    20   20   20   20   20   20   20    20   20    20
Bull/Cow Ratio %                        3    3    3    3    3    3    3         3    3      3
1/ End of year inventory.
September 5, 1979



URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model III: 150-ha Dairy Farm
Investment Cost Projection
(05$)
--------------E--------A--------R--------------------------------Y E A R-------------------________________________ _-_
Unit          1               2               3            4              5             6             7              8             9                           3& 16     Total (1-3)
Pasture Improvement
Area
- Conventional Pasture
(Establishment)            ha           36.00           18.00          18.00        18 00          -             -             -              _             _              _              -             72.00
- Fertilization of
Natural Pasture            "             12.00          12 00           12.00        12.00         12.00         -              -             -              -             -              -             36.00
- Refertilization (200 kg)   "               -              36.00           54.00        72.00         54.00          36.00         18 00         -              -             -              -             90.00
Cost
- Fertilizer                             2,016.00        2,016.00       2,142.00    2,520.00        1,386.00         756.00        378.00         -              -             -              -          6,174.00
- Seeds                                  1,785.60          892.80         892.80        892,80         -              -             -             -              -             -              -          3,571.20
- Innoculant and Binder                      68.40          34.20           34.20        34.20         -              -             -             -              -             -              -            136.80
- Cost of Cultivation                       914.90         557.80         570.30        607.90        137.90          75.30         37.60         -              -                            -          2,043.00
- Freight                                   123.40         123.60          131.40       154.60         85.20      _46.40            23.20         -              -             -              -            378.40
Sub-total                              4,908.30        3,624.40       3,770.70    4,209.50        1.609.10        877.70         438.80         -              -             -              -         12,303.40
Others
Fencing                                     200.00         871.00         737.00         --                           -             -              -                            -             -          1,d08.00
Construction2                             1,720.00          -             172.001/                                                                                              -             -          1,892.00
Water Points-            3/                700.00          350.005/                -            -                     -             -              -             -                    /                  1,050.00
Machinery and Equipment                  5,44Q.00-      6,410.00-          270.00        -             135.00     8,205.00         225.00          -             90.00        ,440.         8,160O    12,120.00
Livestocot/                               1,992.00       1.967. 00-                                    -              -                          639.00          -              -                        3-959.00
Sub-total                               10,052.00       9,598.00        1,179.00         -            135.00      8,20.90,00       225.00        639.00          90.00       5,440.00       8,160.00   20,829.00
Total Investment Cost         i    14.960.30       13,722.40         4         S  4,209 50      1,744 10      9-082.7          663.80        639.00          90.00       5,440.00     83160.00   33,132.40
1/ Assumes that 107, of the project beneficiaries would construct farm access road.
2/ Assumes that 257% of the project beneficiaries would construct water points.
3/  Includes the purchases of four milk cans in Year 2, six in Year 3, three in Year 5, one in Year 6, five in Year 7 and two in Year 9.
4/ Assumes the purchase of a tractor in Year 1 and replacement in Year 11 for 407. of the project beneficiaries, and replacements of a tractor in "ears 6 and 16 for the rest.
5/ Assumes the purchase of a milking machine for 60% of the project beneficiaries and a full set of implements.
6/  Assumes the purchase of a bull in Year 8.
August 29, 1979                                                                                                                                                                                                        ,,, 4



- 86 -
URUGUAY
ANNEX 4
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT                                           Table 25
Farm Model III: 150-ha Dairy Farm
Sales and Operating Costs Projections
(US$)
--~-~--------------------------------- Y E A R -------------------------------
0         1          2         *3         4          5          6         7          8        9-20
Sales
Milk (Quota)                             7,992      7,992      7,992      7,992     7,992      7,992      7,992     7,992      7,992      7,992
Milk (Non-quota)                         6,605      6,605    11,698    18,647    18,445    21,551    22,324    28,155    29,298    30,476
Cattle                                   3,804      2,710      2,816      2,981     3,683      3,457     4,021      3,947      5,501      5,778
Hides                                        62        62         67         62         56        50         56         56        67         73
Total Sales                             18,463    17,369    22,573    29,682    30,176    33,050    34,393    40,150    42,858    44,319
Operating Costs
Labor
1/
Hired Labor         2/                   3,174      3,174      3,280      3,280     3,814      3,814      4,516     4,516      4,516     4,516
Social Security Tax                        267        267        267        267       267        267        267       267        267        267
Pasture
3/
Fertilizer                                 -         -          -          -         _         1,342      1,939     2,436      2,436      2,436
Seed4/                                     668        874        651        508       508      1,435      1,435     1,435      1,435      1,435
Livestock
5/
Bull Replacement   6/                      -         -          -          -          639       -           639      -           639        639
Veterinary Expenses7/                     1,270     1,420      1,570      1,660     1,670      1,790      1,880     2,030      2,060      2,070
Concentrate Rations                      1,674      1,674      2,038     2,511      2,314      2,657      2,73U     3,275      3,385      3,494
Fodder8/           9/                      -         -          -           306       312        900        900       900        900        900
Milk Barn Expenses                          115       115        140        173       163        183        188       225        233        240
operation and Maintenance
1fo/
Gas and Oil                      11/       344        455        340        265       265        634        665       6b5        685        685
Water Points, Buildings, Fences             570       712        790        818       818        818        818       818        818        818
MachineryL2/      13/                    1,236      1,236      1,236      1,236     1,236      1,236      1,236     1,236      i,236      i,236
Milking Equipment                          -         -          -           250       250        250        250       250        250        250
Milk Can Replacement14/                     146       146        191        259       259        293        3U4       360        360        383
General Operating Costs
Sales Freight        16/                   705        705        705        705       705        7U5        705       705        705        705
Other Sales Expenses                        323       230        239        253       313        294        342       336        468        491
Taxesl7/                                    120       120        120        120       120        120        120       120        120        12U
OtheriB/                                   400        400        400        400       400        400        400       400        400        400
Total Operating Cost                    11,012    11,528    11,967    13,011    14,053    17,138    19,334    19,994    20,913    21,085
1/  Two workers (US$1,271.48/year) and casual labor (180 man/days at US$3.51/day) in years 0 and 1; two workers and casual labor
(210 man/days) in years 2 and 3; three workers in years 4 and 5; three workers and casual labor (200 man/days) in years 6-20.
2/  US$1.78/ha according to Government regulations.
3/  Phosphatic fertilizer (US$105/ton).  Fertilizer applied before rotation is stabilized is considered an invpstment cost and recorded in Table.
4/  Includes seeds for rye grass, oak, maize and sorghum, plus US$4.50/ton freight.
5/  US$600/head plus 6.5% purchasing expenses (freight, commissions, etc.).
6/ US$9.50/head of cattle.
7/ US$0.113/kg plus US$4.50/ton freight.
8/  US$0.30/bale purchased by contract.
9/  US$2.50/year/cow in production.
10/ Tractor costs for cultivation of annual pastures, refertilization and conventional pastures after rotation is stabilized.
11/ 3% of inventory value.
12/ 6% of inventory value.
13/ US$250/year.
14/ US$45/milk can (25% of inventory value).
15/ US$0.0127/liter of milk for direct consumption.  Industrial milk freight is payed by processing plant.  Cull cattle is sold locally.
16/ 8.5% of total value for cattle sold at local auctions; no sales expenses for milk.
17/ US$0.80/year land taxes.
18/ Includes administrative expenses (mail, stationery, etc.)
September 6, 1979



- 87 -
ANNEX 4
Table 26
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model IV: 200-ha INC Settlement Crop/Dairy/Sheep Farm
Projected Land Use
(ha)
--------Y E A R--------------
0      1       2      3     4-20
Total Non-improved Natural Pasture              70     45      32     32      25
Improved Pasture
Over-seeding or Sod-seeding
New Pasture-        2/                       -      12      13     -       -
Established Pasture-                        -       -       12     25      25
Conventional Pastures
New Pasture                                  -      13      13     13      13
Established Pasture                          10     10      23     26      39
Total Improved Pasture                          10     35      61     64      77
Annual Pasture
Winter Annual Pasture                        25     25      20     20      20
Summer Annual Pasture                        15     15      10     10      10
Total Annual Pasture                            40     40      30     30      30
Annual Crops
Wheat                                        40     40      37     34      36
Sunflower                                    30     30      30     30      22
Total Annual Crops                              70     70      67     64      58
Non-productive Area                             10      10     10     10      10
Area Percentage
Non-improved Natural Pasture                 37     24      17     17      13
Improved Pasture                              5     18      32     34      41
Annual Pasture                               21     21      16     16      16
Annual Crop                                  37     37      35     33      30
Carrying Capacity (Animal Units)
Assigned to Cattle                           75     90    110    110    120
Assigned to Sheep                            26     26      30     33      40
Total Carrying Capacity                        101    116    140    143    160
1/ Year of seeding.
2/ More than one year.
August 28, 1979



URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model IV: 200-ha INC Settlement Crop/Dairy/Sheep Farm
Herd Pro4ection
(head)
-------------------------     Y E A R----____________-_
Stock                                0         1         2         3         4         5         6         7             8        9-20l
Bulls                                1         2         2         2         2         2         2         2             2
Cows                                47        60        67        67        70        70        70        70           70
Fattening Cull Cows                  9         9        12        13        13        14        14        14           14
Female Calves                       14        14        19        24        26        27        27        27           27
Heifers 1-2 Years                    9        12        12        17        21        15        15        15           15
Total Heads                         86       104       120       154       137       132       131       131          131
Total Animal Units                  77        92       107       114       121       123       117       118          118
Purchases
Bulls                                -         1         1         -         1         1         -         1             1
Cows/Heifers                         -         -        10         -         -         -         -         -             -
Total Purchased                      -        11         -         -         1         1         _         1            1 
Sales
Cull Bulls                           -         -         1         -         1         -         1         -             1-
Cull Cows Thin                       3         3         4         3         4        11         -         3             3
Cull Cows Fat                        6         6         6         8        10        11        16        12           12
Calves2/                            14        14        19        24        26        27        27        27            27
Heifers 1-2 Years                    4         1         1         2         2        10        10        10            10
Total Sold                          27        24        31        37        43        59        59        52           53
Technical Coefficients
Weaning Rate %                     55        55        62        70        75        75        75        75            75        75
Adult Mortality  %                  3         3         2         2         2         2         2         2             2         2
Milk-liters/day                   6.5       6.5         7         7         8         8         8         8             8         8
Cow Culling Rate                   2r        20        20        20        20        20        20        20            20        20
Bull/Cow Ratio  %                   3         3         3         3         3         3         3         3             3
1/  One cull bull sold every two years.
2/   Male calves sold at birth.
December 10, 1979



- 89 -                                 ANNEX 4
Table 2b
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model IV: 200-ha INC Settlement Crop/Dairy/Sheep Farm
Flock Projection
(head)
---------------------Y E A R-----------------------------
Stock l/                           0          1           2         3         4            5   6-29
Rams                               1          3           6         6         6            6
Ewes                              20         71        137        140       140          140
Cull Ewes                          3          3          10        27        28           28
Female Lambs                       7         25          52        57        57           57
Female Yearlings                   1          1           0         0         0            0
Male Lambs                         7         25          52        57        57           57
Male Yearlings                     2          2           0         0         0            0
Total Read                        41        130        257        287       288         288
Total Animal Units                 6         16          27        33        34           34
Purchases
Rams                               -          2           4         1         1            1
Ewes                               -         50          50         -         -            -
Wethers                           21         13          11        16         -            -
Total Purchased                   21         65         65         17         1            1
Sales
Cull Rams                          -          -           1         1         1            1
Cull Ewes                          -          -           -         -         1            2
Lambs                              5          5          25        69        74           74
Total Sold                         5          5          26        50        76          77
Consumption
Ewes                               3          3           3        10        26           26
Wethers                           23         23          23        16         -            -
Total Consumed                    26         26         26         26        26           26
Technical Coefficients
__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
Weaning Rate %                    20         20          75        75        81           81      86-/
Adult Death Rate %                4           4          4         2          2           2       2
Age of Lamb Sales(mos)           12         12          10        10        10           10       8
Ewe Culling Rate %               15         15         20         20        20           20      20
Ram/Ewe Ratio %                   4          4           4         4        44            4       4
1/ From year 6 in 86%
December 10, 1979



URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Model IV : 200-ha INC Settlement Crop/Dairy/Sheep Farm
Investment Cost Proiection
-(US$)
----------------------------Y E A R--------------------------------------------- -- - - - - --
Unit       1           2          3         4          5          6        7-10      11 and 16   Total (1-3)
Pasture Improvement
Area
- Conventional Pasture
(establishment)                 ha v       13.00       13.00     13.00   -.13.00      -          -          -          -              39.00
- Over-seeding (establishment)     "          12.00       13.00     -          -         -          -          -          -              25.00
-Refertilization (200 kg)          "          10.00       35.00     51.00      64.00     52.00      26.00      13.00      -              96.00
Cost
- Fertilizer                               1,260.00   1,827.00  1,617.00  1,890.00  1,092.00    546.00    273.00          -          4,704.00
- Seeds                                      732.00      749.40    523.20    523.20      -          -          -          -           2,004.60
- Innoculant and Binder                       59.50       62.30     26.90      26.90     -          -          -         -              148.70
- Cost of Cultivation                        358.30      412.60    418.90    446.00    108.70       54.30      27.20      -           1,189.80
- Freighti/                                  347.20      503.40    445.70    521.00    301.10    150.60        75.20      -           1.296.30
Sub-total                                2,757.00   3,554.70  3,031.70  3,407.10  1,501.80    750.90    375.40          -           9,343.40
Others
Fencing                                      702.50      502.50    904.50      -         -          -          -          -           2,109.50
Construction                               1,720.00       -         -          -         -          -                     -          1,720.00
Water Points            2/                 2,768.00      430.00   .860.00      -         -          -          -          -          4,058.00
Machinery and Equipment-                  11,050.00      135.00    135.00      -         -       5,750.00              5,750.00      11,320.00
Livestock3/                      .         4,361.30   3,351.50    213.00       -          -         -          -          -           7,925.80
Sub-total                                 20,601.8_   4,419 .00  2,112.50      -         -       5,750-0o      -      5,750.00      27,133.30
Total Investment Cost                 23.358.80   7,973.70  5,144.20  3,407.10  1,501.80  6L50 .90        7540   5750.00    36476.7
1/  Assumes a distance of 450 Km.
2/  Assumes the purchase of a tractor and a set of implements in Year 1 and a tractor replacement in Year 11 for 50% of che project
beneficiaries and replacement of a tractor in Years 6 and 16 for the rest.
3/  Assumes purchase of one bull, 16 heifers, 2 rams and 50 ewes in Year 1; 10 heifers, four rams and 50 ewes in Year 2; and
one ram in Year 3.
October 5, 1979                                                                                                                                  >
crD



- 91 -
IJRUGUAY
ANNEX 4
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPEENT PROJECT                                         Table  30
Farm Model IV: 200-ha INC Settlement Crop/Dairy/Sheep Farm
Sales and Operating Costs Projections
(05$)
------------------------------------------------Y E A R--------------------------------------------------
0         1          2          3         4          5         6          7          8         9        10-2u
Sales
Cattle                                   1,948      1,716      2,149     2,366      3,070     4,583      4,811      3,769     3,948      3,768     3,948
Milk (Quota)                             4,253      4,253     4,253      4,253      4,253     4,253      4,253     4,253      4,253      4,253     4,253
Milk (Non-quota)                         3,515      3,515      6,909     8,870    11,995    12,576    12,576    12,576    12,576    12,576    12,576
Sheep                                       63         63        338       888        975     1,000      1,000      1,000     1,1U00     l,OUO     1,000
Wool                                       344      1,065      2,179     2,431      2,573      2,573     2,640      2,640     2,774      2,774      2,774
Hides                                      210        224        168       238        23i        217       210        217        210       217        210
Crops                                    8,683    12,685    13,387    13.991    13,397    13,397    13,397    13,397    13,352    13,352    13,352
Total Sales                             19,016    23,521    29,383    33,037    36,494    38,599    38,887    37,852    38,113    37,940    38,113
Operating Costs
Labor
1/
Hired Labor         2/                   3,814      4,084     4,354      5,o86      5,086     5,086      5,086      5,086     5,086      5,086     5,086
Social Security Tax                        316        316        316       316        316       316        316        316       316        316       316
Crops and Pasture
31
Fertilizer                                  78        944      1,790     1,677      1,540     2,608      3,305      3,653     4,001      4,001     4,001
Seedat                      5/           1,484      1,937     1,697      1,607      1,667     2,170      2,432      2,432     2,432      2,432     2,432
Herbicides and Insecticides                265        460       425        391        390        390       390        390       390        390       390
Livestock
6/
Bull Replacement                          -          -          639       -           639       639       -          639        639
Ram Replacement7/  8/                     -           426       639       -          -          -         -          -         -          -         -
Veterina;y Expenses                        843      1,071      1,302     1,645      1,483     1,436      1,326      1,396     1,326      1,326     1,326
Shearing-                                   21         65        129       144        144       144        144        144       144        144       144
Concentrate Rationsloa                     806        806     1,092      1,300      1,404     1,456      1,456      1,456     1,456      1,456     t,456
Milk Barn ExpensesL_/                       47         47         63        75         81         84        84         84        84         84        84
Operation and Maintenance
Harvesting           13                    869      1,268      1,339     1,399      1,339     1,339      1,339      1,339     1,339      1,339     1,339
Milk Can Replacementl/                       56        56         90       1U0        135        135       135        135       135        135        135
Gas and Oill4/                           1,305      1,847     1,691      1,632      1,498     1,726      1,763      1,782     1,801      1,801     1,801
Water points, buildings, fenceslP          651        807        835       888        888        888       888        888       888        888        888
Machineryl6/                             1,326      1,326     1,334      1,342      1,342     1,342      1,342      1,342     1,342      1,342     1,342
General Operating Costs
Land Rentall7/                           1,538      1,538     1,538      1,538      1,538     1,538      1,538      1,538     1,538      1,538     1,538
Crop Insurancel8/                          480        480        459       438        397        397       397        397       397        397       397
Sales Freightl9/                           557        557       557        557        557       557        557        557       557        557       557
Other Sales Expeses 20/                    534        707        845       946        996     1,127      1,149      1,076     1,064      1,080     1,080
Taxes21/                                   142        142        142       142        142       142        142        142       142        142       142
OtherL2/                                   400        400       400        400        400       400        400        400       400        400       400
Total Operating Costs                   15,532    19,284    21,676    21,624    21,982    23,920    24,189    25,122    25,477    24,854    24,854
1/  Year 0: three workers (US$1,271.43/year).  Year 1: three workers plus casual labor (75 man-days at US$3.60/day).
Year 2: three workers plus casual labor (150 man-days). Year 3: four workers.
21  US$1.58/ha according to Government regulations.
3/ Phosphatic (US$105/ton) and nitrogenic (US$275.14/ton).
4| Seed for annual pastures, crops and natural pasture beyond 1,000 kg.
5/ Applied to crops.
6/  US$600/head plus 6.57, purchasing expenses (freight, commissions, etc.)
7/ US$200/head plus 6.5% purchasing expenses.
8/  US$9.50/head of cattle; US$0.72/head of sheep; US$0.50/lamb per year.
9/  US$0.50 per head sheared.
10/ US$0.114/kg farmgate price.  No  freight cost.
11/ US$1.50 per cow in production/year.
12/ Includes harvester rental, casual labor, bags and thread (US$0.164/kg wheat and US$0.229/kg sunflower seed).
13/ 25% of inventory value.
14/ Crop cultivation, annual pastures, conventional pastures, over-seeding and refertilization.
15/ 3% of inventory value.
16/ 6% of inventory value.
17/ US$7.69/ha.
18/ US$0.65/ha.
19/ US$0.0127/liter of milk for direct consumption (quota).  Freight for industrial (non-quota) milk is paid by processing
plant. Cattle, sheep, wool and hides are sold locally without freight.
20/ 8.5% on total value of cattle and sheep sold at local auctions; 4.5% on wool; and 4% on grain.  No expenses on sales of milk.
21/ Land taxes, US$0.71/ha.
22/ Administration expenses, mail, stationary, etc.
September 6, 1979



-92 -
URUGUAY                                        ~~~~~~~ANNEX 4
URUGUAY                                          T~~~~~~~a-ble 31
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm Cash Flow
Model I: 500-ha Livestock Farm
(US$)
-- - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - - -- - - - - -- -  - - -  - -- --1-      -- -  - - -  - -- - --         - - -  - - -  -- - -  - - --  - - -  - -
4                  56                          7             8             9          10         11-19            20
COST/BENEFIT ANALYSIS
GROSS PROICTION VALUE               18683        20332         21172        213373        23366          27108         26652         30482         29068       29068         29068         29068
OPERATING C957                      1723         10644         10815         11077         10847         11688         11611         12040         12-772      13355         13355         13355
NET INCOME W/ PROJ                   8960          9681        10357         12296         1 2519        15420         15041         18442         162.96      15713         15713         15713
NET INCOME W4/0 PROJ                 8874         8874          8874          8874          8874          887/4         8874          8874          8874        8874          8874          8874
INVESTHENT COST                         v             V             0            0             0             0             0             0             V            0            0             0
PASTURE DEVELOPMENT               2633          5206          2302          1868          1868         1441          1441          1441           583            0             0             0
FENCING                            763           763             0             0             0             0             0             0             C.          0             0             0
CONSTRUCTION                          0            0             0             0             0             0             0             0             0            0            0             0
WATER POINTS                       214              0            0             0             0             0             0             0             3            0            0             0
MACHINE IEGUIPMENT                5000              0            0             0             0             0             0             o             o            0            0             0
LIVESTOCK                             0                          0             0             0             0             0             0             0            0            0             0
TOTAL INVESTMENT                8610          5169         21302,         1868         1868          1441          1441          1441           583            0             0             ID
NET INCREMENT BENEFIT              -8524         -5155          -818          1555          1778          5106          4727          8128          6839        6839          6839         15046
CASH FLOW ANALYSIS
CASH INFLOW
uRO3S PRODUCTION VALUE             18683         20332         21172         23373         23366         27108        26652          30482        296          29068         29068         29068
GUBLOAN RECEIVED                     6888         4775          1841             0             0             0             0             V             0            0             0             0
TOTAL INFLOW                     25570         25107         23013         23373        23366        '27108         26652         30482         29068        29068         29068         296
CASH OUTFLOW
INVESTMENT                          8610          5969          2302          1868          iSoG          1441          1441          1441           583            0             0             0
OPERATING COST                       9723        10644         10815         11,377        10847         1i688         11611         12040         12'772       13355        13355         13355
aUBLOAN REPAYMENT:PRU00                                                                        6          20   2701                   2701          2701         20                 
SUBLOAN REPAYMENTUINT                   0           344          583           675           675           675           540           405           270          135             0             0
TOTAL OUTFLOW                    18333         16958         13700         13620        13390         16505         16293         16587         16326        16191         13355         13355
CASH BALANCE                         7238         8150          9314          9753          99.76        10604         10359         13895         127,42       12877,        15713         15713
INCREMENTAL CASH BALANCE           -1636          -74            440           800          1103          13146                      5022           3868         4003          6839          6839
NET PRESENT VJALUE AT 11.0% 18I437.
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN     23.0%



- 93 -
URUGUAY                                                 ANNEX 4
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                           Table 32
Farm Cash Flow
Model II: 320-ha Mixed FarmiRn
(us$)
1  2         3             4            5             6            7                                       0 9  tO      11        12-15            16        17-1Q            25
COT0 BENEFIT ANALYSIS
39o55  PR3GCTION VALi              44460        45176         47752        60902         61104        67358         68496         71236        69436        69436        69436         69436         69436        69436         69436
OPERATING COST                     27381        39757         33474        43200         44623        48745         48551         48745        48619        48650         48650        48650         48650        48650         48650
NET iNCGhE 6. PROI                 11079         5419         14290        t7702         06481        t8613         19945        22491         208i7        20786        20786         20786         20786        20786         20786
NET INCONE i:0 PROj                 90S6         9056          9056         9056          9056         9056          9056          9056         9056         9056          9056         9056          4056         9056          9056
-iSTMENT CDsT                          0            0             0             0            0             0      O                   0            o0                         0             0            0            0 O
PASTUFE IEVELOPFENT               0356         6118         7978          2451          1481          950           436          436           446          436             0            0             0            0             0
FENCING                           1139         1139         1139             G             0            0             A             0            O            O             O            0             0                         O
N00STRUCTION                         0            0             A            0 o                        0             0             0            0            0             0            0             6            0             0
LhTER EOINTS                      1143            0          ;143            0             0            0             0             0            3            A             0             0            0            0             0
S.OCHiNE 6 EGUIPOENT            11350             0             0            0             0         6800             0             0            0            0         6800              0         o200            0             0
LIOESTOCK                            A            O                O                       0            0             3             0            0            0             0             0            0             0            0
TOTAL iNVEST4 ENT             20198          7257        10260          2451         1481          7758           436          436           436          436         6060              0         6800            2             0
NET INCREMENT BENEFIT             -13964       -10894         -5026         6195          5945         1799         10454         13000        11326        11295          4930         11730         4930         11230        22925
SRS'- iROJUCTION VALUE             44460        45176         47702        bO9G         61104        67758         68496         71236        69436        .9436         o9436         o9436        69436         69436        69436
FUBLGh6 FEC010E0                   17590         5SOt          92GS            0             0             0            0             0             0            3             0            0            0             0             O
TOTA, INFPNW                    62050         50901        55990         60902        61104         67358         68496        71236         69436        69436         69436         69436        A9436         69436        6R4o6
CASh JUTFLON
NOET4EIENT                        21988          7257        10260          2451          1481         7750           436           436          436           430         6800             o         6800             0            0
APERATING COST                     27301        39757         33492        43200         44623        48745         48551         48745        48619         48650        48650         40650        4B650         48650        48650
SUSLOAN REPAY6ENT:FRI                  O             0            0             0            0         6421          6321          63221         32           o3:0             0            O             A             0            0
SUBLOAN REPAYNENTWINT                  0          528           702          940           94            948          758           569          379           190             0            O             0             0            0
TOTAL OUTFLOW                   49369        47542         44454         46599        47052         63772        56066         56070         55755        55596         55450         48650        55450         48650        48650
CASh BALANCE                       12681         3437         11536        14303         14052         3586         12430         15166        13601         13840         139B6        20786         13986         20786        20786
INCREMENTAL CASH 8ALANCE            3a26        -5616          2480         5247          4997        -5470          3375          6111         4626          4784          4930        11730          4930         11730        11730
NET PRESENT VALUE AT 11.07 = 24836.
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN *   20.5%



- 94 -
URVIGUAY                                                              AX4NEX 4
Table 33
AGRLICULTURAL DEVELOPMENIT PROJECT
Farm Cash Flow
Model III: 150-ha Dairy Farm
1            2             3            4             5             6             7            8             9           10           11        12-15            16         17-19            20
COSTIBENEFIT ANALYSIS
GROSS PROOCTION VALUE              17369         22573        29682         30176         33050        34393         44150         42859        44319        44319         44319        44319         44319         44319        44319
OPERATING COST                     11528        11967         13010         14053         17138        19334         19994         20903        21065        21065         21065        21065         21065         23065        21065
NET INCOME N/ PROJ                  5841        10606         06672         16123        15912         15059         20256         21945        23254        23254        23234         23254         23254         23254        23254
NET INCOME N/UO PROJ                7451          7451         7451          7450         7451          7451          7451          7451         7451         7451          7451         7451          7451          7451         7451
INVESTMENT COST                        0             0             0            0             0             0            0             0             0           0             0             0            0             9             0
PASTURE DEVELORMENT               4908          3624         3771          4210         3609           878           439             0            0            0             0             0            0             0 
FENCING                            200           871          727             0             3            0.            0             0             0           0             0             0            0             0             0
CONSTRVCTIDN                      1720             0          172             0             0            o             0             0             0           0             0             0            0             0 
WATERRPOINTS                       700           350             0            0             0            0             0             0             0           0             0             0            3             0             3
tAACHINE I E8U1RNE9NT             5440          6410          20              0          135          8205           225             0           90            0          5440             0         8160             0             0
LIVESTOCK                         1992          1967             0            0             0             0            0           639             0            0            0             0            0             0             0
TOTAL INVESTMENT               14960        10222          4950         4210          1744          9083           664          639            90            0         5440              0         8160             0            0
NET INCREMENT BENEFT              -16571       -10068          4271          4463         6717         -1475         12040         13855         15713       15803         10363         15803         7640         15803        28571
CASH FLOW AMAtORIS
CASH 04FLOW
GRITS PRODUCTION VALUE             07369         22573        29602         300076       33050         34393         40150         42858        44309        44319         44319         44309        44019         44019        44309
SUBLUAN RECE19E0                   11968         10518         3960             0             0             0             0            0             0            0            0             0             0            0             0
TOTAL INFLOW                    29337         33150         33641        30176         33050         34390         40050        42858         44319        44319         44219        44319         44319         44319        44319
C604 OUTFLOW
INVESTMENT                         14960        13222          4950          4210          1744         9083           664           639            90            0         5440             0          8160            0             0
OPERNTING COST                     11528         11967        13010         14053         17138        19334         19994         20903       2.1063        21063         21065         21065         21063        21065         21060
SUALIAM  REPAYMENT:PRI                 0             0             0            0             0         5300          5301          5301         5341          5301             0            0             0            0             0
S8800AN REPAYMENT UNT                  0           353          676           795           795          795           436           477           318          159             0            0             0            0             0
--   - - -     - - - - -     - - - - -    - - - - -     - - - - -     - - - - -     - - - - -    - - -- - - - - -  - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - - - - -     - - - - -     - - - - -    - - - - -
TOTAL OUTFLON                   26480         25548         16636         19058        09677         34513         26595        23730         26774        26525         26505         21065        29225         21065        21063
---     -     - - - - -     - - - - -    - - - - -- - -  - - - -  - - -  - - - -  - - -         - - -- - - - -  - - - -  - - - -    - -  - - - - -  - -- -  - -     - - - - -     - - - - -     - - - - -
CAON BALANCE                        2849          7002        15005         10109         13373         -121         13554         15538        17545         17794        17814         23254         15994        2324          23254
---~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~====a==                                                                                                              -                     Azz    ~ xz
INCREMENTAL CASH BALANCE           -4602           150         7554          0667          5922        -7572          6003          8077        10094         10343        10363         15803          7640        15800         15803
NET PRESENT VALUE AT 11.00 = 40777.
INTERNAL RATE OR RETURRM       25-3%



- 95 -
URUGUAY                                                   AMNEX 4
AGRICULTUJRAL OEVELOPMESNT PROJECT                                          Table 34
Famr Cash Flow
Nodel IV: 200-ha INC Settlement Farm
(US$)
-            2            3             4            5             6            7             8            9           10            I1        12-15           16        17-19            20
COSTIBENEFIT ANALYSIS
OROSS PRODCTION YALUE             23521         29383        33036         36493        38598        3896          37831         38113        37941        38113         38113        38113         38113        38113         38113
OPER4TING COST                     19284        21676        21624         21982        23920         24189        25122         25477        248S4        24854         24r54        24854         24854        24854        24854
NET INCOME W/ PROJ                  4237         7707        11412         14511        14678         14697        12729         12636         13887       13259         13259        13259         13259        13259        13259
NET INCOME 6/0 PROJ                 3484         3484         3484          3484         3484          3484         3484          3484          3484        3484          3484         3484          3484         3484          3484
INVESTMENT COST                        0            0             0            8             0            0             0            0             8            0            0            0             8            0             O
PASTURE DEVELOPMENT              2757          3555         3832          3407         1502           751          375             0             0            0            0            0             0            0             O
FENCINO                           703           503          905             0            0             0             0            0             0           0             0            0             0            o            G
CONSTRUCTION                     1720             0             0            0            0             0             0            0             0           8             o            0             0            0             O
NalER POINTS                     2768           430          860             0            0             0             0            0             0           o             O            0            O             O a
MACHINE I E8I0PMENT             tlOSO           135          135             0            0          5750             0            0             0           0          5750            8         5750             0            o
LIVESTOCK                        4361          3352          203             0            0             0             0            8             0           0 o                        0                         0             0
TOTAL INVESTMENT              23359         7974          5144         3407          1502         6501           375             0            8            o         5750             0         5750             0            O
NET INCREMENT BENEFIT            -22606         -3750         2785          7620         9692          4712          8870         9152         9603         9775          4075         9775          4025         9775        20465
CASH FLOW ANALYSIS
CASH INFLOW
GROSS PRODUCTION VALUE            23521         29383        33036         36493        38598         38886        37851         38113        37941         38113        38113        38113         38113        38113         38113
SUBLOAN REcEIVED                   20322         6937          4475            0             0            0             0            0             O            0             0            0            0                         
TOTAL INFLOW                    43843        36320         37512        36493         38598        38886         37851        38113         37941        38113        38113         38113        38113         38013        38113
CASH OUTFLOW
INVESTMENT                        233s9          7974         5144          3407         1502          6501          375             0             0            0         5758             0         5750            8             O
OPERATINO COST                    19284         21676        21624         21982        23920        24189         25122         25477        24654        24854         24854        24854         24854        24854        24854
SUBLDhh REPAYNENT:PRI                  8            0             V            0             0         6347         6347          6347         6347         6347             0             0            0            0             8
SUBLO8    REPAYMENT:INT               0          610           818          952          952           952           762          571          381           190            0             0            8             0            O
TOTAL OUTFLOW                   42643        30259         27586        26341         26374        37989         32606        32395         31582        31391        30604         24854        30604         24854        24854
CASH BALANCE                        1200         6061         9926         18152        12224           897         5245          5718         6359         6722          7589        13259          7509        13259         13259
INcEMENTAL CASH BALA4cE           -2284          2577         8442          6668         0740         -2587         1761          2234         2875         3238          4025         9773          4025         9775         9775
NET PRESENT VALUE AT 11.0o = 26052.
INTERNA  RATE OF RETURN =   22.4Z



URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BROU  Project Cash  Flow
(Us$' OOO)
2            3            4            5            6             7            8            9                         11           12
CASH INFLOW
GOVERNMENT LOAN                 2687          4199         5125         2368          906             0            0            0             0            0             0            0            0
OWN RESOURCES                   7720         12114        14810         6959         2644             0            0            0            0             0             O            0            0
SUBLOAN REPAYhENT:INT               0          398         1034         1805         2170         2300          2149         1843         1384           924          464           155            0
SUBLOAN REFAYHENT:PRI               0            0            0            0 Q          0         3913          7912        11911        11911         11911         7998          3999            0
TOTAL INFLOW                 10408        16710         20969        11152         5721         6213        10061         13754        13294         12834         8461         4153             0
cyz
8ASH OUITFLOW
SUBLOANS                       10408        16312         19935         9347         3552             0            0            0             0            0             0            0            0
REPAYMENT TO GVT:INT                0           48          127          221          266           263          226          169          113            57           19             0            0
REPAYMENT TO GVT:PRI                0            0            D            0         1005         2033          3061         3061         3061          2057         1028             0            0
OWN RESOURCES                       0            0            0            0            0         2908          5679         8849         8849          8849         5941         2971             0
ADMINISTRATIVE EXP                  0          208          534          933         1120         1191          1113          955          716           478          240            80            0
TOTAL OUTFLOW                10408        16569        20597         10502         5943         6395        10279        13035         12740        11441          7228         3051             0
CASH BALANCE
ANNUAL BALANCE                      0          141          373          650         -222          -183         -218          720          554          1394         1233         1103             0
CUMULATIVE                          0          141          514         1164          943           760          542         1262         1816          3210         4443         5545          5545



t'RUL.tUAY
AGRECULTU'RAL DEVELOPME3T F78eC03
Rte  of Return  C.Ie.atio,
(USS 000)
. . . __ . ___ _ _ __~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - - - ---- - - ----- -  - ------
1            2            3            4            s             8             7            a            t            la           11           12            13        14-1I            It        17-14            If           20       MIsO
S  rs                              -144           73M         2159        S5lO           705         tO71         12990         17267        IS6          20 2019         21         19291         1929         1 921         1991         1 t           19291         743        2K3
1-.S"TwFr;asie                                  S401           SII         S94          3490          2995         2746          2496        2011.         1t0            240             I                                       *            * 9           A            a        44203
A16ihs 3T                            1"2         1to1         149t         t192         127           fie7          11:7         247          3074          4023         4170        5s7i           S125         5115          5175         3175          IA   s17       i          Y1U"
:c NET 30rT                       -584         -4779           143       -26t8          2292          6121         8207         12153        12264        1992          14121        14116         14118        141t1        14114         14t11        14118         Itfft       17734
E2              24.0
4115  F4   EUBPIE4T
U.ES                               3102         4248         10112        11444        1846          20501        22420        24047        24462         24650         24299        242M9        24299         24290        24294         24294        24290         21529       431846
:W.Ei sqNT                        446           139           7769,        7474        2U11           2151         1790          1599          240           240         1-12         131t          1251            0          1251         1251             9            a        1739
YE Ar;*e C5P                       I573         432           7059         1,85        :027          12478        1267          14015        14004         14016        14009        14010         14013        140:3        14013         14013        14013         44913       240941
I    1 XEFI                       -2517        -3967         -421.          241         2949          5474         473           1443       10116         10094          970          4943          ,025        11277          925          9925         l4277        12511       12352
F'XYII1C iCI: 26.C1
SkES                               -109           361         1423         2704          27!2         422J         5220         4201          7194          7611         7757                       7757 7         7757                      7757         757          nu4         "44
MESTPr                             1264         2570          3025         2041            4          1371         194o           947          327.                      .504           49           4146           9           744          744             8            4        17t1
-F7A'G 1251                          1I9          277          49           sv9          *12          1434         1941          2251         Z.31          2472         2494          2494         2494         2484          2494         2494          2494         24M          n7
01 N9ET R& FT -r62                             -2544         -2039           d3         U445          144          2232         4303          9475          5072         4768          4777         4777          5273         4529         452973 1s54                             *
M7air  02  : 2. 72
10101                               315         1384          2097           52         3732          4170         4277         4240          4170          41           4149          4201         4201          4201         4201          4291         4291          493         nits
Ir4rSE1T41                         1452         2001          2407          45           88            731          551           450e 5                       9           257           83          32              9          357           3113           *             *        12S5
9104FAT14  231T                     62           1277         11I4         1132          1262         1425         142k          1732         1 n           1769         i122          132            732          72           17m2         1733         1732            7          3ut1s
0I4  CT 1 N0 1                    -1745        *22a          -149           431          1494        2413          299           2350         23812         241           2099         20t7         2407          2470         2112         237           244           3213        k
Etf6Ml  1   1 25.31
rrTAL RI                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ^1
9t-ES                              J164          9441         35r         242Xt         21134    - 947n            44404         19          544n73        545           m528         555i9         5322          59          s553           m53           55          840          P0
10sTs0r                           11730        1840          22564        1245           725          72n           8130        .49           2404          1449          2614         2219          2130            0          235l         323              *                      m  m
D6RATI6 G COS1                     3229          7494        10154        13119         14374        17903        lin71         20478        23254         22294         23055        23404        22444         2244          23494        144          23444         2344          Mon
I4C     47 47[TT                -11795       -M7s          -1&*72        -013          n4       S2 03424                      .DM n4        3094J         72927         25           2915          209          2213          2r723        n77           32135        4140         4a6
rscat:s  ann.. 1nnna.w..n=.. .*fla.  ....n..                                                                                       .       .    .-                                          -
00104022 W92  I 27.71






IBRD 1449
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~99 ETME 7
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
A-- ~ ~    ~                    '
pi~
~~  N  I  N   ~~~~~~~~~  VV



