Document of
The World Bank                      iL   L    L
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2751-UR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 27, 1980
T   docuent has a retri*cted dbtriten and may be use by recmpients only tn the performance of  |
their oMeWl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of December 1979)
Currency Unit                              New Uruguayan Peso (NUr$)
NUr$1                                      100 Centavos (ctv)
NUr$8.35                    -              US$1
NUr$1                                      US$0.12
NUr$1,000                   =              US$120
NUr$1 million               -              US$120,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
BROU                  Bank of the Republic
CBU                   Central Bank
CHPA (PLAN)   =       Honorary Commission for the Agricultural Plan
CREA          =       Regional Centers for Agricultural Experiments
FG            =       Livestock Fund of Central Bank
INC           =       National Settlement Institute
MAP           =       Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
OPYPA         =       Office for Agricultural Planning and
Policy Coordination
SEPLACODI     =       Secretariat for Planning, Coordination and
Information
Government of Uruguay
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Republica Oriental del Uruguay
Amount:                   US$24 million equivalent
Terms:                    Repayable in 15 years, including 3 years of
grace, at 8.25% per annum.
Relending Terms:          Government would relend the Bank funds to Banco de la
Republica (BROU) on the same terms as would apply to
the sub-loans made by BROU to its sub-borrowers except
that BROU would receive a margin of two percent on
all loans. The Government would assume the foreign
exchange risk. Subloans would have a maximum term
of 10 years, including grace periods up to five years.
The sub-loans would be indexed and bear a real interest
of 5% for farmers with 500 ha or more, and 3% for
those with less.
Project Description:    The proposed project would have three major
objectives: (a) to continue assistance under
earlier Bank financed projects for livestock and
dairy development; (b) to promote agricultural
diversification by supporting cultivation of
crops in association with livestock; and (c) to
assist settlers in National Settlement Institute
colonies to improve techniques and production
patterns on their farms, which are currently
suffering from soil erosion and depletion. The
objectives would be achieved through a three year
commitment, five year investment program of US$100
million equivalent, assisted by extension and tech-
nical services costing about US$11.0 million. Sixty
percent of the investment program would be financed
by the Bank of the Republic; the Bank and the farmers
would finance the remainder.
Project Risks:            The project faces no unusual risks.  There is,
however, an element of uncertainty as regards
producers demand for investment loans. There is,
first, the extent to which world market prices
for project output and input will follow the
r This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 11 -
course forecast in the analysis. In addition,
and perhaps more importantly, project Success
is likely to depend on continued adherence
by the Government to the market oriented
sector policies adopted in August 1978.
Estimated Costs:
Investment Category         Local   Foreign   Total
(US$ million)
Livestock Development        14.4      17.7       32.1
Mixed Farm Development        9.7      14.0       23.7
Dairy Farm Development       4.4        5.5        9.9
INC Settlement Development 4.5         3.5        8.0
Technical Services           4.9        1.6       6.5
Feeder Roads                 0.4       0.2        0.6
Contingencies               14.2      16.0       30.2
Total                  52.5 1/  58.5       111.0 1/
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign   Total
(US$ -million)
Bank                          0       24,0       24.0
BROU                        34.4      26.Z       60.6
Government                    7.0        0         7.0
Sub-borrowers               11.1       8.3       19.4
Total                  52.5      58.5      111.0
Estimated Disbursements:
1981      1982      1983     1984      1985
-------------- US$ million  ----
Annual       2.6       6.2       7.8       5.2       2.2
Cumulative  2.6        8.8      16.6      21.8      24.0
Economic Rate of Return:       Weighted average of all components is 26Z.
Appraisal Report:               Report No. 2779b-UR, dated March 27, 1980,
1/   Including US$3.4 million in taxes.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO REPUBLICA ORIENTAL DEL URUGUAY
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Republica Oriental del Uruguay for the equivalent of US$24.0 million
to help finance the proposed Agricultural Development Project, the loan
would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at an interest
rate of 8.25% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited Uruguay in May 1979.  Discussions of
the mission's findings with the Government have continued and the report
will be distributed shortly. A summary of Country Basic Data is attached as
Annex 1.
Economic Performance
3.        After having become one of the most prosperous countries in Latin
America in the first half of the twentieth century, Uruguay's economy deteri-
orated steadily in the next two decades. This was the result of policies that
favored urban consumption and high-cost industrial import substitution at the
expense of investment, exports and growth. A well-educated and predominantly
urban population generated increasing demands for high employment, better
public services and social benefits. The attempts to meet these demands took
the form of fiscal, exchange rate and price policies that resulted in a
sustained transfer of income out of the resource-rich agricultural and live-
stock sector mainly into consumption by the urban population. Industrial sector
development, initially stimulated by shortages of consumer goods during World
War II, was fostered through a deliberate import substitution and protection
policy during the immediate post-war era. However, economic growth faltered as
agricultural production, productivity and exports declined after the Korean War.
Moreover, industrial import substitution possibilities in the small domestic
market were quickly exhausted. Unemployment and underemployment rose sharply.
Government policies aimed at maintaining urban income and consumption levels
resulted in strong inflationary pressures, capital flight and serious misalloca-
tion of resources. During the early 1970s, political and social unrest marked
by urban terrorism and labor strife further discouraged savings, investment and
any initiative to expand output and exports.
4.        Uruguay had instituted comprehensive welfare legislation in the
1920s when the potential from livestock seemed inexhaustible. Progressive
legislation covering such areas as social security retirement and survivors'
pensions, job security, unemployment compensation, free health and education
services provided mechanisms for redistributing income. Uruguay was thus able



to achieve a relatively high level of social progress as evidenced by an in-
come distribution pattern which compares favorably with that of many developed
countries. Although Uruguay experienced a drop in per capita income during
the 1960s and early 1970s, the country has attained levels that are comparable
to those of some developed countries and above those of most developing
countries in health (life expectancy at birth of 71 years), edu,.ation (94%
literacy rate), and nutrition (per capita intake of protein of almost 100 grams
per day).
5.        The redistribution mechanisms were not, however, immune to economic
instability--and, in effect, contributed to it. The uncoordinated growth of
the social security system and its liberal benefits, coupled with a stagnant
economy and rapid inflation, caused increasing stress on the country's resources.
Larger transfers from the Central Government were increasingly needed to
provide decreasing real benefits to a growing number of people. In addition
to the financial burden on the Government, the high level of contributions
required by the system from employers increased the real cost of labor.
This high cost, coupled with the incentives to the use of capital inherent in
the import substitution strategy, acted as a brake on the creation of employ-
ment. Moreover, inefficient administration resulted in an inadequate level
of real benefits, and, together with the old age structure of the population,
resulted in a large number of people working past retirement age (though as
retirement was at 55 years, this was not necessarily a great burden), further
limiting employment opportunities for the groups entering the labor force.
6.        The structural changes in the world economy that emerged in late
1973 had a strong impact on the Uruguayan economy. The threefold increase in
the price of imported oil (Uruguay imports 100% of its oil needs), substantial
increases in other import prices, and the closing of the European Economic
Community to meat imports contributed to a sharp reversal in the balance of
payments, a precipitous deterioration of fiscal performance and to an acceler-
ation of domestic inflation. The economic team appointed in mid-1974 deter-
mined that long-term solutions to the country's economic problems went
beyond stabilization and required a fundamental reorientation of economic
management away from an inward-looking and towards an export-oriented develop-
ment strategy. The basic objectives of the new program were the improvement
of resource allocation and productive efficiency through greater reliance on
the price mechanism, and the promotion and diversification of nontraditional
exports, i.e., those other than beef and wool. The achievement of these
objectives required the freeing of domestic prices and the liberalization of
the foreign trade and payment system from the burdensome controls instituted
in the past.
7.        The rapid implementation of export-oriented development measures
yielded unexpectedly rapid and positive results in 1975-78. Government
economic policy during this period concentrated on fostering growth in the
commodity-producing sectors by eliminating various types of controls that
distorted resource allocation, and by achieving a more realistic exchange rate
in order to promote exports. Quantitative and financial controls on imports



- 3 -
of raw materials and capital goods were eliminated; price ceilings on many
domestic products were lifted; interest rates on deposits and loans were
freed; and nontraditional exports were successfully stimulated through a
policy of minidevaluations and the establishment of a system of tax rebates.
Reversing policies that prevailed for thirty years, the government eliminated
controls on pricing and marketing of agricultural goods in the third quarter
of 1978. While the immediate effect of the removal of the ceiling was to
increase beef prices by about 20%, the difference between international and
domestic prices, the measure should help in the medium term to improve effi-
ciency in the sector and lead to higher supplies. In continuation of its
liberalization policies, the Government reduced maximum levels of import
duties and surcharges in January 1979 and introduced a schedule for further
reductions over the next five years.
8.        The economy responded to these changed policies by achieving an
annual average GDP growth of about 3.2% during 1974-78, compared with an
annual decline of 0.2% during the previous four years. In 1979, expansion
was almost 9% in real terms. Gross domestic investment also increased from
an average of 13.5% of GDP in the period 1970-74 to 18.3% in 1977/78. Produc-
tion of nontraditional exports, particularly leather and textile manufactures,
led the recovery of the economy and was instrumental in initiating a remark-
able turnaround in the external sector which has continued since 1976. As a
result, the current account deficit declined from US$190 million in 1975 (5.1%
of GDP) to US$158 million in 1979 (2.7% of GDP) which together with strong
private capital inflows, resulted in gains in net foreign exchange reserves.
Reserves increased from US$184 million in 1975 to almost US$900 million
(including revaluation of gold) by November 1979, representing roughly
10 months of imports.
9.        The Central Government's fiscal situation continued to improve in
1977-78 (an average overall deficit of 1.2% of GDP). The policy of wage
restraint enabled the Government to restrict current expenditures and finance
a larger investment program. The Government's wage policy has also been
instrumental in maintaining a relatively low level of inflation during
1976-78 as compared to 1974-75. The strong fiscal performance reflected not
only real cuts in expenditures--particularly on wages and salaries--but also
continued real growth in revenues, mainly from improved import duty collections
related to higher imports and buoyancy in value-added and corporate profit
taxes. As a result of the reactivation of the economy, and the diversity of
redistribution mechanisms, the economic liberalization and stabilization
program does not appear to have significantly affected the poor.
10.       The Government has undertaken a series of measures to reduce
inflation and the real interest rates of 15-20% which prevailed in 1977-78.
In March 1979, the Government announced the rate of exchange, the minimum
wage rate, the wage rate for public sector employees and tariffs for public
services until the end of the year. Furthermore, the tax on bank credit
transactions was eliminated and reserve requirements on commercial bank
deposits were gradually reduced before being eliminated in May. The decree



of February 1979 liberalizing imports of certain foodstuffs became opera-
tional in May with publication of the list of exempted foodstuffs. The
Government also announced that it would liberalize imports of goods which
showed a higher than warranted price increase. These measures were designed
to counter inflationary expectations and to help producers plan future
investment by ,zoviding them with definite information regarding their costs.
Furthermore, the rate of devaluation was coordinated with the increase in
labor and public service costs so that exporters would not be adversely
affected.
11.       The positive economic results in 1979 were influenced by the liberal-
ization measures announced in late 1978, the monetary and price measures
announced in February 1979, the growth of tourism, external capital inflows,
and the continued strong export performance. The excess demand generated by
higher investment levels, increased tourist expenditures, and the monetary
expansion resulting from foreign capital inflows have hindered reduction of
inflation. Inflation accelerated from 46% in 1978 to 83% in 1979 as measured
by the consumer price index. Growth will undoubtedly be slowed if demand for
export turns downward, as expected, and imported oil costs continue to rise
sharply. Nevertheless, in a number of significant respects Uruguay is in a
better position to weather the stresses of the current economic conjuncture
than are the non-oil developing countries as a group.
Economic Prospects
12.       The Government is attempting to shift the economic structure towards
a more open, export-oriented model. This shift is by no means easy in view of
the deep-seated rigidities which Uruguay's economy has acquired over the last
thirty years. High tariff protection and highly segmented public sector
management continue to hamper growth. Nevertheless, the success in stimulating
economic activity and turning around the balance of payments during the last
four years attests to the economy's responsiveness to a consistent set of
signals as the price mechanism is allowed to operate more freely. The key to
sustained growth for the future will depend on the Government's ability to
consolidate the recent gains through longer-term policies. Uruguay's long and
difficult experience in pursuing income distribution policies in the face of a
stagnant economy has led the authorities to give utmost priority over the
coming years to sustained growth.
13.       In broad terms, government policies aim to provide a propitious
economic environment for the fuller use of such advantages as the country's
highly literate labor force, its strategic location between Argentina and
Brazil, and a natural resource endowment suited to export-oriented agricultural
production, including the traditional livestock industry as well as the
largely untapped potential in crop production, food processing and fisheries.
14.       Provided that the sound orientation of fiscal, monetary and trade
policies already instituted is consolidated, the Uruguayan economy has the
capacity to grow at faster rates than in most of the last decade (growth
was only about 1% annually during 1971-78). Though growth may not continue



- 5 -
at the 9% level of 1979, it appears that the economy can sustain a growth rate
of about 5% over the medium term. The expansion of both traditional and
nontraditional exports should provide the main impetus for growth. Beef and
wool exports will benefit from the recently enacted price and marketing
liberalization measures, the reasonably favorable price outlook, and the
successful penetration of new markets in recent years. Sustained growth of
manufacturing output and nontraditional exports should be possible with the
further development of such subsectors as leather products, textiles, processed
foods, fish and other manufacturing goods. Private sector investment should
provide the principal impulse for growth in the coming years in the form of
the rehabilitation, modernization and expansion of existing production units
rather than the establishment of new, large-scale ventures. The public sector
is expected to play a key supporting role by mobilizing financial resources,
rehabilitating infrastructure and improving complementary services to the
productive sectors.
15.       Export expansion and diversification will require the modernization
of the country's capital stock. This implies heavy import requirements for key
infrastructure, new plant and equipment, rehabilitation of the existing stock,
and related intermediate inputs. Imports are also expected to increase as a
result of the Government's import liberalization policy. A rapid growth in
imports is to be expected under these policies possibly resulting in a trade
deficit averaging about US$140 million during 1980-82. With the development
of hydroelectric energy sources the volume of petroleum imports can be expected
to decline and together with the expansion of beef exports, result in a
smaller trade deficits after 1983. The above trade projections, combined with
steadily increasing net factor payments on public and private borrowing, would
result in a widening of the current account deficit from an average of US$65
million during 1976-78 to an annual average of US$235 million in 1980-82.
Expansion of beef exports in 1982-83 in conjunction with reduced petroleum
imports may be expected to reduce the projected current account deficit to
about US$200 million by 1983. The current account deficits projected are
moderate and the implied gross external capital requirements for 1980-83
(estimated at an annual average of US$332 million) can be expected to come
partly from existing and new commitments of multilateral and bilateral agencies.
Private financial institutions, suppliers' credits and Government bonds would
provide the major portion of the remainder.
16.       The remarkable turnaround in Uruguay's balance of payments since
1976 has enabled the authorities to amortize or refinance various commit-
ments contracted on unfavorable terms during the previous years. The volume
of commitments contracted during 1974-75, their relatively unfavorable
terms and prepayments of hard term loans resulted in a debt service ratio
of about 28% in 1977 and about 42% in 1978. However, such prepayments have
improved Uruguay's debt profile and the debt service ratio for the period
1980-83 is projected to be about 12%. In 1978, debt to the Bank was 9.6% of
total outstanding and disbursed external public sector debt and debt service
was 3.2% of total. These levels are expected to increase, but will still be
moderate. Under these circumstances, Uruguay would remain creditworthy for
the amounts of external capital required to rehabilitate the country's capital
stock and to achieve sustained economic and social progress.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN URUGUAY
17.       To date, Uruguay has received US$303.2 million (net of cancellations)
in Bank loans. As of January 31, 1980, the Bank held US$190.1 million,
including US$118.0 million undisbursed. On a sectoral basis, Trnk assistance
to Uruguay (17 loans in total) has been for power (35%), transport (31%) and
livestock (24%), with some lending for industry (7%) as well as vocational
training and technological development (3%). IFC has made three investments
in Uruguay: in Fabrica Uruguaya de Neumaticos S.A. (US$3.8 million) to
introduce radial tire production, increase tire manufacturing capacity and
improve operating efficiency and product quality; in Acodyke Supergas S.A.
(US$950,000) to help finance a new liquid petroleum gas bottling plant; and
in Astra Pesquerias Uruguayas, S.A. (US$4.5 million and up to US$0.9 million
in equity) to help finance an integrated fishing and processing project.
Execution of these projects has, on the whole, been satisfactory. Annex II
contains a summary of Bank loans as of January 31, 1980 and IFC investments
as of February 29, 1980, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.       Bank lending in Uruguay in FY78 consisted of a loan of US$9.7 million
equivalent for a Vocational Training and Technological Development Project.
In FY79, a loan of US$26.5 million was approved in April for a Second Highway
Project. In FY80, a loan of US$24.0 million was approved in December for a
Fifth Power Project and in January a loan of US$50 million for the Montevideo
Port Project. In addition to the proposed project, work is underway on an
industrial credit project for possible consideration by the Executive Directors
during the next year.
19.       The Bank, in its program in Uruguay, is trying to assist the Govern-
ment in implementing an economic strategy designed to put the economy on a
path of sustained growth. Towards this end, all operations are aimed at
policies and programs that will support the continued recovery of the economy
within a framework of financial stability. More specifically, the objectives
of the Bank's program are to: (i) foster productive activities by promoting
the expansion and diversification of export earnings; (ii) help strengthen the
country's sectoral policies and public sector institutions; (iii) improve
and promote the integration of the economy with the large markets of neighbor-
ing Argentina and Brazil, as well as with overseas markets; and (iv) assist the
country to develop policies and programs to diversify its sources of energy.
20.       The proposed project is designed to continue supporting increased
production in the livestock subsector for exports as well as heip:- the Govern-
ment to gradually place greater emphasis on expanding crop producLlon, while
encourag4ng the government to follow agricultural marketing policies responsive
to the free operation of market forces. Bank lending for power and transport
is designed to support the Government efforts to rehabilitate and modernize
the country's key infrastructure to foster sustained economic growth, rising
income, exports, and employment. The transport investments supported by the
Bank will also assist Uruguay's efforts to integrate with its neighbors (Brazil
and Argentina), which are its major trading partners. Bank assistance for
industry, including vocational training and technological development, is
designed to help expand non-traditional exports, the principal motor of
economic growth; at the same time, Bank lending will continue to support
simplifying the cumbersome tariff and import regulation structure and lower
the rate of protection, which is necessary to increase the efficiency of the
industrial sector.



-7-
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
21.       Agriculture plays a fundamental role in Uruguay.  Although this
sector accounts for only about 15% of GDP, agricultural products in various
stages of processing represent nearly 90% of total merchandise exports. The
importance of agriculture in Uruguay's external trade reflects basic under-
lying characteristics of the country such as relative abundance of land
suitable for agriculture and grazing, a small population, and a lack of
known mineral resources.
Sector Composition and Production Trends
22.       The agricultural sector of Uruguay consists of two well-defined
and geographically separate subsectors: Livestock and crops. Livestock
accounts for 60% to 70% of agricultural output and consists primarily of
extensive cattle and sheep raising; dairy, swine and poultry farming are
still relatively minor enterprises. The crop subsector is dominated by
cereals, mainly wheat; in recent years, however, the dynamism of the
subsector has been provided by two new types of activities: rice growing
in the central-eastern part of the country, and fruit, mainly citrus and
grapes, in the central-western area.
23.       Physical, climatic, economic and social factors have combined
to give Uruguay a comparative advantage in livestock production, which has
historically dominated, and is expected to continue to dominate, agricultural
activity. Extensive areas of shallow or very shallow soils best suited for
pasture; a predominant prairie-type vegetation; and a relatively homogenous
temperate climate which facilitates improved pasture, grass and legume
development and adaptation of most of the recognized livestock breeds for
production of beef, milk, and wool have resulted in the predominance of
the livestock subsector over crops. Some 90% of the country's area is well
suited to native or improved pasture production, while only a much smaller
proportion of the soil is suitable for cropping. The comparative advantage
of livestock over farming is accentuated by the high irregularity of precipita-
tion, with wide variations around the yearly average of 1,000 mm, which poses
a more serious risk to agricultural crop development than to livestock. This
risk, however, can be lessened by a livestock-crops rotation as recommended in
the technological package of the proposed project. This rotation incorporates
the use of a minimum cost fertilization package, basically phosphorous,
which stimulates plant growth. This mineral is particularly important to
allow for legume production, which, in turn, increases the nitrogen reserves
of the soil. The nitrogen build-up after a four to five-year period in
legume-grass pastures provides the basis for crop production with minimum
levels of nitrogen fertilization.
24.       Livestock production in Uruguay has fluctuated considerably during
the past 15 years. Thus, the late sixties saw a significant growth (an
annual rate of about 6.3%) but some of this ground was lost in subsequent
years, primarily as a result of cyclical changes in international prices
and in part, because of an unfavorable price cost relationship resulting



- 8 -
from inappropriate economic policies (paras. 36-39). For the period as a whole,
livestock production has remained practically unchanged.
25.       Beef is the principal livestock sector product.  Annual production
is about 350.000 to 400,000 tons, of which 50% to 60% is consumed domestically
and the rest is exported. Wool production is about 60,000 tons per year, and
90% is exported. About 100,000 tons of mutton are produced annually and
the bulk is consumed locally. Milk production stands at about 700,000 tons;
exports of dairy products such as cheese and powdered milk have been increasing
recently and represent about 4% of total milk production.
26.       During the past 15 years there has been an increase in crop produc-
tion of about 1.5% per year, mainly as a result of increases in fruit and
sugar-bearing crops (cane and beets). There has been little change in the
aggregate production of grains, by far the largest component of traditional
crop production. A significant change has occurred, however, in the compo-
sition of grain production, with a decrease in wheat production at a rate of
about 2% per year, and an annual 8% increase in rice. While in the past,
Uruguay was an important wheat exporter, wheat production currently hovers
around the self-sufficiency level of about 400,000 tons per year; during the
past three years, however, annual imports of 110,000 tons to 220,000 tons have
been necessary to make up for production shortfalls resulting from adverse
weather. Rice, on the other hand, has expanded rapidly in the center-east of
the country, outside the traditional cropping areas; rice exports have more
than doubled in the past six years to about 130,000 tons. Rice has become the
third largest export commodity after beef and wool.
Productivity
27.       Uruguayan agriculture is predominantly extensive, with yields
that are substantially below those obtained in countries with a similar
natural resource endowment. The adoption of relatively intensive production
techniques based on pasture improve ent has been limited by the unfavorable
economic position of the sector. Improved pastures, introduced in the early
1960s, reached a peak level of 12% of total grazing land in 1973, but the
low price of cattle in subsequent years resulted in a reduction of this
proportion to 8.5% in 1977, as previously improved pastures were overgrazed
in an attempt by producers to wait out the low prices, and little refertiliza-
tion was practiced because of poor benefit/cost relationships. The resulting
limited carrying capacity of unimproved land in the livestock sector (less
than one animal unit per ha), is reflected in low production of beef per
hectare at 45 kg/ha which is only 56% of the level reached in Argentina and
32% of that reached in New Zealand. A similar situation is found in the wool
subsector. The cattle slaughter/stock ratio provides further evidence of the
low productivity of beef production in Uruguay. During the period 1971-76,
this indicator averaged 16% in Uruguay compared to 33% in New Zealand.
28.       Low yields are also a common feature of the crop subsector.  On the
average, yields in Uruguay for such traditional crops as wheat and sunflower
are about one-half of those obtained in comparable countries. Wheat, the



- 9 -
country's main crop, has experienced a noticeable stagnation in yields
depite the well-known tec'nological improvements in production available
since the early 1960s. The same is true of other crops with the exception
of rice and sorghum, both relatively new crops in the country. The poor
yields are largely explained by the low levels of technology employed and
the effect of erosion on soil quality; erosion, in turn, is the result of
inadequate soil management practices given the thin topsoil conditions.
All of the above suggests that ample room exists for increasing crop yields.
Resource Endowment and Farm Size
29.       Uruguay's ample endowment of land resources and limited rural
population makes inevitable the predominance of large farms (by international
standards), albeit with low average incomes per hectare. Furthermore, land
distribution and agricultural production closely follow the soil conditions
which have widely varying suitability for agriculture and productivity levels.
(For this reason, the actual farm size is usually adjusted by an official
productivity index for purposes of taxation and administration of credit
programs). Agricultural crops are concentrated largely on the deep productive
soils of the Western Littoral (along the Uruguay River) and, rice and other
irrigated crops, in the Northeast (see Map IBRD 14493). As a consequence of
suitable soil conditions and the market opportunities provided by Montevideo
(about 65% of the population), truck crop and dairy activities are concentrated
near the capital. Beef and sheep are raised in the remaining parts of the
couintry on medium- or large-sized farms (500 ha or above) where unsuitable
physiographic conditions for most agricultural crops prevail although, in some
areas, deeper and more productive soils allow cultivation of grains or other
annual crops. Thus, a farm of 500 ha in Uruguay represents a reasonable
average between the deep productive soils of the Western Littoral and the
shaLlow, pasture-adapted conditions of other regions; this is also the average
of the size of various types of farms (livestock, mixed l;vestock/crops and
mixed dairy/crops).
30.       While within each type of farming, income is roughly proportional
to size, overall agricultural income is far more evenly distributed than
land, because of different types of farming e.g. livestock vs. the more
intensive dairying. The number of farms below 500 ha -- which has come to
be adopted in Uruguay as the rough dividing line between the smaller farms
and the others -- is about 88% of the total number of farms in the country,
covering about 28% of the total agricultural area--mostly around Montevideo
and in the Littoral areas. This proportion, however, is somewhat exaggerated
since it includes a number of small holdings which have either mixed rural/
urban characteristics or are being used as part- or full-time homes by
people emplo--ed in towns.
Institutional Framework
31.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Fishing (MAP) is responsible for
supervision and review of supporting services for the sector and, as a part
of the country's economic team, for formulation of agricultural policy. MAP
provides limited extension services for agriculture but a reorganization of
the agency is being considered that would systematize and increase the scope
of these services. At present the bulk of agr;cultural technical assistance
is provided by the Agricultural Plan (PLAN), an autonomous agency under the



- 10 -
supervision of MAP which has been the executing agency for previous Bank-
financed livestock projects. The National Colonization Institute (INC),
a separate autonomous institution linked to the Executive through MAP, is
responsible for agricutural settlement and provides limited technical
assistance to its settlers. Other sources of technical support for farmers
include the Regional Centers for Agricultural Experiments (CRLA) and the
Commission for Ovine Improvement (CMO) sponsored by the Uruguayan Wool
Secretariat to provide sheep ranchers with technical assistance and extension.
32.       Agricultural education at the university level is provided by the
national Faculty of Agronomy in close coordination with MAP's system of
six agricultural research centers organized around the Agricultural Research
Center (CIAAB), better known as "La Estanzuela." Two additional groups,
MAP's Directorate for Agricultural Economics Research (DIEA) and the
National Commission for Land Agroeconomic Studies (CONEAT) produce and publish
information on agroeconomic data, land tenure and management and other
geo-agronomic aspects to be used in the improvement of agricultural policies.
33.       Institutional agricultural production credit is provided almost
exclusively by the Banco de la Republica Oriental del Uruguay (BROU), a
multipurpose state-owned Bank. Except for loans made under the Bank-financed
PLAN program for livestock development BROU's lending until now has been
all short-term, with a ceiling for the credit amount for each crop and higher
proportion of total production cost for small and medium farmers following
the policy of assisting smaller producers. Interest rates have been generally
below the high inflation rates that have prevailed in Uruguay over the past
ten years.
Taxation
34.       One important factor in Uruguayan agriculture is the direct tax
on agricultural incomes (IMPROME) established in 1968 which is based on the
average gross potential yield of each farm. IMPROME accounted for 40% of
all agricultural taxes and 31% of all taxes on incomes and profits in
1977. Tax reform legislation is currently under consideration that would
substitute net income for gross income as the tax base of IMPROME and would
consolidate into a single tax a variety of other levies that account for
about 20% of agricultural tax collections. The reform does not seek to
increase the burden on agriculture, but rather to simplify the present
system and make it more equitable.
Marketing and Prices
35.       Marketing of crops in Uruguay is handled by the private sector
without Government interference and no major problems are evident. In the
livestock sector, however, the Government regulated the meat-packing industry
and directly operated five state-owned meat-packing plants that supplied
most of the domestic market until August 1978 when these interventions
were abrogated. Currently the meat-packing plants are being sold to private
entrepreneurs. Prices of agricultural products and inputs were subject to



- 11 -
numerous direct and indirect controls, the net effect of which was a massive
transfer of resources from agriculture to the rest of the economy and which
largely explain the the above-mentioned past stagnation of the sector. Crop
and meat prices were decontrolled in August 1978 but a protective duty of
30% on crops is currently in effect. The only price that continues to be
established by the Government is that of high grade fluid milk; this price is
revised quarterly to allow for changes in the cost of inputs. There has been
a significant shift in the destination of Uruguayan exports since the mid-1970s
with Latin American Free Trade Association (LAFTA) countries emerging as major
markets for meat, rice and the newly developing exports of dairy products.
Exports to the US and the Middle East have also increased considerably and the
market outlook for traditional as well as non-traditional exports is favorable.
lb          Economic Policies
36.       Until recently, economic policy in Uruguay focused primarily on
import substituting industrialization. Many of the policies that were
instituted and pursued over the years with some modifcations from time to
time acted to depress agriculture by transferring resources from rural to
urban activities. Thus, policies such as: (a) price controls on agricul-
tural products; (b) export taxes on traditional commodities such as beef
and wool; (c) high tariff duties on industrial imports, including agricultural
machinery; (d) an overvalued exchange rate; and (e) subsidies to inefficient
state enterprises through direct government control of industry such as
meat packing, reduced the profitability of agriculture and fostered an
inefficient system of land use.
37.       The Government began to acknowledge the country's dependence on
agricultural growth in the mid-1970s. Finally, in August 1978 a set of policy
measures was announced that reflected the high priority accorded to the
development of the agricultural sector, particularly the livestock subsector
where the country's greatest comparative advantages lies. The measures
included: (a) elimination of fixed livestock and crop prices; (b) elimination
of export duties and geographical barriers for beef and wool marketing; (c)
establishment of a uniform import duty of 30% for crops; (d) removal of import
restrictions on agricultural machinery (including tractors), establishment of
a maximum 10% tariff on assembled tractors and farm machinery and elimination
of tariffs on all other agricultural inputs; (e) sale of state-owned meat
plants to the private sector; and (f) modification of the tax on the average
potential yield of farms from a gross to a net income basis. Except for the
sale of meat plants, which is in process, and the tax reform, which is before
the Council of State, all these measures have been implemented.
38.       The adoption of these market oriented policies for agricultural
production coincided with a general upward swing in world prices particu-
larly for beef. In the span of one year, beef prices tripled in Uruguay.
Producers responded by greatly increasing their plantings of feed crops
and their investments in improved pastures. Fertilizer use in 1979 was
proceeding at a rate 200% above the average in the previous three years.



- 12 -
39.       Production in 1979 will not show gains comparable to input use.
This is to be expected, however, given the normal retention of animals
during the rising price phase of the cattle cycle and the likely substitu-
tion of feed crop for food crop plantings during the past year. In addition,
the first six months of 1979 were exceptionally dry. In the medium-term,
however, adherence to the market-oriented policies in the context of generally
favorable world prices should bring about a recovery and substantial growth
of the agricultural sector of Uruguay.
Bank Assistance to the Agricultural Sector
40.       The proposed project would be the sixth Bank operation primarily
for livestock development in Uruguay, bringing the total assistance for this
purpose to approximately US$113 million since 1959 when the first loan for
US$7 million was made. By and large, the execution of projects has been
satisfactory. The latest operation, the Fifth Livestock Project (Loan 1166-UR)
for US$17.0 million was originally designed to finance part of Uruguay's
livestock development program in 1976 and 1977. However, largely because
the project coincided with the trough of the international beef price cycle,
disbursements of the loan were delayed by about two years.  However, the
policy changes made in August 1978 and increased world beef prices had a
favorable effect on investment demand and disbursements increased during 1979,
so that only US$1.5 million remained undisbursed on January 11, 1980.
41.       The Bank's assistance for livestock development in Uruguay was
associated with the improvement of over 1.2 million ha of pasture land.
Available local statistics indicate that participating ranchers have increased
weaning rates by 7%, reduced the age of first calving by nearly a year,
lowered the age of marketable steers by at least six months, and raised
extraction rates by 3%. Bank assistance also helped to strengthen PLAN, which
successfully channeled US$152 million equivalent (US$69 million from the Bank
and US$83 million from domestic resources) into credits to livestock producers.
42.       OED has reported on the third and fourth livestock projects. 1/
These reports concluded that the Bank provided Uruguay with a considerable
amount of macro-economic analysis, most of it good, but OED noted in its
first report that the re ationship between external market fluctuations,
the domestic cattle cycle, exchange rate fluctuations, and domestic infla-
tion deserved more attention, including the development of improved poli-
cies. The reports further suggested that the diffusion of improved pastures
appeared to be reaching a plateau under the price, technological, and manage-
ment conditions prevailing through 1977, although they recognized that further
improved pasture diffusion would be possible if sectoral conditions changed.
Finally, the OED reports pointed out that indexing arrangements under the
earlier projects had been imperfect and had eroded over time. As mentioned
in paragraph 54, the shortcomings with respect to indexing would be elimi-
nated under the present project.
1/   Report No. 1321, dated October 20, 1976 (SecM76-708), covering loans dis-
bursed from 1970-74 and report No. 2572 of June 29, 1979, covering the
Second Stage of the Fourth Livestock Project, disbursed in 1973-77
(SecM 79-51).



- 13 -
43.       Following the period referred to in the first OED report, condi-
tions for a productive dialogue between the Bank and the Government have
become more favorable. Accordingly, a good deal of pertinent economic work
has been produced over the last four-five years, both by the Bank and the
Uruguayans. Most of it has centered on the broad policy and sectoral reforms
needed to liberalize the economy. This was responsive to the critique in the
OED report. The policy measures that were adopted are described in paragraph
37 and were in line with the Bank's recommendations. These new policies also
helped establish the necessary climate for increased investment in improved
pastures.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.       A report entitled Staff Appraisal Report:  Uruguay - Agricultural
Development Project (No. 2779b-UR) dated March 27, 1980 is being distributed
separately. A Loan and Project Summary is placed at the front of this
report. A supplementary Project Data Sheet is appended as Annex III. The
project was identified in August 1978, subsequently prepared by the Office of
Agricultural Planning of MAP and appraised by a Bank mission that visited
Uruguay in June-July 1979, followed by a post-appraisal mission in September
1979. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. from March 3 to March 7,1980.
The Uruguayan delegation was led by Ing. Juan Carlos Cassou, Minister of
Agriculture and Fisheries.
Project Objectives and Description
45.       The project aims at helping the Government to consolidate and expand
countrywide the transfer of technologies developed through the experience
of earlier programs of livestock research and development and to emphasize
the improvement of agricultural crops in the traditional agricultural areas
where low fertility and soil erosion constitute limiting production factors.
The project would assist in increasing productivity of beef cattle and sheep
ranchers already under production, developing crops in areas to which they are
ecologically suited, increasing milk production to make use of favorable
export markets for dairy products and increasing the income of smaller farmers
by reorienting their production patterns to control erosion and improve soil
fertility. More specifically, the proposed loan seeks to extend financial
support, key infrastructure, technical assistance and back-up services to
farmers through the provision of the following investments.
46.       On-farm Development.  Three-year on-farm development plans for
small, medium, and large cattle/sheep ranches, crop livestock and dairy farms
and for mixed INC dairy/crop farms would be financed under the proposed
project (about 1,900 beef/sheep ranches; 600 crop/livestock farms; 300 dairy
farms; and 220 mixed dairy/crops INC farms). Pasture improvement would be
the major investment item for beef/sheep ranchers with smaller investments
in fencing, water points, stock-handling facilities, machinery and equipment.
Fertilizer for crop production and pasture improvement would be the major



- 14 -
investment in mixed crop/livestock farms with additional investments in
machinery, equipment and livestock management infrastructure. Major invest-
ments in dairy farms and INC settlements would be for milk handling equip-
ment (milking machines, milk sheds, cooling tanks and such), fencing and
watering facilities. In the INC farms, additional investments would be
for dairy stock and crop production.
47.       Technical Services and Training.  Technical services provided by
PLAN and INC would be supported under the project. Training would be
provided both locally and abroad for PLAN and INC technicians, particularly
to new (replacement) PLAN technical staff and to INC technicians assigned
to work with the selected settlements. Other costs associated with
technical services would include replacement of vehicles, machinery, office
equipment, materials for demonstration work and technical assistance, and
88 man-months of consultants to strengthen both the PLAN and INC programs.
The training component for both institutions would total 148 man-months
of fellowships. Provision is also made in the project for any surveys or
studies which may be needed in connection with the preparation of the small
farmers component of a future agricultural project for possible Bank financing.
48.       Feeder Roads.  About 60 km of farm-to-market roads (35 km in the
Quebracho and 25 km in the Salto areas) would be built under the project to
serve INC project colonies. These roads would permit efficient collection
and transport of milk from project farms to local processing plants and
would be built by agreement with the corresponding municipalities, which would
execute the work on force account.
Implementation and Management
49.       PLAN, an autonomous agency under MAP which has managed the earlier
Bank-assisted livestock credit projects, would have overall responsibility
for project implementation. BROU, a state-owned bank, would be responsible
for the provision of credit to farmers to carry out investment plans designed
or approved by PLAN and INC technicians. INC, which would be involved for
the first time in a Bank-financed project, would establish a Project
Implementation Unit as a condition of disbursement of the INC component of
the loan (Schedule 1, paragraph 4(b) of the draft Loan Agreement). This
Unit would be under a Project Coordinator with qualifications and experience
acceptable to PLAN and the Bank (Section 3.04(b)(ii) of the draft Loan Agreement)
and would work with supervision and guidance from the Technical Directorate
of PLAN. In addition, INC would establish within its Special Projects
Department, a minimal monitoring unit based on the norms designed by PLAN.
These arrangements provide a considerable element of institution building
in respect to INC. Under the proposed project, producers with more than
1,000 ha would have to secure technical assistance from private professionals,
either individually or through groups such as CREA. PLAN would also be
responsible for prequalification of consultants and for approval and super-
vision of investment plans prepared by them.



- 15 -
Project Cost and Financing
50.       Total project cost, including price contingencies, is estimated at
US$111.0 million (including taxes and duties amounting to US$3.4 million),
of which US$58.5 million, or 53%, represents foreign exchange costs. Project
costs have been estimated on the basis of January 1979 prices, and a
price contingency amounting to 37% of baseline costs, has been added. Price
contingencies are based on a phasing of investment over a five-year period.
A physical contingency of 15% has been applied to civil works for feeder road
construction. The average cost of consultancy services is estimated at
US$5,000 per man-month. The project's total consultant requirements are esti-
mated at 88 man-months.
51.       The proposed Bank loan of US$24.0 million would finance 41% of the
foreign exchange cost or 22% of the total project cost. Project beneficiaries
would finance US$19.4 million, representing about 18% of the total. US$60.0
million, or 54%, would be financed by BROU and VS$7.6 million, or 6%, by the
central government through PLAN and INC and by municipalities. The foreign
exchange cost of technical services, of US$1.6 million which includes the
acquisition of vehicles and equipment, would be financed by the Bank. The
Government would assume the foreign exchange risk and would on-lend the
proceeds of the on-farm investment component of the loan to BROU through the
FG in the Central Bank; BROUI, in turn, would make subloans to project benefi-
ciaries. Assurances have been obtained that BROU would refrain from offering
to producers lines of credit for purposes covered by the project on terms
more favorable than those agreed under the project.
On-lending Procedures
52.       Credit to sub-borrowers would be channeled through BROU under a
subsidiary loan agreement with the Government as represented by the Central
Bank. The signing of this agreement in a form satisfactory to the Bank would
be a condition of effectiveness of the Bank loan (Section 6.01 of the draft
Loan Agreement). BROU would extend subloans to finance up to 80% of invest-
ments under the traditional project component and up to 87% under the INC
component. Subloans would be made on the basis of farm plans approved by PLAN
and prepared by PLAN or INC technicians or by private consultants previously
authorized by PLAN. The cost of fees for technical assistance to prepare farm
plans for subloan applications and for advisory services during the implemen-
tation of the on-farm investments could be included as an investment item to
be financed up to a maximum of 10% of the amount of the subloan. Evaluation
of the creditworthiness of subloan applicants would be carried out by BROU and
analysis of the investment plans by PLAN. Project subloans would have repayment
terms ranging to a maximum of 10 years, including grace periods of up to five
years. Repayment and grace period terms would be established for each subloan
on the basis of the cash flow projection of the corresponding farm plan.
Loans from the Government to BROU would have the same repayment terms as
provided by BROU to its sub-borrowers.



- 16 -
53.       The Government would on-lend the proceeds of the Bank loan to
BROU in local currency equivalent, assuming the foreign exchange risk.
However, the principal outstanding on Government loans to BROU and on
the subloans made by BROU to project sub-borrowers would be adjusted in
accordance with variations in one of three indexes of producer prices
that would be calculated and published monthly by the Directorate of
Agricultural Economics Studies (DIEA) of the MAP and the Directorate
General of Statistics and Censuses of the Planning Ministry.
54.       Indexing practice under previous Bank-financed projects experi-
enced three major shortcomings that detracted from effective repayment correc-
tion. They were (a) stipulation that the applicable index would be the
lower of a meat/wool index or the consumer price index; (b) addition rather
than compounding of successive adjustment factors; and (c) a six-month
lag between the dates of calculation and of application of the adjust-
ment. These shortcomings would be eliminated under the proposed project.
55.       Adjustment of principal under the proposed project would be
based exclusively on indexes of producer prices. Given the objective of
production diversification the varying patterns of short-term price movement
among livestock, crops, and dairy products, and the extreme awareness and
sensitivity of producers to these differences and their impact on the cash
flow of their enterprises, three indexes would be employed, incorporating
weights for these products, derived from the corresponding farm models (meat/
wool, crops/meat, and milk/meat). The index to be applied to any subloan
would be determined by the technician from PLAN in accordance with the output
mix reflected in the sub-borrowers' farm plan. Furthermore, successive
adjustments would be compounded, and the lag between calculation and applica-
tion would be reduced to two months. The technical and operational aspects of
the proposed indexing have been discussed and agreed upon by officials of all
agencies involved in project design and implementation. The principles and
procedures of the proposed indexing have been detailed in a circular issued
by BROU on December 27, 1979 which is satisfactory to the Bank. Assurances
have been obtained that the principles and procedures would be maintained in
the future, unless amended in agreement with the Bank (Section 5.01(e) of
the draft Loan Agreement).
56.       The sources of investment funds would be as follows:
%         Traditional Credit Component         INC
Producers                  20                        13
BROU                       60                        60
Bank (onlent by
Government)          20                       27
Total                100                      100



- 17 -
The maximum loan to any participating farmer would be US$150,000 (at 1979
prices). The Government, making use of reimbursements from Bank loan proceeds,
would on-lend to BROU 25% of the value of BROU project subloans to traditional
farmers and 31% of subloans to project INC farmers. Annual rates of interest
charged by BROU to sub-borrowers on the adjusted principal would be 51 for
farmers with 500 ha or more, and 3% for those with less. The BROU would receive
a margin of two percentage points on Governmenit loans. This interest rate
structure has been selected to encourage investment in farming, benefitting
smaller producers and to maintain the financial soundness of the institution.
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
57.       Under the project, international competitive bidding following
Bank Guidelines for Procurement, would be required in the procurement of
vehicles, machinery and equipment directly imported by PLAN and/or INC,
amounting to about US$800,000 whenever the size of individual contracts exceed
US$100,000. Both PLAN and INC would be encouraged to group such items into
large contracts, either individually by each agency or jointly, whenever
possible. Contracts of less than US$100,000 would be awarded in accordance
with the borrower's internal procurement procedures, which include local
competitive bidding, acceptable to the Bank. The investment items such
as fertilizer, seeds, machinery and equipment to be procured by approximately
3,000 project sub-borrowers throughout Uruguay over a three year commitment,
five-year investment period are varied and not suitable for bulk procurement
through international competitive bidding. These goods, and services such as
technical assistance together amounting to about US$73.7 million, required
under the sub-borrowers' investment programs would therefore be obtained
through local, well-established competitive commercial channels. Civil works
for the market road construction amounting to about US$600,000 could be done
on force account by the municipalities.
58.       The Bank would disburse over a period of five years:  (a) 25% of
the total amounts previously disbursed by BROU for subloans to project
beneficiaries of the traditional component, amounting to US$16.8 million;
(b) 31% of the total amounts previously disbursed by BROU for subloans
to project beneficiaries of the INC component, amounting to US$2.8 million;
(c) 100% of total expenditures for technical advisory services, training and
studies, amounting to US$1.1 million; (d) 100% of the foreign exchange ex-
penditures for vehicles and equipment under the technical service component,
amounting to US$0.8 million; and (e) 60% of total expenditures for market
road construction, amounting to US$0.5 million. A sum of US$2 million would
remain unallocated.
59.       The Bank would reimburse for the project subloans made by BROU
to project beneficiaries against a certificate of expenditure, the documenta-
tion for which would not be submitted for review, but would be retained by
the BROU for inspection during the course of Bank supervision missions.
Certification by the Central Bank would be required. All other disbursements
would be made against normal documentation. As in recent projects, the Bank,
in converting local currency to foreign currencies, would use the exchange
rate prevailing at the mid-point of the month in which subloans were made



- 18 -
and not the exchange rate on the day the Bank disbursement is actually made.
This disbursement procedure would enable the Bank to achieve its objective of
contributing its full share under the high inflation in Uruguay and the
Government's policy of frequent mini-devaluations.
Monitoring and Evaluation
60.       PLAN Farm/Ranch Development.  Project monitoring for the farm/ranch
development component would be carried out by PLAN's existing monitoring unit,
the Economics and Registration Office of the Agricultural Plan (SERPA). The
unit would prepare annual monitoring reports for the component and make them
available to the Government, to the PLAN Honorary Commission, and to the Bank.
61.       Rehabilitation of INC Colonies.  Monitoring facilities for the
project component do not exist at INC at present. However, a minimal
monitoring unit based on the norms designed by PLAN would be established
within the special projects department (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan
Agreement). This unit could later be expanded in the event of a follow-up
project to cover additional settlements under the rehabilitation program. As
in the case of PLAN, reports would be prepared and made available to Government,
to the INC Board, and to the Bank.
Benefits and Justification
62.       The project's economic rate of return is estimated at 26%.  The
economic rate of return on individual project components is estimated as
follows: livestock development, 22%; mixed farm development, 37%; dairy
development, 26%; and INC settlement development, 24%. The sensitivity
analysis indicates that the project would still have an economic rate of
return of 11% even if one of the following three situations occurred:
(a) price or productivity decreased by 26%; (b) investment cost increased
by 101%; and (c) operating cost increased by 52%.
63.       The project would support the liberalization policies adopted
by the Government in August 1978. These policies, complemented by an appro-
priate technical assistance and credit program, as envisaged in the proposed
project, promise to lead to an unprecedented development of the livestock
industry, accompanied by progress in dairying and crops. The principal
orientation of the proposed project is towards increasing production from
the depressed levels of the last several years. Expected increases in
production are 14% for beef, 12% for milk and 44% for oilseed crops, for a
total annual value of about US$57 million at 1978 prices at full development.
The project would also help the agricultural sector continue as the main
source of foreign exchange earnings and increase the comparative advantage
that Uruguay enjoys through the use of modern technology. The value of
incremental exports at full development is estimated at about US$42 million
(1978 prices), of which beef would account for 58%, dairy products for 21%,
wool for 13%, and mutton for 8%. There would also be considerable foreign
exchange savings due to the increased production of edible oil crops, mainly
soybeans and sunflower. The proposed project, as designed, represents in fact
the country's entire agricultural lending program and would imply a significant
increase in investment in the countryside as compared with the historical
record, and would meet the expected demand for credit among different producers
in the coming three years.



- 19 -
64.       Considering the progress already made by Uruguay in the areas of
welfare and income distribution, support of small farmers would not be the
central objective of the proposed project. There would be, however, a
number of features aiming at this. The principal one is the project's INC
component, which aims at providing technical and credit assistance to a
group of farmers with incomes of about 40% of the national average. Unlike
the traditional component, the number of beneficiaries and volume of credit
in the INC component are firm estimates based on existing farmers and
condition in the two selected INC settlements. The project would provide
the required institutional support to reach these farmers adequately and
to enable them to use effectively 10% of the total volume of credit.
65.       The farm models used in the traditional component of the project
correspond to enterprises that generate net incomes approximately equal to
the national average of about US$8,000 per family. These models may therefore
be considered the boundaries between smaller and medium-sized farmers. On
the basis of the experience in previous projects, it can be expected that
about 70% of project participants would be smaller farmers, i.e., with farm
enterprise size or incomes below those shown in the models, and about 30%
would be medium and larger farmers. Trial models indicate that smaller
farmers and larger enterprises should obtain roughly comparable rates of
return. As in previous projects, smaller farmers would be expected to receive
about 40% of the volume of credit. Since an additional 10% would go to INC
settlers, smaller farmers would benefit from about half of the total volume of
credit provided under the project. Furthermore, the farms below 500 ha will
benefit from a lower real rate of interest (3%) than the larger farmers who
will pay 5%. Also, the larger farmers will have to contract directly and
defray the full cost of technical assistance, whereas, the smaller farmers
will not be charged.
66.       Uruguay has a fairly advanced agricultural taxing system, which
is based on presumptive yields of farms, irrespective of whether the potential
productivity levels are actually realized (IMPROME, para 34). The produc-
tion levels are estimated on the basis of actual average yields obtained
for each kind of soil, thereby implicitly assuming average technology. The
tax thus constitutes a fiscal instrument aimed at achieving at least average
productivity. The calculation of average potential yields could in time
reflect superior technological levels, since the tax base is revised every
five years based on field surveys. While no immediate increase in tax revenues
from IMPROME collections would be expected, there would be significant increases
in central and local government collections from existing sales and other
indirect taxes. Incremental tax collections during the 5-year investment period
would be about US$3.4 million and they would stabilize at about US$1.8 million
per year at full development.
Project Risks and Environmental Impact
67.       The project faces no unusual risks.  There is, however, a considerable
element of uncertainty concerning producer demand for project investment loans.
There is, first, the extent to which world market prices for project output
and input follow the course forecast. In addition, success of the project may
well be determined by the Government's adherence to the market oriented policies
adopted in August 1978. In this respect it is to be noted that the Government



- 20 -
has maintained these policies without change. In view of the importance
of the matter, assurances have been obtained that the Government would
maintain the August 1978 package of decrees and other measures and exchange
views with the Bank on any modification in the reforms mentioned (Section 4.05
of the draft Loan Agreement).
68.       The environmental impact of the proposed project would vary within
the different agro-ecological areas, but it would, in general, have a positive
influence on the restoration and conservation of Uruguay's land resources.
Emphasis on improved pasture establishment and conservation of areas of
shallow soils of basalt and crystalline rock origin represent a rational
use of these agriculturally limited lands, while increased introduction of
legumes would considerably improve the generally low nitrogen content of the
soils. The recommended crop-pasture rotations and the presence of livestock
on the land during the major portion of the rotation would result in raising
and/or maintaining fertility levels in most areas. In the case of the Quebracho
INC settlements, where the predominantly deep sandy soils have been seriously
depleted by continuous cropping and are subject to intensive erosion processes,
the impact of the project would be expected to restore and maintain levels of
productivity which these areas have lost.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Uruguay and the Bank
and the recommendations of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
IV (iii) of the Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
70.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Special conditions of loan effectiveness would be the signing of a
subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Bank between CB and BROU trans-
ferring the proceeds of the Bank loan. The establishment of a Project Imple-
mentation Unit within INC and the appointment of a Project Coordinator would
be conditions of disbursement against the INC component.
71.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 27, 1980



- 21 -
ATTACHMENT I
TABLE 3A
URUGUAY - SOCTAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
URUGUAY                   REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED A5JRAGES
LAND AREA (TROUSAND SQ. 18.)                                             - KOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL           177.5                                                 SAM        SAME    NEST HIGHER
AGRICULTUTRAL   154.6                               MST RECENT    GEOGRAFPIC   INCOME        INCOME
1960  lb   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b     REGION Ic  GROUP /d   GROUP /I
CNP PER CAPITA (USS)                630.0      870.0   1610.0           1124.4    1942.6      3075.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    825.0      930.0   iOOO.O           943.1    1646.7       2518.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPMLATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)     2.5        2.8       2.9
URBN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 80.1       82.1      83.0            59.3      51.2        72.1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     3.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       4.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACPCD               2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. E2.                      14.0       16.0      16.0            23.5      28.2        33.5
PER SQ. rm. AGRICULTURAL LAND    16.0       17.0      19.0           80.5      100.5        91.3
POPULATtON AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                       28.2        28.7      28.0            40.9      35.4        33.3
15-64 YkS.                       64.4        62.6      63.5           54.4       56.3        57.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                 7.4         8.7       8.5             3.9       5.1         5.7
POPULATION GROWrT RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             1.5        1.1       0.3/f          2.4        1.7         2.1
URBAN                             2.8        1.3       0.4             3.7       3.0
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    22.0       21.0      20.0           32.8       27.5        31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     9.0        9.0       9.0            8.5        9.1         8.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             1.4        1.4       1.4            2.4        1.8         1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)     ..          ..        ..
USERS (PERCZNT OF MAUIED WOMEN)   ..          ..        ..           17.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        96.3       107.0      99.0           99.4      102.0        98.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                 115.0      114.0    116.0           107.0      120.8       112.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)        93.0        96.0      98.1           60.4       80.9        70.3
OF WRICH ANLMAL AND PULSE      60.0       64.0      62.6           28.3       31.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    4.0         3.0       3.0            6.7        5.1         2.5
HEALTH
LI'E EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   68.0       69.3      71.0           63.6       65.6       68.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                           ..          ..      49.0           76.1       45.5        20.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              *-       92.0      98.0           63.4       69.4        73.9
URBAN                              ..      100.0    100.0            79.5       85.1        94.6
RURAL                             ..        59.0      87.0           38.6       43.0        64.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..       82.0      83.0           58.8       70.1
URBAN                              ..       97.0      97.0           77.8       88.3
RIJ2AL                            ..        13.0      17.0           24.5       33.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         1100.0/g    940.0    700.0          1841.9    1343.2        981.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       ..      3560.0       ..           933.7      765.0       397.8
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL 3ED
TOTAL                           180.0      150.0        ..          563.4      197.6       240.6
URBAN                              ..         ..        ..          279.4      260.2
RURAL                             ..          ..       ..          1140.9    1055.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL 3ED         ..          ..        ..           25.7       17.3       19.2
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                            3.8/h        ..      3.6             5.0        *.7
URBAN                             ..          ..       3.6            4.8        4-
RURAL                              ..         ..       4.0            5.3        5.1
AvERAGE MIUNSER OF PERSONS PER DOOM
TOTAL                             1.5/h       ..       2.1             1.3       1.,
URBAN                            1.57(        ..       2.1            1.3        1.2
RURAL                             ..          ..       2.1            1.5        1.2
ACCESS TO :LIC-RIC TY (PERCENT
OF OELL;LINGS)
T07AL                            78.0/h       ..      30.7           54.3       66.0
OR3AN                           88.7h         ..      d9.2           80.1       S5.1
RURAL                            9.07h        ..      27.8           14.2



- 22 -                                             ATTACHMENT I
Pate 2
TABLE 3A
URUMAYr-jOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SUEET
UtJGUAC                    REFERINCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED A0E3ADES
- XOST RECENT ESTjtATET) "1
SAKE        SA&E     NEXT HIGHER
NOST RZENT      GROCGLAPUIC    liCOnE      INCO?NE
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIZT /b         REGION tc   GROUP ld    GROUP /a
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMZNT RATIOS
P7IDARy      TOTAL                111.0        106.0      95.0            107.3      101.7        107.6
MALE                 111.0       108.0      95.0            109.1       110.0
FDALZ               111.0        103.0      94.0            107.4       92.8
SECONDAtY:  TOTAL                  37.0        57.0       62.0            40.5        51.2         39.7
MALE                  35.0        51.0      57.0             40.4        56.4
FUIALE               38.0         63.0      67.0.            39.0       43.7
VOCATIONAL  MOL. (ZtS     SECOImBRI)  23.0        21.0      19.0             18.5       18.3
PiLl-TSAClIM  LA4I0
PIDhY                              31.0        29.0       23.0            37.1        27.1
SZCONDA                            13.0           ..        ..            17.9        25.3
ADULT LISZACT RAT  (P2ICNT)           ..         91.0      94.0            77.4        86.1
CONSUKPTION
PASSENGEi CUS PER THOUSAND
P0PULATIO11                        39.0        45.0       5S.0            29.1        53.4        68.1
RDlIO RECEIVS PR THOUSAND
POPULATION  -85.0                             346.0      490.0           172.1      U25.9        210.3
TV RECEIVERS Pn TIUOUSAND
POPUlATIONI                         9.0        52.0      115.0            67.9       102.6       117.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GeNERAL
ITEREST) CIRCULATION PZU
THOUSAND POPULATION                    ..        140.0        ..             76.1       78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATIDIDANCE PU  CAPSTA  9.0            ..        ..             4.2         3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOAL. LAOR FORME (TTMBSANDS)       1000.0/b    1020.0    1200.0
PFUALE (PERCENT)                   24.6        27.5       28.5            21.5        24.5        27.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              20.6        15.2       12.0            30.2        28.9        23.8
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 29.5        31.2       32.0            23.8        30.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                40.1        38.6       38.5             30.9       33.8        40.1
MALE                                 60.6         56.4.     55.5            47.3        51.3        55.7
FEXALE                               19.7         21.1      21.8             13.3       16.3        24.7
ECONXIlC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0          1.0       0.9              1.5        1.3          1.0
INCOME DISTRIBECION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
RIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HaSEOLDS       ..           ..        .23 .7
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         51.3/1    47.0             58.7        57.6.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         4.0/1      5.5             2.9         1.4
LoWEST 40 PERCENT OP bOUSEHOLDS      ..        13.3ti       ..             9.9        11.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UR3AN                                ..           ..        ..           265 .6
RURAL                                ..           ..     288.0           185.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY tNCOME
LEVEL 4US9 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     425.0           396.3       550.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     425.0           308.1       403.4
iSTDIATED POPULATlON BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..            35.2
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..            46.6
So4c available
Not applicable.
NOTES
la    'he adjusted group averages for each 'n4catnr are population-eighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the mosc populated country in ocah group.  Coverage of councries among the
Indicators depends an availability of data and Is not uniform.
!b   IJuless otherwise noted. data for 1960 refer to any year bortw,en 1959 and 1961; for 1970, betwetn 1969
.nd 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, oerween 1974 and 1977.
L: latin Americs i Caribbean;  !d  Upper Middle income ($1136-2560 per capita, 1976);  Is High Income
(over 52500 per capita, 19767T  /f  Due to emigration, population growth rate Is  iue-r than rate of
nacural increase; /I 1962; /lh 1963; /i 1967.
Most Recent Esc; ot atP per rapita is for 1978.
August, 1979



- 23 -                                                                      ATTACHMIENT I
wumrin  Cy SMI&  ZWICAO                                                                        ('eg  5
11741 he data are dPres free source. geerelY Judged the meot ucthoritatiee end reliable, It shOUld ales be stets that they NW not be ioteroa-
IhLungrf. beceone of the lash of atedardso01d defaittous0  ad CMosspe teed br different countries is collectiag the data. The data are  costhelene,
useful to describe orders of mgitudo, intoats trads, med characterizet sertais eajor differeenec hetecee coutries.
The  oted averee fr sah inicatr arc popAlatiosoveighted. geseo toi vasea, sacludieg the ectres ntl.. of the idicator end the meet popelat.d
ocuoWlWiiUiii7hii o lek o  daa, goupaveroge  of all iedicators for Capitol Owrlus Oil Reporters end of indicator. of tAcoes to Water end Zocrsta
Nepoal,tunng,lacs Mtriutio ed Pvery fr ohersoateygaoe ae mpcltin-ceighted geontric seeo without  zouluetO  of the extroes vlues end
the sct ppulaad cuntr.  84c  thecove~e -  joutrior    S   te inicatrs dsads avaealabil.L9  of data ad Is sot unirform   cautio  oust is earcisod
indicator at a ttae mesas the countoy sod renfaoresceed-Valu   coups.d                                                           t:miuu.   .
LASARI  (thouesand sq.ke.)                                                                  cc.t    craIiosltercentofL ouairo) - tota   ubsn. sodaZal-
urTotal suLrface, Area ocaqprietog lend are.aend isleod esters.Doeofppl   ta,ore,ndua)eevdbecradipcls
&MFtturai._-Dtt roecst estivate of egricultural area, urnd tesorarily                    percesteg.s of their respective poLpalatione. Wroret  disposal My i-elde
or perfanestlun for oroPe, pasturee, wert end hitches g-dard     or to                  the colietios ad dieposal, With or citusout treateect, of htoa  e-reto
lIe  allo.                                                                              and vate..wter by caterb-ho se  ratoe. or the one of pit  rivtss end n.ailer
2LP  M  CAPITA  - GNP   r   &pit. utlest.. at c~~erratisetallatiicee.
SE   a   A Atl9) -aP'prcpt  etae ccoro    htpic,                                 Popclation  por FbYl44   - Popflatios divided by outer of practioing phyeiciane
iIiStIdI7ies coevrels method as World Dash Atlas (197648S baste);                         jiiifid U1m a mdlcal echool at  niversity level.
16,17,ed 1978 data.                                                              PoA o   e  fri     oa   - Poisiatios divided by outer of practicing  ml.r
CUtoT CjSIrf IE PS CPITA- ttalcontaptto   f ninroal  sero            ed reals graduat* e ure, Practical ouse,ed neI.aleet ouceo
(coa  endligote,  etroeum,tat- al gee nd.pt br-, cnrcolee  endrget               Peoltie         Socita  fld-total.C urhen  end ral-iPoylatIn (total, urban,
ih.lealecrciy        ki ilogrn't of coal eqoivlent per capit.; 1960,                      edraldivied by thi   epctv                 7ue  ofceia   eeaalbei
1970, md i976 dt..                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~public end private gencral end epocialiced hoctpital end rehabilitation orator..
1970, end i976 data.                                                So~~~~~~~~~Hspitals ore cetablishmeots p-eranetly staf fed by at leaset one phyciciA.A  
POPULiATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                            Establishseoatc providing principally o-todial care ar  noct I.oluded. Rural
Total Poolatioc, MIEd-Yea  (iellione) - Ac of July 1; 1960, 1970, end                     hospital.,Ihowever, ioldid   health sod sedic.al ceetore noct permaostlV staffed
1977 data.                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~by aPhycic ien (but by a medical ascietant, cuer  cdeife, etc.) Whioh offer
Urbe  Popuaio(eoa   fttl  -ttco   ue   ottlpopulatios;                                     in-petisot aucomdation end provide a liSted  range of mediCaLI facilitie..
differeo  doiotie  ofuban ara            y affeot copeprability of data               AdiooVtrSQ telSo  - Total outer of ade,i.ei.. to or discharge. froc
emong oufitrios: 1960, 1971, sod 1975 data.                                             hopta     fdiie  byth  outer of beds.
~POPI&i?oc    Proiect.oItiooe
Pobilitlyp)jiA        0i Cureect ppulatios prjectlone are baled 0                    051
1975 tita  p_oP -.ltin by ego and eec end their mortality end fertility             Avrn   leof  foehoLd  oren  pee  b                Iacod)    oa.ubo  end -       Irrl
rans  Poetion pareseetec fo  r -ocnlity rates comprise of three                       A househol  csiots of e1 gruIfidvdal   h hr    bicI   quatren
-evel  as.umIng lif,e rpectancy at birth increasing With Country's                   their maio seals.  A boarder or lodger oey or uny tot ho included in tho
per cap Ita ieoe" level, od female tlife  opo-tency  tbsilisiog at                    h-.oobld for etatistical Puepoec.
77.5 yoare.  The P p      rraetIr for  feility rate also have three level.          Aco  en"e   f  cec   e  oe     oa.chn  sod rural   A vrcgo  ua-be,
assueto  docline in fertility accrding to tocose leve   ndpsto  persons: per roe i   l   re    o   ualocpe  voototideco
Psaly oeoc  perfor-en-ce.Io  -ounry is then aseigned one of these                     unpeotbiely.  DNllioga etolodo ot-porn-et ot-tr-le  anduocpodfr.
nice cotboatiosi  of   etal1ity nod fertility trecds for projootice                 Acce. no OE.ctrici to  (percotCofidelIiago) - tota., orbn, cod  uro] -Cot
P-orpoce.                                                                             voohional dool1lings cubh eootricity in living quartere no peroectegs  1
Static    .pry oiwltioc - inaustationary population there As no grocth                  total, ubo, and rura  deoIlingo r.aeepooivly.
sito   th   it  rate Ieeulto the death rate, end alec its ego
otruct_re resalo  conetant, Thie Ac achievd only after fertility rates            ECOEATIGO
deoli-:c t  the replacemet level of -nit net rprod-otioo rab, ohe.                 AdJuoted EnIrollmet touts.
each genrtico ofose-rplacee itself eo_t ly.  The etatioary pop-                       Prim   acy  cool -  ,total,. sae.n.fs  .e.ln   .tota,  ole and resle  -roro1-
ation tine w.o ..otleoted on the ba.ie of the projeoted characteristioe                 coat ofal   get tho   ory level atpercedtiges of reu prtive prinacy
of the popolntAnn in tho year 2000, end the rate of decline of' fertility               school-ego pcpuati-o; -orsIly itoludes children aged 6-11 fe-r  hut
rate to replacceent level.                                                              adjuotod for different lengths of priary eduontint; ice.. outri-c  itub
Year stationr    AoultoI  reached - The yra  shoe stationary Populatico                   unvra duonti.. 0colhsay ecceed lOG Perrc t stor  to-  pupilo
cico has been reached,                                                                  are below or above tho orffioll s~cho  age.
P,cito  Denity                                                                             o-ndary sohoolir- total, sol   nd femal 1,- C-oP,utd n   i-roo,lc
Pe    m.   - edynar pojoultico per square kilont-r (iG  hect-re) ofeuanIqie    tla    orfscofapproe   ror  Ioroht
total teen                                                                              provides generarl  -ctilo..l, or teacher traoigInceci.k   uaI
Per cu, ha. egricultuva.l lend - Cosputed no above for egricuItural lend                  uoualiy of 12 to 17 years of aeg; corroPo-deone Ivuro   err--Ieoly
only,                                                                                   occluded.
Population Aae Structure (eet)-Children )o-1h years), etching-ego                         Voo-tivoalerlet(ecn  of`  -nvdary) - Vocatioa i.. I                outoo   t-lode
R1-h  ya.), end retired (h5 yearn  n ve)n  p-oetages of old-year                          technical, ndsri,al`,`orothe   rgasoitoesoiiptssl   rn
populahion; 196i, 19,70, sod 1977 daisd-r  . .                                            dopart_eto of oe .nar   iwtitutioon.
Poiwlation Growth Htat  (perent) - total - Annual orooth raten of total edd-              Puoil-tesoher ratio - orocaro. no1d scodoryI1,     - Total otud-ot  rn-o1,-o  Lo
year pocati... foe 1950-hO, 1960-70, sod 1970-77.                                         Priesy end ocotadary  Iee   dividd   byouoernoitea..here  10 the  oe
Population iroth hate ) oerceot)  - uban - dnouaa growth rate. of urben                     spnding ieoels.
poPulatiocn for 1950-hi6    97-0,   end 1970-75.                                        Adult literacy rate  (per-st) - Literate adulto (nile 00 rea.d nod unit,) 
Crude hirth Lt. (ocr thousad)   - alou] Live births pee thoueend of old-                    ap.rvetage of total adult poplatico aged 1t yOCtsdr             oe
yoe populntioc; 1970, 1970, sod 1977 data.
Crude  et Oe(e  huand)   Annual deatho per thou-endofod-far                           CGNSIMYTGCA
poult"ion;1970, 1970, end  9,77 data.                                               P..ceoger Core(e  thoutnd oooulnt-oo  - Fnoc-g-rrc..co-pr-ot -t-Icv,,v
Gostoootion Onto -or-nge cunbo  of d-ughte-1Iucte Atll hea                         cotiglonthe  tight p--os; r-lulo  enbulot., loe--  n-i cil,tacy
in hrr  orsol reproduoiv A period if the _oprienrvc.  Prenot  gce-                      vshic1ea.
cpvfi   etility    os  unualy fie-eraregen ending in 1950,                       ha~do Oc r io   (r tbouosol 1poculotlut  - All typec  -I roocoi-  olt
1970, and175                                                                            -rodoaHtt to general  ubIcI Per Ihvuoed  I poplatioc;  -oliod-s utit e-c
PFnily PIcics-  A.'ept"'o  totl    ...ouc .n             -.I uoni outr of                 ree -vr   co..uotri- end to ynn-  ohso regi-set-  If -ivuld,-.  o
acccptoro o bl -ctro  hovco  un"der  -  Aop-Ive f catic...ICecily'                      oftot; data for resect yca- so  o-t hr -.p-tnptcl,l        iooolccoie
pl_ooios p,.roc .                                                                        bholinhed biveooiw.g
Psoil  PlningI     U Iov  (prvnt_of carried conr      ecaso   aried                     TbhVevo (ore .thou-snopGoploti-o) - TV r-ci-rr  1,-rcb  dleodoit Ugcon-o
toero of obid-bearing a  e (1-l  y a  ch  toe brth-cotrol dn-icr                   ubi  per thuc  Populotio; coiuetu - ic -dc TIV .roc..
to all caried eoen i  cAne age- grouP-                                                  ed                         in fer   bocgortc    fT   eacot efet.
FOOD AND _____TION                                                                          of  dily georal inicpreteoopr,efouu o-eotiiolcto
Indqo of ocoG Prduotion p -,Cnlpta ,(919-1-10  -tindec of per vaplto                      deroned pri-raily to  -vccrdiog goorral.1     .   tt  cocdrti     Ic-  dil
anul Lrduto   of al Iod v _ A Atie.  rdcIoIn ecoludec oved sod                   if Jt tPPeorn  ti irot four tIino  ees
fee  ed  S 10 vcd r yea  hatic.  Coetdlt-lo  ..ver prAlly goo.ds               Ci-on     .. Inut  Atteodenos Prc Cpitc cc  b~--o  - Mi,d  ti.5 t  ti',       O
) .g.  u s ne intead of eugar) h&Ioncr  di ad sootnin ourina                         od dufing tttt peer   irldt1,to.  oO  ifo-5Co  o  o   ol.,
e.g. coffee nod tol a arctluded).  AgVgregto pro.duction of each vountry                 t
It laced on natIcoaIl. traertducer Price ceights.
per cci ta nuPPoy of cIlc-l-  ocereot of reolreecto)  C-copotd Iro-                LABOt rORCh
enegy equiv_loot -.f ort food t_ppli-o -ava bloi  Ao contry Per capita              Total labo  foc   t-uu-). voti-1n_Iit s-  ps ...OOtO,  s-1o--Sr
po  hey-  h          -habe ppli-t c-prioe do-tic p-odustios, eporno lets    ~          forr   en o lyd but 001,iud(g bcooco   tdo t,cs-  t-itt
-oporto  and  hongeo 10 oto-h.  Nte  .uppli en 000lude union feed, ce.do,             in-c ..  ...vu  ooutri- ev .-   ooa i -t
quact ti s  ucd It focd proc--ig, sody ....on in dicarlbctlon. tequire-             Peob     rrcs-Poneibr r.-oprecaei.cit  rft--
ernte tore  iettiotd by rhO moo..d on pciciogival orltfo  oeca                      dgIut[,f(t( - lbo   -to-i   ons,fr-ty   tct   tO
noticity end hclth vI-id-vIng  -oir -corona  t-snrtuer, body oight.,                  fithiog atp-resntg  of total ibttr frce.
ag  end.-e  u-t_utrousc_  .0 oPlntit-, end ol1ooiog 10 percent Ior                  todootry (p-ec.t) - tour  -oo  i          ing, ootu  t-    not'o  o   c
toots at hout..hold lecI.cltsoI~iy, act- nod S.to no p--tage - i  tZ -ca  1,cccc
Hcr capita uuooly of proteis (grtst  Per deo) - ProtIi. vootect -1 pte                fartlo poti-c Hole  cerc- -td  tocol. sole, coo rrnl          P-lrt-ip~ttio 
vapits net ouPpp oYf foo  fee day. Sot oupply of fono in ueli-od cc                   notlcityentenr-coeptwd . to t lon, -ov, n-d Tt-olt  Iubor t-ter  -v I_
shr.b    Pequiroerst  for nIl  .ounstren n-tnbllnhed by USDA proolde for a             etngro cf total   ol   o  f-nnle popi.tbi It t" cIL 0-  -ro-ticriy;
elis 1 l--ao  of bI grano of totn1 pr,tein Per hay sod 20 gr-o  of                Itko, 1970, nod 197lmit., Then-, or  :1,0, - 1tr  ots  ortnefeh
enso  end  pon    rtis, If chio  10 gern  sould he enisa  protein,.                 ag-rtu   ur   fsth  f.pulasto-, cod lcog nr'r..                    rarsnn
ono etandardo are loc-  then. tho_gof75grwo   tota  protein and                       arfcotoo   ore
25 gree  of_aiso  proteio ton   veaefoe the arld, propored by PAl                   Fooncic Peenod y Rntil- -  hat-c -f popuit to uodec- 1so d It-d--1
othe Tlird World rood tirc.telhe-oo   oaedoo   f1t   er 
for opita p-rcel  oupply f-o  niea  and pulco - froteis cupply of food
dcriv-d f,1 roe solsolotand ploto in grot ped                                     INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Chldi(_ge  1-o  _htelit AOsto (ocr thu_od) - A .o.tI deutho Per thocoed                 Pevoectecef of Priva.te boo-  (lcdth  ontcas  and kiod) - tIi-oicd by viobeot
In age grou P L-iyan  to otildree  10 thio ag   eoy   v   os   e -                      5 percent, richest 20 peroest, poores-t 20 pevocot, col poo-etu4dp-ort
opIng  --ottro- dant derived        fruelf  ta1,ico                                      I f ho...eho1do.
ithATH                                                                                  RPlVoRn TARGET GROUlPS
li;fe E          Io-tnc   t tirabI ver  A-rAerge nuher of I-ar  of life                 Entisotd Aboolute bvecrty  00cr ro   (21$ ccv!.P         coo     rben nd rural I
resoitng ntbirth;1970,197,  en   977- dot.           -                           Aboolute poverty Aoon_ leel it tha    cn  Iro   bec oIhich a niolsol
infant   ortality Otto (per thttuosd)  A-.Anea loathe of iefenta under one                outritio..ally edequte diet ylut --urtiol  t-n-too  requi__os    Lnvo
year of  gr Pner thouned lIce birtho.                                                   affocdblo-
bctr_  to Safe enter (orroen t0 of Pnoy1rclaio   -itoto, u1_.rban, anod rural   -                                                                                    -olne   eaiePvry   on   ee   G$yeopoo      re   n   vn 
Euchr  of pooplo  total  uenedrra cbesoale aconto                                       tuIa rltiv oetyH Ioon  leon1 it  _o-hr   foerg   e   eit
cafe cater supply (ioclud-e treated surface cater  Or untreated bot                     persna  iotor of Ito ocotry. chno IroelI in hel-od froc the ron  1ecc
u_cctsenio.ed .ta- ouch ac that fr.e protected br ls  oprings,                          With edjueteot for highe- cot of Ilivig it urbanaoo
sod canItey.cello) ac pe-centagen of their  eapecic  popolatloec-1                    1 InIstisoted Popua,1ttIon heIoc Abbooutr P-cety lcone lee  Ibr.o)-  ra  nod
eurhbt ara public footnino or  tendpot loctednt cor  thenrrl-Perto  ppulati-s (u.no nod crd)oocrh                                                     loot   ok
200 esters fr-o a hue e soy be  ondrda  bein  within esautoble
neoothat hous.  In rura  area  r .anonble acces  ..uId ilypi
that the, housecif  or sesbere of the hounhold do not hace to spend n                                                            ctncsd Soc-ol lasst oco
dilcproyrtio...to part of' the day it fetching the fenily,. cater needs                                                   r.oci   clttad ProjociooDpesn
huguet 1979



- 24 -                                                     ATTACRltENT I
Page 4
ECOtNOMTC DWVEIOPNMEi'r DATA
(Amounts in millions of U.S. dollars)
Actual                Estim.     Projected         1970-   1975      1980              1975    1978    1983
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS                 1                                         - 1
At 1978  Prices & Exchange Rates        Average Annual Growth Rates        As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product            4,501    4,775    4,885       5,315     5,349    6,131      -0.2    Z.8       4.b             WUQ.5   1M.U   100.4
Gains from TermE of Trade (+)       -25       20         0        -12        -5      -25        -      -         _                0.5         0     0.4
Gross Domestic Income             4,76       5775    4         5,303 5433*4    6,106          -0.7
Import (incl. NFS)                  738      878       968     1,155     1,112    1,266.    -0.5    9.4         4.4              16.5    19.8    20.7
Exports   "  (import capacity)    577        829      1016       9        1,000    1.205     -2.2   20.5        6.3              12.9     20.7    19.7
Resource Gap                        161       49       -48    1 61        -T2         61                                         ' ,l     -     1 .Ob
Consumption Expenditures          3,992    3,907      3993     4,427      4,350    4,937        -     0.1      4.3               89.2    81.7    80.9
Investment   "  (incl. stocks)    645        897       844     1,037      1,106    1,230     -3.8    9.4       3.7               14.4     17.2    20.1
Domestic Savings                    484      848       892       876        994    1,169     -6.6   2Z.5       5.6               10.8     18.3    20.2
National Savings                    419      781       821       802        918    1,083     -6.5   25.5       5.6                9.4     16.8    18.8
MERCHANDISE TRADE                           Annual Data at Current Prices                                                        As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital goods                    70.9    120.9      98.0     182.9      196.3    262.3      -9.9   11.3      10.2              12.9     12.6    17.1
Intermediate goods (WcLfuels) 248.3    324.9    355.0        456.7     456.9    648.1      21.5  12.6        12 3              45.3     45.9    42.0
Fuels and related materials   184.3    209.5    235.0        366.5      356.0    471.5      44.7   8.4        9 8              33.6     30.3    30.6
Consumption goods                45.2     74.1      86.0     119.9      115.8    159.7      20.1  24.0       11.3               8.2     11.1    10.4
Total March. Imports (cif)-    54t.V    729.4    774.0   1,126.0   I_25Tf    i735t6         20.7  12.2 1T1                    100.0710  0   100.
Exports
Primary products ;mcl. fuels)   263.4    359.1    366.1      448.6      514.4    741.3      12.0   11.6      13.3              68.6     53.4    55.8
Manufactured goods              120.4    248.4    320.0      358.6      394.5.   591.9      28.4   38.5      14.5              31.4      46.6    44.2
Total Merch. Erpcrts (fob)      383.8    607.5    686.1      807.2      908.9  1733.2       14,2   21.3      13.8            1iT    T.0o  1UU.0
Tourism and Border, Trade
Merchandise Trade Indices                             1978-      100
Export Price Index               80.2     95.4    100        114.3     122.0    166.0      22.5    7.6      10.8
Import Price Index               80.7     94.8    100        115.5     122.0    165.6      24.4    7.4      10.7
Terms o; Trade index            99.4    100.6    100          98.9     100.0    100.2      -1.5      -       0.1
Exports Volume Index             69.7     92.7    100        102.9     108.6    153.3      -6.5   12.8      12.2
iALUE ADDED EY SECTOR             Annual Data at 1978-   Prices and Exchange Rates            Average Annual Growth Rates        As Percent of Total
Agriculture                     625      635      607        651       643       724       -1.9   -1.0       4.0               15.6     13.9    13.2
Industry and Mining          1,168    1,288    1,361       1,515     1,543    1,838          -     24        6.0               29.0     31.2    33.6
Service                      2.ZA   2.339  2!93            2,590     2.5RQ    27.12         0.2      .       4.0               55.4     54.9    53.2
Total                        4,021    4,262    4,361       4,756     4,775    5,474        -0.2    2.8                        100.0    100.0   100.0
PJBLIC FINANCE ( in constant USS)                                                                                                  As Percent of GDP
,kCentral Government)
Current Receipts               527       716      723        768       802       944               11.1      5.5               11.7     14.8    15.4
Current Expenditures           563       668      669        676       701       803                5.9      4.6               12.5     13.7    13.1
Didgetary Savings              -36        48       54        92        101      141                  -        -               -0.8       1.1     2.3
Other Public Sector              5       -19       24         31        48       92                  -        -                 0.1      0.5     1.5
Public Sectof Investment       176       215      186        235       262      368                1.8      11.9                3.9      3.8     6.0
SEI.CTED INDICATORS                               1960-      1965-    1970-   1975
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)            1965      1970      1975    1980
Average ICOR                                      TV7       77         =- -4
import Elasticity                                -6.40      6.57    -0.08    0.95
:rginal Domestic Savings Rate                      0.14    -0.14     0.19    0.27
Marginal National Savings Rate                     0.04    -0.17      0.16    0.26
'AWE FORCE AND                                 Total Labor Force                                Vale Added Per, Wcrke  (1075         Prices   8cc. Rates)
OJTPU'T PEx WORER                           T ot   of Total           C,         75t      In U.S .5ollars     Percent of AVer.ge '       13 - 75
195  1975    1963       19 75     Growth Rate       .1963       1975       16                    rwhRt
Agriculture                    0.18       0.21    17.9       19.8          1.3            2,366      1,762      0.79       0.60        -2.2
:ndustry                       0.26       0.31    25.7       29.0          1.5            3,519      3,439      1.18      1.16         -0.2
service                        0.56        0.55    56.4      51.2         -0.2             2,932     3,143      0.98       1.06         0.6
Total                          M.          170f   1M7    i   n00  000      r6-             2', W3    73'7        ruo=      1700,       -0.1
not applicable        - n0l or negligible
not available        -- less than balf the
smallest unit shown



BALA2 OF PAYDDNS, ErrERNAL ASISrANCIE AND DEBT
(asiciunts in millcna of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Avg. Anmial
Actual                         EAtimated                                      Projected               Growth Rate
i975        1976         l977         l978          1979          iEEo         1_           L982 _983                   1978-1983
SUllEARY BALAJLCE OF PATMENTS
Mports (inci. NO'S)                      550.8       696.2        871.1       1016.0           1233.0     1216.5        1353.9       1538.7       1762.2             11.6
tL'ports (incl. NFS)                    676.0        705.1        907.1        968.0           1328.0     1331.9        1503.3       1672.7       1351.2             13.9
Fesource Balance CI-M)                  -125.2        -8.9        -36.0         48.6            -95.0     -135.4        -149.4       -134.0        -89.0
Tnterest (ret)                          -47.2        -57.2        -56.1        -58.0            -53.4      -72.4         -80.1        -90.0        -98.2             11.1
Other factor payments                   -24.0        -15.2        -11.7       -18.1            -17.6       -24.2         -25.8        -28.2       -31.1              11.4
re    Transfers (net)                   6.9          7.7          6.6          8.0              8.0        8.5           9.3         10.2         11.3              7.2
2   c    ret         ounts                         -73          -97.2        -20.5          -158.0    -223.5          -246.0       -242.0       -207.0               _
Private                                   16.3       104.4        239.5        162.1            168.8      146.8         145.0        129.4        110.2             -7.4
Official Capital Grants                    5.0          5.0
Public ME - r Loans
%irbursenents                         284.6        224.1        198.7        418.6            109.0      155.9         192.8        213.7        233.8
-Re-r.nents                           -181.9       -148.3       -186.9       -365.6            -55.2  .. -55.0          -66.6        -72.8       -107.2
Ne- Disburserents                        102.7        75.8         11.8         53.0             54.8      101.0         126.2        140.9        126.6              19.5
Changes in reserves (- - increase)        65.5      -111.6       -154.1       -194.6            -65.6      -24.3         -25.2        -28.3        -29.8
Actual eatimted
j         1976       1977         19798
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
Public Debt Out. & Disbursed              616.5      692.3      708.1        765.8
Interest on Public Debt                  46.2       57.3       57.8         60.4
Repayments on Public Debt               181.9      148.3      186.9        365.6
public MlLLT Loans                                                                                           Total Public Debt Service                228.1      205.6     244.7        426.0
IB.RD                                  52.0          -            -           9.7
IDA                                     -            _            _           .
Otier Multilateral                     60.1          -           15.0        29.7                        Burden on Export Earnings (S)
Governments                            20.                                   29257
Suppliers                              27.2          3.9          1.6                                       Public Debt Service                      41.4       29.5      28.1         42.0
Fiupcilernst27.2t.9o1.                                                        5.3
Firar.cial Institutiors               249.4        226.6        83.6        214.9
Bonds                                 111.8         35.0       130.0        135.0                          TDS+Direct invest. Inc.                  45.8       31.7       29.4         48.1
?.;lic Loans n. .. i.
Total Fi___ _      Loans                5720_6       2-90.7       230.2       394.6                        Average Terms of Public Debt
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31, 1978                       Int. as % Prior Year DO&D                 8.9        9.3        8.3          8.5
IXTER"AL DEBT                                    Misbursed On2l                Percent                         Amort, as % Prior Year DD&D               35.2       24.0       27.0         51.6
Wc-ld 53an                                          73, 7                     9.6                                                                   
DA   B                                                                        9                             I8RD Debt Out. & Disbursed                 69.4      79.2       75.6         73.7
nther !hltilateral                                   71.6                     9.3                            "  as % Public Debt O&D                   11.2       11.4       10.7          9.6
Governments                                         110.0                    14.4                            n  as % Public Debt Service                4.9        5.8        5.6          3.2
Supuliers                                            33.2                     4.3
Financial Institutions                              198.3                    25.9
Bonds                                               279.0                    36.5
Public Debts n.e.i
Thtal Public MHLT Debt                             765.8                    100.0
not applicable                                                     a  staff estiite
not arvcilable                                                     - nil or negligible
...  not avaMlable separately                                          --  less than half the
but ircluded in total                                                 smallest init shown



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN URUGUAY
A.   Statement of Bank Loans (as of January 31, 1980)
(US$ million)
Amount
Loan                                                              (less cancellations)
No.      Year      Borrower                Purpose                Bank   Undisbursed
Eleven loans fully disbursed                                      155.1         -
1166      1975    Rep. Oriental          Fifth Livestock
del Uruguay          Development              17.0        1.5
1176      1975    Rep. Oriental          Industrial Development
del Uruguay          and Export Expansion  20.8          6.3
1594      1978    Rep. Oriental          Vocational Training and
del Uruguay          Technological
Development              9.7        9.7
1689      1979    Rep. Oriental          Second Highway
del Uruguay                                  26.5       26.5
1779 1/   1979    Administracion         Fifth Power               24.0       24.0
Nacional de
Usinas y
Trasmisiones
Electricas
1798 1/   1980    Administracion         Montevideo Port           50.0       50.0
Nacional de
Puertos
Total (net of cancellations)                   303.2      118.0
of which has been repaid                    112.1
Total now outstanding                          191.1
Amount sold                   4.7
of which has been repaid    3.8                1.0
Total now held by Bank                         190.1
Total undisbursed                                          118.0
1/   Not yet effective



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B.   Statement of IFC Investments - February 29, 1980
Type of           (Amount in US$ million)
Year             Obligor                 business            Loan   Equity   Total
1976     Fabrica Uruguaya de          Motorvehicles          3.80      -        3.80
Neumaticos                   and acessories
1979     Acodike.Supergas S.A.        Chemicals and            .95     -         .95
petrochemicals
1979     Astra Pesquerias
Uruguayas S.A.             Food processing       4.50      0.90    5.40
Total gross commitments                             9.25     0.90   10.15
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                             0.47       -       0.47
Net held by IFC                                   8.78      0.90    9.68
Total undisbursed                                 4.62      0.90    5.52
C.   Projects in Execution
Loan No. 1166-UR  Fifth Livestock Development, US$17.0 million, October 15, 1975;
(Date of Effectiveness: February 13, 1976; Closing Date:
September 30, 1980).
Project disbursements are more than 2 years behind appraisal forecasts.
As of January 31, 1980, actual disbursements amounted to US$15.5 million, compared
to the US$17 million projected at appraisal. However, in view of the improved
investment climate (see paragraph 38), it is expected that the credit funds
under the loan will be fully discussed by the end of April 1980.
Loan No. 1176 Industrial Development and Export Expansion Project: US$20.8;
December 4, 1975; (Date of Effectiveness: April 8, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980).
Project implementation remains slow. Faster commitments and disburse-
ments, however, can be expected due to: (i) recently higher interest rate of
competitive credit lines, especially eurodollar loans, (ii) new legislation
that will speed up obtention of fiscal incentives, and (iii) a larger pipeline
of export subprojects (US$9.9 million as of November 14, 1978). The administra-
tion of the project, on the other hand, has become weaker due to continuous
loss of operational independence of the appraisal and supervision unit under
the project. The Bank has notified the government of the need to find an
institutional solution.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Loan No. 1594      Vocational Training and Technological Development:  US$9.7
million; June 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: April 27,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Satisfactory progress is being made in project implementation.
Loan No. 1689      Second Highways:  US$26.5 million:  June 27, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
This loan became effective on December 27, 1979.
Loan No. 1779      Fifth Power:  US$24.0 million; March 6, 1980; Date of
Effectiveness: July 7, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
This loan has not yet become effective.
Loan No. 1798      Montevideo Port:  US$50.0 million; March 6, 1980; Date of
Effectiveness:  September 9, 1980; Closing Date-  December 31,
1983.
This loan has not yet become effective.



- 29 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
URUGUAY
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to Prepare the Project: About 20 months
(b) Preparation by: Government (Office of Agricultural Planning)
and Policy of the Ministry of Agriculture (MAG); the National
Settlement Institute (INC) and the Bank of the Republic (BROU).
(c) First Presentation to the Bank: December 1978
(d) First Bank Mission: August 1978
(e) Appraisal Mission Departure: June 1979
(f) Negotiations: March 1980
(g) Planned Date of Effectiveness: July 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementing Actions
No special Bank implementation action is necessary.
Section III: Special Conditions of the Bank Loan
(a) A special condition of effectiveness would be the signing of a
subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the Bank between CB and
BROU transferring the proceeds of the Bank loan (paragraph 52).
(b) The establishment of a Project Implementation Unit within
INC and the appointment of a Project Coordinator with quali-
fications acceptable to PLAN and the Bank would be conditions of
disbursement against the INC component (paragraph 49).
(c)  To strengthen INC's capabilities to manage its component in the
project, INC would establish, within its Special Projects Department,
a minimal monitoring unit based on the norms designed by PLAN
(paragraph 61).



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) To ensure continued incentives for producers to invest in farm
improvements and inputs resulting in increased prodr'tion, Govern-
ment would agree to maintain agricultural policies set in the
decrees issued in the context of the August 1978 reform of agricul-
tural marketing policies, and to consult with the Bank on any
significant modifications to the above-mentioned decrees
(paragraph 67).



IBRD 1449
99                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SEPTE.BER 1979
L. L   0  - 0  9 0ii s    t0   ;dit0t(    \     <t              +97                  rn~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 
.ji                                                                              9   --
X0ti3!;t~~~ -8[-  IXS                                             &&9
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~~  -- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 1
4z4rn0ztA7 0i;tt0A2gg rtr /                     - , ==
.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
0~~~ ~~~   N    I,  I   0 00   : 0 0' N t  3    t      E          00      s            rf         
~~~~~~~~~L     7u  



