Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15265
TIPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(LOAN 3287-PH)
DECEMBER 29, 1995
Country Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia & Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CUIRRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Average    Jan -Jun    1995    US$1.0    =    Pesos 25.5
Average    Jan - Dec   1994    US$1.0              Pesos 26.9
Average    Jan - Dec   1993    US$1.0    =    Pesos 27. 1
Avera-e    Jan - Dec    1992    USS 1 .0           Pesos 25 5
Average    Jan - Dec   1991    US$1 0              Pesos 27.'
;Aver-age    Jan - Dec    1990     IS$1 0          P Pesos 24 3
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 3 1
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BITS          -             Swedish A(gency for Intermational Technilcal and Economic
Cooperatioll
BSP/CBP       -             Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas"Central Bank of the Philippines
DBP           -             Development Bank of the Philippines
DENR          -             Department of Environment and Natural Resources
DOF           -             Department of Finance
'(CAs         -             Export Credit Agencies
1: MB         -             Environmental Management Bureau
LV XCF L      -             Export Credit Enhanced Leverage Program
FS .<AL,      -             Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
GFIs          -             Government-owned Financial Lnstitutions
GOP           -             Govemment of the l'hilippines
JGF           -             Japanese Grant Facilitv
ICR           -             Implementation Completion Report
IICP          -             Industrial Investmenit Credit Project
IDP           -             Institutional Development Program
IRP           -             Industrial Restructurin,g Project
IRUI RRC     -             Industrial Restructuring Unit/Industrial Restructuringy
and Research Center
NDF           -             Nordic Development Fund
NORAD         -             Norweigian Agency for Intemnational Development
PFis          -             Participating Financial Institutions
TTA           -             Training and Technical Assistance



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(LOAN 3287-PH)
Table of Contents
PREFACE
EVALUATION  SUMMARY ................  ............................
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ......................................... I
A. INTRODUCTION .
B. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES.                                                      I
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES.                                                               3
D. MAJOR FACToRs AFFECTING THE PROJECT.                                                     7
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY.                                                                  8
F. BANK PERFORMANCE.                                                                        8
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE.                                                                    9
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOE.                                                                    9
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED .1 0
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNNE)XES
TABLE I SUMMARY OF ASSESS                      MENTS .11
TABLE 2 RELATED BANK LOANS.                                                               1 2
TABLE 3 PROJFCT TIMETABLE.                                                                1 3
TABLE 4   LOAN DISBURSEMENTS                                                               14
TABLE 5   KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION AND IMPLEMENTATION.     1 5
TABLE 6 STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT .16
TABLE 7A  PROJECT COSTS .....................................................             17
TABLE 7B  PROJECT FINANCING                 ..................................................... 18
TABLE 7C  INDUSTRY SUB-SECTOR DIST. OF PROJECTS FINANCED                     ......................... 1 9
TABLE 7D  FINANCED PROJECTS DISTRIBUTION TO PFIS ......................................... 20
TABLE 8A  DBP BALANCE SHEETS ..................             ................................... 21
TABLE 8B  DBP INCOME STATEMENTS .....................................................     22
TABLE 9   STATUS OF LEGAL DOCUMENTS ................................       ..................... 23
TABLE 10  BANK RESOuRCES: STAFF INPUTS ..................................................... 24
TABLE II  BANK RESOUJRCES: MISSIONS .....................................................   25
PART III. BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION ..................................................... 26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.    I






LJlNl. I1 Jlt
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(LOAN 3287-PH)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Industrial Restructuring Project in
the Philippines (IRP) for which Loan 3287-PH in the amount of US$175.0 million equivalent was
approved on January 8, 1991 and made effective on April 16, 1991.
The loan was fully disbursed and closed on February 28, 1995 compared with the original
closing date of December 31, 1997. The loan was cofinanced by export credits under the Bank's
Export Credit Enhanced Leverage Program (EXCEL) facility, but this facility was not used. Besides
the term credit, IRP has a Training and Technical Assistance (TTA) component that was cofinanced by
grants/soft loans amounting to approximately US$13.0 million from the Norwegian Agency for
International Development (NORAD), Nordic Development Fund (NDF), and Swedish Agency for
International Technical and Economic Cooperation (BITS). In addition, IRP carried on the TTA
program initiated under the Industrial Investment Credit Project (Loan 3123-PH, 1989) and cofinanced
under the Japanese Grant Facility (TF2462-0 PH) in the total amount of Yen 470.0 million.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Vinod Prakash (Consultant), Country Operations Division, East
Asia & Pacific Region (EAICO). It was reviewed by Mr. Khalid Siraj of Private/Public Sector &
Technology Development Division (Chief, ASTTP), Ms. Pamela Cox (Chief, EA l CO) and Mr. Walter
Schwermer (Project Adviser, EAIDR). The borrower, Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP),
and cofinanciers provided comments that are included as appendixes to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was initiated during the Bank's last supervision/completion mission led
by Mr. Ismail Dalla (EAICO) in July 1995. It is based on material in the project file, supplemented by
staff interviews. The borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by regularly providing the
project progress/status reports, contributing its views during the missions, preparing own evaluation of
the project's execution and commenting on the draft ICR.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(LOAN 3287-PH)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
1.    Bank support for the Industrial Restructuring Project (IRP, Loan 3287-PH) was consistent with its
country assistance strategy of helping the Philippines during the late 1 980s to sustain economic recovery and
bring about a structural transformation of the economy through major policy reforms. The Bank was
committed to assisting the Government of the Philippines (GOP) maintain a reasonable and sustainable rate of
growth in the industrial sector over the medium to long-term, and supported GOP's financial, industrial and
trade policy reforms. In this context, Bank's prior involvement in two projects is of particular relevance: (a)
the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL, Loan 3049-PH) which was successful in strengthening the
Philippines' financial system; and (b) the Industrial Investment Credit Project (IICP, Loan 3123-PH) which
helped the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) transform into a predominantly wholesale bank, and
supported the comprehensive, in-depth subsector studies needed for an effective implementation of the
industrial restructuring (para. 2).
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.     Project objectives were to: (a) support the revival and the strengthening of the industrial sector; (b)
support sound industrial investment in subsectors free from major distortions resulting from inappropriate
trade and regulatory policies; (c) help make the cement, pulp & paper, textiles, shipping and ship repairs
subsectors more competitive through reforms of subsector-specific policies, training and technical assistance,
and institutional straightening; (d) strengthen the institutional framework for environmental protection; and (e)
strengthpn DBP's capacity to play a more active role in the development of the capital market and to act as a
wholesale bank channeling term funds to retail financial institutions (para. 3).
3.     The project included the following components: (a) a credit line of US$175.0 million to DBP for
onlending to private sector enterprises through accredited participating financial institutions (PFIs). This
credit line was to be supplemented by export credits worth about US$75.0 million under the Bank's Export
Credit Enhanced Leverage Program (EXCEL) cofinancing facility. (b) training and technical assistance
(TTA) for selected subsectors and environmental protection was targeted at five capital-intensive subsectors:
cement, pulp & paper, textiles, shipping and ship repairs. For this reason, cofinancing arrangements were to
be made under bilateral grants and soft loans worth approximately US$15.0 million. (c) subsector studies
initiated under IICP and cofinanced through the Japanese Grant Facility were to be carried out to facilitate
restructuring of other priority subsectors (para. 4).
4.     Evaluation of Objectives. Both financial and physical restructuring, and environmental protection
components were integral part of the industrial investment program. The project was demanding and complex



- 11 -
for the borrower, particularly regarding the institutional development program (IDP), which had to be
responsive to changing economic and political realities, and yet any significant changes in it had to be
approved by the Bank (para. 5).
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESUILTS
5.     Industrial and Trade Policy Reforms. Overall, the project achieved its objectives of facilitating
industrial and trade policy reforms by providing technical assistance and financial support, along with
measures to protect the physical environment.  Specifically, the project accomplished its objectives of
removing some quantitative import restrictions, reducing effective protection, eliminating price controls and
lifting administrative barriers to entry (para. 7).
SuPPortinsg the Revival of Industry through Sound Investment. The loan financed 76 private business
enterprises covering a wide range of industries and involving 34 PFIs.  THe project has significantly
contributed to cost reductions, environmental protection, and the international competitiveness of the
Philippine industry (para. 8).
Training Program. Overall, the TTA program has been highly successful. The training program for
the cement subsector is being implemented by two leading business houses under a soft loan of US$4.0
million granted by NDF. Similarly, the training program for the pulp & paper subsector has been implemented
by the Pulp and Paper ManufactLrers' Association, under a grant of SEK 10.9 million from BITS. For the
shipping and ship repairs subsectors, the program is being implemented by DBP in cooperation with the two
shipping associations Linder a grant of NOK 35.0 million from NORAD (para. 9).
Subsector Studies. Under the IICP, the first batch of studies related to the above five subsectors
(Phase 1) was conducted. Following this, a thorough review of the manufacturing sector was undertaken and
completed by a consortium of consultants (July 1994). This review led to the identification of eight priority
subsectors for in-depth study. which were completed under Phase 11 of the IRP (para. 10).
Environmental Protection.   The TTA  for strengthening  the institutional infrastructure  for
environmental protection was funded by a grant of SEK 10.5 million from BITS. Led by DBP's proactive
approach, implementation has been hiighly successful in strengthening DBP as well as the Environmental
Management Bureau (EMB) and its regional offices (para. 11).
6.     DBP's Institutional Development Progress.  From the perspective of institutional development,
DBP's overall progress has been impressive; however, DBP management still needs to address the following
key issues. First, while DBP has been transformed into a predominately wholesale institution, privatization of
retail operations has not materialized as yet. Second, although DBP's overall loan portfolio is satisfactory, the
quality of DBP's retail portfolio is a source of concern, therefore DBP needs to initiate urgent internal actions
to arrest and reverse the portfolio deterioration. Third, while DBP has been recycling second generation funds
(under IRP, IICP etc.) at a reasonable margin, a major effort is needed to bolster its medium- to long-term
resource position to a sustainable level. Finally, since DBP's portfolio is dominated by wholesale operations
generally carrying low margins, the success of such operations requires high volume and minimal overheads.
As a result, the recent sharp increase in direct personnel costs requires DBP Inanagement attention (para. 12).
7.     Key Factors that Affected Achievements. Making the EXCEL cofinancing facility operational was
time consuming because of the involvement of several participants. DBP had concluded agreements with four
ECAs, but these credit lines, amounting to an aggregate of about US$65.0 million, remained unused mainly
due to their unattractive terms and conditions. DBP's wholesale banking strategy and privatization of its retail



- 111 -
operations were important from the perspective of strengthening the Philippines' financial system. DBP has
succeeded in wholesale banking but not in privatization. In response to the government's directive, DBP has
proposed a new strategy for its future development (paras. 13. 14).
8.     Sustainability. The prospects of sustainable institutional development of DBP and of IRP's long-
term development impact are promising. DBP has been acclaimed as a well established wholesale bank.
Moreover, as a facilitator for private sector development, it has been providing term credit through PFIs. In
addition, DBP's proposed strategy reflects prudent thinking, but the FRank's continued support appears crucial
for its effective realization. The benefits of the subprojects and the training program are also likely to be
sustainable (para. 15).
9.     Bank and Borrower Performaaces.  The Bank was diligent in allowing time for mobilizing
resources for the identification and preparation of the project. Overall, Bank supervision was satisfactory.
The project experienced problems regarding DBP's apparent non-adherence to covenants concerning its
Institutional Development Program (IDP), Policy Statement and modality of privatization. Resolution of this
situation required full confidence and mutual respect between the Bank and DBP. and flexibility by Bank staff
in suggesting or approving the needed modifications. The Borrower's perfonnance was also satisfactory
throughout the project period. As the key implementing agency of the IICP, DBP was already actively
involved in the subsector studies that laid the solid foundation of the IRP. In addition, DBP administered the
project well and with great enthusiasm (paras. 17-19).
10.    Assessment of Outcome. The project has achieved or exceeded almost all of its major objectives.
and is likely to have a substantial development impact in the future. Overall, project implementation has been
very impressive. Institutional development also has been satisfactory, notwithstanding the major changes in
DBP's priorities that led to the formulation of an institutional development strategy that differed from the
original one (para. 20).
SUMMARY OF FINDINGS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
11.    Key findings and lessons learned from the implementation of the project are summarized as follows
(para. 21):
(a) Successful private sector development ;nvolving industrial restructuring requires adequate lead
time, financial resources, technical expertise, and motivated institutions to conduct and supervise
comprehensive, in-depth studies. Also, effective implementation of such studies requires that the government
has a firm commitment to creating a conducive policy environment:
(b) The availability of cofinancing funds does not imply that these funds will be utilized, unless they
are offered with attractive terms;
(c) A Government-owned Financial Institution (GFI) can be an efficient and cost effective vehicle to
bolster private sector and human resource development;
(d) A proactive and farsighted financial institution such as DBP can succeed in lending and
institutional strenthening for environmental protection;
(e) While it may be desirable for the institutional development progress of a GFI to maintain a tight
time schedule, due allowance should be given to the socio-political and external factors that can warrant
changes in government priorities and in a GFI's IDP.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(LOAN 3287-PH)
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. INTRODUCTION
1     Bank support for the Industrial Restructuring Project (IRP, Loan 3287-PH) was
consistent with the country assistance strategy, which focused on helping the Philippines
(during the late 1 980s) to sustain economic recovery and bring about a structural
transformation of thL economy through major policy reforms. The Bank was committed
to assisting the GOP to maintain a reasonable and sustainable rate of growth in the
industrial sector, over the medium to long-term. With the support of the Bank, the GOP
designed and implemented major industrial and trade policy reforms aimed at increasing
economic efficiency and stimulating private sector initiatives, and major financial sector
reforms aimed at rehabilitating government-owned financial institutions (GFIs), including
the Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) which was insolvent and caused a serious
drain on the government budget. (See Table 2 for related Bank loans).
2.    The Bank worked closely with the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) and the
Department of Finance (DOF) to develop a program of financial sector adjustment,
leading to the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL, Ln. 3049-PH). This program,
articulated by the GOP, included a reorientation of DBP from a retail lending institution to
a predominantly wholesale bank. In its continued support for institution building, the
Bank premised the Industrial Investment Credit Project (IICP) on the understanding that
DBP would be transformed into a predominantly wholesale bank both through an increase
in wholesale lending and through the privatization of most of its retail branches. The IICP
was also designed to finance subsector studies, which provided an excellent basis for the
formulation of a detailed Action Program for restructuring the industrial sector. The
continuing constructive dialogue and close collaboration between the GOP and the Bank
led to the design of the IRP to facilitate implementation of the financial, industrial and
trade policy reforms in the Philippines, and also contributed to boosting the private sector,
protecting the physical environment, and developing human resources.
B. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
3.    Project Objectives. The project was designed to: (a) support the revival and
strengthening of the industrial sector; (b) support sound industrial investment in subsectors
free from major distortions resulting from inappropriate trade and regulatory policies; (c)



- 2 -
help make the cement, pulp & paper, textiles, shipping and ship repairs subsectors more
competitive through reforms of subsector-specific policies, training and technical
assistance (TTA), and institutional strengthening; (d) strengthen the institutional
framework for environmental protection; and, (e) strengthen DBP's capacity to play a
more active role in the development of the capital market, and to act as a wholesale bank
channeling term funds to retail financial institutions.
4.    To achieve these objectives, the following components were defined:
(a)    A Credit Line of US$175.0 million to DBP was established for onlending
to private sector enterprises through accredited participating financial
institutions (PFIs) for purchasing or leasing equipment and financing
permanent working capital, including investments in energy conservation
and pollution control devices. To achieve the object.ve of supporting only
efficient and sound investments, no funding was provided for projects in
subsectors that had quantitative restrictions, excessive tariff protection,
price controls, or administrative barriers to entry. This credit line was to be
supplemented by export credits worth about US$75.0 million under the
Bank's Export Credit Enhanced Leverage Program (EXCEL) cofinancing
facility.
(b)   Training and Technical Assistance (TTA) for selected subsectors and
environmental protection was targeted at five capital-intensive subsectors:
cement, pulp & paper, textiles, and shipping and ship repairs. The TTA
aimed to: (i) strengthen institutional and training facilities for these
subsectors; (ii) assist enterprises in the identification, analysis, and appraisal
of restructuring investments, and in the design of least cost pollution
control components compatible with  prevailing standards; and, (iii)
support the Environmental Management Bureau (EMB) at the Department
of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) to improve its capacity to
carry out industrial environmental audits and develop generic
Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs). For this purpose, cofinancing
arrangements were made under bilateral grants and soft loans worth
approximately US$15.0 million, administered by DBP.
(c)    Subsector Studies initiated under the IICP and cofinanced through the
Japanese Grant Facility (administered by the Bank and executed by DBP)
were undertaken in order to facilitate restructuring of other priority
subsectors.
5.    Re-evaluation of Objectives.  The project objectives were well defined and
understood by both the Borrower (DBP) and the Bank.  These objectives were
instrumental in the implementation of GOP's financial, industrial and trade policy reforms.
The project was, therefore, timely and fell in line with the Bank's country assistance
strategy. Both financial and physical restructuring, as well as environmental protection,
were integral parts of the industrial investment program. The project was demanding and



- 3 -
complex, particularly regarding its institutional development program (IDP). The IDP had
to be responsive to the changing economic and political realities in the country as well as
to the dynamics of the global financial market, and yet any significant changes in it had to
be approved by the Bank,  As such, an intensive interactive dialogue and close
cooperation between the DBP and the Bank were crucial to the project's overall success.
Notwithstanding the inevitable uncertainty of the state of the Philippine economy and the
competing demands on DBP to act as a catalyst in a number of priority areas, the project
risks were minimal and worth taking.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
6.    Overall Achievements. Overall, the project achieved its main objectives. The
DBP succeeded in the transfer of term credit in a much shorter period and with greater
economic and environmental impacts than expected at the time of loan approval (Table 4).
Further, DBP's proficient management of the TTA led to the timely and efficient
implementation of both the subsector training courses and the environmental protection
program. Though the textiles subsector was unable to use the TTA, the Action Program
for restructuring the cement, pulp & paper, inter-island shipping, and ship repairs
subsectors are being implemented by the respective trade associations, industrial
enterprises, and training institutions. Moreover, DBP continued to make good progress
toward achieving the objectives of its restructuring program initiated during the mid-
1 980s. The DBP has earned the reputation of being a professionally managed
development bank, significantly contributing to the financial and industrial development of
the country in partnership with the private sector. However, a few areas require DBP
management attention in order to further strengthen the institution (paras. 12, 14, 15).
7.    Industrial and Trade Policy Reforms. The project succeeded in its objective of
facilitating the ongoing industrial and trade policy reforms by providing much needed
technical assistance and financial support, along with the measures to protect the physical
environment. The more liberal policy environment envisaged by the GOP needed both
financial and physical restructuring that would have enabled firms to improve efficiency
and international competitiveness.  In this context, a subsector approach was most
appropriate and it was effectively followed through both the IICP and the IRP. As a
further inducement to encourage only efficient and sound investments, IRP barred access
to the credit line by the five major subsectors that were capital-intensive, had unreasonably
high energy intensity of production, high wastage rates of raw materials, high plant
maintenance costs, low labor productivity and suboptimal scales of operations. As a result
of the concerted efforts of the GOP, DBP, PFIs, industry associations, and other agencies,
the Bank's key concerns regarding the policy environment were quickly addressed and the
Bank removed this restriction before end-1991. Thus, the project quickly accomplished
its objectives of removing quantitative import restrictions, reducing effective protection,
eliminating price controls and lifting administrative barriers to entry, and thereby
succeeded in stimulating private sector development.



- 4 -
8.    Supporting Revival of Industry through Sound Investment. The loan amount
of US$175.0 million was disbursed through 34 PFIs by June 1995. It financed 76 private
business enterprises covering a wide range of industries, including:  food and food
products, accounting for 29% of the total loan amount approved (25% by number); non-
metallic mineral products (including cement) for 13% (9%); transportation, storage and
communications for 10% (9%); and miscellaneous manufacturing for 10% (12%).
Commercial banks, with a 70% share in the total loan amount, were the most active
participants in the project, followed by leasing & finance companies (16%), and
specialized government banks (12%). In terms of the regional dispersal of investments,
the National Capital Region accounted for 28%, followed by Southern Luzon (23%) and
Central Luzon (19%). There are several indications that the project has significantly
contributed to cost reductions, environmental protection, and increased international
competitiveness of the Philippine industry, as apparent from the last mission's anecdotal
findings: (a) a cement plant reduced electricity consumption by 24%, dust emissions by
80%, and increased production capacity by 20%; (b) by modernizing its laundry plant, a
sportswear corporation succeeded in exporting denim pants to the U.S. market; and (c) a
paper plant reduced water consumption by 68%, electricity consumption by 25%, and
increased production capacity by 22%.
9     Training Program.  The TTA program for the cement subsector is being
implemented by two leading business houses (PHENMA and ICC) under a soft loan of
US$4.0 million granted by NDF.  PHINMA, known for its highly regarded human
development programs, is building a full-service, fully equipped training center that is
expected to be operational by November 1996. ICC has already completed its training
center and has conducted several training courses. Both these facilities are available for
the entire industry.  The TTA program for the pulp & paper subsector has been
implemented by the Pulp and Paper Manufacturers' Association under a grant of SEK
10.9 million from BITS. To date, 11 technical courses have been conducted, including
three overseas. The rest of the courses were conducted at two training centers in the
Philippines with about 550 participants, who commended and valued the program. The
TTA program for the shipping and ship repairs subsectors is being implemented by DBP
in cooperation with the Philippine Inter-island Shipping Association and the Philippine
Shipbuilders and Repairers Association (with a Norwegian Consultant) under a grant of
NOK 35.0 million from NORAD. The program was comprehensive and detailed, and
consisted of seminars, workshops, training courses and study tours that were conducted at
the company and subsector levels, as well as for policy and regulatory agencies. This
program was so successful that DBP is seeking its extension (additional grant equivalent
of US$2.5 million) and supplementary credit facility (equivalent of US$50.0 million) to
support the modernization of domestic shipping.
10.   Subsector Studies. Having completed the first batch of studies related to the
above-mentioned five subsectors (Phase I) under the IICP, a comprehensive review of the
manufacturing sector was conducted. This review was completed in July 1994, and led to
the identification of eight priority subsectors for in-depth study, which was completed



- 5 -
under Phase II' of the IRP. These studies were supervised by an Inter-Agency Working
Group (IWG). In May 1995, the IWG delineated action plans among various agencies
and identified the need for a 'bridging phase" consultancy to translate the new concepts
and the restructuring programs into concrete actions.  This work is expected to be
completed by December 1995.
11.   Environmental Protection.   The TTA  for strengthening  the institutional
infrastructure for environmental protection was funded under Phases I and II under a total
grant of SEK 10.5 million from BITS, administered by DBP. Led by DBP's proactive and
synergetic approach, the implementation of this TTA has been exemplary and highly
successful in the strengthening of DBP as well as of the Environmental Management
Bureau (EMB) and its regional offices (the functional arm of the Department of
Environment and Natural Resources (DENR)). The EMB-DENR, DBP, and other
selected industries developed an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) that would act
as an enabling mechanism to support industry's compliance with environmental standards.
This cooperation initially focused on an all-round strengthening of the EMB-DENR, the
effectiveness of which has been widely praised. The environmental TTA has also led to:
(a) the introduction of environmental impact audits (EIA) and emphasis on the importance
of self monitoring by industries; (b) dramatic changes in the attitudes of private industrial
enterprises and their associations, thereby bridging the gap between industry and EMB, (c)
conclusion of a Memorandum of Agreement among EMB, DBP and six industry
associations (cement, pulp & paper, ship repairs, textiles, metal fabrication, and
semiconductors) to address environmental issues and undertake concrete actions; (d)
establishment of self-monitoring programs at four pilot industrial plants, leading to the
demand for similar programs at many other plants; (e) installation of a prototype
environmental data base in four subsectors at DBP; and (f) request to BITS for additional
support to broaden subsector coverage and lend resources for environmental protection.
12.   DBP's Institutional Development Progress.  From  the perspective of its
institutional development, DBP's overall progress has been impressive. For continued
success in significantly contributing to the country's economy, however, DBP
management needs to address several remaining issues.  The key aspects of DBP's
progress and these issues are outlined below:
(a)    Wholesale Banking. DBP has been transformed from a large multisector
retail banking institution into a predominantly wholesale institution. The
share of wholesale lending in DBP's outstanding portfolio increased from
12% in 1990 to 64% in 1994, and this share is expected to remain stable at
around 65% during the ] 990s (provided the status quo assumptions remain
valid). However, the entire amount of this increase was realized through
an increase in wholesale operations, as privatization of retail operations did
The eight recommended and approved prioritv subsectors for restructuring were: canned and preserved
fruits and vegetables; canned and preserved fish; cocoa, chocolate and sugar confectionerv; spinning
and weaving; wood and wood based products; plastics; fabricated metal products: and electrical and
household appliances.



- 6 -
not materialize. As a result, this remains a concern (see para. 14). As a
wholesale bank, though, DBP was close to the single borrower limit (SBL)
for some PFIs. Since this limit could be prudently lifted from the present
15% of net worth to 25%, this constraint can be alleviated without
affecting DBP's financial soundness.
(b)   Loan Portfolio.  Currently, the performance of DBP's overall loan
portfolio is satisfactory and its wholesale portfolio has no non-performing
loans. The ICR mission was informed that even the PFIs' portfolio under
the IRP are current. While this is noteworthy, the quality of DBP's retail
portfolio is a source of concern and, therefore, DBP needs to initiate
urgent internal actions to arrest and reverse the portfolio deterioration.
(c)    Resource Mobilization.  Thus far, DBP has moAtly relied on official
sources (e.g. IBRD, ADB, OECF) for financing its wholesale banking.
Though DBP raised US$175.0 million through a EuroBond issue in 1993,
in the absence of foreign exchange risk coverage by the government, DBP
was facing difficulties in onlending these funds at profitable terms to the
private sector. While DBP has been recycling the second generation funds
under various projects at a reasonable margin, a major effort is needed to
bolster its medium/long-term resource position to a sustainable level. One
option would be for DBP to issue its own financial instruments in the
domestic market.
(d)   Financial Performance. DBP's financial performance continues to be
satisfactory, although the recent rapid growth in its assets---more than
tripling between 1990-93--- is unlikely to continue. DBP's debt-equity
ratios and return on equity are also satisfactory. Since DBP's portfolio is
dominated by wholesale operations generally carrying low margins, the
success of these operations requires high volume and minimal overheads.
In this respect, the recent sharp increase in administrative expenses
(especially in direct personnel costs) requires DBP management attention.
(Tables 8A, 8B).
(e)    Future Role and Strategy. Since its major restructuring DBP has made
substantial progress and has now become an important supporter of private
sector development.  DBP's future role is evidenced by its presently
evolving strategy, including the BSP Monetary Board's recent approval of
its unibanking license. This approval opens up a new vista for DBP, and
aside from its success in mobilizing resources for wholesale banking and
privatizing its retail banking, DBP needs to develop investment and
merchant banking operations. Further, if DBP is exempted from the Salary
Standardization Law applicable to government institutions (under the
Amended Charter), it will pave the way for DBP to become a more
efficient development institution by attracting the highly specialized staff



- 7 -
required for it to be a leader in developing the capital market, and by
preventing the exodus of hired talents to private sector.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
13.   Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control. Making the EXCEL
cofinancing facility operational was time consuming because of the involvement of several
participants: DBP, Participating Financial Institutions (PFI), BSP, Export Credit Agencies
(ECA), and the Bank. The legitimate discontinuance of the '"omfort letters" from the
BSP regarding the availability of foreign exchange (resulting from the country's financial
sector reforms) contributed to the delay in the finalization of EXCEL agreements. Yet
DBP concluded agreements between June 1992-March 1993, with four ECAs belonging
to Switzerland, Japan, Netherlands, and the Republic of Korea.  These credit lines,
amounting to an aggregate of about US$65.0 million, had been open for one to two years;
but remained unused despite vigorous marketing efforts (Table 9). Though an overall
downturn in the Philippine economy led to a general decline in loan demand, the main
reason for the lack of interest in using these credit lines was mostly due to their
unattractive terms and conditions: (a) as tied loans, they were often more expensive than
untied loans; (b) loans were denominated in foreign currencies, with most borrowers
unwilling to assume the foreign exchange risk; (c) DBP's onlending rates to the PFIs
were high due to the required adequate coverage of the foreign exchange risk; (d) while
other credit lines allowed reimbursement of the expenditures made within a 90-180 day
period, the EXCEL facility did not permit opening of Letters of Credit (LC) prior to
approval; (e) the grace period was limited to a maximum of only six months; and (f)
permanent working capital was not eligible for financing.
14.   Factors Generally Subject to Government Control. DBP's wholesale banking
strategy and privatization of its retail operations were agreed between the Bank and DBP,
since this reformation was considered to be of utmost importance from the perspective of
strengthening the Philippines' financial system. Though wholesale banking, per se, made
impressive strides, the privatization scheme continued to face a series of problems. This
culminated in the formal opinions of the Department of Justice and the Commission on
Audit, and left no options for achieving this objective except through an amendment to the
DBP's Charter (which would require legislative action and presidential approval). Since
as a GFI, the DBP is expected to respond to the country's changing socio-economic and
political conditions as assessed by the government, and the Charter is a long-term
instrument, DBP has proposed a new strategy for its future development and has
accordingly drafted a new Charter, IDP, and Policy Statement reflecting the latest
thinking. These drafts have incorporated the Bank's comments, but DBP still needs to
develop an action plan to facilitate achievement of these objectives2.
2 In its review of the ICR, the DBP noted that it does not consider privatization efforts as a shortcoming,
with regard to assessing the project's success.



- 8 -
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
15.   The prospects of sustainable institutional development in DBP and of the IRP's
long-term development impact (including environmental protection and human resource
development) are promising.  DBP has earned the reputation of a well-established
wholesale bank providing term credit through PFIs, and serving effectively and efficiently
as an Apex institution. The recent approval of DBP's application for a universal bank
license, while retaining its thrift bank privileges, evidences its success as a facilitator of
private sector development. The strong likelihood of the approval of proposed major
changes in the DBP's charter in the near future further suggests that DBP is expected to
play an even more prominent role as a catalyst in the government's efforts, inter alia, to
create a more conducive environment for private sector development. DBP's proposed
strategy is a step in the right direction, but considerable work is needed to convert this
strategy into a plan of action. In this context, the Bank has offered continued technical
support, especially to further strengthen DBP in the areas of resource mobilization,
commercial viability of branch and retail operations, and developing a human resources
strategy and privatization program.
16.   The sustainability of benefits of the subprojects and the training programs is
difficult to assess, due to a lack of comprehensive information. The information gathered
by the ICR mission indicates however, that: there are no arrears in PFIs' relevant
portfolio, there is considerable demand for term credit; and, there is an all-round
appreciation of the DBP's active role and of EMB-DENR's positive assessment of IRP's
implementation. Thus, the benefits are likely to be sustainable.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
17.   The Bank was forward thinking in allowing time to mobilize resources for the
identification and preparation of the project (Table 6). First, the carefully reviewed five
subsector studies led to the articulation of a sound restructuring strategy. Second, an
Action Plan was designed for each subsector, which included specific policy actions that
were implemented in a timely manner by the GOP. Third, the TTA program for each
subsector was meticulously prepared. Finally, the Bank's close collaborative approach led
to a quick project appraisal but, in retrospect, did not foresee the rapid developments in
the country which influenced DBP's surroundings and constraints in implementing its
originally agreed IDP, Policy Statement, etc. Thus, aside from the unanticipated favorable
changes in the Philippines' economy, which contributed to the redundancy of the EXCEL
cofinancing facility, the project design was ambitious and complex (paras. 3, 4, 5).
Moreover, in retrospect, the 90-day limit on reimbursement of eligible expenditures was
too restrictive, especially for syndicated loans.  Overall, the Bank's supervision was
satisfactory, and  involved intensive interactive dialogue with regard to   DBP's
institutional development.  Despite the absence of an environmental specialist in
supervision missions, the environmental aspects were well addressed (Table 10).
18    Although DBP succeeded in transferring term credit much faster than originally
anticipated and efficiently implemented the TTA program, the project ran into serious



- 9 -
problems regarding DBP's apparent non-adherence to the covenants concerning its IDP,
Policy Statement and modality of privatization (Table 9). The situation was further
exacerbated since DBP was expected to play a more vital role in the Philippine economy
which, in turn, warranted consideration of major amendments to its Charter; whereas
under IRP covenants, the Bank's consent was required for any changes that could
"adversely and materially" affect the operations or financial ccndition of DBP. Resolution
of this situation required mutual respect between BDP and the Bank, and flexibility by
Bank staff in suggesting or approving the needed modifications.  The constructive
dialogue, initiated before 1991, eventually led to the March 1995 supervision mission,
which  paved  the way for mutually  acceptable amendments.   The July  1995
supervision/completion mission reinforced the mutual acceptance and allowed for possible
future involvement of the Bank in helping DBP to address environmental protection,
personnel train;ng and private sector development issues.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
19.   Borrower performance  was  satisfactory  throughout the  project period,
notwithstanding some disagreements between the Bank and DBP (para. 18). As the
borrower and key implementing agency of the IICP, DBP was already actively involved in
the subsector studies that laid the solid foundation of the IRP. DBP administered the
entire project (credit and TTA) with great enthusiasm and professionalism, as reflected by
the superior quality of its implementation.  While maintaining thoroughness in its
accreditation process, DBP swiftly expanded its network of PFIs from 23 under the IICP
to 76 under the IRP, and successfully disbursed the entire loan amount in four rather than
six and a half years (Table 4). Though Bank missions invariably sensed the widespread
goodwill, satisfaction, and cordial relationship amid DBP and its partners (PFIs,
consultants and industrial enterprises), two qualifications seem relevant. First, there was
an oversight in tlhe DBP's IRP brochure (February 1991) where eligible sub-borrower's
Filipino ownership was stated to be a minimum 60% (valid for borrowings from the
domestic sources), and not 70% as required under the Foreign Borrowing Act. Second,
the disbursement mode of direct payment to the supplier ran into difficulties.  DBP
regularly supplied all reports on time except audit reports, over which it had no control.
Finally, the GOP contributed leadership, a commitment to policy reforms as well as
prompt implementation of these reforms, and the sustained and noteworthy progress of
I)BP.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
20.   The project has achieved or exceeded almost all its major objectives, and is likely
to have a substantial development impact without major shortcomings in the near future.
Overall, project implementation has been very impressive. The loan has been fully drawn
down about two and a half years prior to the closing date. Excellent progress has been
made in the areas of human resources development and environmental protection. In
addition, the entire TTA component has been successfully implemented. Institutional
development progress also has been satisfactory, notwithstanding the major changes in



- 10 -
DBP's priorities that led to the formulation of a different institutional development
strategy than that which was originally agreed. The new strategy envisages the eventual
privatization of retail lending (including branches), investment banking and real estate
operations, and thus, DBP will confine itself primarily to wholesale lending. This strategy
is consistent with the objectives of the original DBP restructuring plan, whose ftull
implementation has been delayed (Table 1).
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
21.   The most significant lessons learned from the implementation of the project which
are relevant for similar projects aimed at boosting the private sector, protecting the
physical environment, and developing human resources in a country, are summarized
below:
(a)    Succes,sful private sector development involving industrial restructuring
requires adequate lead time, financial resources, technical expertise, and
motivated institutions to conduct and supervise comprehensive, in-depth
studies;
(b)    Effective implementation of such studies also requires that the government
has a firm commitment to creating a conducive policy environment;
(c)    The sheer availability of cofinancing funds (e.g. EXCEL facility) does not
imply that these funds will be utilized, unless offered with attractive terms;
(d)    A GFI can be an efficient and cost effective vehicle to bolster private sector
and human resource development,
(e)    A proactive and farsighted financial institution such as DBP can succeed in
lending and institutional strengthening for environmental protection;
(f)    While it may be desirable for the institutional development progress of a
GFI to sustain its momentum and, hence, to maintain a tight time schedule,
due allowance should be given to the socio-political realities and external
exigencies that may warrant changes in government priorities and in a
GFI's IDP.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(Loan 3287-PH)
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Operation/Implementation
Table 6:  Studies Included in the Project
Table 7A: Project Costs
Table 7B: Project Financing
Table 7C: Industry Sub-Sector Disribution.of Projects Financed
Table 7D: Financed Projects Distribution to PFIs
Table 8A: DBP Balance Sheets
Table 8B: DBP Income Statements
Table 9:  Status of Legal Documents
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions






Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A.   Achievement of Objectives      Substantial         Partial         Negligible      Not Applicable
Macro policies                    =,
Sector policies                 .5a  o
IFinancial objectives                              C3i              C =       
Institutional development                          =                = 
Physical objectives               C                 =               C3
Poverty reduction                                   D
(jender issues                                                                        -.
Other social objectives                            =
Fiuvironmental objectives
I'ublic sector management         C                =                Cl
Private sector development       J   -               3              C3
l luinan resouice development    a  a                3                3
B.   Project Sustainability            Likelv                           Unlikely        Uncertain
()                                ()               ()
Hiahly
C.   Bank Performance                 Satisfactorv                      Satisfactory       Deficient
( J                     ~~~( )            ( )
idcniification
Preparation assistance                                              =
Appraisal                       _  z
SUperVIsion
Hitthlv
D.   Borrower Performance             Satisfactory                      Satisfactory       Deficient
()                                ()               ()
Preparation
Implementation
Covenant compliance
Hiiehlv
E.   Assessment of Outcome            Satisfactory                      Satisfactorv       Deficient
()                                ()               ()



- 12 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Year of
Loan No.             Project Description             Approval       Status
Preceding Operations
1572    3rd Industrial Investment Credit Project     1978        Closed
(IICP-III)
1727    2nd Small & Medium Industries Development    1979        Closed
Project (SMI-II)
1903    Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL-I)           1980        Closed
1984    Apex Industrial Finance Loan                 1981        Closed
2127    Textile Sector Restructuring Project         1982         Closed
2169    3rd Small & Medium Industries Development    1982         Closed
Project (SMI-III)
2266    2nd Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL-I1)      1983         Closed
2787    Economic Recovery Program Loan (ERL)         1987         Closed
2956    Reform Program for Government                1988         Closed
Corporations (RPGC)
3038    4th Small & Medium Industries Development    1989         Closed
Project (SMI-IV)
3049    Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL)      1989         Closed
3 123   Industrial Investment Credit Project (IICP)  1989         Closed
Following Operations
33 12    Cottage Enterprise Finance Project          1991        Inactive
3539    Economic Integration Program Loan (EIL)      1992         Closed
Financial Markets Strengthening Project                  Under
Preparation



- 13 -
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle          Date Planned          Date Actual
Initial Executive Project Summary      Feb. 5, 90           Mar. 29, 90
Final Executive Project Summary       Mar. 29, 90           May 21, 90
Appraisal                           June 90/Sept. 90     5/29/90 - 6/15/90
Negotiations                            Nov. 90            Nov. 7-14, 90
Operating Policy Guidelines                -                Nov. 16, 90
Board Presentation                       12/90               Jan. 8, 91
Signing                                    -                Jan. 23, 91
Effectiveness                                               April 16, 91
Project Completion                      Dec. 96              Dec. 94
Loan Closing                            Dec. 97             Feb. 28, 95



- 14 -
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US $millions)
FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94   FY95            FY96
Appraisal Estimate              7.0      49.0    109.0   142.0   169.0         175 0
Actual                          10.0      73.4    144.5   172.9   175.0        175.0
Actual as % of Estimate         143%     150%    133%      122%    104%0       100%
Date of Final Disbursement                        February 27, 1995



- 15 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Operation and Implementation
Key Operatine Indicators            Estimated                   Actual
Loan effectiveness                   03/31/91                  04/16/91
Project implementation period       81 months                  55 months
Loan closing                         12/31/97                   11/30/95
Implementation of Action    To facilitate the restructuring  AP for all subsectors (except
Program (AP) and TTA        of subsectors.             textiles, which was unable to
component.                                             use the TTA) are being
implemented. TTA
implemented in an efficient
and timely manner.
Implementation of DBP's     To help DBP play a more    Overall progress has been
Insitutional Development Plan,  active role in the     impressive. DBP succeeded
Policy Statement, Operating  development of the capital   in the transfer of term credit
Policy Guidelines           market, to act as a wholesale  in a much shorter time period
bank channeling term funds   and with greater positive
to retail financial institutions,  economic and environmental
and to contribute to the  impacts than expected.
financial and industrial  Made good progress toward
development of the country   achieving the objectives of its
in partnership with the   restructuring program.
I private sector.



- 16 -
Table 6: Studies Included in the Project
Studv                       Purpose              Status           Imnact of study
Study of the         A comprehensive review   Completed July    Led to the identification of
manufacturing sector   of the manufacturing  1994             the following eight
sector was to be                        priority subsectors for in-
conducted.                              depth study: canned and
preserved fruits and
vegetables; canned and
preserved fish; cocoa,
chocolate and sugar
confectionery; spinning
and weaving; wood and
wood based products;
plastics; fabricated metal
products; and electircal
and household appliances.
Subsector studies    Studies on the eight   Completed under  In May 1995, the IWG
subsectors identified  Phase II of the  delineated action plans
above were to be carried  project.      among various agencies
out to facilitate                       and identified the need for
restructuring of these                  a "bridging phase"
subsectors. These                       consultancy to translate
studies were to be                      the new concepts and
supervised by an Inter-                 restructuring programs
Agency Working Group                    into concrete actions.
(IWG).                                  This work is expected to
be completed by
December 1995.



- 17 -
Table 7A: Project Costs
(US$ Million)
Estimated Costs:          Local       Foreign       Total
Credit Componet                 275.0        250.0        525.0
Technical Assistance
Project implementation support  0.3          1.5           1.8
Capacity Building               0.5         12.6          13.1
Policy Development              0.2          0.9           1.1
Subtotal                       1.0         15.0         16.0
Total                           276.0        265.0        541.0



- 18 -
Table 7B: Project Financing
(US$ Million)
Estimated Plan:                             Local        Foreign       Total
Participating Financial Institutions      55.0            0.0          55.0
Subborrowers                             220.0            0.0         220.0
Export Credits                             0.0           75.0          75.0
Proposed IBRD Loan                         0.0          175.0         175.0
Total Funds for Subprojects            275.0          250.u         525.0
Bilateral Funds for TTA                    0.0           15.0          15.0
Local Contribution (DBP, Beneficiaries)    1.0            0.0           1.0
Total funds forTTA                        1.0          15.0          16.0
Total                                  276.0          265.0         541.0



- 19 -
Table 7C: Industry Sub-Sector Distribution of Projects Financed
('000 Pesos)
As of June 30, 1995
Industry Sub-Sector           No. of       Amount    Ammount
Projects    Approved    Released
Apparel Manufacturing                     3         150,800     150,800
Appliances & Supplies Manufacturing       1          90,000      90,000
Beverage Manufacturing                    5         417,605     369,218
Chemical & Chemical Products              3         144,915     144,915
Electricity, Gas & Water                  3         339,726     339,726
Food and Food Products                   19        1,704,736    1,554,736
Metal Industry                            8         422,765     316,308
Miscellaneous Manufacturing               9         572,000     264,787
Non-Metallic Products Manufacturing       7         788,673     588,673
Paper & Paper Products                    2          230,00     230,000
Publishing/Printing                       1          19,015
Textile,Cordage & Twine Manufacutring     5         259,709     259,709
Tobacco Manufacturing                     1          54,000      54,000
Transportation, Storage & Communications  7         572,329     572,329
Woodcare, Cane & Cork Products            2         155,000     150,600
Total                                  76       5,921,275    5,085,803



- 20 -
Table 7D: Financed Projects Distribution to PFIs
('000 Pesos)
As of June 30, 1995
Participating Financial Institution  No. of    Amount    Amount
Projects   Approved    Released
All Asia Capital & Trust Corporation         9      352,626     150,414
AB Capital & Investment Corporation          3      101,450     101,450
Allied Banking Corporation                           58,000      40,000
Asian Bank Corporation                               17,251       4,251
Asiatrust Development Bank                   2       31,387      31,387
Bank of Commerce (formerly Boston Bank)              10,000      10,000
Bank of the Philippine Islands               2       53,524      28,524
BPI Leasing Corporation                     4       121,814     102,799
Capital Development Bank                             19,752      19,752
China Banking Corporation                            98,217      85,217
Citibank N.A. (Philippine Branches)         2       128,500     128,500
Citytrust Banking Corporation                1      268,893     250,893
Consolidated Orix Leasing & Finance Corp.            43,725      43,725
Development Bank of the Philippines          1      216,000     216,000
Dharmala Capital Investment & Trust Co., Inc  1     143,387      65,000
Equitable Banking Corporation               16    1,050,359    1,045,959
Far East Bank & Trust Company                6      492,272     472,272
The Intemational Corporate Bank              1      100,547     100,547
Land Bank of the Philippines                 3      270,150     257,150
Mercator Finance Corporation                2        32,061      32,061
Metropolitan Bank & Trust Company                    18,437      18,437
Philippine Bank of Communication                     13,550      13,550
Philippine Commercial Capital, Inc                  142,637      54,637
Philippine Commercial International Bank     5      452,153     327,696
Philippine National Bank                     1      203,152     185,152
Pilipinas Bank                                       74,000      74,000
Planters Development Bank                    2       39,067      39,067
Planters Development Bank Leasing Corp.              25,752      25,752
Rizal Commercial Banking Corporation         7      590,196     427,196
Solid Bank Corporation                      2        79,000      61,000
United Coconut Planters Bank                 3      372,433     372,433
UCPB Savings Bank                                    39,694      39,694
Union Bank of the Philippines               2       241,565     241,565
Urban Development Bank                       1       19,717      19,717
Total                                 76    5,921,275    5,085,803
Commercial Banks                           48    4,138,618    3,721,761
Private Development & Thrift Banks          4       129,900     129,900
Leasing & Finance Companies                19       963,455     575,840
Specialized Government Banks                5       689,302     658,302
Total                                 76    5,921,275    5,085,803



- 21 -
Table 8A: DBP Financial Statements
Balance Sheets, 1990-1994
(Pesos million)
1990       1991       1992        1993       1994
ASSETS
Current
Cash and due from banks                1,492      3,390      4,964       9,098       3,818
Investments in securities              3,457      5,622      8,824       6,882       6,374
Accounts recble and others              297         482        702         666        681
Short-term advances & loans            1,835       1,916     2,552       6,636       9,280
Current maturities of term loans       1,544      4,830      7,170       4,909       6,991
Total Current Assets                 8,625      16,240     24,212      28,191     27,144
Long Term
Loans                                  7,045       8,634     12,676     23,173      23,883
Provision for doubtful accounts       (1,221)      (873)      (570)       (477)       (421)
Inv. in bonds/equities/debentures      1,230       1,400      2,137      2,079       4,510
Fixed Assets (net)                      306         316        507         641        734
Other Assets                           1,167       1,294     2,053       3,126       3,670
Total Long-Term Assets               8,527      10,771     16,803      28,542     32,376
TOTAL ASSETS                           17,152      27,011    41,015      56,733      59,520
LIABILITIES & STOCKHOLDERS
EQUITY
Current
Deposits                               3,960       7,703     12,480     12,950      10,110
Accounts Payable and accr. exp.        2,302       3,031      3,733      2,870       2,637
Short-term borrowings                   327          44         97         130          8
Current maturities of LT borrow         244          47        174         266        750
Total Current Liabilities            6,833      10,825     16,484      16,216     13,505
Long-Term
Time and special deposits              1,215       2,020      3,005      4,044         52
Deferred credits                        199         191        577         744       1,856
Special funds                           141         140        140          11          11
Long-term borrowings                   1,894      6,295      11,887     25,277      32,567
Total Long-term Liabilities          3,449       8,646     15,609      30,076     34,486
TOTAL LIABILITIES                      10,282      19,471    32,093      46,292      47,991
NET WORTH
Paid-in capital                        2,500      5,000      5,000       5,000       5,000
Retained earnings                      4,370      2,540      3,922       5,441       6,529
FOTAL NET WORTH                        6,870       7,540      8,922      10,441      11,529



- 22 -
Table SB: DBP Financial Statements
Income Statements, 1990-1994
(Pesos niillion)
1990       1991        1992 -      1993        1994
INCOME
Interest of loans and advances           1,442       2,325      3,162        3,639      4,249
Earnings on funds and securities           631         932       1,296       1,939       1,986
Other income                               423         359        800         773        1,020
TOTAL INCOME                             2,496       3,616      5,258        6,351      7,255
EXPENSES
Interest & other financial charges         526       1,399      2,650        3,731      3,864
Salaries & other personnel expenses       433          454        488         505         748
Other Administrative expenses              345         379        461         543         623
Provision for doubtful accounts              1          18        (36)          4          13
TOTAL EXPENSES                           1,305       2,250      3,563        4,783      5,248
Net Operating Income                     1,191       1,366       1,695       1,568       2,007
Share in Net Income of Equity Inv.           2           4          4           3           0
1,193       1,370      1,699       1,571       2,007
Provision for Income Tax                    55          72          0           0          41
Gross Receipts Tax                          86         114        171         241         254
NET INCOME FOR THE PERIOD                1,052       1,184      1,528        1,330      1,712



- 23 -
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Section       Co0iiat         Status 6              Description of                      Coumments
--- . e .....   ..........Covenant
Loan Agreement wth DBP (Jan uary 23, 1991)_
3.04        Institutional      CP        DBP shall implement IDP diligently    IDP has been undergoing
and promptly.                      substantial revisions and is being
implemented satisfactorily.
4.02(a)    Accounts/Audit        C        DBP shall furnish to the Bank its   Though the audited statements
audited financial statements within six  for all earlier years were delayed,
months after the end of each such year.  the statements for 1994 have
4.02(b)    Accounts/Audit                 DBP shall ensure that the audit report   been received in time and are
contains a separate opinion by the  satisfactory.
auditor on the withdrawals made on the
basis of SOE.
4.04 (a)      Financial          C        DBP to maintain debit to equity ratio    Ratio was 4.9 as of June 30,
of 5 to I or less.                  1995.
5.01        Institutional       C        DBP not to amend its Charter or     DBP has been consulting the
Statement of Policy so as to affect  Bank before introducing such
materially and adversely its operations   amendments and is responsive to
or financial condition.            the Bank's comments..
6.01      Implementation        C        Before the date of effectiveness, DBP
to: (a) adopt and put into affect its
Operating Policy Guidelines; and (b)
appoint qualified Project Manager.    I
Guarantee Agreement with GOP (January 23, 1991)
3.01       Cost recovery        C        GOP to assume the foreign exchange    Formula revised to reflect
risk and to charge DBP a fee therefor.   changed market conditions and
implemented.
3.02      Inplementation        C        GOP to undertake to implement or    Action Programs were reviewed
cause to implement the Action       by supervision missions and were
I Programs.                          found satisfactory.
Minutes of  eiations (Novem ber 14, 1990)
Para 2       Institutional      CD        DBP and GOP to take all necessary   DBP has been transformed into a
steps to prepare DBP into a vendible    predominantly wholesale bank,
form by June 1991.                  though not by June 1991.
Para 3       Institutional       C        DBP to appropriately staff the
Industrial Restructuring Unit.
EXCEL Facility Cofinancing Agreement between DBP and
The Export-Import Bank of Korea (effective March 1993): US$5.0 million
Export-Import Bank of Japan (effective September 1992): Y3,172.5 million
Swiss Bank Corporation (effective June 1992): S.Fr.20.0 million
Netherlands (effective March 1993): N.L.G. 30.0 million
Status: C = covenant complied with; CD = complied with after delay; and
CP = complied with partially.
* As amended in March 1992 to allow Co-financing Agreements under the Bank's EXCEL Facility
for loans up to an aggregated amount of US$75.0 million equivalent.



- 24 -
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle         US$ (000)
Through appraisal                     235.9
Appraisal-Board                        79.8
Board-effectiveness                    53.9
Supervision                          382.8
Completion                             23.1
TOTAL                               775.5



- 25 -
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
State of Project  Month/Year     Number   Days in   Specialized Staff Skills   Implemen-   Develop-          Types of Problems
Cycle                           of       Field          Represented            tation       ment
Persons                                                    Objectives
Identification   Mar. 90         la/         16 b/    Industrial Specialist
Appraisal       Jun. 90          8 '         17       Industrial Specialist
Operations Officer
Environmental Specialist
Cofinanciers
Post-Appraisal   Sep. 90         5           11       Financial Specialist
Environmental Specialist
Cofinancing Specialist
Supervision I    Mar. 91         3           15 c'    Financial Specialist       1            2           Privatization
Textiles Specialist
Supervision 2    Jun. 91         3           18 c/    Financial Specialist      2             2           Privatization,
Cement Specialist                                  Audit Reports
Supervision 3    Feb. 92         2           7 b      Financial Specialist      2             2           Privatization
EXCEI Facility
Supervision 4    Apr. 93         3           5        Financial Specialist       1            2           EXCEL, Facility
Company Finance
Supervision 5 e  Aug. 93         4           9 d'     Financial Specialist       I            I           Institutional
Operations Officer                                 Development
Supervision 6 r'  Mar. 95        3           9        Financial & Inst. Spec.   HS            S
Capital Market Dev.
Export Financing Spec.
Supervision 7    Jul. 95         2           5        Financial Specialist      HS            S
Industrial Economist
aJ In addition, representatives of cofinanciers joined the mission.
b/ Included supervision of Industrial Investment Credit Project (IICP).
C' Included supervision of IICP and preparation for a Capital Market Study.
d' Included supervision of Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (FSAL).
e/ The Task Manager supervised the project during 1994 as and when he visited the country in the context of other assignments.
r Preceded by Environmental Review Mission under Financial IntermLdiary Lending (FIL) program from Feb. I
through 14, 1995.
Performance Ratings: HS = highly satisfactory; S = satisfactory; I = no significant problems; 2 - moderate problems.






PART III: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
Note: The Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) reviewed the ICR. It had
limited comments which have been reflected (See footnote 2 in para. 14).









I-






IMAA," r lN C,
Repo Lr t N .:    1 52  .
Type: IfCR,



