Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
goA-.AJR f 7 ^ Pv
Report No. 8989-PH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
NOVEMBER 15, 1990
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department II
Asia Regional Office
This doeument has a reskicted dbtibudon and may be used by reripents on  a the perfoance of
their officid dufies. Its contents may io oewise be didosed whout Wodd Bank autwiaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as u.C August 31, 1990)
Currency Unit - Peso (9;
US$1.00 - i 24
P 1.00 - US$0.0417
ACRONYMS
ADB        -      Asian Development Bank
AJDF       -      ASEAN Japan Development Fund
AP         -      Action Program
APT        -      Asset Privatization Trust
BOI        -      Board of Investment
CBP        -      Central Bank of the Philippines
DBP        -      Development Bank of the Philippines
DENR       -      Department of Environment and Natural Resources
DOF        -      Department of Finance
DTI        -      Department of Trade and Industry
ECAs       -      Export Credit Agencies
EIA        -      Environmental Impact Assessment
EMB        -      Environmental Management Bureau
ERL        -      Economic Recovery Loan
EXCEL      -      Export Credit Enhanced Leverage Program
FSAL       -      Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
FSS        -      Financial Sector Study
FX         -      Foreign Exchange
GATT       -      General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GDP        -      Gross Domestic Product
GFIs       -      Government Financial Institutions
GNP        -      Gross National Product
GSIS       -      Government Service Insurance System
IACC       -      Inter Agency Coordinating Committee
IIC        -      Industrial Investment Credit Project
IDP        -      Institutional Development Plan
IGLF       -      Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund
IMF        -      International Monetary Fund
IRP        -      Industrial Restructuring Project
IRU        -      Industrial Restructuring Unit
NDF        -      Nordic Development Fund
OPG        -      Operating Policy Guidelines
PDCP       -      Private Development Corporation of the Philippines
PDIC       -      Philippines Deposit Insurance Corporation
PFI        -      Participating Financia'l Institution
PNB        -      Philippine National Bank
PTRI       -      Philippines Textile Research Institute
PSCC       -      Philippines Standard Customs Code (PSCC)
QRs        -      Quantitative Import Restrictions
SEC        -      Securities and Exchange Commission
SME        -      Small and Medium Enterprises
SSS        -      Social Security System
TTA        -      Training and Technical Assistance
TMAP       -      Textile Manufacturers Association of the Philippines
Fiscal Year
DBP: January 1 to December 31



FOR OmCAL USE ONLY
PHILIPPINES
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJtCT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Sunmry . . . . . . . . . .           . . . . . . .i
I.  THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR  . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . .1
A. The Economic Setting ........... ..              ... ..1
B. The Existing Policy Framework  . . . . . . . . . . . . .        2
C.  Agenda for Further Reform  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       4
D.  Structure and Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       5
E.  Environmental Issues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       6
P.  Selected Subsectorss  Issues and Action Program  . .. .        7
II.  THEFII ANCL   SECTOR ..       .        .-.-..-.                  10
A.  Introduction . . . . ........... ....  .- 10
B.  Evolution and Structure  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      10
C.  Financial Sector Reforms ............... .                    12
D. Institutional Arrangements for Providing
Long-Term Credit ................. . .                      14
E.  Industrial Credit  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      16
F.  Bank Strategy in the Sector  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      17
III.  THE BORROWER AND PARTICIPATING PINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS  . . .      20
A.  The Development Bank of the Philippines  . . . . . . . .      20
Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      20
Historical Perspective: 1958-1986 . . . . . . . .         20
DBP's Rehabilitations  1986-1989 . . . . . . . . . .      21
DBP's New Role and Strategic Orientation . . . . . .      23
Organization and Management  . . . . . . . . . . . .      24
Personnel Policy and Training  . . . . . . . . . . .      24
Accounting and Management Information System . . . .      25
Loan Activities and Asset Management . . . . . . . .      26
Liability Management ........ ..    .                     27
Projected Financial Position and Performance . . . .      28
B. The Participating Financial Institutions . . . . . . . .       29
This report vas written by Mr. Vinod Busjeet with contributions from
Mr. Zderek Drabek (Chapter I). It is based on the findings of (i) an
appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. Vinod Busjeet, Christian Duvigneau,
Zdenek Drabek (Bank), and Aldo Baietti, Peter Dinsdale, Jan Rennel and J.H.
Tomlinson (consultants), vho visited the Philippines in June 1990, and (ii) a
September 1990 post-appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. Vinod Busjeet,
I_mail Dalla, John Chang, and Waman Tambe (Bank).
I Thb document has a resticted distribution and may be used by reipAents only in the peformamce
of their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Pa-t No.
IV.  THE PROPOSED PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    31
A.  Project Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    31
B.  Project Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    31
C.  Loan Amount  ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  33
D.  Project Implementation-Credit Component  . . . . . . . .    34
E.  Project Implementation - TTA Component . . . . . . . . .    35
F. Relending Mechanism, Terms and Conditions  . . . . . . .     38
G.  Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    42
H.  Procurement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    42
I. MoniL ring, Reporting and Auditing . . . . . . . . . . .     43
J.  Benefits and Risks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    43
V.  AGREEMENTS. UNDERSTANDINGS AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . .44
A.  Agreements and Understandings  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    44
B.  Condition of Effectiveness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    45
C. Recommendation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       45
ANNEXES
1.01  Number of Items Regulated, Liberalized and Newly Regulated,
1977 to 1988
1.02  Trends in Tariff Protection
1.03  Comparative Trade Regimes
1.04  Financial Performance of Manufacturing Corporations
1.05  Total Factor Productivity in Selected Manufacturing Industries
1.06  Cement Subsector
1.07  Pulp and Paper Subsector
1.08  Textile Subsector
1.09  Ship Repair Subsector
1.10  Inter-island Shipping Subsector
1.11  Action Program: Cement Subsector
1.12  Action Program: Pulp and Paper Subsector
1.13  Action Program: Textile Subsector
1.14  Action Program:  Inter-island Shipping Subsector
1.15  Action Program:  Ship Repair Subsector
2.01  Total Assets of the Financial System
3.01  Development Bank of the Philippines, Financial Statements, 1984-1988
3.02  Development Bank of the Philippines, Actual and Projected Financial
Statements, 1989-95
3.03  Development Bank of the Philippines, Organization Chart
3.04  Development Bank of the Philippines, Policy Statement
4.01  Industrial Subsectors Not Eligible for Financing
4.02  Technical Assistance Funds
4.03  Training and Technical Assistance in the Cement Subsector
4.04  Training and Technical Assistance in the Pulp and Paper Subsector
4.05  Training and Technical Assistance in the Textile Subsector
4.06  Training and Technical Assistance in the Inter-island Shipping
Subsector
4.07  Training and Technical Assistance in the Ship Repair Subsector
4.08  Technical Assistance to DBP and ENB on Environmental Control
4.09  Supervision Plan
5.01  Documents in Project File



PHILIPPiNES
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Loan and ProAect Summarv
Borrowers         Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP).
Guarantort        Republic of the Philippines.
Beneficiatiess    Accredited participating financial institutions (PFIs);
private sector medium and large enterprises.
Amounts           US$175 million equivalent.
Termes            Repayable over 20 years, including five years of grace, at
the standard variable interest rate.
Onlendings        DBP would relend the proceeds of the Bank loan to
accredited PFIs in foreign or domestic currency at market
rates. Maturities would conform to the maturities of
subloans made by the PFus to subborrowers, but would not
exceed 15 years for physical restructuring investments and
leasing, and 7 years for working capital. The maximum
grace period would be three years, except for lease
financing which would have no grace period. The PFIs would
onlend the funds to their subborrowers at prevailing market
interest rates. In the case of onlending by DBP in
domestic currency, the Government would bear the foreign
exchange risk in exchange for a market- related fee payable
by DBP.
CofinancinE:      Export credits from a number of countries vould be sought
to finance a part of the proposed Project under the EXCEL
Program. An amount of US$75 million is expected to be
provided in this form. Bilateral grants and low cost
funding for training and technical assistance (TTA) would
be provided by Scandinavian (NDF, BITS, and NORAD) and
other sources.
Protect
Obiectivess      The proposed Project aims to:
(a) Support the revival and the strengthening of the
industrial sector;
(b) Support sound industrial investment in subsectors free
from major distortions resulting from inappropriate
trade and regu.1atory policies;
(c) Help make the cement, pulp and paper, textiles,
shipping and ship repair subsectors more competitive
through reforms of subsector-specific policies, and
institutional strengthening;



- 11 -
(d) Strengthen the institutional framework for
environmental protection; and
(e)  Strengthen DBP's capabilities to play a more active
role in developing the capital market and to act as a
wholesale bank channeling ternm funds to retail
financial institutions.
Proiect
Descriltions     The Project would comprise the following components:
(a)  A credit line and export credits to be mobilized under
the EXCEL Program to DBP to be passed on to PPIs for
on-lending to enterprises in eligible industrial
subsectors for modernization, expansion and new
facilities, including investments in energy
conservation and pollution control devices.
(b)  Lease financing.
(c)  Training and technical assistance for (i) selected
subsectors and (ii) environmental protection.
Benef its:        The main benefits of the proposed Project are related to
increased efficiency of existing industrial capacities,
establishment of new facilities and reduction in industrial
pollution, particularly in the Manila area. The moderniza-
tion of the shipping and ship repair sectors would contri-
bute to the more efficient functioning of the island-based
economy through improved transportation facilities. The
Project would thus increase international competitiveness
and support Government efforts to revive industrial growth.
The Project would also help strengthen the credit delivery
system.
Riskst            The main risk is that there could be an unanticipated
slowdown in loan demand because there could be: (a) an
unforeseen downturn in the economy and (b) delays in
implementation of the subsector action progran which could
delay the eligibility of some subsectors for Bank funds.
These risks have been minimized by keeping the loan size in
the lower range of estimated credit demand.  The risk of
delays in subsector policy actions has been reduced through
extensive discussion of the action programs with key
agencies. The commitment of the Government to major
reforms in trade and tariff regime evidenced in its
announcement of a specific plan will also help. Another
risk relates to the capacity of the agencies to absorb the
extensive technical assistance provided under the project.
The involvement of the industry associations and government
agencies in the design and implementation of this TA is
expected to minimize this risk.



- Aii-
Estimated Costs
Local    ?oregin    Total
------ (us$ Million)------
Credit Component                              275.0      250.0     525.0
Technical Assistance
Project  implementation support              0.3        1.5       1.8
Capacity building                            0.5       12.6      13.1
Policy development                           0.2        0.9       1.
Subtotal                                 1.0      15.0       16.0
Total                               276.0     265.0      541.0
Financina Plan:
Local    Foreian    Total
--- -  (US$ Million)-----
Participating Financial Institutions           55.0        0.0      55.0
Subborrowers                                  220.0        0.0     220.0
Eport Credits                                   0.0       75.0      75.0
Proposed Loan                                   0.0      175.0     175.0
Total Funds for Subprojects         275.0     250.0      525.0
Bilateral Funds for TTA                         0.0       15.0      15.0
Local Contribution (DBP, Beneficiaries)         1.0        0.0       1.0
Total Funds for TTA                   1.0      15.0      16.0
Total                               276.0     265.0      541.0
Estimated
Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Years               1991   1992   1993    1994    1995   1996
Annual               7     42      60      33      27       6
Cumulative          7      49     109     142    169      175
Rate of Return:   Not applicable.



PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
A. The Economic Setting
1.1      The Philippines has gone through a period of major economic
restructuring and reorientation.ll Since the political and economic crisis of
1983, and particularly since the change in Government in 1986, the authorities
have made concerted efforts to correct distortions that had led to an
inefficient pattern of investment, low savings and high dependence of imports
and foreign capital. The Government initiated a major stabilization and
structural reform effort, supported by several Bank adjustment operations
(para. 1.7) and by the IMF Standby Arrangements of 1984 and 1986.
1.2      Overall, the objectives of the stabilization programs were met or
surpassed. During 1986-89, the economy recovered across a broad front. GDP
and its principal sectoral components grew steadily if not spectacularly.
Consumption and investment grew strongly and inflation was kept at single-
digit levels. Both the current account deficit and external debt were
reduced. Fiscal accounts improved and a sizeable primary surplus was
achieved. Among highly-indebted countries, the adjustment performance of the
Philippines rmnks near the top. Its growth has been relatively high and
stable compared to that of such countries as Argentina, Mexico and Brazil
which have experienced multiple episodes of negative growth in the last ten
years and at least one in the last three.
1.3      Sound economic management was accompanied by a series of bold reforms
to reduce distortions in commodity and factor markets, to rationalize the role
of the public sector and to maintain market orientation in general.
Distortions were reduced through the abolition of monopolistic marketing
arrangements for sugar and coconut products, the removal of price controls and
export taxes on several agricultural products, and the reduction of trade
restrictions on a wide variety of inputs important for local industry. The
role of the public sector was rationalized through the restructuring and
downsizing of the two largest Government financial institutions, the
reorientation of the public investment program to focus on essential
infrastructure, and the establisbment of a program to improve the performance
of public corporations and to privatize a selected set. Market orientation
was maintained in the setting of interest rates, credit allocation, exchange
rates and the prices of most commodities.
/1  Philippiness  An A&enda for Adiustment and Growth (Report No. 5268-PH,
November 30, 1984); Philippines: A Framework for Economic Recovery
(Report No. 6530-PH, November 5, 1986); Philippines: Country Economic
Memorandum: Issues in Adiustment and Comnetitiveness (Report No. 8933-
PH, October 31, 1990).



- 2 -
1.4      Despite substantial recovery from the crises of the mid-1980s, the
econamy has not yet firmly stabilized. After three years of relatively rapid
growth, the economy appears to be slowing down. A series of severe exogenous
shocks has contributed to the worsening of the economic outlook for 1990. A
drought in early 1990 severely disrupted agricultural production, and an
earthquake in July 1990 caused an estimated US$600 million in damages to
public infrastructure alone. In addition, the Gulf crisis dislocated about
50,000 Filipino workers from Kuwait and Iraq, and is expected to increase the
oil import bill by approximately US$500 million. As a consequence, GDP
growth, which averaged 6S during 1988 and 1989, is expected to reach only 3.5Z
in 1990. Investment growth, strong in 1988 and 1989 (averaging 16S), Is
expected to slow down to around 7? this year. Export growth is also tapering
off from the rates experienced recently. Indeed, a revealing index of the
decline of external competitiveness is provided by the country's share of
exports in key world markets: it has been declining in most export products
in most developed country markets.
1.5      The analysis of the economic slowdown in the latest CE4 points out,
among other things, that the substantial structural adjustment effort
undertaken since 1986 has proved insufficient in improving the country"s
relative competitiveness. This has occurred, not because of lack of
commitment on the part of the Government, but because the world has not stood
still while the Philippines has adjusted. Its competitors (e.g. some ASEAN
countries) have also adjusted and grown at varying speeds, some much faster
than the Philippines, thereby presenting the country with something of a
moving target as far as competitiveness is concerned. The challenge for the
future is not only to continue with structural reforms to improve economic
efficiency but to do so at a speed and with a thoroughness that will enable
the country to lessen the economic distance between it and its competitors.
Continued reduction of policy-induced distortions in the industrial sector
will form a significant part of the Government's response to that challenge:
contributing 25.2? of GNP and 67t of merchandise exports and accounting for
10.5? of total employment in 1989, the Industrial sector, which is mostly
pri7ate, plays an important role in the economy. Term credit to finance the
resulting investment and restructuring requirements will consequently be
required.
B. The Existing Policy Framework
1.6      Industrial policy in the Philippines from 1950 to 1980 can be divided
into three distinct periods: a first phase of import substituting
industrialization in the 1950 under rising protective barriers; a major shift
towards a more open and liberal trade regime in the early 19608 which,
however, was not sustained; and a reversal to more interventionist policies
beginning in the late 19609 with increasing recourse to protective barriers,
large public-sector-led or-supported investments and generous incentives
administered by the Board of Investment (OI). The result was an incentive
environment that led to suboptimal investments and an inefficient industry
that was largely inward oriented and internationally uncompetitive.



- 3 "
1.7      In the eighties, momentum for reform was provided by the onset of the
second oil price shock, the world economic recession, the surge in interest
rates and the weakening in primary commodity prices. The Government
accordingly initiated a broad range of structural reforms wdth the support of
two Bank-financed Structural Adjustment Loans (Loan Nos. 1903-PH, 198't. 2266-
PR, 1983). Among the policy initiatives taken were: (a) a major trade
liberalization program and (b) reform of BOI incentives. The trade reforms,
.which aimed ^t correcting in a comprehensive manner the adverse incentive
effects of the trade regime by reducing the level and variability of
protection, included actions in all key areas affecting the protection regimes
tariff reform, phasing out of import restrictions, removal of the protective
elements of the indirect tax system, and curtailment of exemptions to import-
substituting industries. As for BOI incentives, they were rationalized in the
Omnibus Investment Code which corrected two major weaknesses of past
incentives: (a) the favoring of import substituting industries over exports
and (b) the favoring of capital-intensive over labor-intensive technologies.
1.8      A cornerstone of the trade policy reform was the significant
narrowing of the band of import tariffs: from a OZ - 1002 band before 1980 to
10X-502 by 1985. This led to a major reduction in average nominal and
effective protection rates and their variability. This reduction was
Initially accompanied by a relaxation of import restrictions, but as a
response to severe balance of payment pressures in 1983 and 1984, the number
of regulated import items increased again between 1983 and 1985. In the 1986-
1988 period, however, 1,345 import restrictions were liberalized including
those on iron and steel, yarn and thread, tires, plastics and other important
Industrial inputs, and some consumer goods, including garments and textiles.
Annex 1.01 presents the trends in import liberalization which has been the
focus of trade reform since 1986. As a share in the total numter of items
classified in the Philippines Standard Customs Code (PSCC), regulated imports
declined from 34.1Z in 1985 to 10.22 in December 1988. Vhile average nominal
tariff protection has not changed significantly in recent years, effective
rates of protection have declined (Annex 1.02) mainly because of the
liberalization of import restrictions.
1.9      The trade liberalization has had a major impact on the structure of
protection, by significantly reducing the pro-import-substitution bias. In
the absence of full trade liberalization, however, an effective system of
export incentives and promotional measures in accordance with the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) is also necessary to counteract the
anti-export bias of the past trade regime. Given the nascent stage of export
development, it is important that small and new exporters, as well as indirect
exporters, are covered by the export promotion systems to be able to obtain
imporsed Inputs efficiently and at world market prices, and to have access to
working capital financing. Consequently, in addition to trade liberalization
measures, the Government has been ptursuing an export promotion policy, using
duty drawback exemption schemes to ensure free access to intermediate imported
inputs for exporters, and supporting exporters through an export finance
facility.



- 4 -
C. Aaenda for Further Reform
1.10     As a result of the cumulative policy adjustments since 1980,
described earlier, the Philippine economy is now more open and transparent in
its regulatory and incentive structure than at any time since 1980. However,
its competitive position in world markets has not improved, largely because
its principal competitors generally have more open economies, as evident in
Annex 1.03. For example, while the Philippines has moved to reduce
quantitative restrictions to the extent that almost 902 of importable items
are not subject to restrictions at present, Malaysia and Thailand have had
liberalization ratios of over 952 for many years. Similarly, average nominal
tariffs in the Philippines, despite having declined since 1980, remain above
those of Indonesia and Malaysia, though lower than those of Thailand. Further
trade refarm measures would be desirable not only because they would raise
absolute efficiency in the economy but also because they would promote its
relative competitiveness.
1.11     A major issue is the continued presence of quantitative restrictions
(QRs) which, still affecting more than 101 of the PSCC lines, encourage
inefficient investments and production activities, and has contributed to low
productivity in certain segments of the maniufacturing and agriculture sectors.
QRs also represent a highly inefficient instrument of trade policy, since they
deprive the Government of a significant source of revenue. This is
particularly important under the present severe budgetary constraints.
Moreover, QRs are not transparent instruments of protection as they do not
allow an effective assessment of relative support provided by the Government
policies.
1.12     Removal of QRs would, therefore, be highly desirable.  It is
recognized, however, that some industries could be severely affected by such a
step and may require temporary assistance to allow adjustment to the reformed
trade regime. Such support would best be provided in the form of tariff
surcharges which would be progressively reduced and time-bound.
1.13     Another remaining issue is the continued high protection of industry
in genetal and of manufacturing in particular. Even though effective
protection of industry has recently declined, the existing effective
protection of about 502 for the industry as a whole is excessive. It implies
effective rates of protection for some industries well over 1OOZ, and in
exceptional cases, even close to 2001. With this level of protection, the
benefiting industries have little incentive to increase efficiency.
1.14     A related issue is the scope of distortions arising from the existing
structure of protection. Even though the bias has been considerably reduced,
existing interventions continue to discriminate against exports and
agriculture. Moreover, the level of protection within the manufacturing
sector is highly uneven. These distortions arise because the present band of
tariffs, ranging from 0? to 50?, results in a situation where some sectors
receive the excessively high level of protection noted above, whereas others
are protected considerably less, and some even negatively. This pattern of
protection encourages investments in relatively less efficient (high cost)
activities, while discouraging activities in which the country may have a
comparative advantage. The high dispersion of tariff rates also increases the



administrative costs of tariff collection and, together with high tariffs,
encourages smuggling and misdeclaration on tariff documents (technical
smuggling). This adversely affects budgetary revenues and leads to unfair
competition between domestic production and imports.
1.15     These problems can be remedied through a revision of the tariff
schedule to reduce significantly the level and dispersion of tariff rates.
Recently, the Government has proposed the introduction of a four band system
with tariffs ricing in steps as followes 32 for all goods that previously had
a tariff rate of SZ or less; 102 tariff on raw materials; 20? on intermediate
goods and 302 on final goods. If implemented as proposed, this would be a
highly beneficial move. The revenue loss resulting from the reduction in top
tariff rates would be offset by increased revenues from (a) replacement of qRs
by tariffs and/or tariff surcharges, and (b) stricter compliance with
simplified customs declarations, as well as by lower costs of customs
administration.
1.16     While it is important to maintain the momentum of trade reform, the
industrial sector will need financial support to take advantage of the trade
libera'"tation reforms envisaged. Moreover, many firms in heretofore
protected industries will need funds as well as technical assistance to
restructure so as to be competitive at world prices. These needs will be
addressed through the proposed Industrial Restructuring Project (IRP).
D. Structure and Performance
1.17     As a result of the policies pursued at the time, the structure of the
industrial base created in the 1970s was brittle and largely uncompetitive.
These policies encouraged capital-intensive industries and discouraged
structural changes within the manufacturing sector, establishment of optimal
size plants, backward linkages and adoption of modern technology. Non-
traditional manufacturing export growth was narrowly concentrated in product
mix (semi-conductors and garments) and destination (the United States). The
remainder of industry, accounting for the bulk of value added, was highly
dependent on domestic demand which, however, was artificially inflated by
heavy foreign borrowings and infusions of subsidized credit and government
transfers. The momentum given to industrial growth by these measures began to
taper off in the late 1970s, when the scope for expansion of import
substitution under heavy protection was exhausted, and technological
weaknesses and other inefficiencies fostered by the lack of competition began
to take their toll. Moreover, the financing requirements of high domestic
demand could not be sustained indefinitely.
1.18     Rapid changes in the international environment since 1980, high
interest rates and a foreign exchange crisis led to forced austerity measures
which accelerated industry's downward trend. The situation was exacerbated by
political instability. The decrease in investments and the suboptimal
allocations, as well as high power costs and frequent labor disputes
contributed to low productivity. Total factor productivity growth in the
manufacturing sector, an indicator of efficiency performance, was negative
whereas the Philippines' major competitors displayed a positive growth in that
period. Poor performance, high domestic interest rates and devaluation losses



- 6 -
for firms with foreign currency denominated loans left many firms in financial
distress (Annex 1.04), with low profitability and high indebtedness.   Many
firms ceased operation and declared bankruptcy. Firms in operation limped
along at 50-602 capacity utilization. After steady growth rates of gross
value added in industry in the 19709, the sector experienced a slowdown in
1980-83 followed by a sharp decline after two years of severe recession in
1984-85, during which industrial output fell by almost 202 in real terms.
1.19     The industrial sector began to recover at the end of 1986 and
registered the first significant positive growth in 1987 (6.7X) which further
accelerated in 1988 (9.6?). The growth continued to be fairly strong in 1989
(6.9?). This growth led to a rapid increase in manufacturing employments the
number of persons employed in manufacturing increased by 20.42 between 1986
and 1989. Initially, the recovery was strong particularly in industries
oriented towards the domestic market, which experienced a rapid expansion of
consumption. The consumption-led domestic recovery induced, therefore, rapid
growth of production in consumer goods industries such as food processing,
beverages, tobacco and footwear, which spilled over into producer goods
industries.  The growth of domestic consumption and demand for manufactured
goods began to slow down at the end of 1988 as the capacity constraints were
rapidly reached in the industry. At the same time, the growth of
manufacturing output began to be increasingly more dependent on the growth of
domestic investments and exports. Investments picked up considerably in 1988
and 1989 when gross capital formation increased by 17.32 and 14.8?
respectively. The financial performance of manufacturing corporations has
improved, both in terms of profitability and adequate capitalization
(Annex 1.04). The manufacturing sector has also made efficiency gains as
measured by the total factor productivity index (Annex 1*05).  The improved
performance of industry indicates that the industrial sector has benefitted
from the structural and policy reforms introduced by the Government which
aimed at increasing economic efficiency by stimulating private sector
initiative and activity.
E. Environmental Issues
1.20     The Philippines has a comprehensive set of environmental legislation
and institutions responsible for protecting the country's ecosystems and
ensuring sustainable and environmentally sound development. At the Cabinet
level is the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DEMR). The
functional arms of DENR dealing with industry are the Environment Management
Bureau (EDM) and the thirteen regional offices. EMB is responsible for:
recommending policies for environmental management; developing standards for
ambient air quality and emission, and water quality and effluent standards;
developing solid waste and hazardous substances information; evaluating
proposed industrial and municipal projects that have environmental impact;
recommending issuance of Environmental Compliance Certificates for proposed
projects that meet the Bureau's requirements; monitoring and enforcing
environmental standards; and assisting the regional offices of the DENR in
disseminating environmental inform%tion to the general public.
1.21     The country's pollution control regulations are generally based on
technically sound principles. Unfortunately, DEMR and EMB do not have the



-7-
staff, equipment and financial resources to evaluate satisfactorily the
adequacy of pollution control mechanism, in manufacturing enterprises, or
monitor and enforce the country's environmental standards. Basic analytical
equipment such as pH meters, dissolved oxygen meters, turbidimeters and
spectrophotometers as well as the expertise to use such equipment properly is
lacking. As a result, DIN1 and EMB suffer from institutional weaknesses and
the application of the law is inconsistent. The extent of pollution abatement
facilities vary considerably, from full compliance with applicable standards
to virtually total neglect, even among recent investment projects. The
technical assistance component of the proposed IRP would help towards the
institutional strengthening of EMB.
F. Selected Subsectorss Issues and Action Proaram
1.22     In the context of the more #,pen economy that the Government is trying
to foster, there is need for both financial and physical restructuring that
would enable firms to improve efficiency and international competitiveness.
The more liberal policy environment has affected various subsectors
differently, with some able to fashion the appropriate competitive response
but others not equipped to do so. Given the diverse structure of industry, a
restructuring strategy must take into account specific constraints, problems
and requirements of individual subsectors. This subsector approach to
restructuring is warranted since at the policy level, certain trade and
regulatory policies are often subsector-specific and, at the enterprise level,
the technology, marketing and organization needed to compete effectively
differ according to the subsector.
1.23     In the past, the articulation and implementation of a sound
restructuring strategy was hampered by insufficient know-how and Government
reluctance to introduce further policy reforms in some subsectors, out of fear
that they would collapse if these reforms were embarked upon hastily and
without proper sequencing. In addition to inter-island shipping, a service
subsector with substantial linkages to industry, these subsectors are the
capital-intensive processing industries with large, sunk investments and
include cement, pulp and paper, chemicals, and certain metal working/
engineering industries. These as well as some other subsectors (textiles,
certain agro-food processing industries) also face the reluctance of banks to
extend credit given the subsectors' poor performance in past years and the
banks' inability to assess their growth potential. Thus, there was need to
assist the Government, the banking sector and industrialists to analyze these
subsectors and identify public policy measures as well as business strategies
that would together form part of a coherent subsectoral strategy. These
subsectoral issues are being studied under the technical assistance component
of the Industrial Investment Credit (IIC) Project (Loan 3123-PH, 1989]. The
studies already completed cover the following subsectorst cement, pulp and
paper, textiles, inter-island shipping and ship repair. Their findings are
summarized in Annexes 1.06 to 1.10.
1.24     The studies show that the low productivity and high operating costs
that characterize these sectors result from high energy intensity of
production, high wastage rates of raw materials, high maintenance costs, low
labor productivity, suboptimal scale of production, inadequate labor ard



-8-
technical skills and lack of preventive maintenance systems. Another issue is
the procurement and use of inefficient and obsolete technology. For example,
second-hand plants using pre-1975 technology are being installed in the cement
and pulp and paper industries, and old vessels are being purchased by shipping
companies. The studies have also identified pollution problems. Underlying
the problems identified have been deficient sectoral policies. Though most if
not all of these problems will necessitate new investments, the sine qua non
for such investments should be elimination of the remaining policy
distortions.
1.25     In the cement industry (Annex 1.06), the major distortion is the
existing price control by which the Government hopes to protect consumers.
However, since demand for cement has recently been growing very rapidly, it
has become necessary for the Government to liberalize cement imports and
permit free pricing of imported cement. This has led to a major increase of
domestic prices and very slow supply response of the domestic cement industry
to satisfy demand. Price controls have also limited the incentive to expand
and modernize the industry. In view of these adverse effects, it would be
advisable to remove price controls in the cement industry.
1.26     The Du1p & naner industry (Annex 1.07) suffers primarily from an
irregular structure of import tariffs. Imported inputs are subject to high
tariffs, which will need to be lowered to reduce production costs. In
addition, the tariff rates are highly dispersed, thus providing uneven
protection to domestic producers and encouraging technical smuggling. The
tariff rates on output of the industry are also too high and non-uniform.
These issues need to be addressed but, to ensure consistency with changes of
other tariffs, the solution lies in a general tariff reform rather than a
piece-meal approach.
1.27     In the textile sector (Annex 1.08), there are no major policy issues
except that (a) the quotas for garment exports favor established mills and are
not fully utilized; and (b) there is high effective protection on some
products and high nominal tariffs on the cascade of yarn, cloth and garments
because of high tariffs on polyester fiber. There is, therefore, need to
review the Quota Allocation System and reduce the tariff on polyester fiber
and reduce the cascade on downstream products accordingly.
1.28     In the Ship BuildinR and Repair subsector (Annex 1.09), the major
policy issue is the general high tariff on inputs. The industry also suffers
from worn out/obsolete equipment due to the lack of local and foreign
investors to participate in financing new and upgraded shipyards. Given its
geographical location, the Philippines has great potentials to attract
international contracts for shipbuilding and repairs. However, due to
inadequate facilities and marketing efforts, these potentials have not yet
been fully developed. In the shipping sector (Annex 1.10), the major policy
issues include franchising, price control and statutory rate of return
requirements. In comparison with the cement industry, the price control in
shipping is more complex. The price control has been introduced to accompany
franchising of routes, which in turn was justified on the grounds of
protecting consumers and ensuring safety standards. However, neither of the
latter objectives has been met satisfactorily over the years. The statutory
requirement for rate of return on investments is a tool borrowed from public



utility regulation, but is inappropriate for a potentially competitive
industry and a ptincipal reason for the poor profitability of shipping
operations in the last few years. The price control should be removed, and
the removal should be accompanied by measures to facilitate entry into the
industry. There is also need for improvements in (a) the institutional set up
for monitoring and regulating the sector, which at present is characterized by
a great number of agencies, overlapping responsibilities and cumbersome rules;
and (b) safety regulations which are outdated and inconsistent.
1.29     The analysis in the subsector studies provided the basis for the
formulation of an Action Program (AP) for restructuring the subsectors. The
various components of the AP, detailed in Annexes 1.11 to 1.15, aim at
improving the policy environment of the subsectors and strengthening the
institutional support structure. The policy improvements include measures to
promote competition and efficiency through deregulation of prices, removal of
barriers to entry and streamlining of tariffs for inputs and outputs. The
institutional strengthening measures include training and technical assistance
to industry to plan investments in modernization and restructuring, studies
for the removal of specific bottlenecks in the availability of key inputs, and
assistance to industry, DBP and EMB for environmental upgrading. The AP has
been discussed and agreed in principle with DBP, industry associations and key
agencies of the Government. During negotiations, an agreement was reached
with the Government that it will undertake in a timely manner measures to
implement the AP and review the status of implementation with the Bank
annually. The key policy actions included in the AP are those which are
required before a subsector would be eligible for financing from this Loan
(para. 4.4).
1.30     Implementation of the AP requires actions by various agencies of the
Government, DBP and industry associations. Many components of the AP would
require coordination and consultation among the various parts of the
Government and with the private sector. DBP's Industrial Restructuring Unit
(IRU) will have the responsibility fcr monitoring the implementation of the
AP, ensuring coordination among the various parties, identifying issues and
initiating follow-up actions. It will also coordinate formal annual reviews
of the AP. IRU's role and responsibilities in this regard were confirmed
during negotiations (para. 4.21).
1.31     Policy and institutional improvements need to be effected if the
industries reviewed, as well as others, are to realize their full potential.
If these shortcomings are not corrected, resources will continue to be mis-
directed to sub-optimal facilities at the expense of the consumer and the
economy. Adjustment of these policy- and institutional shortcomings alone,
however, will not guarantee a rapid and rational development of these
industries: long-term funding, technical assistance and training need to be
provided as well.



- 10 -
TI. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
A. Introduction
2.1      The industrial policy reforms of the 1980s, presented in Chapter I,
yere accompanied by financial sector reforms. In 1980, the Government
initiated policies that led to deregulation of interest rates and liberali-
zation of exchange controls, with the result that the financial system is now
characterized by market-determined Interest rates and an essentially open
capital account. Following the dislocations in the real sectors during 1983-
85 and the concomitant disarray of the financial sector, the Government
undertook measures for rehabilitating government-owned financial institutions,
notably the Philippine National Bank (PNB) and the Development Bank of the
Philippines (DBP), in the context of the Economic Recovery Loan (ERL; Loan No.
2787-PH, 1987). With the restructuring of these two financial institutions
largely accomplished and the banking sector having regained its health, what
remains to be done is to put the financial sector on a firm enough footing to
support the significant shifts in resource allocation which the economy must
undertake in response to the new array of incentives put in place with the
stabilization and reform programs of recent years. In addition, the financial
sector must be relied on to mobilize a large quantity of private savings, and
to intermediate funds at reasonable cost to new productive activities. Conse-
quently, the Government has embarked on a series of financial sector reforms
supported by the Bank through a Financial Sector Adjustment Program Loan
(PSAL), approved on May 3, 1989. The aim is to make the banking sector more
competitive and responsive to the needs of the real sectors. An important
component of the reform program is to improve the institutional arrangements
for the provision of long-term credit; this involves the transformation of DBP
into a wholesale bank channeling funds to the private sector through retail
financial institutions. By providing funds to DBP to help it carry out its
wholesale functions, the proposed Project fits into the overall strategy for
development of the country's financial sector.
B. Evolution and Structure
2.2      As of December 31, 1989, assets of the financisl system totalled
3 1015.8 billion, representing an increase from 1980 of 224 percent in nominal
terms. The major components of the system, their nominal size and percentage
distribution in 1980 versus 1989 are presented in Annex 2.01.
2.3      Commercial Banks.  The comercial banks account for the largest share
(41 percent) of total assets of the financial system. During 1980-86, the
banking sector underwent substantial contraction in real terms as a result of
the political turmoil and economic shocks experienced by the countrys total
assets contracted by 44 percent in real terms; loans to the private sector
contracted even more sharply, by 63 percent. Between 1980 and mid-1987, three
commercial banks, 147 rural banks.and 32 thrift institutions, involving total
assets of P 14 billion (US$700 million equivalent), failed.   These failures
were compounded by the de facto insolvency of the largest commercial bank,



- 11 -
PNB. With increasing stability and improvement in the real sectors starting
in 1986, the health of the banking sector has steadily improved as evidenced
by good profit margins in 1986-89. As an additional indication, the banks'
capital adequacy ratios have improved in recent years.
2.4      Privately-owned banks form, by far, the largest part of the banking
system. There are now 29 banks, of which four are foreign and one (PNB, still
the biggest) is 70 percent government-owned; in 1989, PNB successfully
underwent a partial privatization when a public issue of 30 percent of its
shares was oversubscribed. Eleven banks are licensed as universal banks, a
classification that allows them to engage in activities such as those under-
taken by investment banks, leasing companies and finance companies in addition
to traditional commercial banking activities.
2.5      Non-bank Institutions.  The next largest component of the financial
system comprises the non-banks, which include insurance companies, pension
funds, investment institutions, trust operations and others. Their assets
amount to i 151 billion, or 15 percent of the system's financial assets. The
most important are insurance companies and investment institutions, i.e.,
finance and investment companies.
2.6      The Securities Market.  While the Philippines has long had stock
exchanges, the capital market has not really developed into a significant
alternative source of funds to banks. Public participation remains narrow and
it is generally felt that investors are not adequately protected from loss
from irregular activities. The market is dominated by a few big issues and
trading is subject to large swings in volume and price. The top ten stocks
contribute almost 80 percent of market capitalization, a much higher level of
concentration than in the stock markets of other ASEAN countries.
2.7      It should be noted, however, that though the equities market in the
Philippines is se:. l undeveloped, it has witnessed remarkable growth in the
last four years despite episodes of political instability. Renewed confidence
brought about by a new Government, the higher earnings prospects of companies
and listing of new issues has led to substantial growtht the market
capitalization of the 145 listed companies at the end of 1989 stood at
P 260.4 billion, representing 27 percent of GNP compared to the total market
capitalization of P 12.74 billion in 1985 representing a mere 1.35 percent of
GNP. Moreover, in 1989 six companies listed new shares whose par value
totalled P 2.17 billion (US$98 million equivalent); this was supplemented
stock dividends and pre-emptive rights offerings totalling i 4.09 billion par
value. As for the secondary market in equities, it has been active, with the
market breaking all previous records in 1986, 1987 and 1989. The 1986
turnover of P 11.47 billion represented an increase of 555 percent over the
preceding year's turnover of P 2.07 billion while that of 1987,
3 31.35 billion, was a 273 percent increase over 1986. In 1988, turnover
dropped to P 23.90 billion, but increased by 125 percent in 1989 to P 53.8
billion. The growth in the total volume and value of stocks traded in 1989
could have been higher had it not been for the aborted coup attempt in early
December 1989 which adversely affected stock trading during the last weeks of
the year.



- 12 -
2.8      Foreign portfolio Investments in Philippine securities totalled
US$433.2 million in 1989, about seven times the 1988 level of $60.4 million.
Hong Kong-based dealers accounted for the biggest block of foreign investors
in Philippine securities with a share of 70.7 percent of the total volume.
The foreign portfolio investments were primarily in commerciallindustrial
sector securities (46.7 percent) and financial sector securities
(33.9 percent).
2.9      As for corporate debt securities, both the primary and secondary
markets remain small, with very few long term issues being offered in the
public market. In 1989, the volume of transactions in the commercial paper
market rose by 23.6 percent to amount to P 20.9 billion. There have been no
new corporate bond issues. The government securities market is far more
active. The largest issued and actively traded government securities are
T-bills2 total transactions in 1989 amounted to P 361.1 billion. National
government bond issues total approximately P 34.0 billion and those of
government-controlled corporations and the Central Bank of the Philippines
(CBP) are about P 4.0 billion and P 7.4 billion, respectively.
2.10     Leasing.  Introduced in the Philippines in 1957, the leasing industry
consists of financing companies which act as lessors. Supervision is carried
out by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in consultation with CBP.
The industry's growth was stunted by the political and economic crises in the
earlier part of this decade. In view of the country's substantial investment
needs in durable equipment, the use of leasing as a financing instrument has
been quite limited. As of September 30, 1988, the nine leading lessors had an
outstanding lease portfolio of P 1.4 billion distributed thus: motor vehicles,
31.5 percent; industrial machinery, 10.4 percent; business and office
machines, 10 percent; heavy equipment, 9.1 percent and others, 34 percent.
2.11     The volume of new leases written in the last two years indicate the
market potential: leases booked by the leading five lessors alone amounted to
P 870 million in 1988 and P 1.4 billion in 1989. Projections of total leasing
demand made by these firms for the period 1990 to 1994 range from P 13.2
billion to P 14.4 billion. In anticipation of improved market conditions and
demand for big-ticket equipment leases, two of the industry leaders increased
their capitalization substantially in 1989. Indeed, the growing size of lease
contracts has led to an increase in lease syndications, with the participation
of several leasing companies and funding banks.
C. Financial Sector Reforms
2.12     Financial sector reforms in the Philippines have been undertaken in
three distinct phases. The first phase undertaken in the early 1980.
focussed on two issues: institutional fragmentation in the system and
interest rate policy. Institutional fragmentation was reduced by introducing
the concept of universal banking which allowed commercial banks to undertake
practically all kinds of financial activities. As far as the interest rate
policy is concerned, there has been a gradual move away from a regime of close
control over interest rates combined with restrictions on international
payments, current as well as capital, to a system which in practice is open to



- 13 -
internaticnal flows and characterized by market- determined interest rates.
All rates, deposit as well as lending, are now market determined.
2.13     During most of the 1980s, nominal interest rates have been rising
because they were following rising inflation; real interest rates did not show
an upward pattern, though they stayed at a high level. Since late 1989,
however, interest rates have risen dramatically (they are now 25 percent in
nominal terms equivalent to 10 percent real). Three factors explain this
rise. First is the increase in domestic debt. In order to place larger
stocks of domestic debt, the Government had to offer more attractive rates of
return. Second, inflationary expectations have risen in the wake of economic
and political difficulties since 1988. This puts upward pressure on nominal
interest rates as people try to hedge for the future. Third, the increasing
current account deficits (reaching 3.5 percent of GDP in 1989) are creating an
expectation of a weakening currency, thus widening the exchange rate risk
premium built into the domestic interest rate structure. The solution to
these problems lies in better control over the fiscal situation of the
country. This is being addressed by the Bank and Zn? in the context of over-
all stabilization measures.
2.14     The second phase of financial sector reforms was initiated during
1986-87 in the context of the Bank's ERL. It concentrated on reforming and
rehabilitating government financial institutions (GFIs), specifically PNB and
DBP. These institutions had suffered from outside interference in lending
decisions, the undertaking of costly government credit programs without
reimbursement, lack of internal controls and auditing, poor management
practices in terms of lending decisions and portfolio management, and
excessive size and diversity of functions. At the same time, their special
position allowed them unlimited use of government deposits, exemptions from
taxes and access to government-guaranteed borrowings. During 1986, the
Government, recognizing the de facto insolvency of these two institutions,
arranged a transfer of all their non-performing assets of P 10 million or more
each to the Asset Privatization Trust (APT) for workout, and relieved them of
the corresponding liabilities. Institutional strengthening plans were also
adopted at the same time. PNB's financial restructuring plan involved a
reduction of its assets from P 79 billion to P 26 billion.   The restructuring
of DBP is described in detail in Chapter III.
2.15     The reforms under the third phase, the most recent and still
continuing, were developed as a result of the Financial Sector Study (PSS).21
It concentrated on commercial and central banking sectors and identified the
following as four critical problem areast (a) supervision and regulation of
commercial banks, including the governing legal framework; (b) institutional
arrangements for the protection of insured depositors; (c) high intermediation
costs and lack of effective competition; and (d) direct involvement of the
central bank in credit allocation because of the absence of satisfactory
institutional arrangements for the mobilization and provision of long-term
capital. Based on the FSS findings, a Financial Sector Adjustment Program
svpported by a US$300 million Bank loan (FSAL; Loan No. 3049-PH, 1989) was
designed. The program involves specific actions in the listed problem areas.
2/  Philinnines: Financial Sector Study (Report No. 7177-PH, August 23, 1988).



- 14 -
2.16     Since the approval of PSAL in May 1989, satisfactory progress has
been made in the implementation of the agreed program. Four studies related
to the legal and supervisory framework--on bank reporting requirements, asset
valuation and loan lose provisioning, trust account treatment, and accounting
principles governing preparation and reporting of financial statements of
banks--have been completed, with the recommendations of the first two already
acted upon. As regards PDIC's institutional strengthening, excellent progress
has been made in instituting revised policies and procedures, management
information system and in recruitment of new staff and training. Measures
have also been taken to increase effective competition in the banking system:
lifting of the moratorium on establishment of new banks, with one new
commercial banking licence already issued; conversion of two commercial banks
into universal banks; two mergers involving five thrift banks and three rural
banks, and removal of all restrictions on the opening of new branches in
Tpriority' rural areas. Indeed, during the May to December 1989 period,
54 new bank branches were allowed to be established compared to 2 in 1988 and
none in 1987. Moreover, satisfactory drafts of bills to amend insolvency,
reorganization, and chattel and real estate mortgage laws have already been
prepared. The progress in reducing the central bank's involvement in credit
allocation has also been very satisfactory (para. 2.17).
2.17     Major actions that remain for implementation before disbursement of
the second FSAL tranche are: initiation of the phase-out of the Gross
Receipts Tax; enactment of the amendments to the Central Bank Act to
strengthen CBP's supervisory powers and amendments to the PDIC Act to appoint
PDIC as a receiver in cases of bank failure and to increase its authorized
capital. Second tranche disbursement is event-bound, not time-bound;
completion of the remaining required actions is expected by mid-1991.
D. Institutional Arrangements for Providing Long-Term Credit
2.18     Under the PSAL, CBP agreed to continue to reduce sharply, and
ultimately eliminate, its direct involvement in the management of government-
sponsored credit allocation programs. The administrative responsibility for
industrial sector programs has been assigned to a revamped DBP (para. 3.9),
and the Agricultural Loan Fund has been transferred to the Land Bank of the
Philippines. There are still a few small agricultural credit programs (but on
which no new disbursements are being made) that remain with CBP, but in
practice its role is now confined to liquidity management through discount
window operations.
2.19     While the banking system has concentrated on providing short-term
credit needs, the provision of long-term credit has been inadequate. Indeed,
the most significant gap in the current financing system is in the provision
of long-term credit. With the shrinking of lending activity by DBP and PNB
concurrent with their rehabilitation programs, the specialized government
institutions have not made a substantial contribution to the supply of term
credit in the last three years. As for the commercial banking system, the
short-term nature of their lending and their caution became even more
pronounced in recent years with the turmoil the financial system went through.
The limited amount of term lending made by the commercial banks is usually
through 'roll-over" of short-term loans. The short-term horizon of lenders
and investors is not surprising in view of the interest rate and exchange rate



- 15 -
volatility during the last decade. Term transformation has not been
accomplished to any significant degree because the banks have been unwilling
to assume the liquidity risk. This has resulted in a situation wherein the
main sources of medium- and long-term funding in the Philippines have been the
government-directed credit programs described earlier. Instead of lending
from resources raised from the market, the banks merely acted as lending
conduits for funds borrowed by the Government from foreign sources or to a
lesser extent, provided from the budget.
2.20     The situation is expected to worsen as the demand for investment
credit increases with the growth of the economy. The current constraint on
the availability of long-term credit reflects a lack of adequate arrangements
regarding credit. interest rate and liquidity risks. The credit risk in long-
term lending in itself is substantial, and commercial banks will be willing to
assume such risk only if arrangements are made to relieve them of another
accompanying risk, i.e., the liquidity risk. Given the liquidity crises of
the past, banks are unwilling to assume the liquidity risk inherent in term
transformation, and their present liability maturities are not, nor are they
expected in the foreseeable future to be, long enough to enable the banks to
lend long-term.
2.21     However, some domestic long-term resources are available in the
system from institutional savers like insurance companies, SSS and GSIS and
pension funds. It is estimated that gross premium receipts in 1986 amounted
to 3 5.8 billion and P 5.7 billion for private and public insurance companies,
respectively. Also, it is generally believed, and confirmed by the
institutions, that the annual increments to investible funds are quite large.
For pension funds, the estimate for incremental funds mobilized in 1986 was at
least & 600 million. These institutions are also willing to invest long-term
in the private sector if suitable opportunities are identified, i.e. they are
willing to assume the maturity risk. As for the interest rate risk, the end
users have already shown their willingness to assume it by borrowing on a
variable rate basis. What is needed is to develop a financially viable
institutional arrangement to bring the providers and users of long-term funds
together.
2.22     Given the domestic long-term funds available through GSIS, SSS,
pension funds and insurance companies on the one hand, and the lack of long-
term credit on the other hand, the FSS identified the need for a financial
institution to-assume the role of a wholesaler by mobilizing long-term funds
and channelling them to other financial institutions (retail) for onlending to
individual enterprises. These domestic term funds would supplement the
foreign borrowings which, in the foreseeable future, would likely remain the
main source of term funds for the industrial sector. According to agreed FSAL
measures, a revamped DBP will fulfill the wholesale role for domestic and
foreign funds in line with an Institutional Development Plan which spells out
its new role.   As a wholesale institution, DBP will not assume the credit
risk on the individual subloans. Chapter III provides a detailed description
of the strategic reorientation of DBP.



- 16 -
E. Industrial Credit
2.23     The Bank's growth projections, based on an assumption of continued
good policy performance and a favorable external environment, suggest an
average growth rate of 4.5Z for both overall GDP and industry in the
Philippines during the 1990-92 period. Financing this growth will be a major
challenge to the financial system in the next few years.
2.24     Short-term Working Capital Credit.  The larger creditworthy
enterprises obtain the working capital finance they need from the banking
system. Small and medium enterprises (SMEa) have generally relied on trade
credits, internal cash generation, loans from informal credit sources (usually
family and friends), and, to a limited extent, loans from commercial banks.
2.25     Demand for Industrial Term Credit.  The business community, financial
institutions and government officials feel strongly that demand for term
credit will continue to be strong. As the experience with the IIC Project
(paras. 3.21 - 3.23) demonstrates, there is a substantial need for financing
modernization and expansion in industry as existing production facilities have
reached their full capacity.
2.26     A review of the project pipelines of financial institutions active in
the provision of term credit to industry suggests that for the creditworthy
medium-and large-scale enterprises, concrete demand as evidenced by actual
loan applications would amount to around P 8 billion for 1990-91. Demand for
term credit by SMEs in the formal industrial sector is expected to be around
4 billion for the same period. Thus, term credit demand of approximately
a 12 billion by the formal private industrial sector for 1990-91 appears to be
a reasonable estimate. A conservative assumption of an annual growth rate of
4? in demand for term credit over the next three years, in line with prevail-
ing estimates of GNP growth, would lead to a projection of about P 25 billion
(US$1.04 billion equivalent) for the term credit needs of the formal private
sector in industry during the 1991-93 period.
2.27     An evaluation of demand for finance by the private sector should also
include the substantial financing needs arising from the restructuring and
rehabilitation of industrial enterprises. In the subsectors discussed in
Chapter 1 and Annexes 1.06 to 1.10, many firms are finding it difficult to
maintain adequate levels of working capital finance and service their debt.
For such firms, the need is for extensive financial restructuring, converting
their short-term borrowings into long-term debt to conserve cash flow and
remove uncertainty, in addition to physical restructuring. Estimates by the
consultants looking into industrial restructuring needs suggest that for the
cement, textile and garment, and pulp and paper subsectors alone, at least
US$700 million would be needed for physical restructuring over the next three
years.
2.28     SguWlv of Industrial Term Credit.  Credit availability is a source of
concern for the manufacturing sector. As Table 2.1 shows, loans provided by
commercial banks to the private sector have not yet recovered in real terms to
pre-crisis levelss indeed, real credit availability in 1989 was only half
that of 1984.



- 17 -
Table 2. 1t LOANS GRANTED BY COMMERCIL BANRS TO MANUFACTURING SECTOR
(Peso Billions)
1984      1985      1986      1987      1988      1989 al
Nominal       115.6      87.2      82.2      94.2      123.9      151.7
Real b/       115.6      70.9      65.9      66.9       72.6       67.5
a/ Data as of end-September 1989 annualized.
bI Adjusted by GDP deflator using 1984 constant prices.
If past trends continue, the commercial banks, which do not have long-term
resources to on-lend, will continue to concentrate on the provision of credit
on a short-term basis, using the short-term "revolving" bank loan as the
primary debt instrument and leaving the demand for term credit unsatisfied.
It is in this context of paucity of term credit that the proposed Project for
financing private medium-scale and large enterprises was developed; it would
also address the financing needs of the larger investments characteristic of
the more capital-intensive industries, such as cement, chemicals, metals, pulp
and paper and textiles.
2.29     Given the estimated demand for industrial term credit of US$1.75
billion (including industrial restructuring needs) for 1991-93, the term
finance available to the formal industrial sector is inadequate: the IGLP
program provides US$275 million for SME term financing (including US$60
million from the Bank, US$100 million from the Asian Development Bank (ADB)
and US$28 million from local financial institutions); ADB is expected to
provide a US$100 million industrial credit line and the Asean Japan
Development Fund (AJDF) would provide US$300-350 million to all sectors,
including agriculture. This would leave a potential gap of at least
US$l billion after taking into account the funds supplied by the various
sources, including AJDF and ADB. The proposed Bank loan of US$175 million for
financing medium-scale and large industrial enterprises is therefore a
conservative amount, compared to expected total needs.
F. Bank Strategy In the Sector
2.30     Past Lending. Bank experience in lending to the Philippines industry
sector has recently been reviewed by OED.31 The review covers six loans over
the period 1975 to 1989: Loans 1052-PH and 1514-PH to the Private Development
Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP IV and V); Loan 1572-PH to the
Development Bank of the Philippinews (DBP III); Loans 1727-PH and 2169-PU for
Small and Medium Scale Industry (SMI II and III); and Loan 1984-PH for lending
to industry (Apex).  The loans are essentially loans to SHIs (SMI II and III
31  Project Performance Audit Report On the Philippines - Six DPC and SMI Loans
(Report No. 8781-PH, June 21, 1990).



- 18 -
and part of DBP IIT) and loans to larger industry (PDCP IV and V. part of DBP
III and the Apex Loan). The loans were made to institutions (PDCP and DBP)
for lending directly through enterprises as well as indirectl" through apex
arrangements (SMI II and III; Apex). Some loans also had strong technical
assistance components, intended to support the small industry promotion
activities within the Government, to set up pilot plants and, through UNDP
funds with the Bank acting as Executing Agency, to build up technical
expertise.
2.31     The SMI loans performed well.  The funds were disbursed to a large
number of SHI units through financial intermediaries, and the repayment record
on them was good. The subloans generated substantial employment and were
distributed broadly in regional terms. A large amount of funds was cancelled
under SMI III partly because of stoppage of operations by DBP in 1984 but
mainly because of the 1983-86 economic recession. The main factor in the
success of the SM! loans was the bearing of all foreign exchange risk by the
Government and the broad distribution channels used, particularly commercial
banks which had other loan and business relationships with the SM! sub-
borrowers.
2.32     The performance under the larger industry loans was mixed, partly due
to the difficult economic environment in the country but mainly because of the
requirement that the DFCs pass on the foreign exchange risk to the subbor-
rowers. PDCP IV and V and the larger industry component of DBP III were fully
utilized, but a large part of the Apex Loan was cancelled because of the poor
economic environment and the unwillingness of subborrowers, in the context of
a rapidly depreciating peso, to bear the foreign exchange risk on subloans.
The incapacity of the subborrowers to repay subloans on which they had agreed
to bear the foreign exchange risk affected adversely their lenders, mainly
PDCP, whose business was mainly in foreign currency lending.
2.33     The broad lessons that emerge from the review of these loans are:
(a) the Bank policy on the foreign exchange risk has created repayment
problems in an environment of exchange rate instability and affected the
sustainability of those development finance institutions whose business was
primarily in foreign currency loans. Moreover, it has also led to a drying up
of demand for such funds from entrepreneurs; (b) the Bank's traditional DFC
model was flawed to the extent that it led to specialization in foreign
exchange lending; as the case of PDCP shows, it is necessary for such DFCs to
divercify into local currency operations. The Apex lending model offers the
advantage of using comercial banks which have such local currency activities.
Both these lessons have been incorporated in the subsequent industrial sector
loans, namely SMI IV (Loan 3038-PH, 1989) and the Industrial Investment Credit
Project (Loan 3123-PH, 1989), as well as in the proposed Project.
2.34     Lending Strategy.  Bank support for the proposed Project would be
consistent with its country assistance strategy of helping to sustain economic
recovery and bring about a structural transformation of the economy. The Bank
remains committed to assisting the Government maintain a reasonable and
sustainable rate of growth in the industrial sector over the medium to long
term. The recently completed Country Economic Memorandum and Industrial



- 19 -
Sector Reports A/ identify areas where further improvements would promote
industrial sector growth. These includes continued policy and regulatory
reforms to encourage greater competition and more efficient production;
financial and physical restructuring of many large firms in the face of a
changing policy environment which better recognizes the Philippines'
comparative advantage in labor; expanded availability of long-term finance;
and measures to boost exports. To support the industrial sector, therefore,
Bank assistance would take the form of policy advice (related both to the
industrial and financial sec%ors), institutional support, and the transfer of
term resources. The dialogue with Government on broad policy issues will
continue in the context of economic and sector work, and implementation of
reform measures under the ERL Program and the PSAL.
2.35     The proposed Project is a follow-up to the IIG project designed to
provide term funds to medium and large industrial projects. This project
involved a loan of USS65 million to DBP for onlending to private sector
enterprises through participating financial institutions. The project has
proceeded successfully, with approval and disbursement targets being exceeded
(paras. 3.21-3.22). The proposed Project was designed in the light of the
experience of the IIC loan.
2.36     The Bank's continuing participation in the term financing of industry
at this time is a logical step since the proposed Project will (a) assist the
industrial sector exploit the opportunities provided by the improved economic
and socio-political environment; and (b) build upon the successful institu-
tion-building experience of the IIC project as well as on the restructuring of
DBP undertaken in the context of the ERL Program (Chapter II). Given the
size of the financing gap and the amount of the Bank loan, the Bank funds will
be complementary to, rather than competing with, other suppliers of funds.
The TA component dealing with industrial subsectors would facilitate the
industrial restructuring process by providing necessary skills to both the
public and private sectors, and supporting environmental pollution control
efforts.
41 PhiliDRines: Toward Sustaining the Economic Recovers (Report No. 7438-PH,
January 30, 1989); The Philippines: Issues and Policies in the Indulstrial
Sector (Report No. 6706-PH, July 30, 1987).



- 20 -
III. THE BORROVER MID PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
A. The Development Bank of the Philippines
Introduction
3.1      DIP would be the borrower of the proposed Bank loan.  DIP would
relend the Bank funds to participating financial institutions (PFIs) for on-
lending to private medium-scale and large enterprises. The proposed operation
is designed in the context of a long-term Institutional Development Plan (IDP)
for DIP that, as made clear in Chapter II, is linked to a coherent vision of
the evolution of the overall financial sector. As a result of its rehabilita-
tion under EEL and the policies initiated as part of the PSAL, DIP is already
moving towards integration into the market-based financial system that charac-
terizes the Philippines: precluded from reliance on government resources,
notably deposits, it is now self-sustaining; its lending policies are market-
oriented; and its role in the system will be defined as being that of a
predominantly wholesale bank for onlending funds to retail financial institu-
tions rather than to end-users. The proposed Project would reinforce the
expected evolution of DIP by strengthening its wholesale lending function
through provision of term funds for relending to PFIs and by monitoring its
progress in achieving its wholesale lending targets.
Historical Perspective: 1958-1986
3.2      Established in 1958 as a Government-owned development bank, DIP's
financing operations until 1986 encompassed almost all segments of the
economy, and both large and small-scale enterprises. In addition to its
industrial, agricultural, real estate and transportation lending, DIP engaged
heavily in lending to social sectors such as education and health care.
Starting in the seventies, under the guise of its developmental mission, DIP
financed high-risk and low-return government development programs ('directed'
or behest lending), and the takeover of financially distressed firms at
Government's direction.
3.3      This lack of financial discipline in its lending, compounded by
serious weaknesses in internal organization and procedures (notably credit
appraisal and supervision), led to serious financial problems. In the early
19708, the total debt to equity ratio rose to over 10:1; the current ratio
fell to 0.2:1; and arrears in the loan portfolio and defaults in the guarantee
portfolio were high. With its resource mobilization capacity undermined, DIP
had to rely mainly on government deposits for funding its activities.
3.4      Several capital increases between 1972 and 1980, substantial
government deposits to 4upport its liquidity position, and various measures to
strengthen its organization and procedures all failed to stop DIP's
deterioration in the early eighties. Serious portfolio arrears and poor
collection rates persisted, as did the more intractable issue of high-risk and
low-rate behest loans. As part of the Apex Industrial Finance Loan (Loan
1984-PH), administered by the Central Bank and in which DIP was one of several
participating financial institutions, the Government and DIP were asked to



_ 21 -
implement an "Action Program': this included further organizational changes,
measures to reduce DBP's dependence on government deposits, and actions to
improve the collection performance. The financial effects of "behest" lending
were to be made transparent, and Government was to provide financial
assistance if DBP's financial viability would be impaired as a result of
'behest'. lending. However, continuation of DBP's problems, exacerbated by the
economic and political crises of the period, led to DBP losing its
accreditation as a participating financial institution in the project.
Consequently, Bank loans to DBP were suspended. As evident in Annex 3.01 and
in Table 3.1 below, DBP's financial situation in 1985 remained poor, with a
net loss of P 6.9 billion (US$370 million equivalent) and a high debt/equity
ratio of 15:1.
DBP's Rehabilitations 1986-89
3.5      Following the advent of a new Government in 1986, the severity of
DBP's problems and its technical bankruptcy were addressed by a comprehensive
rehabilitation and financial restructuring program developed in conjunction
with the Bank-financed ERL. Major components included: (a) a new charter and
policy statement, (b) installation of a new management team and Board of
Directors, (c) transfer of P 74 billion of non-performing accounts to the
Asset Privatization Trust (APT), created by the Government to sell those
assets; (d) implementation of a drastic cost reduction program through staff
reduction and sale of branches; (e) an internal reorganization and
strengthening program focussing on credit policies, legal procedures,
financial controls, accounting and internal controls, and personnel
management; and (f) phasing out of subsidized Government deposits.
3.6      DBP's financial restructuring and the major elements of its internal
strengthening program under the ERL have been completed, with DBP being
solvent and profitable during the last three years (Annex 3.01). Its recent
performance, summarized in Table 3.1, shows that DBP has met and, in some
areas, bettered the ERL targets set jointly by the Bank, the Government and
DBP. Its indicators of capital adequacy, liquidity and earnings performance
are sound. DBP's debt/equity ratio is now a very conservative 0.85:l,
compared to the ceiling of 5sl set under the ERL. Earnings indicators look
goods return on average assets is 9.52; return on average net worth, 17.52.
DBP's performance also compares favorably with that of leading private
financial institutions in the Philippines (paras. 3.27-3.28 and Table 3.3).



- 22 -
Table 3.1s SUMMARY OF DBP'S FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE, 1985-89
(Peso billion)
m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1985   1986   1987   1988   1989    Targets
Total Loans Outstanding         27.5    5.27   4.39   5.01   5.70       n.a.
Total Debt                      67.6    6.82   7.07   6.32   5.30       n.a.
Total Equity                     4.5    2.68   3.46   5.11   6.27       n.a.
Net Income                       6.9    5.6    0.8    1.6    1.10       n.a.
Ratios:
Debt/Equity                     15.0    2.5    2.0    1.2    0.85        5.0
Net Worth/Risk Assets (Z)       11.3   35.9   37.4   52.8  172.5          10
Liquid Assets/Deposits (Z)      63.1  208.4  161.3   64.5  165.3          80
Provisions for Doubtful
Accounts/Total Loans (Z)        0      47.3   34.9   28.6   31.81a   25-39
Net Interest Marginl
Total Assets (Z)               (8.6) (29.5)   9.7    9.2   11.0         4.5
Return on Average Net
Worth (X)                    (182.2)(157.7)  25.5   38.4   17.5        10.0
Administrative Expenses/
Average Total Assets (Z)        1.1    6.1    5.7    6.0    4.5        n.a.
Personnel Costs/
Total Assets (Z)                0.4    3.7    2.5    2.6    2.6   2.5-3.5
la  The figure for pre-rehabilitation (pre 1986) non-performing accounts
(NPAs) is 108?; the provisions exceed the NPA a'tual account because they
were not yet reversed for accounts already collected and sold. The
provisions for post-rehabilitation (post 1986) accounts equal 2.8S.
3.7      It should, however, be pointed out that DBP's 1989 earnings
performance is not fully indicative of DBP's long-term earning capability on a
going concern basis. Of the total operating revenues of 1 1.9 billion, only
52? is interest from loans; 25Z comes from investment in securities, primarily
Government issues, 5Z from the sale of assets, and the remainder from trust
funds and other miscellaneous sources. This reflects the cautious investment
approach taken in the first three years after the financial restructuring. As
for interest expense, until December 19, 1989, 1 1.4 billion of interest-free
Government funds or 12S of total funds, were on DBP's books. On December 20,
1989, these funds were converted into a special time deposit costing DBP
15.752. As DBP mobilizes higher cost funds, its spread would decrease. This
combination of factors which reduce revenues and increase expenses will lead
to lower, though still positive, net returns in the future.



- 23 -
DBP's New Role and Strategic Orientation
3.8      As described in paras 2.19 - 2.22, the FSS identified the lack of
institutional arrangements for mobilizing and channeling long-term funds as a
major constraint to investment and recommended that a revamped DBP be
developed to fill this institutional gap. This involved mandating DBP to act
as a predominantly wholesale financial institution, catering to financial
intermediaries rather than directly to business enterprises. Under the PSAL,
agreement with Government was reached on this new orientation.
3.9      The wholesale DBP would mobilize and channel term funds to the
private sector through retail financial institutions. Given the availability
of domestic long-term funds from SSS, GSIS, insurance companies and pension
funds, DBP is expected to play a major role in domestic resource mobilization.
However, DBP's increased reliance on domestic resource mobilization can only
be gradual: in the near future, the lack of a developed capital market and the
Government's continuing need to tap domestic savings through high-yield
Treasury bills would impede DBP's raising significant long-term peso funds.
In such an environment, DBP will have to fund itself to a significant degree
through foreign sources in the coming years. In this context, DBP has been
designated as a principal conduit for official foreign borrowings, the
proceeds of which are to be channeled through retail financial institutions
for financing private enterprises. In line with this, the Apex Development
Finance Program (APEX) and Industrial Guarantee and Loan Fund (IGLF) have been
transferred from the Central Bank to DBP. DBP is also expected to be the main
wholesale conduit for the AJDF.
3.10     As part of the FSAL, the Bank helped DBP formulate an Institutional
Development Plan that defines and makes operational DBP's wholesale banking
strategy, including an action plan for mobilizing domestic term funds. DBP's
transformation to a primarily wholesale bank will be accomplished through a
gradual reduction of its retail loan approvals and outstanding retail loans to
enterprises, relative to the wholesale loan approvals and outstanding
wholesale loans to financial institutions. Agreement was reached under the
PSAL that by the end of 1993, DBP's portfolio is to be primarily wholesale.
Subject to the availability of expected bilateral and multilateral funds, DBP
projects that 65Z of its outstanding loan portfolio will consist of wholesale
loans by then. Annex 3.02 provides details of the gradual reduction, in rela-
tive terms, of retail lending and the concomitant growth of wholesale loans,
as set out in the IDP. The implementation of DBP's wholesale banking
strategy, considered essential for its future, will continue to have top
priority. During negotiations agreement was reached with DBP for continued
implementation of the IDP.
3.11     Because of circumstances beyond its control, DBP did not meet its
1989 wholesale lending targets: the bilateral and multilateral funds
envisaged did not materialize in time. However, since late 1989, DBP has made
a good start with the IIC Project (paras. 3.21-3.22). The following programs
are expected to increase its wholesale lending activities substantially during
1990-1991 the Industrial Guarantee Loan Fund (IGLF), the AJDF, an Asian
Development Bank line of credit similar to the IIC Project, and the proposed
Project.



- 24 -
3.12     As part of its reorientation towards wholesale lending, the
Government and DBP have also agreed that, over time, DBP should divest itself
from its retail operations. A study is currently being undertaken by
consultants to determine the best approach to divestiture. As a first step,
DBP is working on a complete separation of wholesale and retail operations.
This is expected to be completed by end November 1990, to be followed by
preparatory work that will enable privatization of at least 302 of the equity
base of the retail operations by June 1991. By 1993, DBP's equity stake in
retail operations would have been reduced by 70X. During negotiations
agreement was reached with DBP and the Government that all steps necessary to
get in vendible form will be taken by June 1991.
Oraanization and Management
3.13     Before 1987, the Board of Directors held day-to-day operational
responsibilities. Under the revised Charter, the Board is a policy making
body distinct from management; only the Chairman and the Vice-Chairman of the
Board are also bank mnnagers. Composed of nine members appointed by the
President of the Republic of the Philippines, the Board now includes five
members from the private sector.
3.14     DBP has developed a revised organizational structure (Annex 3.03)
that is appropriate for Implementing its wholesale banking strategy. The
guiding principles behind the new organization structure are: (a) clear
separation of funding and lending operations; and (b) upgrading of the
resource mobilization function by creating a Capital Markets Department.
Given the increased importance of resource mobilization, which has to be
carried out in the financial markets by an individual of high standing, the
Capital Markets Department is headed by an officer holding the rank of Vice
President, reporting to the Executive Vice-President in charge of the Treasury
Group. On the lending side, an Executive Vice President for Marketing
oversees the Financial Institutions Group that manages wholesale lending. The
Industrial Restructuring Unit (IRU), which forms part of the Strategic
Planning Center, reports directly to the Chairman. The two Executive Vice-
Presidents and the Senior Vice-President in charge of Accounting and Ad-
ministrative Services also report to the Vice-Chairman, who in turn reports to
the Chairman. An Internal Audit Department reports directly to the Board of
Directors.
Personnel Policy and Training
3.15     Under the ERL, DBP reduced its staff from about 3500 to 2000, mainly
through an early retirement scheme. A job and performance evaluation system
as well as a merit oriented financial reward system are in place, with the
integration of the two systems planned for end-1989. The Chairman and senior
management are aware that the reorganized DBP must be able to offer
compensation competitive with the private financial sector, if it is to
attract and retain the high caliber staff necessary for it to perform its
functions effectively. Consequently, DBP now supplements its salaries with
productivity bonuses. In the last two years, DBP has been able to attract
nine senior officers from leading private sector banks to head its
departments.



- 25 -
3.16     DBP has engaged in extensive training of its staff in corporate
finance, loan packaging, financial analysis and legal issues. A training
program in industrial restructuring has been implemented as part of the TA
component of the IIC Project. DBP is developing detailed terms of reference
for a training program that will cover two areas critical to its successful
evolution as a wholesale banks (a) its capital markets and resource
mobilization staff and (b) wholesale lending. The capital markets component
will consist largely of on-the-job training in connection with the proposed
bond issue and DBP's merchant banking activities. The wholesale lending
component will focus on the criteria, systems and procedures required for
dealing with PFIs as clients. The training program would be funded under the
Japan Grant Facility associated with FSAL. The details of the training
program were reviewed and confirmed with DBP during negotiations.
Accounting and Management Information System
3.17     The flow of accounting data has improved substantially over the last
three years. Revised Branch and Head Office Accounting and Procedures Manuals
have been completed. Liquidity and reserve summaries are generated daily;
financial statements of branches and the head office are consolidated monthly.
The general ledger is computerized and closed daily. Subsidiary ledgers for
loans, which had been booked separately by lending groups and industries
before the reorganization, have been centralized in the Transactions
Processing Department. A central mainframe computerized information system,
acquired from Citibank, is expected to be operational by end 1990. This
state-of-the-art system will provide an integrated management information
system that allows immediate access to all transaction information which is
stored in a centralized data base. The system will also integrate on-line
authorization and printing of customer advices, and contract administration
for loans, placements, bonds, deposits, commitments, receivables and sundries
until final maturity. The system will also incorporate an automated
accounting service. Internal communications within the head office and
between branches and head office are expected to be computerized by the end of
1990. In the meantime, the branches operate with stand-alone microcomputer
systems for the general ledger, loans and liabilities and the savings and
current accounts.   The ongoing computerization and a system of account
profitability analysis are expected to improve the management information
system considerably.
3.18     Each major department or unit of DBP is responsible for establishing
its respective goals and targets and consolidating these into an integrated
business or action plan. Overall, the systems for identifying problem areas
are working, as are the systems for monitoring progress and evaluating
performance. Internal management communication and cooperation among the
departments are appropriate, especially in the formation of special-function
mmangement committees, to rationalize certain problem areas and to develop
inter-departmental solutions. There is a functioning planning and budgeting
process and the accounting systems and internal controls are adequate.



- 26 -
Loan Activities and Asset Management
3.19     The DBP loan window was reopened in mid-1986 after a hiatus of four
years during which no new loans were disbursed. In 1987-1988, as management
cautiously focussed on rehabilitation rather than on expansion, DBP's
investment policy was conservative, with lending being primarily short-term
and excess liqaidity being invested in securities, mostly Government issues:
in 1987, DBP realized no positive new net lending, while its securities
portfolio grew by P 2.7 billion; in 1988, outstanding loans increased by P 610
million, while investments in securities were reduced by P 192 million. With
its rehabilitation completed, DBP engaged more fully in lending activities in
1989: outstanding loans grew by P 854 million and investments in securities
decreased by P 1.7 billion.
3.20     Industrial Investment Credit Proiect.  DBP's wholesale lending
activities commenced in late 1989 with the effectiveness of the Bank-financed
IIC Project. DBP's handling of it has thus far been outstanding. It engaged
in an aggressive marketing effort, with senior management playing an active
role in developing and enhancing relationships with financial institutions.
This resulted in 23 financial institutions being accredited, including ten
commercial banks, two merchant banking institutions, five private development
banks and one finance company.
3.21     Commitments and disbursements of IBRD loan funds have far exceeded
appraisal estimates. To date, 29 subprojects have been approved with IBRD
funds committed amounting to P 1.4 billion (around US$ 63.8 million equivalent
out of a total loan of US$65 million). Most of the subprojects (24) are for
expansion or modernization of production facilities. Of the IBRD funds
committed, P 1,298.3 million or 92.5% are for loan financing and P 105.6
million or 7.5% are for leasing. At an aggregated level, IBRD financing
represents 35.72 of the total project cost of P 3.9 billion; at the subproject
level, IBRD funds account for 15.2X to 70.3Z of total (sub) project cost. DBP
expects disbursements to be completed by December 1991. In line with its
wholesale banking role, DBP has encouraged loan syndication by the PFI1: 9 of
the approved subprojects involve syndicates of PF11.
3.22     With the transfer of the ongoing IGLF program from the Central Bank
to DBP in 1990 and the additional foreign funds anticipated to be channelled
through DBP (AJDF, ADS and Bank funds), wholesale loans outstanding are
projected to grow substantially, from P 5.6 billion in 1990 to P 34.3 billion
in 1995. The bulk of these loans will be for the industrial sector. Retail
lending is projected to grow at a more modest pace, from P 6.5 billion in 1990
to P 12.8 billion in 1995.
3.23     DBP uses resources from its *Regional Development Fund' to extend
loans that do not completely satisfy traditional conmmercial banking risk or
collateral criteria. Considered essential from a developmental point of view,
these loans involve concessions in one or more of the following parameters--
interest rates, repayment terms, or collateral requirements. They are
intended to finance mostly projects outside the Metro Manila area which would
introduce new technologies or manufacturing processes, or projects enabling
enterprises to reduce or minimize environmental pollution. The Regional
Development Fund comprises, and is limited to, 30a of each year's net income



- 27 -
after taxes and repayments of loans sourced from the Fund. As of December 31,
1989, these loans amounted to 3 73.8 million. By 1995 these loans are
projected at P 1.4 billion or 3S of total loans outstanding. The IDP provides
that (a) the risk exposure of these loans and compliance with the 30? net
income ceiling will be monitored closely; and (b) appropriate provisions will
be made to take into account the potentially higher risk. These provisions
will be at least 10? above the average provisioning on conventional performing
loans.
3.24     DBP's record in recovery of pre-rehabilitation non-performing loans
has been better than anticipated under the rehabilitation plan. Out of non-
performing accounts representing 1 4 billion that remained on DBP's books
after the transfer of the bigger accounts to APT, 1 1.8 billion were
collected. In addition to standard loan collection and foreclosure acti-
vities, an "incentive scheme for pretermination- was devised. By offering the
debtors a roll-back of interest to 1984 (retroactive computing of interest due
on the basis of 1984 rates) and condonation of penalties in exchange for a 20?
downpayment and an agreed schedule of repayment of the recomputed past due,
DBP collected on about 300 formerly doubtful accounts. Loan loss reserves
cover more than 10O of the pre-rehabilitation portfolio since the allowance
for bad debts has not yet been reversed to reflect recent collection or sale
of accounts; actual arrears on this portfolio amounted to 64? as of December
31, 1989. DBP intends to write off all the past due accounts of this
portfolio by end-1992. As for loans made after the rehabilitation (1986),
actual arrears equalled 5.9X as of December 31, 1989; the loan loss reserves
of 2.8Z underestimate the reserves available to cover these actual arrears as
the substantial excess reserves currently for the pre-rehabilitation portfolio
will be available for the post-rehabilitation loans. Transfer of half of
these excess reserves to the latter will raise loan loss reserves to 11;
transfer of the whole excess will result in a 15.8? loan loss reserve. Given
DBP's past history, its conservative provisioning policy is appropriate.
Liability Management
3.25     DBP's balance sheet is now exceptionally liquid, with cash and due
from banks representing 165.3? of deposits. In the coming years, liquidity
will decrease as lending activities grow. There is some maturity
transformation risk, with an average maturity of funding liabilities of 4.3
years, compared to an average loan maturity of 6 years.
3.26     To fund its projected lending, DBP intends to supplement its foreign
currency sources by actively tapping the domestic capital market. As a
wholesale institution, DBP aims at playing a major role in domestic resource
mobilization, with the support of the Philippine authorities. In addition to
promoting an active secondary market and lobbying for appropriate regulatory
changes designed to open up the primary market, DBP will enter the market for
its own account by issuing a variety of instruments, specially designed to tap
different categories of institutional investors. Organizational changes have
been made in DBP to consolidate and give more prominence at senior levels to
those activities that are closely identified with resource mobilization:
designing, packaging, timing, pricing and placing its debt instruments. Thus
far, DBP's resource mobilization efforts have consisted of designing
securities to be issued by its clients and finding potential investors for



_ 28 -
them. It has not issued its own debt securities on account of the high level
of interest rates. Given investors' current preference for short-term paper,
DBP envisages that it would initially launch a P 250 million, 3-year, bond
issue in 1991 and 1992 to establish its presence in the market, to the extent
allowed by market conditions and crowding-out effects resulting from
government funding requirements. Favorable reception in the market would
then be followed up by a P 500 million issue in 1993 and further issues with
longer maturities and lower coupons.
Proiected Financial Position and Performance
3.27     DBP's results for the last three years show that DBP is now endowed
with features that enable optimism regarding its future prospects. Its
management has demonstrated a willingness and an ability to make hard
decisions; it has developed a focused strategy and has restructured its
organization to implement that strategy; it is implementing improved controls
and procedures. On April 5, 1989, DBP's Board approved a new Policy Statement
(Annex 3.04) which reflects its wholesale lending orientation and which deals
with, among other things, DBP's investment policies, financial prudence limits
and capital structure. Salient features of the Policy Statement provide fort
(a) private sector orientation with autonomy in decision-making; (b) an
interest rate and fees policy that is consistent with prevalent market rates
and that ensures full recovery of all its direct and indirect costs, including
provisions as required, plus an adequate profit margin; (c) prudent interest
rate and maturity match between its assets and liabilities; and (d) a debt-
equity ratio not exceeding 5sl. These market-oriented policies, implemented
by its now more streamlined organization, should enhance and speed up the
integration of DBP into the market-based financial system of the Philippines.
DIP's operations should continue to be governed by these policies to avoid the
mistakes of the past. DBP's continued adherence to its Policy Statement
during the project implementation period will be a condition of the Bank loan.
Barring an unexpected deterioration in the macroeconomic environment, DBP is
now ready to undertake more substantial lending activities.
3.28     Detailed projections of DBP's future financial performance are
presented in Annex 3.02 and summarized in Table 3.2. These projections are of
an indicative nature, as the assumptions underlying them are dependent on
general macroeconomic conditions, the development of the local capital market,
and the availability of bilateral and multilateral funds.



- 29 -
Table 3.2: SUMMARY OF DBP'S PROJECTED FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE, 1990-1995
(Peso Billion)
Year                                 1990   1991   1992   1993    1994   1995
Iholesale Loans Outstanding           5.58  11.48  16.74  22.99   28.84  34.16
Retail Loans Outstanding              6.51   7.87   9.19  10.47   11.69  12.83
Total Debt                           11.16  18.10  23.05  29.53   34.98  40.25
Total Equity                          7.01   7.82   9.09  10.52   12.11  13.74
Net Income                             .86    .90   1.27   1.56    1.59   1.78
Ratioss
Debt/Equity                           1.59   2.31   2.54   2.81    2.89   2.93
Liquid Assets/Deposits (Z)          135.1  139.1  11.9.2  119.7   110.8  113.6
Provisions for Doubtful Accounts/    2.7    2.7    2.4    2.1      2.0    2.0
Total Loans (C)                                     -
Return on Average Net Worth (Z)      13.0  12.1   15.0   15.9    14.0   13.8
Administrative Expenses/
Average Total Assets (Z)           4.7    3.2    2.6    2.2      1.9    1.7
B. The Participatina Financial Institutions
3.29     The twelve PFTs identified by DBP for possible participation in the
proposed Project are privately-owned and comprise eight commercial banks, two
leasing companies and two investment houses. As of December 31, 1989, they
accounted for 47Z of total assets of the financial system. Key financial data
and ratios on the PFIs are presented in Table 3.3 below.



- 30 -
Tablo 8.8: PFPI - F2NANCIAL DATA AND RATIOS
(December 81, 1989)
Return on
Total    Average   Oebt/  Risk Asavts/ Liquid Assote/ Adm. Expense/
As tn   Net worth  Equity  Net Worth    Deposits    Avg. Total Assets
PFI        (a el II In)    (%)    (rTim")   (TIM" )      (X)             mX
Commercial Banks.
For East Bank      85.46     29.8    11.1       9.6          55.8            4.8
PCI Bank           24.14    a0.0       7.4      7.4         5S.0 0S2
CocoBank           21.08    21.1      4.8       5.6          70.8            4.2
Equitable          11.96    2B.7    10.2        9.5          78.0            4.6
CltyTrust          11.09    26.4       6.8      6.4         122.2            n.e.
Intorbank          10.67     16.4     7.7       7.9         182.2            7.9
Chlna Bank          9.50    81.8       8.8      8.1          69.6            8.8
Union Bank          4.12    27.0       4.5      4.4         106.2            4.8
Lesina Comwanies
All Asia Capital    0.67     20.0      8.6      4.0           n.e.           8.4
BPI LesIng          0.02     20.9      5.1      4.5           n.a.           2.9
Investmont House
Anscor Capital
A Investment Corp.   0.497    27.1    1.2      1.8           n.a.           2.0
Private Developmnt
Corporation of the
Philippineo (PDCP)   7.87    8.9    16.2       C.9           n.e.           4.26
3.30     All the PFIs being considered, except PDCP, have high profitability,
with annual return on average net worth ranging from 16.4Z to 31.82 and
averaging 20.2?. This compares with an average of 20.3? for the ten largest
private coummercial banks. Although their debt/equity ratios ranged from a low
of 1.2:1 to a high of 16.2sl, they all are in compliance with CBP's maximum
risk assets to capital ratio requirement of lOl. Moreover, they have all
maintained a satisfactory liquidity position.
3.31      The identified PFIs have both the past record and the potential to
operate effectively as term-lenders if provided with term funds. Having
participated in the Apex and IICP projects, nine of the twelve PFIs have
experience in term-lending and have organizational units with the skills to
undertake project financing. They all have good management and well-trained
staff. The accreditation criteria for the PPIs are discussed in para. 4.9.



- 31 _
IV. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives
4.1      The objectives of the proposed Project are tot
(a) Support the revival and the strengthening of the industrial sector;
(b) Support sound industrial investment in subsectors free from major
distortions resulting from inappropriate trade and regulatory
policies;
(c) Help make the cement, pulp & paper, textiles, shipping and ship
repair subsectors more competitive through reforms of subsector-
specific policies, TTA, and institutional strengthening;
(d) Strengthen the institutional framework for environmental protection;
and
(e) Strengthen DBP's capabilities to play a more active role in the
development of the capital market and to act as a wholesale bank
channeling term funds to retail financial institutions.
B. Proiect DescriPtion
4.2      To achieve the foregoing objectives, the Project would include the
following componentss
(a) Line of Credit for Equipment and Working Capital. This would be the
project's largest component, estimated at US$150 million and accounting for
about 86Z of the Bank loan. This would be supplemented by export credits of
about US$75.0 million to be mobilized under the Export Credit Enhanced
Leverage (EXCEL) Program; the objective of this program is to facilitate the
access of private sector enterprises to export credits in countries where ECAs
would otherwise be reluctant to provide such financing, notably in highly
indebted countries. The Bank Loan and EXCEL credits would provide long-term
financing to viable industrial enterprises, covering plant improvements or
construction and acquisition of equipment as well as the working capital
requiremuents associated with investment in plant and equipment; investments in
energy conservation and pollution control devices would be included.
Incremental marketing and worker training and relocation expenses may also be
financed.
(b) Lease Pinancing. As medium-term financial instruments, leasing
contracts can be part of a financing package offered to industrial
enterprises. The project would provide an estimated US$25 million (about 14?
of the loan) to finance PuTs for the purchase of equipment which they would
lease to subborrowers.



- 32 -
(c) Training and technical Assistance (TTA) for (i) selected subsectors
and (ii) environmental protection. TTA to the selected subsectors will
involve strengthening existing institutions and training facilities that serve
them and assisting enterprises in the identification, analysis and appraisal
of restructuring investments. TTA for environmental protection will comprise
a two-pronged approacht on the one hand, assistance, through D8P's Industrial
Restructuring Unit (IRU), to industrial enterprises on the design of least-
cost pollution control components compatible with prevailing standards, as
part of their subprojects; on the other hand, support to the Environmental
Management Bureau (EMB) in building up its capabilities to carry out
industrial environmental audits and develop generic Environmental Impact
Assessments (EIAs) for subsectors classified as environmentally critical. The
Project would provide an estimated US$16 million for the TTA component, which
is described in more detail in paras. 4.12 to 4.21.
4.3      The allocation of the Bank loan among the credit components
(equipment financing and leasing) are indicative estimates based on expected
use. During project implementation, the Bank loan funds would be allocated
among the various financing instruments depending on actual demand. The
project would cater to medium and large industrial enterprises that, by virtue
of their size, would not normally be eligible for financing under the Bank-
financed Fourth Small and Medium Industries Development Project (SMI IV; Loan
No. 3038-PH, 1989). The minimum size for assets of eligible firms would be
P 20 million (before the financing provided under the Project).
4.4      Subsector Eligibility.  The line of credit provided under the Project
would not be subsector-specific. To achieve the objective of supporting
efficient and sound investment, however, no funding would be provided for
projects in subsectors which are (a) protected by quantitative restrictions or
excessive effective tariff protection--So or above; (b) subject to price
control, and/or (c) subject to legal or administrative barriers to entry
impeding competition. Annex 4.01 provides a list of subsectors which would be
at present ineligible for financing by virtue of these criteria; this list
would be updated periodically by DBP as warranted, in agreement with the Bank.
However, DBP under certain exceptional circumstances may consider lending to
investment projects in the ineligible subsectors provided that they meet
agreed eligibility criteria (para. 4.28). Agreement was reached with DBP and
the Government during negotiations that DiP amend its Policy Statement and its
Operating Policy Guidelines to reflect that objective and the above
eligibility criteria.
4.5      Action Proaram.  Implementation of the proposed Project involves
execution of the Action Program described in Chapter I and detailed in Annexes
1.11 to 1.15. The Action Program comprises (a) policy reforms to create a
favorable enabling environment for private investment; (b) establishment of a
support structure including institutional improvements and TTA to allow the
subsectors to overcome identified constraints.
4.6      As pointed out in para. 1.15, the Government is finalizing a major
reform of its trade, fiscal and regulatory policy framework to provide the
right signals for making the industrial sector more competitive and efficient.
This reform would remove most QRs, substantially lower and simplify the tariff
band, and remove the distorting regulatory policies in cement (pricing) and



- 33 -
the transport subsector (regulation of rates and routes; barriers to entry).
As a result, the policy issues listed in the Action Program would be
satisfactorily addressed, thus making the subsectors which would now be
excluded from Bank loans eligible for funding,
C. Loan Amount
4.7      The proposed loan of US$175 million equivalent would be made to DBP
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate and would have a term of 20
years including 5 years of grace. The Republic of the Philippines would
guarantee the Bank loan to DBP. It is expected that the Baunk loan will be
fully committed within four years after effectiveness.
4.8      The proposed Bank loan would cover 322 of a total financing package
of US$541 million. The balance would be provided by the project sponsors,
PuIs, the EXCEL program and bilateral agencies as shown in Table 4.1.
Table 4.1s PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
Estimated Costs
Local    Foreian    Total
----- (US$ million)-----
Credit Component                        275.0      250.0    525.0
Training and TA
cement                                  0.1        2.2       2.3
Pulp & Paper                            0.1        2.0       2.1
Shipping                                0.1        2.0       2.1
Ship Repair                             0.1        2.0       2.1
Textiles                                0.3        4.8       5.1
Environment (DBP/EMB)                   0.3        2.0       2.3
Subtotal                            1.0       15.0      16.0
Total                             276.0      265.0    541.0
Financing Plan
Local    Foreign    Total
------ (US$ million)-----
Subborrowers                            220.0           -    220.0
PFIs                                     55.0           -     55.0
Local Contributions (DBP,
Beneficiaries)                       1.0          -       1.0
Bilateral Funds for TTA                     -        15.0     15.0
Export Credits (EXCEL)                      _        75.0     75.0
IBRD                                      _        175.0    175.0
Total                             276.0      265.0    541.0



- 34 -
The TTA component would be financed by bilateral sources. Nordic Development
Fund (ND?) has agreed to support the financing for environmental protection
and cement; NORAD (Norway) for the shipping and ship repair subsectors and
BITS (Sweden) for environment and pulp and paper. Other financing sources are
being approached, notably the Swiss, Japanese and U.K. bilateral agencies for
the textile subsector. During negotiations, an agreement was reached with the
Government and DBP on the funding arrangements for the TTA programs.
D. Proiect Implementation - Credit Component
4.9      The project implementation arrangements are essentially similar to
those of the IIC Project. DBP, as a wholesale bank, would channel project
funds to the PFIs which in turn would finance their clients' long-term plant,
equipment and working capital needs, andlor write equipment lease contracts.
The PFIs would be duly accredited institutions. The financial intermediaries
already accredited under the IIC Project and which have remained sound and in
good financial standing would maintain th'r, status as PFIs, at their option.
Other financial institutions interested in participating would be accredited
by DBP using criteria which include: (a) a track record of profitable
operations and sound capitalization; (b) an ability to maintain a sound and
healthy portfolio as demonstrated by the PFI's level of arrearages; (c) a
qualified management team of good reputation; Id) adequacy of trained staff,
established systems and procedures to be an efficient and reliable surveyor of
retail credits and (e) project analysis capability and experience in corporate
finance. Failure to continue to live up to these criteria would disqualify
PFIs from further participation in the Project. The accreditation of PFIs
will be regularly reviewed during Bank supervision.
4.10     The Operating Policy Guidelines (OPG) established under the IIC
Project, appropriately amended, will be adopted by DBP to serve as the
document spelling out the policies and procedures that will apply to its
wholesale role under the Project. The revised OPG spells out, among other
things, the following: accreditation criteria for PFIs (para. 4.9); exclusion
of DBP as a retailer of funds under the proposed project (para. 4.22); sub-
project eligibility criteria and minimum and maximum subloan sizes (paras.
4.4, 4.27 and 4.28); relending terms, conditions and rates to the PFIs (paras.
4.25, 4.30); on-lending terms, conditions and interest rates to sub-borrowers
(paras. 4.26, 4.30); minimum loan participation by PFIs and minimum equity
contribution by sub-borrowers (para. 4.27); availability of foreign currency
subloans to export-oriented enterprises only (para. 4.24); procurement
guidelines (para. 4.37); free limit and subproject documentation requirements
(para. 4.34); conformance with environmental laws (para. 4.33). During
negotiations, agreement was reached with DBP on the inclusion of the above
components in the OPG. Adherence to the OPG is a covenant of the Loan
Agreement. Agreement was also reached with DBP that the OPG will be revised
only after consultation with and approval of the Bank. Adoption of the OPG,
satisfactory to the Bank and putting it into effect, by DBP's Board will be a
condition of effectiveness.
4.11     The PFIs, which would bear the subloan credit risk, would be
responsible for subproject appraisal and supervision. DBP would review the
documentation submitted by the PFIs for subproject approval to determine



- 35 -
whether the eligibility criteria for subborrowers and subprojects have been
met. Neither the World Bank nor DBP would duplicate the credit or project
analysis of the PFIs and pass upon individual subloan applications except for
very large projects involving subloan amounts beyond the free limit of US$8
million (para. 4.34).
E. Proiect Implementation - TTA Component
4.12     TTA For Subsectors.  DBP would be administering the bilateral funds
for TTA provided to the following subsectors: cement; pulp and paper; textile;
shipping, and shipbuilding and repair. TTA features common to these five
subsectors are (a) a training program to improve skills of operating and
management personnel, and thus help increase productivity and efficiency; this
will comprise overseas training, local courses taught by expatriates and local
specialists and the training of job instructors by expatriate trainers
initially, and later by experienced workers educated as trainers; (b) TA to
enterprises for design, implementation, and operation of upgraded or new
facilities, as well as marketing and (c) TA experts specializing in these
subsectors to help enterprises identify project concepts and prepare project
proposals. All subsectoral TTA will be administered by DBP but implemented by
the respective industry associations and training institutes. The bilateral
grants and low-cost funding of the TTA will serve as seed money for a TTA Fund
to be established for each subsector, with DBP as the Fund administrator
(Annex 4.02). Funding for subsector-wide training program development and
technical assistance to government and non-profit entities will be in grant
form. Technical assistance funds for individual private sector enterprises
will, however, be in the form of long-term, low-cost loans to the beneficiary
firms. By defraying the costs, the enterprises wvould be replenishing the TTA
Funds, thus making systematic TTA programs sustainable over a long period.
4.13     Cement Subsector.  Annex 4.03 describes the TTA for the subsector,
including cost estimates, in detail. A training subcommittee within
PHILCEMCOR, the cement manufacturers association, would oversee the training
programs to be developed by expatriate training experts following the
assessment of the training needs of the subsector as a whole. Training will
be provided in the following areas: cement manufacturing technology; process
control; cement raw materials and analyzing techniques; pyro-processing
technology; modern grinding technologies; energy conservation and pollution
control; project management and time scheduling. As for technical assistance,
most cement companies have already had external technical experts to meet
their individual needs. Therefore, provisions have been made under the
proposed Project only for consultants for PHILCEMCOR and other small companies
who will call upon the consultants for specialized services as required.
4.14     PulP and Paler Subsector.  Annex 4.04 presents the TTA program for
the subsector. The industry association-, PULPAPEL, with a steering committee
would administer the training program which would cover the following
subjectst modern papermaking technology; process-control; paper quality
requirements; improvement of waste-collection; deinking technology; converting
machinery; environmental aspects. As for the technical assistance, it would
be carried out by expatriate consultants who would assist companies in
selecting new sites, in light of environmental considerations, and in planning



- 36 -
and executing expansion or new projects. These expatriates would be
production and engineering experts who would supervise the engineering
construction and also the operation during start-up.
4.15     Textile Subsector.  Annex 4.05 describes the TTA program for the
subsector. It is.expected that the Textile Manufacturers Association of the
Philippines (TNAP) would spearhead the formation of a Textile Training
Steering Group, composed of representatives of TMAP, government, the
Philippines Textile Research Institute (PTRI) and textile education experts,
which would plan and implement a comprehensive training system that would
include training of managers and textile engineers and vocational training of
operators and technicians. PTRI would be the executing agency for the
training programs. As a first step, a new Training Service Division would be
established within PTRI, whose existing facilities would be expanded and
upgraded. Expatriate training officers who, together with local specialists,
will train the industry in the following subjects: textile technology and
metrology; equipment operation and maintenance in each area of production--
spinning (ring, open-end, worsted systems, etc.), fabric forming (weaving.
knitting, non-woven), dyeing, printing and finishing; flow of materials;
energy and water management; effluent treatment; and marketing. As for the
technical assistance program, it will involve technical services and techno-
economic validations of investment proposals in the areas vft fibers to
fabrics (FTF) and dyeing, printing and finishing (DPF). It will be
implemented by a Textile Management Service Unit, established under the aegis
of TMAP, which will have two expatriate specialists in the FTF area and one
expatriate specializing in DPF; they will be supported by local technical
staff.
4.16     Inter-Island Shirnina Subsector.  Annex 4.06 presents the TTA for
this subsector which would concentrate on reform and strengthening of the
national system for in-service sea training. To coordinate, guide and monitor
an improved maritime apprenticeship program, a Ship Training Foundation (STF)
would be formed under the Philippines Inter-Island Shipowners Association
(PISA). STF will obtain the services of expatriate senior maritime training
specialists to advise local consultants on the formulation and implementation
of the training program. This will be supplemented by technical assistance to
government agencies and the private sector to help improve the regulatory
framework, update safety rules, establish a systematic ship registry,
modernize communications systems and develop more effective fleet utilization.
4.17     Shin Revair Subsector.  The Philippine Ship Builders and Repairers
(PHILSAR) with a training foundation would be assisted by training experts in
organizing, coordinating and implementing a training program that would cover
these areass welding, thermal bending, aluminum and fiberglass fabrication,
ship and pipe fitting , hull design and computer applications. As for the
technical assistance to the enterprises, provisions have been made for
expatriate consultants to support local staff and consultants in assisting
shipyards develop the technical and managerial skills for major rehabilitation
and expansion projects, including marketing strategies and programs.
Annex 4.07 describes the TTA program in detail.
4.18     Environmental TA administered by EMB.  This would strengthen sMe's
monitoring and enforcement capabilities by training its staff in the review of



- 37 -
subprojects and their documentation, and the execution of environmental audits
of industries. One full-time consultant assisted by specialists on temporary
assignments will assist EMB to: plan an environmental audit program for the
cement, pulp and paper, textile and shipping and ship repair subsectors;
conduct environmental audits of industrial facilities within each of the five
selected subsectors; develop strategies for improving pollution control in
existing plants and agree on long-term action programs with the industrial
subsectors so as to achieve compliance with environmental standards by certain
target dates; evaluate the capabilities of local laboratories and arrange for
sample analyses; prepare an industrial environmental data base; prepare a
generic pollution control plan for each industrial subsector for use in the
approval process of subsector investment projects; develop monitoring programs
for the five subsectors; and provide on-the-job training for EnM counterparts.
Annex 4.08 describes the TA program in detail.
4.19     Environmental Technical Assistance Administered by DBP.  This would
provide one consultant with the support of specialists for temporary 'spot
assistance to: assist loan applicants in preparing process conceptual designs
and environmental control conceptual designs; review project description
documents prepared by loan applicants for completeness prior to submission to
EMB; assisc loan applicants in the regulatory review process; review final
designs and equipment specifications for process and environmental control
facilities; review and evaluate construction and equipment bids for process
and environmental control projects; and provide on-the-job training for DBP
counterparts. Annex 4.08 describes the TA program.
4.20     DBP Institution - Building.  Under the IIC project, funds from the
Japan Grant Facility support the IRV with technical assistance, training and
the execution of various subsector studies. The first set of studies has led
to the preparation of the proposed Project. A second set of studies to be
launched in the fall of 1990 would cover (a) the packaging industry;
(b) automotive parts, components of buses and trucks; (c) metal working
industries, including foundries, forges, hand tools and machine tools. These
studies would lead to action programmes along the lines of those developed
under the first set (para. 4.5).
4.21     The institutional structure for carrying out the subsectoral studies
ensures a policy focus and representation of private sector views in the
output. An Inter-Agency Coordinating Committee (IACC) sets the broad policy
parameters for and supervises the studies. Established in January 1989, it
has the following permanent members: (a) the Secretary of Trade and Industry,
or his representative, acting as chairman; (b) a representative of the
National Economic and Development Authority; (c) a DOF representative; (d) a
DBP representative; and (e) a representative of the Bankers Association of the
Philippines. The additional members uf the Policy Committee include a
representative of the industry group which is the subject of the study and, if
applicable, the representative of the concerned government regulatory agency.
To handle the logistics and ensure the execution of the studies and the
required training and technical assistance, DBP acts as the Secretariat to the
Committee. For that purpose, it has set up an Industrial Restructuring Unit
which is intended to grow into a source of technical expertise on restruc-
t'aring which DBP's lending department as well as the PFIs would draw upon. To
strengthen the capability of the IRU, it was confirmed during the negotiations



- 38 -
that DBP's Board has approved a new organizational structure with increased
staff for the IRU. In addition, the appointment of a full-time experienced
project manager under the IRU to coordinate the TTA programs for the selected
subsectors will be a condition for loan effectiveness.
F. Relending Mechanism. Terms and Conditions
4.22     Relending Mechanism.  Under contractual arrangements satisfactory to
the Bank, DBP would pass on the proceeds of the Bank loan to the PFIle which
would onlend the funds to eligible industrial enterprises. During
negotiations, agreement was reached with DBP that it will not lend the project
funds directly to eligible enterprises, in line with its wholesale banking
function. It would establish a separate project account to channel project
funds to the PFIs and to accumulate subloan repayments until they become due
for repayment under the Bank loan. The funds thus accumulated would be used
for further onlending for similar purposes and on similar conditions.
4.23     Foreiin Exchange Risk.  The World Bank would lend to DBP at its
standard variable rate. For loan funds onlent in domestic currency, the
Government would assume the foreign exchange (FX) risk for a market-based
variable fee payable by DBP. This FX fee would be set equal to the difference
between the World Bank lending rate and the weighted average interest rate on
peso time deposits of six months minus the Gross Receipt Tax (GRT) and an
administrative fee of 1.01 p.a. for DBP. The FX fee would be adjusted every
six months in line with the movements in the two rates and shall be paid to
the Bureau of Treasury. Since domestic interest rates in the Philippines are
basically market-determined and the capital account is essentially open, this
market-based variable formula provides a reasonable estimate of FX risk. As
for funds onlent in foreJgn currency (para. 4.25) the subborrowers would bear
the FX risk in USS but the Government would assume the FX risk between the
currency pool and US$ for a fee of 1X p.a. During negotiations, an
understanding with the Government and DIP was reached on the above arrangement
for FX risk.
4.24     Bank loan funds will be onlent in foreign currency only to export
enterprises with significant foreign exchange earnings; in such cases, the FX
rlsk will be borne by the subborrower. DBP and the PFIs believe that this
safeguard is essential given their past experience in lending in foreign
currency. Some borrowers, who do not have a natural hedge, may also be
tempted to borrow in foreign currency because of the prevailing large interest
rate spread between the domestic rate and the US$ rate. During negotiations,
agreement was reached with DBP that foreign currency subloans will be made
available only to export-oriented enterprises.
4.25     Relendina Rate of DIP to PFIe.  DBP would relend the project funds in
Pesos or foreign currency to the PIle at market rates of interest. In line
with market conditions, it is anticipated that DBP would offer alternative
variable and fixed rate options to the PFIs. It is expected that the
relending rate, which will be negotiated between DBP and the PF1s, would
approximate the cost to the PFIs of borrowing funds of a similar maturity in
the market. As for the relending rate for foreign currency, DBP would relend
the Bank funds to the PFIs at LIBOR plus a spread, such that the resulting



- 39 -
total will not be less than the borrowing cost of the PFI for similar funds.
During negotiations, agreement was reached with DBP that it will maintain
relending rates which are market-based and provide it with adequate spreads
over its costs.
4.26     On-lending Rate of PFTs to Subborrowers.  PFle will also be free to
charge market rates of interest, allowing them flexibility in assessing risk-s
and differences in creditworthiness, or covering administrative costs
associated with individual clients or loans. This mechanism is also expected
to increase competition among the PFIle which would bear the full credit risk
of each subloan made. Subborrowers which qualify for foreign currency sub-
loans will be given the option to borrow in US dollars at the prevailing
6-month LIBOR plus a spread for DBP (see para. 4.25) and a margin for the
PFIs.
4.27     Eligible Subproiects.  The project would finance technically,
financially, and economically sound investment subprojects of viable
industrial enterprises. Bank funds will also be available for the renewal and
expansion of vehicle fleets and cargo handling equipment; this will be done in
conjunction with a proposed Bank-funded Transport Sector Loan, which will
include a policy reform package covering the deregulation of the transport
industry. The minimum size for assets of eligible firms would be P 20 million
(before the financing provided under the project) and the minimum subloan size
would be US$250,000. The maximum subloan amount to be lent to any individual
company by a PFI would not exceed US$6 million equivalent; in the case of loan
syndications, the maximum subloan would be US$15 million -equivalent. For each
subproject, the PFIs would be required to finance at least 102 of the
financing package from their own funds; this may include the working capital
loans they normally extend. The minimum equity contribution by the
subborrower would be 30X of total project cost for new projects; for expansion
and modernization projects, subborrowers are required to maintain a maximm
50:50 debt-equity ratio and a minimum debt service coverage ratio of 1.5
during the life of the subloan. New subprojects would be subject to a minimum
debt service coverage ratio of 2.0. Any variation from these ratios will
require the Bank's prior consultation. Subprojects would have to yield a
financial rate of return of not less than 152 in real terms.
4.28     Subprojects that are in subsectors suffering from the policy and
regulatory distortions listed in para. 4.4 would normally not be eligible for
financing under the Project; an understanding was reached with DBP on a list
of these ineligible subsectors (Annex 4.01). An understanding was reached
with DBP that specific projects from the ineligible subsectors may be financed
on an exceptional basis provided that the internal economic rate of return of
the projects under consideration is not less than 152. In addition, such
investment projects would also have to satisfy one of the following
eligibility criteria: (a) a significant portion (at least 202) of its output
will be exported; (b) it will enhance competition in the industrial subsector;
and (c) it will utilize technologies that will make it more competitive. It
was agreed that these subprojects will be considered as subprojects above the
free limit and prior approval of the Bank will be required in each case.
Given the Government's intended reform program, it is expected that the list
of ineligible subsectors would be temporary and scaled down as progress is
made with respect to policy improvements.



- 40 -
4.29     Co-Financing of Large Projects.  The project pipelines in the
reviewed subsectors indicate that a number of subprojects would have financing
requirements well in excess of the US$15 million maximum ceiling for subloans
financed by Bank funds. It is proposed that such subprojects would be
reviewed jointly by the PFI, DBP and the World Bank and alternative or
additional sources of funding, including IFC, will be explored. An under-
standing to this effect was confirmed at negotiations.
4.30     Maturities and Grace Periods.  The maturity of equipment and working
capital subloans would vary from 3 to 15 years and 3 to 7 years, respectively.
The financing of new equipment for leasing will be for lease contracts that
have a maturity of 3 to 15 years. The maximum grace period would be 3 years
for equipment and working capital subloans. Lease financing will have no
grace period.
4.31     Elixible Exoenditures.  The proceeds of the loan would be used to
finance 1001 of the foreign currency cost of directly imported goods, works,
and services, and 602 of local expenditures (corresponding to the estimated
average foreign exchange content of these items). Project related
expenditures made within 90 days of receipt of subloans by DBP would be
eligible for financing. In addition to financing investments in plant and
equipment, the Bank may consider financing the following expenditures:
(a) Marketing and Distribution. Since marketing expenses represent a
necessary investment, they would be eligible for financing under the
loan. These would include, for example, (i) participation in trade
fairs and exhibitions in prospective markets; (ii) start-up and
initial financing of a sales force; (iii) financing of advertising
and promotion campaigns in foreign markets; and (iv) investments in
the domestic distribution system. To be eligible, marketing expenses
would have to be incremental; i.e. they would have to go beyond the
current marketing expenses of a subborrower.
(b) Worker Retraining. A shift in market focus or changes in the
organization of the production process are likely to affect the size
and the composition of the work force.  Retraining will be important
not only to protect jobs but also to employ new machinery or take
advantage of new technologies. Therefore, retraining expenditures
may be considered as eligible expenditures and could be included in
the subloan to a company.
4.32     Environmental Requirements.  To sensitize the PFIs to the risks
associated with ignoring environmental concerns, the Operating Policy
Guidelines would include a provision for the PFIs to finance subprojects that
are in compliance with applicable laws and regulations of the Philippines
governing environmental protection. The mechanism for satisfying EMB
requirements that a project will be environmentally sound and can legally
proceed is as follows:



* 41 -
(a) If a project proponent determines that his project is not located in
an 'environmentally critical areas and will not be an
"environmentally critical project', ENM approval is not required.
However, owing to the uncertainty that may surround these terms, and
since emissions and/or effluent limits must be met, if applicable,
pre-construction discussions with EMB are advisable to verify the
project proponent's conclusions.
(b) For proJects that are not environmentally critical but are located in
an environmentally critical area, a project descrintion is the only
document required for EMB clearance.  This is descriptive rather than
analytical and contains fundamental information such as ownership;
location; project purpose; environmental setting; project size; life-
span of project; estimated cost; emissions, effluents and solid
wastes expected; and plan of operat4on. It serves as a document
helping EM4 determine, on the basis of the information provided, if
indeed the project is not environr ntally critical.
(c) Environmentally critical projects require an Environmental ImDact
Assessment (ZIA) for EMg clearance. An ZIA includes the items in the
project description and expands on them, in particular the
description of the environmental setting, construction details and
plan of operation. More important, the EIA gives a quantitative
evaluation of the project's impact on all aspects of the envirosphere
viz. air, water, land, socioeconomics, and cultural resources. The
purpose of the ETA is to be predictive and conclusive, as well as
descriptive. EMB lists the following industries as environmentally
critical and, therefore, requiring EIAss
Heavy Industries
*    Non-ferrous metal industries
*    Iron and steel mills
*    Petroleum and petrochemical industries
*    Smelting plants
Resource Extractive Industries
*    Major mining and quarrying; cement plants are classified as
"quarrying"
*    Forestry, including pulp and paper plants
*    Dikes and fish pond development
4.33     During negotiations agreements were reached on the mechanism for
assuring that all subprojects comply with applicable environmental
legislation. It was also agreed that generic ElAs developed by EMB for the
selected subsectors under the Project would be required for all new
investments in those subsectors.



- 42 -
4.34     Free Limit and Subproiect Documentation Reauirements. The free limit
would be set at US$8 million. The proposed free limit is based on the
experience of PFIs in the evaluation of subloans under the Apex and the IIC
projects. In addition, the proposed free limit would allow the Bank to focus
subloan evaluation efforts on larger and more complex projects. If the Bank
share in the subloan made by the P1M is below the free limit, the Bank would
not carry out an individual subproject review, but would make periodic sample
analyses during supervision missions. DBP would submit to the Bank the
original subloan application (submitted by the subborrower to the PFI), the
PFI's credit evaluation and the subloan agreement between the subborrower and
the PFI. DBP would, then, issue authorization to withdraw funds for approved
subprojects. If the Bank share in a subloan is above the free limit of US$8
million, DBP will carry out an independent appraisal of the subprojects before
seeking the Bank's approval. The subproject documentation submitted to the
Bank would then have to include, in addition to the items mentioned above, a
separate feasibility study of the investment project and an extensive analysis
of the operational and financial situation of the company. For subloans
exceeding US$15 million, a full project appraisal would be carried out by DBP
and the World Bank.
4.35     To provide for sufficient flexibility and to speed up the subloan
approval process, DBP would use an immediate disbursement system whereby
(a) the PFIs would be eligible for immediate reimbursement of their disburse-
ments to subborrowers under the project and (b) DBP can disburse to suppliers
or contractors at the request of the PFls. If a subloan above the free limit
is not subsequently approved by the Bank, the PFI would reimburse DBP any
funds extended prior to the Bank decision. No funds shall be directly
transferred to the subborrower or the PFI except for reimbursement of actual
payments made.
G. Disbursements
4.36     The Bank would disburse against 1002 of expenditures for the subloans
financed by DBP to the PFIs up to the financing share made up by the eligible
expenditures (pars. 4.31) and requested for the respective subproject. A
Special Account (revolving fund) of US$10 million would be established in DBP
to finance the Bank's share of subloans, thus helping to expedite project
execution. Withdrawals from the loan account would be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditures, and DBP would ensure that all supporting
documentation is being adequately maintained and that it would be available
for review upon the Bank's request. DBP would submit to the Bank a monthly
statement of the transactions of the Special Account. The loan is expected to
be disbursed in about five years, based on the standard disbursement profile
for industrial finance projects in Asia.
H. Procurement
4.37     Procurement procedures for goods, works and services financed with
loan funds would comply with those customary for industrial development
finance operations. DBP and the PPI will satisfy themselves that the goods,
works and services to be purchased are for the investment subprojects and are



- 43 -
reasonably priced, by ensuring that the subborrowers have canvassed the main
sources of supply and purchased from the most advantageous source. Contracts
above US$5 million equivalent will normally be procured by International
Competitive Bidding. Limited International Bidding (LIB) and direct
contracting vould be allowed for these large contracts in the following casess
(a) in modernization or expansion projects, standardized equipment or
proprietary parts that are needed for compatibility with existing equipment;
(b) machinery that is available only from a limited member of suppliers
worldwide; and (c) where the procedures are otherwise justified for technical
reasons. During negotiations, agreement was reached with DBP on these
procurement arrangements. Procurement of consultants for the TA component
will be in accordance with the Guidelines for the use of consultants of
bilateral funding agencies, namely NDF, NORAD, BITS and possibly others.
I.  Monitoring. Relortins and Auditing
4.38     A Supervision Plan is presented in Annex 4.09.  DBP would prepare
semi-annual progress reports on project implementation. These reports would
Include an assessment of progress in implementing the credit, policy reform
and technical assistance components. The Bank's monitoring will be at two
levels: (1) implementation of the Project and (2) the institutional develop-
ment of DBP. The monitoring of project implementation will focus on (a) the
accreditation of PFIle by DBP; (b) DBP's adherence to the OPG; (c) the PFI1'
repayment of loans to DBP; and (d) implementation of the Action Programs
(Annexes 1.11 to 1.15) including the TTA components (Annexes 4.03 to 4.08).
The Bank's supervision of DBP's institutional development would involve
concentrating on the general performance of DBP in accordance with the agreed
Institutional Development Plan. This would mean assessing the progress made
in the strstegic transformation of DBP against performance criteria which
includes (a) adherence to its revised Policy Statement; (b) increase in the
proportion of wholesale lending in its total outstanding portfolio in line
with DBP's Institutional Development Plan; and   (c) privatization of its
retail operations by June 1991. Bank supervision of DBP for this project will
be in conjunction with supervision of the Financial Sector Adjustment Loan.
DBP will be responsible for preparing Part II of the Project Completion
Report. During negotiations, agreement was reached on these arrangements for
Bank supervision of DBP.
4.39     The accounts of DBP, including those kept for the purpose of the
project, the Special Account, and Statements of Expenditures, would be audited
annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The audit reports,
including an opinion regarding the supporting documentation for disbursements
based on Statements of Expenditures, would be submitted within six months
after the end of DBP's fiscal year. During negotiations agreement was reached
with DBP on these reporting and audit arrangements.
J. Benefits and Risks
4.40     The major benefits of the proposed Project are related to increased
efficiency of existing industrial capacities, the establishment of new
facilities, and the modernization of the shipping and ship repair sectors
which would contribute to more efficient functioning of the inter-island
economy through improved transportation facilities. The Project would thus
increase international competitiveness of the industrial sector and support



- 44 -
Government efforts to revive industrial growth. Recognizing the need to
protect the environment in the Philippines, particularly in the Manila area
where much of industry is located, the Project ensures first, that it does not
contribute to further environmental degradation, and second, that, to the
extent possible, it makes a positive contribution to ameliorating environ-
mental problems. The Project would also help strengthen the credit delivery
system through technical assistance to DBP.
4.41     The main risk in this Project is that there could be an unanticipated
slowdown in credit demand, resulting in slow utilization of the loan. This
could happen for two reasons. First, there could be an unforeseen downturn in
the economy. Second, there could be delays in implementation of the subsector
action programs which could delay their eligibility for Bank funds. These
risks have been minimized by keeping the loan size in the lower range of
estimated credit demand. The risk of delays in subsector policy actions has
been reduced through extensive discussion of the action plans with key agen-
cies in the Philippines; the commitment of the Government to major reforms in
trade and tariff regime as evidenced in its announcement of a specific plan
will also help. Another risk relates to the capacity of the agencies to
absorb the extensive technical assistance provided under the project. The
Involvement of the industry associations and government agencies in the design
and implementation of the TA is expected to minimize this risk.
V. AGREEMENTS tINDERSTANDINGS AND RECOMMENDATION
A. AQreements and Understandings
5.1      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government and
DBP regarding implementation of the Action Program (paras. 1.29 - 1.30 and
Annexes 1.11 to 1.15);
5.2      Agreement was reached with the Government and the DBP on the final
content of the TTA program (paras. 4.12 to 4.21) and the funding arrangement
(para. 4.8).
5.3      During negotiations, agreements regarding the following were reached
with DBPs
(a) implementation of DBP's Institutional Development Plan (para. 3.10);
(b) adherence to its Policy Statement (para. 3.27);
(c) amendment of DBP's Policy Statement to reflect the objective of
supporting efficient and sound investments (paras. 4.4, 4.27 and
4.28);
(d) Operating Policy Guidelines for the Project (para 4.10) which will
includes
-    accreditation criteria for PFIs (para. 4.9);
-    exclusion of DBP as a retailer of funds under the proposed
Project (para. 4.22);



- 45 -
subproject eligibility criteria and minimum sad maximum subloan
sizes (paras. 4.4 and 4.27; Annex 4.01);
-    minimum loan participation by PFIs and minimum equity
contribution by subborrowers (para. 4.27);
-    procurement guidelines (para. 4.37);
-    conformance with environmental laws (para. 4.33); and
-    free limit and subproject documentation requirements
(para. 4.34).
(e) the foreign currency subloans will be made available only to export-
oriented enterprises (para. 4.24);
(f) relending terms, conditions and rates to the MFIs (paras. 4.25 and
4.30);
(g) onlending terms, conditions and interest rates to subborrowers
(paras. 4.26 and 4.30); and
(h) reporting and auditing requirements (paras. 4.38, 4.39).
5.4      During negotiations, understandings on the following were confirmed
for inclusion in the Minutes of Negotiations:
-   mechanism for assumption of the foreign exchange risk by the
Government (para. 4.23);
-    Staffing of the TRU (para. 4.21); and
-    DBP's privatization schedule (para. 3.12).
B. Condition of Effectiveness
5.5      Effectiveness of the proposed loan would be conditional on the
following additional events: (a) adoption of and putting into effect the
Operating Policy Guidelines for the proposed Project by DBP's Board
(para. 4.10), and (b) appointment of a full-time project manager at Vice-
President level to coordinate the TTA component of the Project (para. 4.21).
C. Recommendation
5.6      With the foregoing agreements and understandings, the proposed
Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$175 million to DBP. The loan would
have a term of 20 years, including five years of grace on repayment of
principal, and carry the standard variable interest rate. The loan would be
guaranteed by the Republic of the Philippines.



- 46 _                         ANNEX  1.02.
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
NUM3ER OP ITEMS REGULATED. LIBERALIZED AND NEWLY REGULATED
1977 TO 1988
No. of Regulated
Items as Percent
Total Number        Newly                       of total number
Regulated       Regulated      Liberalized   of PSCC Lines la
1977               1,892              47              --              33.5
1978               1,926              34              --              34.2
1979               2,031             104              --              36.0
1980               2,032               1              --              36.0
1981               1,771               2             263              31.4
1982               1,438             277             610              25.5
1983               1,988             598              48              35.3
1984               1,994               6              --              35.4
1985               1,924              --              70              34.1
1986                 937              --             951              17.3
1987                 802              --             171              14.2
1988                 673              --             129              11.9
Dec. 1988            579              --              94               10.2
/a PSSCs Philippines Standard Customs Code.



ANNEX 1.02
PHILIPPINES
INDU8T_IAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
TRENDS IN TARIFF PROTECTION
1982      1985      1989
Nominal Tariffs La
All Sectors                                31.3       27.6      27.6
Agriculture                                30.5       27.3      27.0
mining                                     13.3       13.1      12.9
Manufa:turing                              31.8       28.0      28.0
Effective Rates of Protection Lb
All Sectors                                 n.a.      44.0      36.5
Agriculture                                 n.a.       9.0       5.2
Mining                                      n.a.      -0.2      -2.0
Manufacturing                               n.a.      73.4      55.5
.La Unweighted average of book rates.
lb eighted average using price comparison method.
Sources: Tariff Commission and E. Medalla, An Assessment of Trade and
Industrial Polica. 1986-88, Working Paper #90-07, Philippine
Institute of Development Studies; Tariff Commission Annual Reports.



- 48 -                          ANNEX 1.03
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
COMPARATIVE TRADE REGIMES
Average Nominal          Liberalization
Tariff la                Ratio lb
Malaysia                               14                       >95
Thailand                               34                       >95
Indonesia                              26                        84
Philippines                            28                        90
la Average nominal tariffs are for various years over 1985-88 and refer to
unweighted book rate data.
lb Refers to number of unrestricted importable items to total and excludes
those restricted for health, safety and security reasons.
Sources: M. Noland, Pacific Area Develoiinu Countriess ProsDects for the
Future, Institute for International Economics, Washington, D.C.,
1990.



- 49 -
ANNME .04
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
Financial Performance of Nanufacturing Cornorations. 1979-871
Not income  (P billion)         1.20   1.04   (0.11)  0.70   2.54    2.48   5.00   8.44
Net income/net worth (%)        5.60   3.88   (0.39)  2.16   7.26.   6.69  10.00  14.49
Total Liabilities/Net Worth    2.51   2.17    2.16   2.43   2.82    2.66   2.19   1.81
Total Long-Term
Liabilities/Net Worth           n.a    n.a      n.a    n.a    n.a    0.99   0.83   0.45
Al Manufacturing Segment Top 1000 Corporations only.
iources: Business Day, 1.000 Top Corporations in the PhilLpines (various editions);
Central Bank of Philippines, 1985 Annual Retort: Philippines Business Profiles
and Perspectives, Inc./Center for Research and Communication, Phil1p.ines
Business Persoectives (1987 and 1988 editions).



ANNEX 1.05
- 50 -
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
TOTAL FACTOR PRODUCTIVITY IN SELECTED MANUFACTURING INDUSTRIES la
1970-80       1981-83       1984      1985-87
All Manufacturing           -1.20          2.31        -21.95       4.51
iood                                -38.4         -14.9        7.13
Apparel                              -2.9         -15.7       -0.27
Paper                                 1.19        -29.8        5.02
ia Indices refer to large establishments having ten or more workers.



AMNI 1.06
Page 1 of 6
PHIUPPINES
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
CEMENT SUBSECTOR
Backgrod
energy crisis), with an average age of key
1.    The  cement  subsector  of  the       Instalatons of over 25 yearsl  Energy
Phmpplns comprIses 18 plants of whIch 17    consumpton b 40% to 50% above that of
are In operatlon. The total Instaled clinker  modern pants today.  Average ske of
capacity Is 7.4 million metric tons per year  productbon lines Is only 230,000 TPY of
(TPY); cement capacity Is 9.6 million TPY.  clnker as compared to minimum economic
However, given thelr old age and largely    sizes today of over 500,000 TPY. Pollution
obsolete tecnology, clinker capacity has    abatement equpment Is inadequate In most of
been rerated at only 6.2 mlion TPY. With    the plants. (See paras. 11-12 below). Hligh
operational difficulties, even that capacity  energy consumption and costs, lack of
was only utilized to 77% In 1988 despite    economis of scale, and high cost of
growin  cement shortages In the country     maintannhg outdated facnlties have brought
which had started In 1987. Durhg the last   operating costs (Ie. excluding Interest and
years, concentration of ownership of the    depreciation) at levels close to or above
piants Into a few groups has taken place:   ex-works prices In other countris.
four business groups now control 13 plants
representing 79% of total capacity.  The    4.    The present inefficiencies In the
Industry employs approxlmately 5,200 people.  industry can be traced to major policy
constraints In the past: hport restrictlon,
2.    The iustry with a capacity largely    combined with high tariffs, price control and
exceding demand durng the 1970. and early   energy regulatbn. The Import substitution
1980a, exported a sizeabie portion (up to   polcy shico  the 1950s caused a rapid
20%) of Ita annual production durig those   buid-up of the hidustry's capacity durng
years. Domestic consumptlon fluctuated at   the 19508 and 609; generous Investment
levels between 3 to 4 millon TPY between    incentives caused excess capacitis to
1975 and 1986. However, rapid ecownot       materialaze. However the lack of competition
growth shie 1986 has put a severe strain    from Imports and the "natural protectlon due
on the industry's ability to meet booming   to high transport costs of the low value/high
demand and the country had to  start        volume commodity led to excesstvo prices.
Inporting In 1987.  In spite of  imited     The government responded by reguating the
hvestments to modernze and upgrade the      sector with rigid price control at aU levels
ndustry's facilitis, supply shortfalls are  (ex-works, wholesale and retail). However,
forecast to reach 1.6 mIlon tons in 1890    during shortages, the small consumer either
which have to be met by llports. The value  does not obtain cement, or must pay high
of these Imports Is approximately US$100   wblack market" prices anyway.
mlion equivalent, abost as much as a new
1.0 mmbllon TPY pbnt would cost.            5.    Given the overcapacity at the begin-
ning of the 19708, and prce control, very
little Investment took place during the 1970.
Probims and Issues                          and 808, except for a major hdustry
conversion from fuel oll to coal firig In the
3.    Except for one, all plants predate    early 1980s and construction of one modem
1972 (Lia. usng technolgy predatin  the     productlon line In 1983.  However, the



- 52 -
ANNEX 1.06
Page 2 of 6
quasi-forced coal conversIon, executed at    significantly. As a result, price control was
high cost for the bKinstry (because of the   relmposed In mid-1989 again. Given recent
small plant sizes and high costs of foreign  Increases  In  iport prces  due  to  a
funelng) cid not benefit the tndustry because  tightening o1 the international cement supply,
of the government's trade and pricing polcy  the goverrment has   suspended  import
on energy.                                   tariffs  (OX) until mid-1990, (with  the
prospect of a further extension of that
8.    Today, even at a time of major         suspension) to put downward pressure on
shortages and reasonable Industry profits    prices.  On the other hand, tariffs are
the bankig sector b reluctant to extend      scheduled to Increase to  30% again In
crecilt to the industry beyond some face-    mid-1992, which would  cause  excessive
lifting modernization and Increased working  effective protection again
capital. Major reasons for th1s are: (I) high
losses In the Industry durig the 19809       9.    At present, a two-tler pricing system
caused by prke control and the debt (n       exists:  domestically produced cement Is
foreign exchange) incured for the coal       subJect to  price  control; imports  are
conversion; these losses have eroded equity  uncontrolled, with tmport prices, even at 0%
and finacal strength; (D) the high level of  duty, hiher than the domstic price. As a
Import protection prevented competition; smai  result, only Dn Ited quantities of imports come
and highly inefficient plants could survive  In, aggravating the shortage further. Cement
and, holing on to their respective market    plants whch could use their excess grinding
share, impeded restructuring towards larger,  capacity by importing clinker, are not wiMng
more efficlent capacitIs; and  (Hi) the      to  do  so, since the resulting  cement
prospect of inadequate return on investment  production would then be subject to price
In the light of rigid price control discourages  controL    In  the  meantime, substantial
Investors and bankers ailke to go for the    investment projects are bein  delayed for
necessary investment                         lack of cement, and domesttc capacity is not
increased sufficiently because of the price
7.    Realzing  those   problems,  the       controL
government lfted Import restrktions on
cement In early 198; moreover, effective      n          Aspects
rates of protection (ERP) on the basis of
tariffs  had  already  declined  from  an    10.   The polutants In the cement industrY
ostimatod 100% In 1985 to below 20% In       concern  noise and air quality.   Noise
1989 (nomhal import duty Is 20%). However,   pollution Is minimal; most cement plants are
unfammarity with the import of cement, Initil  situated h low densIty living areas. As for
difficultIes with the mandatory qua0ty control  air quallty, pollution through sulfur dioxide is
by the Bureau of Product Standards (BPS),    not a problem as it is absorbed into the
and the fact that iport price CF plus        process by caiclum  oxide; thus a large
duties, taxes and handlng charges were       fraction Is removed from the flue gas. The
hiher than the local price as controlled up  nitrous oxide content of the exhaust gas Is
to then. prevented sufficient iports to      lower than he present standards and the
come Into the country.                       waste water Is not poluted as It is mostiy
cooin water that Is, at the most.
8.    Price control was also lifted In early  contaminated with a few suspended soids.
1989. However, given the booming demand,
Imits on domestic supply, and the constraints  11.   The major problem Ues h iefficlent
on imports as described above, prices rose   dust coWcton  The IIC study found that



- 53 -
ANNEX 1.06
Page 3 of 6
24% of the plants have no dust collection    plants with respect to electricity consumptin
eqpment  In the sample plants which have     permts peak electricity use In the plant
such equipment. the equpment Is obsolete, In  during off-peak hours of the publc grid and
need of repalr or Inefficent due to age;     vice versa. The Industry can burn fuel off as
dust pollution occurs because of frequent    well as coal providhg flexibilty h respondhg
stoppages of the klns caused by power        to supply constraints. The  ndustry Is a
falures; and dust collection Is Inefficient  major foreign exchange saver, especiany
because of operational problems e.g. raw m   since few of Its Inputs need to be Imported.
sectlon dust spMage during bal chargbi  as   The existence of a sound Industry helps to
dampers do not work properly.                allevlate tho consequences of International
cement shortages. A sizeable domestic
12.   The envirormental standards appicable  tidustry fosters deveiopment of engineering
to the cement Industry are quite lenient     and metal-workl  industnIes to support Its
compared to the standards of the developed   operation, maintenance, repalr and expansion
countries. Expressed In concentratin imits,
the air pollution control regulations are    14.   Yet, consideration also needs to be
generous: new sources may discharge 300      gIven to the constraints that must be
mg/scm and existing sources 600 mg/scm.      overcome for the subsector to exploit is
The bigest problem  of the EMS Is Its        comparative advantage. The constraints are:
inadeqat  staffing and lack of testin
equipment for the effkcient monitorig of        -  The hdustry Is capital hntensive and
oompiance  with  even  those  standards:           its Investment requirements are long
reginal offices have but one particulate           term; whil benefits In the industry
matter emmsions testing instrument for use          can be substantial, they typically
throughout the country. The plants gera-            becoome available after a  lengthy
ly have no test equipment either.  For              construction and start-up  period.
efticint pollution  control, the  existig           Therefore long grace periods are
standards need tbhtenig and EMB should be           warranted; such financin Is presently
strnthnd  through  inreased  staff,                 not available.
technIcal assistance and training, provision
of sufficient testing equipment, and the         - Existbi  plants and companies need
provision  and  evaluation  of  standard           substanti  Injectons  of  fundig
monitoring Information sheets.                      (includhg  equity  Investments) to
modernize  and  expand  existing
Poteil Fr Deveoment and Growt                       facilties sufflciently to benefit from
economis of scale and Improved
13.   The PhlIppines are rkhly endowed wfth        energy efficiency.
major raw materlas (except gypsum) required
by tho Industry.  The prevalence of hlgh         - The strict rule  moncern     direct
quallty pozzobna permits compWl nt  the            foreign Investment (DFI) (maxium 40%
expensive  cinker  with  relativel  large           equity ownership) discourages joint
quantities of low-cost pozzolana, to yeld           ventures.
good quagty cement at potentially low
productlon costs. 6iven the abundance of         - The needed large amounts of bng-
key raw materlals across the major slands,         term funding are not forth-coming
tho idustry can locate close to mportant            from  the banking sector, unless
markets, thereby obviating major transport          pri-control Is lifted or at least
costs. The configuration of relatively large       ratlonallzed



- 54 -
ANNEX 1.06
Page 4 of 6
standards at bwest costs.
Price control prevents potential large
Investors  from   procedn   wlth          - The Industry Is steeped In a number
needed maJor proJects.                       of wold-fashbrned habits which have
prevaied because of Its conservatism
The existence of two tier pricin             and lack of outward orientatin.
constitutes a disincentive for the           Examptes are the continued use of 40
existig plants to Import clinker which       kg bags (instead of the internatlon-
could  be  ground  with  domestic            ally prevaling 60 kg bag), the use of
pozzoana to  low-cost cement In              bagged cement even at sites where
excess grinding capacities: companies        buk cement would be feasible, the
wzil prefer to kiport foreign cement         use of statistis expressed In number
to meot supply shortages rather than         of bags rather than in metric tons
seln domestic coment produced from           used Internationally, etc.
bmported cinker which wll be subJect
to price control.                         - The  Industry  has  to  rely  on
Inadequate   Infrastructure
The regulation of enorgy prics and           (communications,  transport,  In
notably coal provides a disincentive         particular   Inter-Island   shipping,
to the plants to use coal, which Is          electricity supply).
"dirtier, and more diffcult to handle.
Moreover, the imposition of use of     16.          The financial constrants could
domestic coal, which Is Inadequate for  be overcome, If pocies were adjusted
use by Itself, forces blendig with    (lfting or at least rationalization of price
Imported coal  Yet 1omogenelty of     control,  lberaluzation  of direct foreign
blended coal as delivered by PNOC Is  Investment, knproved energy poilcles). Then
not assured and supply Is unrellable.  Investors would consider Injecting equity Into
The coal blendi  terminal In Luzon    the industry; foreign Investors might be
which could  inprove the situation     attracted as well, briging along technology
carries a large debt-burden and Is    and know-how In addition to DFI; and banks
not operational. Cement producers     could be conviced to lend long-term to the
are not free to  buy local and         sector and carry long term credit risks.
inported coal directly  themselves.   The Infrastructure could only be Improved
Thus, pbnts equipped with dual-frlng   gradualy, but major new plants or large
prefer the use of fuel-oL             expansions typicaly have a lead time of
several years of bnplementation before
The existing labor force needs sub-   becoming fully operational.  During those
stantlal training In upgraded tech-   years the infrastructure could be Improved.
nology.   Engieerlng staff needs
techical  assistance  to  develop     Proposed Restucu          Strategy
optimal expansion projects with leading
edge technobgy.                       1i.   The  objectives  of  a  subsector
restructuring strategy would be to:
Existhg   plants   would  require
sIgnifcant  Investments  to  meet        - SupplY cement at competitivo prices;
environmental standards. They will also
require technical assistance to design    - Make   use   of  the   abundant
and istanl equipment that meets              raw-materials for domestic production



- 55 -
ANNEX 1.06
Page 5 of 6
In domestic productin faclties;       constructed  rather quickly, easing  the
forecast shortage siuation significantly.
- Foster a competitive environment
without   excessive   government       19.   The cement Industry, cbsly related
regulation: this would mean, on the    to  the  construction  industry  with  its
one hand, unrestricted bmports at a    boom/bust characterlstics, Is a cyclical
sufficient level to act as a natural  Industry. In a market-orlented environment,
ceiling on prices (bulk tmportation of  the Industry would earn good profits durig
cement should be encouraged); and      periods of excess demand and would have
on the other hand removal of price    financially leaner years during periods of
control.                               weak demand. The so-called excess profits
are used by a managwment wlth foresight, to
- Minimie pollution from the Industry.   buid reserves which are needed to maintain
and bmprove existing faclities, bulid additional
17.   The tndustry has aiready started to    capacity to meet forecast growth, and to
modemize some of Its facilties and has       overcome unusually long ean perlods. Appro-
embarked on timited expansions (de-bottle-   prtate taxation poklies, such as alowance of
necking).   The  Increase  In  production    accelerated depreclation, investment Incen-
capacity since 1985 has been achieved        tives and oss-carry-forwards, win help to
through repairs and rehablitation of exsting  foster a  long term  orlentation  In the
plants as wel as re-commissionig of moth-     ndustry.
balled plants. Certainly, modmrizatIon of
existing   facnlItles,  concommitant   with  20.   Provided monopolistic behavior of the
expansion of capacities and conversions to   hdustry can be kept at bay through un-
energy-efficient processes are the types of  hidored and sufficient levels of Inports (eg.
Projects yielding the highest return in the  through bulk Import terminals), the best
industry.  Based   on   an   establishod     pricing policy would be complete lifting of
conparative   advantage  for  continued      price control.  A second best solution,
production (domestic resource cost ratis     although unsatisfactory In the medium and
below 1.0) and on demand forecasts, the IIC  long  term, might be considered  for a
study reomnends that for the perlod 1990-    transitlonal period during which domestic
93, cement production be increased by        supply has not yet caught up and bIports
rehablUtation,  modemization   and   the     must still arrive In bags (rather than bulk).
construction of at least one greenfed        This solution would call for a ceiling price
plant. it also recommends conversion of      for al cement at bport parity (Import price
existing plants from the wet process to the  CF plus dutie, taxes and port handling
dry process precaciner kUn plants; this      charges). Such a formula or equivalent might
would double the production capacity.        be announced for a  miRed period with the
explieit understandig of a complete lifthg of
18.   Given the lead times In Investment,    prces thereafter.
cement shortages are likely to continue Into
the mid-sixties. Thus It would be desIWable  21.   Capacities should not be buWlt with a
that an indPendent firm set up a bulk-       view to export major portions of production.
termnal for  importbi  bulk  cement In       Experlence In the past has shown that due
sufficlent quantltes; the Imports would act  to natural transport protection, export of
as price calIg. An hport level of 1OX of     cement generalY has to be priced below full
total domestc  consumption  appears  a       production cost durig most of the time. A
reasonable target Such a terminal could be   case may be made, though, for a suitabl



- 56 -
ANNEX 1.06
Page 6 of 6
plant located at a doep "a pier, which would
rely substantialy on a domestic market share
but benefIt from occasIonal margl exports
pried above marginal costs.
22.   Based on the above restructurIn
stratey, the IIC study estkuates that the
Industry would require wel over US$300
mUUon In Investments until 1995 to meet
needs for rehabmitation, modernizatbon plant
closures and creation of new capacities.
These  Investmnt  are  more  inkely  to
materialize If policis are reformed as
descrIbed above. To develop the abmty of
the subeector to executo the restructurIng
program, there Is also need for training and
tchnca assistance to hport know-how for
proJect desIgn and Implementation, as woe as
poUutIon controL



AX  1.07
- 57 -                    Page 1 of 3
PHIUPPINES
WIDUSTRIAL REMRUCTURING PROJECT
PULP AND PAPER $UDSECTOR
Badqpw.i hcreased steadily: the coutry relHed heavily
on kports.
1.    The pulp and paper Industry in the
Philippines started In 1948 with the establsh-  5.    The effective rate of protection (ERP)
ment of Companla de Cekdosa de Pllpinos, an  and domestic resource cost (DRC) are hlgh.
integrated mUI using bagasse as raw materil.  The ERP for paper products ranges between
This was followed by the PhIHppine Paper M1ls  40% and 105%. The DRC's between 1.3 and
set up in 1950. However, the real break-    1.5 demonstrate the high cost of the
through  In pulp  and  paper production     Industry to the econrmy and the consumer.
occurred In 1971 with the Paper Industries
Corporation  of  the  Philippinos  (PICOP)  En%oUNtal Aspects
estabished after years of extensive
research and deveiopmental work.            8     The IIC Study found that most of the
mill have limIted pollution control faclities.
2.    At present, there are 33 pulp and     Indeed the old mill just have fiters for fiber
paper firms In the country. Of the total    recovery and nothing else. The quallty of
nwmber, twenty-four  engage  In  paper      waste water treatment varis tremendously,
production whUle five undertake pulp mfing  from rudimentary to state-of-the-art. The
operation   Only four are Integrated pulP   Study recoumends that reduction of the
and paper mills.  The total operational     fresh  water Intake  together with  the
apacity of the paper Industry Is estimated  recovery of fibers, energy and chemicals are
at 540,000 tons per annum while that of tho  the best nplant measures to reduce the
pulp subsector b9 about 220,000 tons per    amount of offluents and polutants; It also
year.  The Industry empioys about 8,000     emphasizes the  need  for  prmary  and
people                                      secondary clariflers to enable effluents to
be externaly treated before discharge. As
Problm  and sbsue                           regards regulatory reaqrements, the Study
recommends that (a) primary treatment be
3.    The pulp and paper ndustry Is highly  made compulory for al mils starting 1994
fragmented with many small and outmoded mms  and (b) secondary treatment and sludge
operatig at an average of about 10,000 to   handig  be obligatory by the year 2000 or
15,000 tons per year. Most of the mills are  when a major new  plant Is estabilshed,
concentrated in Metro Manila and only a     whichever to eariler.
handful may be found In the Vlsayas and
Mndanao regions.                            7.    Now  regulatons  requiring  the
instalation and operation of effluent
4.    The Industry oxperlenced rapid growth  monitorin  equpment have recently been
In the 1970s as a result of high levels of  Issued by EMB. However, the EMffs regional
investment in an environment characterized  offices which are In charge of implementing
by high protection, substantlal investment  and   enforcing   environmental  policies,
icentives and an overvalued exchange rate.  regulatons and standards are understaffed,
This led to an Inefficient and Internationally  underequlpped and underfunded, to the point
non- competitive Industry.  In spite of     that sometimes even vehiles or petrol are
protection, production remained flat from   unavailble; this makes It difficult to obtain
1978  to  1988  although  consumpton        a basic level of servie.



ANNI 1.07
-58 -                       Pap 2 of 3
technology In obsolete plant faclt
Potential Fwr Dovsk*i and Growth
-  High  ost of bnputs partiual
8.    The greatest strength of the paper          huported chmia  and suppilbs wth
subsector lis In the existence of a large         hig dutis which hcroase the cost
domestic market partkularly on corrugatbi         of paper production
mediu, newsprit, and prlntng writig paper.
Total demand Is expected to grow by at         -  Uncerta  bng-range supply of fiber.
least SX per year to the year 2000 from
the presont level of 530,000 tons.             -  Lack of long-term funding.
S.    The Phlppie has a wide expanse of        -  Reluctance of foreign Investors to
land  suitable  for  tree  plantatlon; an         engage In joint ventures due to
extensive program of industrial reforestation     restrictbns on foreign investment.
Is required to ensure an adequate supply of
fiber for  the  estabishment of  large,     Proposed             Strateg
efficint, and cost-ompoetftIve paper ms in
the future. It l also noteworthy that the   12.   The  pulp  and  paper  subsector
Philppines Is the WOMrlds major source and  provkls a bacard lnkage to varius
suppier of abaca fiber, used among others   forest and wood-based Industris as weo as
for pulp to produce specilty papers.        to the metal and electrial ndustries. The
subsetrs  end-user  segments  include
10.  In addition, the Industry has compara-  printbi  and pubishing, converting, and
tive advantage due to the foliowkn:         packaging. Gevn the substantial domestic
demand for paper and paperboard products,
-  Cheap power In Mndanao.               the primary objectives of a restructuri
strategy would be to:
- An experienced labor force, at low
cost. This ls more Important In paper  (D    Ensure adequate supply of pulp and
paperboard converting where the            paper products at competWve prics
labor nput Is hgher, than In the pulp       to meet the icreasing requirements
and  paper idust   where  large             of Its varous end-users In the
modem production units have very            PhilIphp.
low  bor iputs.
(0) Attempt to achieve competitiveness
11.   Compitiveness  of  most  paper              h iternatinal markets.
production Is feasible If certain constrants
are overcome. These Include:                (l)   inimize poiluton.
-  Lack of economis of scal.             13.   The particpatlon of foreign capitl In
the estabshment of large and modernioed
-  Heavy   protectibn      effective     mil would help address the fundng problm.
protection exceeds 100X for several   The government should consider easihg
key products.                         stringent regations  regarding  forelgn
ownersh  and product marketing.
-  High incidence of ttechnlcal" smugfg
because of a wide range of duties     14.   Reduction of dutis on bIported
(from  20X  to 50w) for different     nputs Is neocesry to mce ndustrial inputs
paper grades.                         more competitve Internatlonafly. A unifonm
tariff rate of 25%-30% for an paper grades,
-  High cost of fuel and energy which is  to be lowered succe3slvely to provide an
coMounded by energy inefficient       oppotunty  for restructuring, is recom-



ANNEX 1.07
Page 3 of 3
mended  to  prevent  miodeclaration  and     onhance the prospects for better quality and
technical smuggling.  Ultimately, effective  process control and environmental protection
protectlon should not be more than 20X.      as well as more efficient energy usage.
15.   There is a need to undertake a        20.   Based on the preceding restructuring
comprehensive  industrial tree  plantation   strategy, the IIC Study estinates that the
programme to ensure adequate fibre supply   investments reqwired for the 1991-1993
and  provide  an  incentive  for  the       perid would amount to US$250 million, with
constritction of large and modernized mills,  the average annual Investment over the
This should Include Identlfication of suitable  1991-2000  period beig US$100 million.
potential mill sites where plantations can be  These figures exclude the Cost of new tree
estabilshed within economic hauling distance  plantations which are estimated at US$10 mil-
from the mii sites and In areas where power  lion annually.
Is cheap (Ie. Mindanao). The tree species
chosen should have international market
acceptance.
16.   The social and onvironmental benefits
to be derived from a sound reforestation
program cannot be discounted. Long-term
funding  for this  purpose    could  be
subsidized through bilateral grants.
17.   The country should cooperate with its
ASEAN neighbors to promote reglonalkzation
of the Industry In order to take advantage
of potential economies of scale and to
strengthen the competitiveness of the
Industry against that of the more developed
countries.
18.   Given  environmental problems and
rising land values In Manila, establishment/
relocation of pulp and paper mils outside
Metro Mania Is encouraged.
19.   With the exception of some mills
producing special grades In which there Is no
Import competition, many small mnis would have
to close when lower tariffs will force them to
face competition from more oeffiient
overseas producers. The Industry structure
requires a minbium economic capacity of
60,000 MTY for paper manufacturers (except
tissue firms which require a milnmum capacity
of only 30,000 MTY) and 400,000 MTY for
pulp mills. Small and Inefficient firms wil find
It difficl't to compete under this set-up and
may be forced to cease operations. The IIC
Study concludes that the restructuring would
leave the Industry with not more than 15
mills. The change to larger scale-units would



ANNE 1.08
- 60 -                     Page I of 3
PHIUPPINES
INDURIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
TE)flLE SUBSECTOR
Uacpoud                                      undergong a docine In the early 1980s. by
contrast tho garment Industr demonstrated
I.    The Phlippie texUt  Industry began in  continual and dramatic growth.  Apparel
the 19608, spurred by kmport substitutlon    exports more than tripled durig the 19809
pocies  which Included full support and      from around US$500 million per year at the
protection by the government. It focused     start of the decade to a reported US$1,800
ahost exclusIvely on the domestic market.   million In 1989 (an average annual growth
This resulted In limited dynamism, and made  rate of 16% per year). Partly as a resut of
the Industry susceptibl to drastic slmps In  their differential rates of development, the
the domesc  deard.   Fuly Integrated         trading connection between the two sub-
operations became the rule as protected      sectors has, historicaly, not been strong.
fins In a stagnatg market attempted to       The apparel subsector (i.e., cutting and
capture maximu share. Some improvement In   sewing of cioth) has tended to source Its
industry structure occurred In the 19708     fabris from abroad where the choice of
with the entry  of new  companis with        colors and designs Is wide and prices and
scalizod operatbns. These have proved        services have  been  keenly  compettive.
more enduring than the old lntegrated mills  Moreover, foreign apparel buyers often
durig the tryin  period of the 19808.        specify  fabric sourcing or the foreign
associate firm of a garment company In the
2.   In  1982, a  textile  modernization    Phlippines will determine material supply.
program  coverbi the period 1982 - 1987      Since there are effectively no Import duties
was lunched to deal with these Industry     Imposed on fabrics going Into garments for
probems: obsolete equipment; poor technical  export, the apparel producers (or the
performance; lack of manpower training;     controlling buyer or associate firm) have a
iadequate speciazation and high cost of     wide cholce of sourcig.   The textie
production; and major policy Issues of high  subsector (Ie., prinargy spinng of yarms,
protection and lack of incentives to enter   weaving and knittin  of fabrics, dyeing and
the indirect export market (caterin  to      printing of cloth) has tended to feed the
garment exportew).                           domestic market, where qualiy and service
demands have not been as high as In
3.    Unfortunately, In the early 19808     International markets, and its volume of
economic   and   political   conditions      direct exports remalns sman.
deteriorated.   Only a small fraction of
targeted Investments ( lss than 10 % )       S.    The  government  has  gradually
materhiaized from  1982 to  1986 as the      Introduced reforms of policy and institutions
market fel to akmost one half of that In    to Improve the Industrys competitiveness.
1979. Nevertheless, In view of the threat of  Tariff rates rangi  from 0 to over 100%,
ncreased competition due to pending trade   were re-structured to a narrow band of 1O%
polcy reforms, the Industry started to       - 50% (cascading from fiber to yam  and
troeamlne  It  operations  to  reduce        fabrics and to finished garments) by 1988.
production  cost.   Energy  conservation    All quantitative restrtions on bIportatlon
masurs were also introduced to offset        of raw materiaLs and finished textiles were
rii  energy costs.                          removed, exposing the Industry to con-
structive competition.  The advance tax
4.    Whled the  textlle  subsector was     credit scheme for textlies was Introduced In



- 61 -                   ANNEX 1.08
Page 2 of 3
1986 to provide an Incentive for a stronger        operations Is examined and steps
textile - garnnw t Interface program this ais       taken to reduce ft.
at Increasing the utilization of local textiles
In garments for exports by redressing the      (b)  Recipe management: careful attention
effect of   port duties and In principle            to product formulations that reduce
alowing textile mins to sell fabrics to apparel     pollutbn.
producers at prices close to internatioa
lvels. In addition, technical assistance was  (c)  Waste separation techniques.
extended to the Industry to biprove
operating efficiency and productivity.         (d)  Better production planng and color
measurement to reduce waste of
6.    By 1987, ft was evident that the              expensive dyestuff, and kmproved
Industry had recovered from the slump as Its       houskeeping to lessen discharges of
sals  bnproved.   New  tnvestments  for            color and chemicals.
rehabilitation and expansion began to take
place, exceedig the expectatons laid out h     (e)  Use of evaporator units to remove
the 196 plan, and reachig over US$250              caustic soda; and
mlin by end 1989. The Industry currently
consists of over 200 firms employing around    (D)  Use of boiler fuel gas neutralzatlon
90,000 people.  The subsector Is around            of effluent discharge.
three ties the size of the subsector In
Malaysia and roughly half the size of "t In  Potental For Dvevopment and Growth
indonesla.
9.    The import Uberarzation and tariff
E_oUntaisue                                  reform  program  started  In  1982  has
stinulated  the   ndustry  to  upgrade
7.    The major potential environmental      production to compete with Imports In the
problem arises from the waste water from     domestic  and  ndirect  export  markets.
fabric finshing processes.  The followg      Investments In rehabilitation of existing and
have been observed:  high use of cotton      acqulsition of new  equipment from  1986
and other cellubosc fibers which may indlcate  onwards have paid off In quallty yarn and
Intensive use of caustic materlals In cotton  fabric  output  acceptable  to  garment
scourig; given the low cost of water, there  exporters. hreased product and process
Is a high hydraulic load on existig treatment  speclallzation by textile mlers have lkewlse
plants or high levels of polluted water      contributed to better performance. Garment
discharge Into the environment; of the more  manufacturers, to  avoid the costs and
than 50 dyehouses of Industrial scale In the  delays assoclated with Imports, would prefer
Phlllpphnes, only  around  10%  have  any    lcal  fabrics,  provided  they  are  of
effective treatment plant. Moreover, though  competitive price and quality and come In a
dust levels In the newer plants appear to be  broad range.
well controled, the older facmtles have
abundant noise, heat and fiber dust.         10.   The easing of Import restrictions on
textile Inputs, such as polyester fber In
8.    The now effluent limits set by EMB     1987 (from 30% to 20X), Is expected to
appear to be sufficiently restrictive that   have a favorable Impact on  ocal textile
secondary treatment will be required. With   mmers.  They can freely choose betwoen
approprlate  technical  assistance,  the     imports and local products, thereby allowin
followi  measures could be taken by the      for reduced costs and greater flexibility.
Industry:
11.   Whle Increased vlgglance may reduce
(a) Water management: the use of water     smuggln  to some extent, availabl esthates
at  every  stage  of  dyehouse        idicate that around 25% of the domestic



- 62 -                      ANNEX 1.08
-62-                ~~~~Page 3of 3
market needs are met by "unofficlar mports.   Proposed Rotwin  Strateg
At this level, the problem is endemic and will
only disappear when price differentials are   15.   Given  the  substantIal  expanding
such that It Is no longer profitable to Import  markets (domestic and export) avaiable to
ilegally. The Incentive to smuggle because   the textite industry, and considering its
of relatively high tartffs should be lessened  comparative advantage, the main objectives
through further reduction In tariffs.  By    of a restructuring strategy would be to:
reducing the tariff of polyester fIber to
10%, the cascade of tariffs up to garments     (a)  increase competitiveness domestically
could be reduced also by 10 pereentage              and In export markets;
points at every stage (yarn, cloth,
garments).                                     (b)  Capture a growing share of the
domestic market, replacing smuggling
12.   While the textile manufacturing sector        and barter trade;
can rely on an already sizeable domestic
market, It can Increase Its share at the       (c)  Capture an increasihg share of the
expense of smugglng, barter trade and               Indirect export market (Input supply
morts by greater productivity and by                to garment exporters);
further inproving the quality of Its products.
Considering the increasing population and      (d)  Increase flexibillty of output through
better purchasig power of the Filipino, the         Increased   domestic  finishing
domestic market Is expected to continue to          capabilities;
grow.  This will help to offset the Initial
adverse effects that might arise from the      (e)  Obtain Inereased capital, foreign lead-
easing of Import restrictions for fabric            Ing-edge technology, and know-how
imports.                                            through joint ventures wlth foreign
firms; and
13.   Direct exports of yarn and fabric Into
the highly competitive International market    (f)  Reduce Industrial pollution as outlined
are unilkely to Increase significantly. The        In para. 8.
best prospects are In the  ndrect export
market by supplying an increasing share of    16.   The  government  should  consider
the fabric requirement of garment exports,   easing restrictions on ownership of textile
the Philipphe top  non-traditional export    companies to encourage foreign Investors to
product.   Estimates of the amount of        put up capital and alowing foreign companies
Imported fabric used In the apparel sector   to obtain long term leases of up to 100
and subsequently  exported as garments        years  In  Industrial  estates.    Other
range from 60% to 70%; this clearly suggests  government actions needed are: reduction
an area of potential growth.                 of the  tariff on  polyester fiber and
reduction of the cascade on downstream
14.   Nevertheless, there are constraints    products accordingly; Increased vigilance
which the Industry has to face.  Wlthout     against amugginq; and review of the Quota
sufficient power, the rate of growth will be  Allocation System to ensure that quotas for
imited.  Investment In the textile industry  garment exports are fully utilized.
also suffers from restrictions of foreign
ownership. An Issue which indirectly affects
the textie Industry Is the fact that the
quotas  for   garment  exports  favor
established mis and are not fully utlized:
this represents a potentlal market for Input
supplies that Is lost.



- 63 -                     ANNEX 1.09
Page 1 of 3
PHIUPPINES
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
SHIP REPAIR SECTOR
BackgroUd                                    qualty and cost control; (f) absence of a
national classification society; (g) conflict
1.    The  ship  repair sector of the        between the Maritime  Industry  Authority
Philippines, concentrated around the Manila    O(ARINA) and the PhmppInes Coast Guard
and Cebu areas, consists of 115 licensed     concerning responsibility for Inspection and
enterprises of varying sizes. Fifty-four of  control of yards; and (h) slow  customs
these yards are registered wift the sector's  clearance for imported parts.
association PHLSAR (PhliHppine Ship Builders
and Repairers): they cover over 90 X of      Potentili For Deveblpment and Growth
total yard capacity and employ 6,000 people.
of those, 18 yards represent about 80% of    3.    Given Its archipelagic nature, the
total yard capacity.  The Industry caters    PhIllppines Increasingly needs to rely on an
mostly to the domestic Inter-island shipping  efflilent ship maintenance and repair service
fleet  with  almost  300  passenger  or      Industry to keep Infrastructure costs for
passenger-cum-cargo  vessels, and over       the Inter- Island transport system low, which
2000 cargo vessels and barges, typically    In turn will help to support a nation-wide and
with capacities of well below 5000 DWT, as   growing agrIcultural and Industrial production
well as to the fleets of fishing vessels and  base.  The subsector has a solid captive
service ships of the government.  One        market on which It can rely: with a shipping
Drydock can also service & repair ocean-     fleet, expected to grow significantly durlng
going vessels of up to 300,000 DWT from      the 1990s, the Industry will face further
anywhere In the world.  Maintenance and     Increasing demand for services.  It also has
repatr account for about 60% to 70% of       good potentlal for attracting direct foreign
total revenue, new vessel construction for   Investment and transfer of foreign know-
about 10% to 20%, and non-marine work        how, as It strives to cater to foreign clients
(industrial fabrication of containers, presswure  In the Asia/Australia region. While entry Is
vessels and stee structures) for about 20%.  capitalHntensive, there exists already a
Duri  the  mid  1980s,  the  industry        number of shipyards, with good Infrastruc-
experlenced a significant decilne.  Since    ture.  The efflciency of the subsector,
1987, however, demand for repair services    however, will depend  critically  on  the
has steadily Increased and even requests     subsector's strategic orientation and Its
for llmited ship buiding have been received.  efforts to become Internationally competitive.
4.    The subsector relies on retatively
ProblM  and  sues                            labor-intensive methodologies at this time,
but also offors a potential trainig ground
2.    The technology level In the Industry   for  vital,  and  potentlally  up-to-date
ranges from  simple repairs capacity to      engineering and metal- working technologies.
adaptation of offshore technology by the     The skUls  arned In the sector on an
largr yards.  The probems faced by the       Industrbl scale and to exacting standards,
Industry are: (a) generaly old, worn-out or  wi be useful In developing an engineering
obsolete equipment; (b) lack of quafled      and metal working Industry In the country.
technical personnel; (c) dIssatisfled labor
force  due  to  low  wages; (d) laCk  of     5.    The comparative advantages of the
standardikatbon; (e) inadequate systems for  subsector arue



ANNEX 1.09
-64-                      Page 2 of 3
and repair nes of the domestic and
-   attractive location of the PhUlppInes         Internatbnal shipping Industry.
vis-a-vis Japan, Austrana and the
other ASEAN countries;                  (b)  Construct  barges,  cargo   and
passenger vessels for the domesti
-   skiled lbor-force, english speaking;          and eventually the Asian market.
-   relatively ow cost labor compared to
that of competing countris (Japan,       (c)  Supply the Philippines wlth tndustrial
Australia, Korea);                            engineerb and steel sknis.
-   familiarity with US, Japanese  and      9.    Thus far, the Industry Is Inward
European standards and metrologles.    oriented, not realizng that tt might have a
reglonal  tnternatibnal  potentiaL  The
6.    Nevertheless, the subsector faces      restructuring would Involve movig away from
these contratnts:                            the concept of "import substitutlon  and
thinking In terms of competitiveness in the
-   present yards require substantial      region.   At the same time, the sector
infusions of capital;                  strategy would not seek to buid vertical
linkages (for example with the domestic steel
-   productivity to low; incentive systems  Industry), but rather to buy Its  nputs
are not being used;                    competitively In the tnternational market and
sell Its services and products to an
-   marketing know-how In the domestic      ncreasingly wider clientele.
market Ia limited; In the Intematlonal
market, non-existent;                  10.   The yards would have to develop a
more agressive marketing strategy for
-   the  strict rule  governg  direct       securing maitenance and repair contracts
foreign Investment (as reflected In    at home and overseas. PHLSAR and Individual
the 40/60 ownership rule) conflcts     yards may consider advertising thelr services
with the need for Joint ventures of    to  Internatlonal lnes which use  smaller
significance;                          vesels In the regon. Japaneoe, Australan
and Korean yards would have to be Invited
-   the tariff-structure provides negative  to subcontract labor-intensive repair work h
protectlon to the bidustry;            the Phiinppines.
-   the attempt to promote backward         11.   Joint ventures should be encouraged.
linkages   regardless   of   cost     this  would  require  more  flexIble  rule
inplications  leads  to  hefficient    regarding foreign ownership.
purchaslng procedures;
12.   The  systematic  classification  of
7.    The preceding constraints can be       vessels and stricter enforcement of safety
overcome since they mostly Involve poncies   and other standards by the government
which can be Improved, and lack of fundig,   woud helD  ensure vessel-upgrading  and
training and know-how, which can be hjcted.  routine maitenance at rogular Intervals,
provig the subsector a more steady
Proposed Retcwkvg Stratg                     stream of "bread and butter" busiess.
8.    The objectives of the restructuring     13.   The yards need to kiprove labor
strategy would be to enable the subse':-     productivity through systematic training as
to:                                          well as bonus systems and other incentives
to reward officlency and quality.
(a) Cater efficiently to the maitenance



ANM    1.09
- 65-                      Page 3 of 3
14.   Yard   speclalzation   would  be
encouraged with different categories of
yards catering to different Vessel types.
15.   To Increase local ship-buding, yards
would have to develop a few standard type
simple vessel designs with foreign technical
assistance, whICh meet the most prevalent
deslgn.
16.   The government should review the
duty-structure on vessels and Inputs for
ship buildig. A sufficlently low level of
duties (about 20X of effective tariff
protection), would be Justified.
17.   To ensure the repair and production
of quality ships at competitive prices, the
yards should be encouraged to shop
aggressively for the lowest price components
and Inputs in the domestic and Internatonal
market. The government should assure that
obstacles at customs are removed so that
entry of Intermediate Inputs will proceed
efficiently and not cause delays In the
executlion schedules.



ANNEX 1.10
- 66 -                     Page 1 of 3
PHIUPPINES
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
INTER-ISLAND SHIPPING SUBSECTOR
Background                                  (9) liner companies. Although the Rto picture
Improved In the past two years, It remains
1.    The Inter-island shipping subsector is  below  the 12% ROI limit set for public
a crucial component of the couftry's overan  transport.
transportation system.  Domfesic shipping
consists of a fleet of around 3,530 vessels  4.    The subsector Is also burdened by
with total gross tonnage of ovsr half a      Its poor safety record. It experienced the
million gross revenue tons (GRT). Of this    world's worst peacetime maritime accident
number, only about 20X are above 250 GRT,    that clalmed more than 2,000 ives In 1987.
but they account for 85% of total tonnage.  In 1988, another vessel sank killing about
Tramper services account for a large share   400 passengers. About 867 other maritime
of the  250  GRT-and-above  fleet, with      accidents occurred between 1981 and 1987,
roughlY 60% of the number and 80% of total   with about 610 persons confirmed dead and
tonnage. The subsector accounts for about    about 1,320 missing.
85% of total Inter-island cargo movements.
In terms of total nattonal transport figures  5.    The problems and Issues confronting
(ton-kilometers and passenger kilometers),   the subsector may be summarized as follows:
domestic shliping accounts for about 47% of
cargo  and  9X  of  passenger  traffic      (a) Infra-Structure Support Problems
movements.    The  liner  fleet  carried
approximately 13.6 million metric tons of      -  inadequate, inefficient and often
cargo and 8 milion passengers in 1987.             obsolete port and harbor faci-ities
hamper efficiency and profitabnlity In
2.    The subsector employs around 50,000          the industry.
land and sea based administrative and
operating  personnel. The  industry  also      -  Lack of transit sheds in the port
serves as a training ground for local              areas and inadequately paved access
seafarers  for more  galnful employment            roads to the ports also contribute
abroad. h 1988, about P 1.0 bllon were             to  inefficlencies  in  cargo  and
paid to the Philippines Port Authority by the      passenger movements.
shippng and ship-related industrles h terms
of port charges; moreover, the shipping        -  Poor  maitenance  of  waterways,
hdustry pald around P 2.5 million to MARINA        channels,  rivers   and   ports,
In the form of supervision fees.                   particularly wlth regard to required
dredgig, causes safety hazards and
Problem  and Issues                                lengthens turn-around  time which
translates Into higher operatng cost.
3. iWhile coastwlse trade has increased
robustiy over the last three years, the        -  inadequate markings of waterways,
domestic shippig industry has continued to         lack of updated charts, nsufficient
exhibit negative indces. Since 1980, gross         depths in passages and entrances,
value added has contracted 6X annually,            and lack of proper communications
while Investments declined 17% annually. The       are all factors adding to the high risk
subsector, on average, showed a very low           of accidents In the Phillppine coastal
return on Investment (ROI) of only about 1%,       waters.
based on the 1987 financlal reports of nine



ANNEX 1.10
- 67 -                     Page 2 of 3
(b) bsues of Reation                         of the country, Inter-Island shippig has a
key role in the day-to-day econoic and
-  Freight rates and third class fares    business affairs, being a vital determinant in
are government controlied; liner rou-  regional trade and economi  development.
tes are franchised.  This leads to     Conservative estbnates show that given a 5X
lack of competition  and/or poor      annual growth In the economY, coastwle
profitabnlity.                        trade would Increase by at least 6% until the
year 2000. Passengr traffic Is expected to
-  The industry Is closely supervised by  reach 20.0 miMon by the year 2000.
no less than fifteen (15) government
agences with regard to safety as       8.    The major constraints facing the
well as commerclal operations. This   subsector are:
creates, h addition to areas of
overlapping responsiblUtis, a diverse,  (a)  huge capital Investment requirements;
compfcated and cumbersome maze of
rules and regulations                   (b)  Inadequate  infrastructure   (co-
mmunication, port faclities, naviga-
(c)   Dutis and Taxes                              tional aids, connecting roads);
-  These, kiposed on Imported spare-        (c)  government controiled  rates  and
parts and corsmables of the Inter-           routes;
Island fleet, form a disincentive to
restructuring.                          (d) dutes, taxes and restrictions on
vessel Imports; and
(d) Shortage of Financing
(e) cumbersome regulatory framework.
-  The  shippig  indstry  has  had
problems In establishing good credit   Proposed Restrutb r    StrategW
standing with fnanclal institutions
because of Its poor profitabillty and  9.    The objective of the restructuring
liquidity record. Moreover, In the    would be to promote a diversity of shipping
financial sector, long term funds are  services, responsive to market demands and
not avallable.                        technological Innovation at as low a cost as
possible. This would help:
Env    en b owsues
(a) strengthen the Inter-regional inkages
6.    The IIC Study found that, because of         by providing an efficent system of
the lack of proper reception faciltles for oil     movement of products locally as wei
residues and waste from ships at the ports,        as for the export market.
poliutlon from ships Is far beyond acceptable
nimts around major harbour areas.  Its        (b)  provide the public and Industry wlth
recommendations Include: (a) iustalation of        safe, reWlabe, affordable and effkicnt
pollution devices on-board ships according         transport.
to iternational rules, Le., the MARPOL code;
(b) bultding of reception facilties for oi   10.   The appropriate poncy prescription Is
residues at major tanker terminals; and      economic deregulation and a refocusing of
(c) estabistent of colletion systems for     government regulatory powers to safety
garbage and waste from ships In al ports.    considerations and monitoring. The IIC Study
recommends the foilowing specific measures:
Potnal or Devepomnt and Qowth
(a) Reduce the number of agencles
7.    Given the archlpelaglc configuration         Involved In the regulation of hppin



- 63 -                            1.10
Page 3 of 3
operations to the minmwm:   one
agency deaing wlth safety matters.
one for commercial matters;
(b)  deregulate  freight  rates   and
passenger fares;
(c) abotish the 12X ROI litmt.
(d) allow importation from any country In
the world, of all types of merchant
vessels, of any age and size, at
world market prices so long as the
vessels are classed;
Ce) to encourage fleet modernIzation,
consider reducing taxes, particularly
those on the import of vessels,
spare parts and supplies, as well as
the Common Canrers Tax;
(f)  abosh entry restrictions for lner
routes to alow free market
competition and adoption of new
technologies  leading  to  better
utiIzation and increased efficIency.
(g) update all safety rules and apply
them to an vessels about 25 GRT;
and
(h)  estabish a central, Phiippine Ship
RegstWry for domestic vessels.
11.   Assmng the removal of poUcy and
regulatory distortIons, and on the basis of
the need for replacement and expansion, the
IIC Study estimates that the capital Invest-
ments for the subsector would amount to
about US$465 mtilon from 1091-93. For the
1091-2000 decade the average annual
Investments are estimated at around US$198
mfiIon.



PNILIPPINES                                                                                      AMEX 1.11
INAUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURtIN  POECT                                                                                  Pe  1 of 4
CGnent sactor
Action Peog.
........................................................................... .....................................................................................................................................
OBJECTIVE                                   ImeS                                 ACTIOS TAKEN                         PROPOSED  ACTION  TO  U   TAK                       S   MECSISILITY
1990 -  1                      VIl    TERN
................................................................................................................................................................ ......................................................................  
1. Adequate cem_nt   wppty  et
resonable prces.
* Asws adequate          pots  to    omD to hfgh lvls of protection    Ilport restrictions  ffted  in                        Anrmm         pAbfety  rnd                                    OTI
achiv  come ition.                       In the past, m    re lting twck    fMrch 199.  But   vn     dwing                   advertise that uWbody
of cometition, plants era old,    acute              shortges,            ony      can imort c        t.
mat    (tack of  eonoes  of    PNILCECO   ms  iporting.
scat*),  eney intesive,  and
hav  low productivity.                                                                                                                                               a
Nmnrlt fprt tariffs on c_-    Am"   cowntiguity  in                        Wvi     tariff   coda        MA I Taritf
ant redoeed frm  40X to 8IX fn           tartff policy.                 fn   aooioe    eltb    tC iesion
190. lIP's decitned from                                                the minmac    poticy.
1400  in 1965 to beto   201   In
I969. T*rfffs '-WPWnid t_-
rarity.  Zare  nomnal tariff
mm* negtive affective pro-
tectio,    out       ft       191,
tarifft    sds ed to rise  to
2011  fro  mid  9M, to 301.



*      *      e
*  -    :
-S              '-'                            S
-  ~     .      S
:1                                 -
*     I
.:o 
: ms  :                           I
w:~~~ ''j   2 
i:  :   :                                 iF$!
.  . ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ S
''        ' S    3 I                 
.2   ~~~~~W~
S.S    S~~~~~~
*5- 
*      . 
i      5 ..-   -
. e    I
*   S~[
*      ,   0



krme 1.11
Action Progren: Cement Subsector  (Contd.)                                               Page 3 of 4
..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 
OBJECTIVE                              ISUIES                            ACTIONS TAKEN                  PPosED ACTION TO K  TAKEN                        RESPONISIILIT
1990 -91                    ENtUW TERN
.........................................................................................................................................................................
2. Efficient operatlons of
existing ptants.
- Strengthen operstional offl-    Blend of leported  nd  domestic                                               Expose domestic cool       tZpeove  coot blond   OEA  POC
ciency   and   Inprove  energy    coat sold by PMOC often not  of                                               industry to coepettion.  at PUOC.
efficiency.                          acceptable quality. NanW ce ant
ptants haee no blending facili-
ties. Poor quality & variabili-
ty leads to poor kiln perfor-
mane & high eneryo  crsuaption.
Promote use of  dditives In ce-   To  stretch   the  capecity  of    Plants  have  started  to  use    Educate  the  consumer                                       Coent Eate pris
ment  &  incorpoerte the remst-   plants,   the Industry noeds to    pozaclano  In Increesing quanti-   about  the  properties
t1nu prodcts in the standards.   use additives such as pozotaona    ties. Consurwms are being edu-    of the new producte.
which is in plentiful supply in    cated about Its  occeptabity
tho Phltippiwns.                      by the Industry.
- leprove  the  officiency  of    Th  archipelegic  character  of                                               TA to be provided to                                D P
distribution.                        the  country  is   particularty                                            firms for feasibilt-
suited      to     bulk-handling                                           ty studies for butk-
espccially  In caeo f  regular                                             hatdling facilttis.
shipments of large quantftles.



m 1.11
-P 4 of 4
Actin C_gr      Omnt  heor  (Cond)
lWECTIV                              In=                             ACTIONS TJKE                   FM       ACTION TO SK N M=POUSISILITT
1990 -                    hE hII Tn
........................................................ ............................................................................................................., .
3. Growth of effliint proie-
tin & distribution capecities.
- E_erac     igt and labor _wNmagmm   S tabor force tersely                                                                      Provide    tochnictl        orI
ftore  kfils.                      uafamtlfr with latest tochnotlogie.                                                             ssstace & trainfno
for d"on,  tA       -
tfton I o aton of
wsde   or ne  faci-
lities  to  firm.  at
nosnt coss.
4. Enrivoumnt  llrovemots          Gaus effluent  & dust  eMs-    Thoh stancard,  reulations    ENB strenthening   d                                         E
slons of mat pltnts can be re-    and lams are adequate, 11  not   ssport of  indstry
djwd further through intatll-    yot able to monitor the Indr-    in  olsn project de-
ticn of filtere L electrostatic    try  efftuents,    nd  enforce    sign through  toehni-
precipitftore. Firm  re mstly    standwde.                             cal as lsitc.
poorly equipped to hadle
effluent  or een oonitor thou                                          Technical asslstance                              NP
credits for pollution
abet   qumpent
to be prvided
wder the lap.



I NDuSTIAL NI CIWI           PMUtC
Pulp mid Pape shlmeter
Acon P_r eem
--    ---- I.........................                     ANN   1. 12
Peog I of 3
ISJECTIVE                       ISSUES                         ACTIONS TAKEN                      PROPOSED I.TIONS TO DE TEEN
1990 - 91                 NEOSIU  TERN              RESPUUSIBILITT
1. Adequate supply of pulp
and pape_ at reasonable
prices.
-  Increae c _tition In    Sector characterized by a few          bport restrictions removed    Reduce tariff In accordnce                                    NEOMTariff
the Industry                large plants end about 30 very     for newsprint In 1989.          with the tariff reform                                      Commission
small plants utAch are energy       awever, high nomfnal duties   program with the objective
Intensive.technolog1cally out-     r sin(between 20% and 50%).  of reducing effective
dated and hav  a poor capacity     ERPs between 40% and I05.    protection.
utilization even at times of       with ORC ratios betwe
high dmand. High levels of          1.3 and 1.S
protection have permitted sur-
vival of inefficient plants at
expense of consumer and dowe-
strew Industries( e.g. ce ent
Industry using sack kraft,
protected at SOX).
-  Iwprove international      Cocplexity of tariff on paper,                                      Simplify tariff structure                                   NEDAITariff
cemetitivenus of domeetic with variations betw     20M and                                     for all paper products to                                   C^nlssion
plants.                     50  has led to misdaclarations                                    allow   easer    customs
nd "technical ssmggling".                                          clearance.
Tariffs on inputs are also                                         Reduce tariff in accrdance                                   EA/Tarriff
very high, making Inputs                                           with the tariff  reform                                     CbMdss1en
urnecess rily expansive.                                           program with the objective
The duty draw-back schecm                                          of reducing effective
for Indirect PUP exports                                           protection.
(e.g. packaging ) not funo-
-tioning adequately



Action Program: Pulp and Paet Sujbsector (Contd I                                       AMIEX 1.12
Page 2 of 3
OBJECTIVE                       ISSUES                        ACTIONS TAKEN                       PROPOSED  ACTIONS TO 8 TAKEN
1990 - 91                NEDIUD TERN               RESPOhSt8tLtTY
2. 6rowth of efficient
production and distri-
bution capacities.
- Oevelop raw material base  Industrfal tree plantations         Technical assistance for
for yielding pulp wood             feasibility study nd action
inadequate for expansion           program to encourage
of pulping capacities, with        Industrial tree plantation
the natural forest base rapidly   is being provided by
depleting.                         the Asian Development Bank.
Inadequate waste paper                                            TA for feasibility study      boplesnt action              OTI/PIA.PEL       .
collection.                                                       and action program to         program. 
develop waste paper collection
In major city centers  er
paper Mills.
- Enhance manaaoment and      Managemt and  labor   force                                       Provide technical assist-                                   OS,
labor force skills.        largely unfamiliar with latest                                    tance and  training for
technologies.                                                 *  design, lopla_tation and
operation of ftits at
nominal costs.
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURIN6 PROJECT



Ation Program: Pul.Jdi1aner SA       ector (C.atd.                                     ANEX 1.t2
Page 3 of 3
OBJECTIVE                       ISSUES                        ACTIMO  TKIN                        PIOPOED  ACTIONS TO BE TAKEN
190 - 91                  MOILW TERN                RESPONSIBILITY
3. Efficient xperations
of existaine mllo.
- Strengthen operational      Irregular electricity supply In                                   TA for energy effieency                                   OBPlenterprfses
efficientey and improve   Luzon area adversely affecting                                      revfew to encourage
energy efficiency.         paper mahine operation, quality                                    Installation of cogeneration
of output and e er efficiency.                                    facilitles, and systematically
Mase  posbfbilftias for
nergy conservation.
4 Environmental iwprove-    Effluent treatment of mest of    Though standards,                  Technical  ssistance                                       08P
Ments.                     the plants In the Netro Manila    reoulations   and  laws         program for strengtheninr
Area is unsatisfactory.  Firms     are adquate, EMB not           of E19's monitoring and
are mostly poorly equipped  to     yet able to monitor the        enforcement capabilities.
handle   efftuents   or  even      industry offtuents, and
mnitor them.                       enforce standards.                                                                                          u
bprove plant locations.   Most of the  small   ill(s  ere                                    Technical     assistance                                   08P
located around NMnfla end                                         program to help industry
significeantly contribute to                                      select new locations.
pollution. As inefficient plants
are being elosed new plant
l4cations nst be selected
carfully.



PHILIPPIES                                                                       AMI     1. 13
INOSTRIAL RESTRUCUR11116 PROJECT                                                           Pa   1 of 2
Textile Subsctor
Action Progra
O8JECTIVE                            ISSUES                         ACTIONS TAKEN                      PROPOSED  ACTION TO 8E TAKEN           RESPONSIBILIT
1990-91               NEDIUI TERN
1. Improve   capetitiveness of                                        Qualitative        Restrictions
domstic textile plants.                                                phseu  out In  1988.   Tariff
proteoi1n   reduced  signifi-
cantly In the 19800.
-  Reduce Incentive to smuggle    Smuggling and  xcessive  barter                                        Improve custms pro-                             OOF
and  Increase  competition  to    are claiming an Important share                                        cedures particularly for
better industry efficiency,        of the market,  with "renants"                                        enlarging preshipsntt
representing   a  new  form  of                                       inspection in the sector.
smuggling.
High effective  protection  on      Tariff on  polyester   fiber   Reduce tariff In                                   NEMITariff
smm products and high naminal       teduced frm  30  to  20%  and    accordance with general                          ComtAsalon
tariffs on the cascade  of yarn.    QRs  on    polyester    fiber    tariff reform with the
cloth and garments  is due to       imports lifted,                   objective of reducing
high tariffs on polyester (20%).                                      effective protection.
2. Enhance  manarial   and         Lack of training and expertise                                        Technical assistance                            OBP. TlAP
technical skills.                 hamper performnce and interna-                                         to textile mdlls and
tional competitivenesS,                                               garment firm  to ie
prove technical and
mrketing capabili-
ties & efficlencies.



AIM   1. 13
pap 2 of 2
Action Prgr?Textile Subsector(CUtd.)
OBJECTIVE                          ISSUES                        ACTIONS TAKEI                    PROPOSED  ACTION TO K TAEIN           RESPONISILITY
1990-91             liEOttS TENl
3. tprev  product dmelopmnt   Lack of comunications between    Advance tax credit sch_  in-   Technical assistance                                3l0
textile manfcturer a gament    troduced In 1986 has fostered   to  update Advance
bunteses. leading to unsatis-    indirect textile exports.         Tax Credit Sch_w as
factory realization of potential                                   a continuing  1ncen-
offered  by  indirect  export                                      tive.
market.
Liaison bWt e  Tea-
tile Namfacturers                                     '-
Association of the
Philippines  (TRAP)
and 6arment Biness
Asocation  of the
Philippnes (SAW)
through Garnt  nd
Textile Export Board
(GIEB).
4. Reduce en'tiroental damage.  NAny plants. particularly older.  DEER and EN have warned undue-  TA to be provided for                           OIIP
mll ones with finishing faci-   try  that standards will be    inst5tut0inal
lities,    are    substantial   enforced                           strengtheing.
polluters.
Provide financial I                          OBP
technical assistance
to Industry to invest
in aatewnt facili-
ties under Industrial
Restructuring Projet.



PHILIPPINES                                                                                  ANNEX 1.14
IXDSTRIAL RESTRUCIIMING PROJECT                                                                          Pow 1 of 4
inter-Island Shipping
Actian Program
..................................
............................................................................................................................................................ ..................................................................... 
OBJECTIVE                               ISSUES                                       PROPOSED TO BE TAKEN                                     RESPUSISILITY
1990-91                           IEDIW TERN
................ ............................... ^............................................ ................................................................................. ................................... ...................
A. REWLATORY FRANEORK
1. increase ofticlency In  ins-    The reoulatory freameork Is ad-          Develop proram of  reorganizo-    Imptement reorganiza-                   A Joint tosk force of
titutonel set up monitoring &    mini stered by a gret nuber of             tion to reduce  duer  of asen-    tion program.                           concerned agenciles  &
reguloting the sector.               organizations & agencies. lome-        cIes Inwolved in the regulatfon                                           private sector (PISA).
times areas of responsibilities        of shipping operations  to  the    Estabtish          safety
are  unlelar  and other  cases,        minimun (two agencies - one for    Agency  &  Comerial
there are overlapping responsi-        safety  and one for  coamrcial    Ageny.
bilities.                              matters.)
The subsector is saddled with a
diverse, complicated &  c    rber-
some maze of rules & reoulations.
2. Improve safety of vessels.        Safety rules outdated,   lncon-        All safety rules  on  coewtruc-    Stnengthen monitoring                  Phflippine Coast  aud
sistent   wnd   not  applicable        tin, eqlpuwnt. operations  or    and   enforcement  of                    (PCOG)/NRIUAIPISA
accross vessel fleet.                  dangom control should be  upda-    updated safety rules.
ted.
Full authority not given to the        Give full authority to  classi-                                           PCSiNARINA
classification   socleties   to        fication   societies  to  Is=e
Issue  SOLAS  certificates  for        SOLAS certificates for domestic
domestic shipping.                     shipping.
3. Incrae off Icency of ves-    Lack of systetic registration                                                     Estoblish ship regis-               PCG
sot registration, monitoring &    of ships.                                                                       try   for    doestic
safety control.                                                                                                   vessels.



AMNEX !.14
Page 2 of 4
Action Program: Inter-Island Shippling    (Contd.)
.___  __-    -    -- ---__   ---_.-- _---_  -.---    -
OBJECTIVE                            ISSUES                                    PROPOSED TO KE TAKEN                                  RESPONSIBILITY
1990-91                         NEDIUM TERM
4. educe lnestment costs  on    Only  901-registered firms can          lmport duties and taxes on vessels.                                 WEDA/Tariff
vessels a cost of naintenance.    imprt vesels duty free up to          spare parts and non-recoverable                                      Couiss1ion
repair and operation.              mid-1990. Restriction on imports    except for luxury taxes to
of  * and high duties on vessel     be lifted.
components and spare parts con-
tribute   to  high  cost of
shipping services.
S. Increase    W  etition   in    Franchising creates inefficien-       Review the extsting rules cons-    Irpluent    action                MARINA
shipping  to  achieve   higher    cies in vessel use  nd  monopo-       tituting     the   franchising    progr0a.
efficiency.                        listic behavior.                     systems for all liner  vessels.
Develop an action program for
liberalization.



A_X 1. 14
Pae 3 of 4
Action Progras: Inter-lslond shippi fng             (Contd.)
..........................................
......................................................... ......................................................................................................................................................................
OWECTIE                                       ISSUE8                                            PROPSED TO EE TAKEN                                              RESPONS11LITT
1990-91                                MEDIUM TERM
............................................................................................................................................................ ..................................................................... ..
B.  UNMIN  OF FLEET                       Mumino of the vessels with pro-                                                         Strengthen piulic cnd  private    PISA Training
op       safety and  efficency            fesa     l    rirne officers Is of                                                      training schools throuo  in-            Foumbtion
of veel operation.                        vital Iortance to the inistry.                                                          vestmnt   d technical
assistance grants.
Lack of esxperiencd  Junior  and                                                       Require graate s fra   trainfng  PISA Trainfng
middle level officers.                                                                 schools to spend minimm perfid   Fourdation
of tlee In Inter-1isnd ship-
pirng svics.
o
C. SAFETY
Attain   a satisfactory  safety           The statistics for merine accsi-              overrmant and private agncies             mplementation        of                IARINA, PCC, PISA
standrd        for   Inter-island         dents fn the inter-fslwA  ftleot             to    sapport  end  asist   tlt            action progrm.
shipping    mintain it at this            are shocking.   The Phtilppints              the work towrds   rine   safety
level.                                    rates poorly In world  cntext.              related re_cemmdtioris &  pro-
espfte  the  foows          n    this        Jets.    Develop appropriate
aspect  by geerwent   anc1is                  ction program  including
and privste cpanies,  the sI-               creatfon of a Safety Cmfcil.
tustifn Is far from good.   The
min  problm    are   Ipleenta-
tion end mnitoring.                         Owners should  wnvest in  proper
pltmn3 sytem for preventive
mei"tenm".



AEX 1.14
Pege 4 of 4
Action Program: Inter-Island Shipping (Contd.)
OBJECtIVE                            ISSUES                                   PROPOSED TO E TAKEN                                  RESPONSIBILITY
1990-91                        MEDIUM TERN
0. RESTRUCTURING
Increase service  avalability    Najor reason for poor profita-      Shipping companies. especially   Implement action                   SIIPPING COS4 tmRINA
through improved veasel utili-    b1iity Is under utilization of       liners should critically review    program.
zation and acquisition of new    vessel eapacity.  Franchising        all   their   schedules  and
capaecities                       of  routes has contributed  to      costings  to establish whether
this problem                        and how their vessel  utiliza-
tion can be Improved.  Develop
action program to improve uti-
lization of capacities of ves-
sels to at  least 60X time at at
sea.
E. ENVIRINENTAL ISSUES
Improve environmntal  protec-    The present inter-island ship-       Technical assistance to END                                         ENS/BIP
tin, particularly   In   the   ping  servicea  eaue  several          and W.P
coastal gones.                    environmental problem. Oeve-
lopoent of domatic maritim
transportation my generat
further regtive impact on the
envivonnt.



PHILIPPINES                                                                                ANNEX 1.1S
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT                                                                     Page I of 2
Ship Repair Subsector
Action Program
................ ............................... *................................ ..................................................................._..  _..........
OBJECTIVE                                   ISSUES                                 PROPOSED ACTION                         NEDIUH TERN                       RESPONSIBILITY
t90-91
....................... .............................................. ,*..........................................................................................
lprove   co petitiveness   of            Worn out,obsolete equipment due            Encourage   local   &   forefgn                                              BOI/OP
existing  yards In  repair  of            to tack of funds.                          Irwestors   to  participate  in
domestic and foreign  vessels.                                                       financing   new   and  upgraded
tmprov  poerormance to  permit                                                       yards.
eventtally constructfin of new
vessels starting with emall
simple designs.
Remfining  labor  force   needs            Technical assistance to develop            implement    training             DBP,PNILSAR
upgradIng  and trainfng  in new            training   programs   for   the            programs.
technical  skills  to   iwprove            industry  at all levels.  Start
productivity   and  quality  of            imptementing  program.                                                                                co
work.
High tariff on Inputs.                     Reduce tariff levels on inputs.                                              NEDA/Tariff Commission
Imported   niputs   face   slow            Facilitate Custom  Procedures.                                               DOF/Customs
eustoms clearance procedures.
Oual ity control is unsystematic           Provide technical assistance to
end  lack   of  standardization            achIeve Internationally accept-                                              DSP
makes it difficult.                        ed standards for work.
CertIfy yards  in their use  of                                              PILSAR
systematic quality control.



Action Program: Ship Repair Subsector          (Contd.)                              ANNEX IIS
Page 2 of 2
OBJECTIVE                               ISSUES                             PROPOSED ACTION                     HESIUN TERN                    NESPOUSISILIT?
1990-91
Inadequate marbeting of  ser-          Provide technical  ssistance to                                      DuPHILSMR
vices cause  low capacity  uti-        introduce  systeutic marketing
lization.                              of services domn  tically and in
the Asian/Australian Region to
attract busirnes.
Attaept to attract clients  In                                        PNILSR, SHIPYMUS
need of labor Intensive vessel-
component  construction   and
simple small vessels.



- 84 -
ANNEX 201
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Total Asgets of The Financial System. 1989-890
-------1980 -----          ------1989-----
Amount                   Amount
(Bil. P)      X          (Bil. P)       X
Central Bankkl                     65.4       20.9          385.9        38.0
Banking System                    188.8        60.3         478.9         47.1
Commercial Banks                138.4        44.2         420.4         41.4
Thrift Institutions              10.6         3.4          32.5          3.2
Rural Banks                       5.6         1.8          12.3          1.2
Specialized Government Banks    .4.2         10.9          13.7          1.3
Nonbanks                           58.9        18.8         151.0         14.9
Total                             313.1       100.0         1015.8        100.O
Source: Central Bank of the Philippines
As of December 31.
hi         The relative importance of CBP, as indicated by the volume of its assets,
must be interpreted with care since many assets of CBP are merely book
entries.   For example, CBP assets include an item called Revaluation of
International Reserves which in fact represents losses incurred by CBP in
swap and forwaid-cover operations entered into in the past. Likewise, the
accumulated interest expensea and issuances and servicing costs of CBP
securities and open market instruments like CB bills and Reserve
Repurchase Agreements are also carried in the books as assets. It appears
that as much as half of CBP's assets may have this special character. If
these items are eliminated, CBP's share of system assets would be reduced
from 38.01 to 231.



- 85 -
AM=E 3. 01
Page 1 of 2
PHI1LIPPINE
INDUMU&IA RESTRUCTURLING POfC
Lyelonment Bank of The Pbilippines
Balance Sheets. 1984 - 1988
(Pesos Million)
198i4     195        1X          97        1988
Assets                                 -----------------Audited--------------------
Cash and deposits with banks         2,478      2,459      1,169        858     1,195
Loans and advances                  38,802    27,451       5,271      4,395      5,005
Investments in securities           14,185    12,186       2,186      4,856     4,664
Fixed assets                         5,467      8,324        459        332       276
Other assets                        _4.528    21,624        .41&8     ,920         291
TOTAL ASSETS                        65.46i    72.044       9.503     10.531    11.431
Liabilities and Stockholders Equity
Liabilities
Short-term borrowings                8,742    12,817         585        727       221
Time and savings deposits               978     1,519        561        532      1,853
Interest due and other payables      5,477     4,728       1,199      2,184     1,556
Deferred credits                     1,283      1,374        308        341        276
Long-term borrowings                43,808    45,001       2,026      1,340        998
National Gov't funds                 2,000      2,000      2,000      1,800      1,400
Other liabilities                        88       134                 ..J       ..19
Total Llabilities          62.376    67.573       67.070    L62
Paid-in Capital                      9,935    18,208       2,500      2,500     2,500
Retained earnings                   (6,851)  (13,737)        178        961     2,608
Net WTorth                  3.084     4.471       2.678      3.461     A.108
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH     65,460    72,044       9,503     10,531    11,431
Guarantees outstanding              20,032    18,254      20,757     24,412
Trust Funds Administered             1,534      1,923      2,119      3,040
i/    As part of the DBP rehabilitation program, contingent liabilities arising from the
guarantees issued by the Bank have been transferred to the Government.



- 86 -
QNEX 3.Q 1
Page 2 of 2
INDUTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROECT
Develoument Bank of The Philignines
Income Statements 1984.1988
(Pesos Million)
YEAR ENDED DECEBIER 31
1214      I198                            198
------------   Audited-----------------------
9ELetating Revenues
Interest on loans and advances       1,131     1,296        724        587        795
Earnings on securities investments     356       532        563        687        470
Other income                         1.        1.312         5          m       1.303
Total Ogerating Revenues         2.670     3.140      2.139      1777       2.568
*Oerating ExUenses
Interest and other financial         7,995     8,007      4,095        253        214
expenses
Salaries and Personnel                 290       321        353        265        292
Other administrative expenses          323       449        229         304       371
Taxes and licenses                                 -         50           9         7
Provision for losses S               ,             0      3 0Q50 ,Q  1.0
Total O,oerating Exponses        8.628     8.777      7.777         96        884
OPERATING INCOME (LOSS)            (5,938)   (5,637)     (5,638)        811     1,684
Capital gains (losses)             (1,841)   (1,235)        (1)          1        (1)
from Equity Sales
GROSS INCOME (LOSS)                (7,779)   (6,872)    (5,639)        812      1,683
Provision for Taxes                    (8)      (14)          -        (30)      (37)
BET INCOME (LOSS)                  (7,787)   (6,886)    (5,639)         782     1,647
Gov't Contribution Al                5,400     7,445          -           -         -
Net Income after Gov't contribution(2,387)       559          -           -         -
m/  In 1984 and 1985, funding responsibility for DBP's non-performing accounts (NPAs)
was assumed by the Government by way of equity contributions equal to the total
losses on NPAs over the preceding year. Consequently, no provisions for losses
were made in those years; the item 'Government Contribution' represents the
Government's equity contribution and is, in effect, an extraordinary adjustment
to the 1984 and 1985 accounts made after computation of net income. In 1986 and
1987, DBP made loan loss provisions. DBP did not make additional provisions in 1988
because the very substantial provisions made in 1986 and 1987, combined with the
work-out of non-performing loans, has left DBP with a high level of provisions which
is fully adequate: as of December 31, 1988, provisions for doubtful accounts
represented 28.6X of total loans outstanding.



ANNEX 8.02
- 87 -                                       ros  I o4
PHILIPPINES
DOUSRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Dovolopment Bank -t the Phll pin.e
Actual and Projected Balance Sheet. 100-05
(PFeoe Millons)
ASSETS                        1989      1000      1991      1002       10        1004      1005
Aeual       -*oj  Id
Cash A Equtvalonts             422       147       149       106       179        209       828
Reserven with Central Bank     721       8s0       645       617       668        724       784
Investmentn In Securities    2,008     2,624     8,000     2,681    2,845      2,668      2,848
A/R A 0ther Current            2al       212       200       405       515        020       7a8
Curr. Port. on Term Loans    2,002    2,505      8,402     4,285     6,110      5,85      6,281
Short-term Loans             1,159    1,509      1,452     1,440     1,448      1,408     1,497
Lees: Bad Debt Allowance        0        Ss        74        72        72         78        74
Net Short-term Loans         1.159    1.466      1.878     I.M        1.876     1.805     1.428
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS      7,588    7,818      8,770     0,528    10,089   11,409    12,844
Rota Il Term Loans           4,700    0,810      8,a25     0,718   12,050    12,865    18,65S
Les: Bad Debt Allowance       103       802       450       528       591        68s       784
NetRet ll Term Loans         4,587    0,514      7,869     9,109   10,407    11,602    12,081
Wholesalo Loans                  0    5,600    11,519    10,807   28,092    28,974    84,828
Less  Bad Debt Allow.           0        20        48        71       100        18O       is5
Outstanding Term Port.           0    5,580    11,470    10,787    22,902    28,844    84,104
Less: Current Portion       2,062    2,588      8,402     4,285    5,110       5,855     6,281
NET TERM LOAN PORTFOLIO      2,476    0,511    15,044    21,041   28,850    84,681    40,764
Equity Participation*          176       106       l06       106       10o        1o0       106
Acqutrod Assete                894        60        86        87        s0         n         94
Non Performing Assts         2,179     1,897       008       419         0          0         0
Less: Bad Debt Allow.       2,867    1,151        872       522         0          0         0
Other Assets                   620       694        64       0as       600       484        400
Property a Equipment           488       5ss       785       805       825        s45       865
Less: Acc. DepreciatIon      10        251       820       80s       481       564       e6o
Net Property A Equlpment       288       834       406       406       840        281       210
TOTAL LONW-TERM ASSETS       8,981   10,851    17,152    22,022    29,860    85,622    41,689
TOTAL ASSETS                11,5s0    18,169    25,022    82,145   40,065    47,092    58,088
LIABILIMTES A NET WORTH
Deposits                     2,642    2,427      2,868     8,247    8,516      8,809      4,128
Accounts Payable             1,498       784       148       155       168        108       106
Current Portion of Debt        864        22        22        22        22        22      1,882
Interest Payable               470       838       461       700       928     1,162      1,878
TOTAL CURRENT LIUAILITIES    4,969    8,571      8,499    4,125    4,024        5,096     6,904
Foreign Exchange Borrowing       0    7,275    14,068    l8,108   28,668    28,1683   82,108
DoRmetic Borrowings            09S       888       561       780    1,266       1,744     2,472
Less: Current Portion         864        22        22        22        22        22      1,882
TOTAL LONx-TERM LIASs.         832    7,586    14,002    16,929   24,907    29,88    88,808
Paid In Capital              2,600    2,600      2,500     2,500    2,500       2,500     2,500
Reakined Earnings            8,768    4,512      5,321     4,591     8,021      9,611    11,235
TOTAL NET WORTH              6,268    7,012      7,821     9,001    10,521    12,111    18,785
TOTAL LIUBS.   NET WORTH    11,569   18,169    25,021    82,145   40,062    47,091    58088



ANNX 3.02
- 88- -Peg 204
aNDUSTRIAL RESTRUCIURING PROJECT
DevelognMet Bank of the PhilIpoinee
Actual and Prolocted Inc.  Statemets. 1989-95
(Pesous MIlItons)
1989     1980      1991      1992     1998      1994      1991
Actual    -------t-d---------------------
OPERATIN REVENUES
Ret Il Operations            979    1,410    1,703    2,040    2,807    2,60?    2,817
Wholesale Operations           0       880    1,284    2,126    2,998    8,908    4,749
Total Interest Earned         979    1,748    3,047    4,164    6,00    6,,478        7,607
Lesw: Cost of Funds          227      684    1,564    2,80B    2,908    8,726    4,889
Less: Provisions               0      212       198       109       126       143      152
Net Interest Income            52    1,000    1,280      1,749    2,181    2,604    8,026
OTHER OPERATING REVEMUES
Income on Short-term SeC.    406      191       B28       890       849      870       884
Income on Oeposits            6        13        19        28        26       28        80
Misc. Bnk Fe"                 80       98        88        42        49       64        so
Trust Incoe   Other Fe       842      8a6       888       390       892       894      896
Total Other Op. Rvenues       894      S88       772       845       81       845       810
Lss: Gro  Rtceipt. Tax        59       s0       184       176       214      266       298
GROSS OPERATING PROFIT      1,687    1,008     1,926    2,419    2,782       8,198    8,560
EXPENSES
Salaries & Personnel         294      408       410       481       452      475       499
Cenoral A Admin. Exp.        210      299       300       315       881      847       8us
Total Solaris A Admin.        512      702       710       740       78       822       08s
Depreciation A Asort.         86       So        09        80        82       84        80
Tot I Expense                 647      7S8       779       826      86       906       949
PROFIT BEFORE TAXES 8 EXTR. 1,040      845    1,148    1,694    1,918    2,297    2,601
Extraord. Incoe/(Los)         92       82         0         0       108        0         0
NET PFIT BEFORE TAXES       1,132      927     1,148     1,694    2,021     2,287    2,601
Income Taxes                  88       so       251       824       464      897       818
NET PRFIT/(LOSS)            1,099      881       895     1,270    1,567      1,690    1,788



ANNEX 8.02
- 89 -                                      Page 1ZM
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Development Sank of the 0hilpoines
Summery of Key Financial Indicators
(Pesos iillions)
1989     1990      1991      1992      1993      1994      1995
Actual  -----------rote
OPERATINO STATISTICS
Operating Income           1,878    2,480      8,820     5,010    6,115     7,818     8,885
Total Cost of Funds          227       535     1,382    2,100    2,788    8,485       4,188
Net Profit/(Loss)          1,099      S8l        895     1,270    1,557      1,590     1,788
Cash from Operations       1,269    1,681    2,725       8,76s    4,654     5,548     0,410
Operating Ratio            12.1X    22.0X    88.21    41.01    46.3%        47.61    49.3x
Total Assets              11,se5   18,169    25,922   82,146   40,053    47,092   53,983
Not Worth                  6,268    7,012      7,821     9,091   10,521    12,111    18,785
Working Capital            2,619    8,747    6,271       5,398    6,069    6,874    5,898
FINANCIAL RATIOS
-Capital Adequaey
Total Debt/Equity Ratio    0.85      1.59      2.81      2.54      2.81      2.89     2.93
Net Worth/Risk Aseet     172.1    683.9%    45.2X    30.65    85.43    88.6x    32.6x
-Liquidity
Current Ratio              1.53      2.05      2.51      2.31     2.81      2.25      1.78
Liquid Assets/Deposits    165.31   13.1%    189.111   119.2X   119.7X   110.81    118.61
-Coverage Rattos
Debb Servies Coverage      9.14      4.24      4.24      8.98      S.59      3.35     8.26
Interest Coverage          5.98      6.69      4.80      4.01      8.61     3.37      3.28
-Asset quality
Total Reserves/Total Port  2.8X      2.7X      2.71      2.4X      2.1X     2.01      2.0X
Average Collection Rat              94.5%     96.4      96.71    97.01    97.2X    97.3X
Ratio of Retoll/Wholesale 100.01    69.8X    45.9X    89.9%    8M.1X    82.8X    30.5X
-arnings Performane
Average Cost of Funds      4.6X      4.61      6.1X      6.8X      7.0X      7.3x     7.41
Average Yield (Lending)    17.81    18.9%    17.5%    17.1X       16.8X    16.7X    16.51
Return on Revenus         6d.7X    35.4X    28.41    25.3x    25.5X    21.7X    21.8X
Return on AvY. Assets      9.5X      5.8X      4.1X      4.4X      4.3X      3.6X     8.51
Return on Ave. Equity     17.5X    18.0X    12.1X    15.01    15.9X    14.0X    18.8X



- 90 -                                       7*, 4 d 4
PHILIPPNES
MNUSTRIAL RESTRUCTRNG PRMECT
D.vtl o_mt Bank of the Philia4ne
Mbin Assuu.tione Usd In Pr*Jectlon*
1990     1991      1092      1998      1994      1995
~~ ^- (Poeo"ie)- 
1   Prolocted Dsbursewents
wholeale                         5,600    7,800    ?,300    9,000        9,250    9,800
Short-term                     1,19B     1,256     1,819    1,865      1,418     1,402
Medi u-term                    2,465    2,S89    2,615    2,694        2,774     2,868
R.gi'nal Dw-. Fund               621       172       179       264       811       816
Tot I RetaiI                     4  2                4.11)    4.818      4.499 44639
2.  Tern Fundina Sources
Wholesale
1,4C0 1,450                                                 -
21                               500       500oo     Goo       soo       soo
AJDF                           2,000    2,800          -         -         -         -
I=RD/lRP                                 I 1,800   1,600    8,000          -         -
iRP SI                                                 -         -    *,o       8,000
ADS I a II                       500    1,S00      1,400     1,400     1,000     1,000
Cottage                            -        Soo      0o0       Soo         -         -
Subtotl               4,450 I     U4f 4,600
Retall
WRF                               200       S90        -         -         -         -
Swiss                            370         -         -         -         -         -
Domestic Bonds                     -       250       250       S0        500       750
8.  Interest Incoe
a. Wholsale loan.: *verage Interest rate of 15%
b. Short-ter  reta il loans:  Interest rate of 21X
C. Mediu-term rot l I loans:  Interest rate of 20X
d. Regional Dcv. Fund loans: lnterest rate of 12%
4.  Borrowod Funds-Intrest R_te and Torms
Int.       F FX          Maturity       rece-
(1)         (1)           (Yr.)        (Yr.)
Wholesale
Mar II87.65                      4.65            20            S
IOLF               7.85         4.65             20            6
AJDF               4.50         7.60             20            5
IVP               7?.6          4.65             20            5
INP IS             7.65         4.65             20            5
AD0  I a IS        7?.S         4.65             20            S
Cottage Ent.       7.65         4.65             20            5
Retoal (Domestic)
Wiil 1             12.00         0.00             20            6
Retail 2          19.00         0.00             10            8
Retail 8           19.00        0.00             20            5
Retail (Forign)"
-Ri               10.00         2.00             20            5
Swals             10.00         2.00             20            S
S.  f  r                   5t7n EX1 nen   A St annual cost Incrass Is projeted for op.rstlng *epo.n.es while personnel
ntoft ng c expected to rcmaln constant.
S.  Provisions for Ooubtful Aecounts
Short-term retail loans:                          S5
iedium-ters rPetal loans:                          5%
Regional Dve". Fund loans:                        1SX
WholesaOI loons:                                 0.51



- g
3               mm WMEa                                                                                              IPId
.4  ______________ I                             O  W II _ _I
sr ,       r        -    1                      Laus  wI



- 92 -
NM   3.04
Page 1 of 7
DEVELOP1ENTM BANK OF THE PHILIPPINES
POLICY STATEMENT
QOMective8
1.01        The Development Bank of the Philippines (DBP) has substantially
completed its rehabilitation and financial strengthening
program which aimed at making it a viable and self-sustaining
financial institution. The principal objective of DBP is now
to provide medium and long-term financing to the private
sector. The DBP hopes to attain this objective by evolving
into primarily a wholesale bank, i.e., an institution chann-
elling funds to other financial institutions for on-lending to
private business enterprises. As a wholesale bank, DBP shall
help fill a major gap in the financial system of the country:
the provision of long-term credit to the private sector.
1.02        More specifically, DBP will:
a.    bring together providers and users of medium and long- term
capital;
b.    help develop the  capital markets by promoting medium and
long-term capital market instruments (e.g. bonds) to which
institutional and individual investors can subscribe;
C.    relend the funds it mobilizes primarily to accredited financial
institutions which will act as lending conduits for on-lending
to enterprises;
d.    act as a major conduit for, and manage, official development
assistance funds which the private sector will use;
e.    manage industrial sector credit programs funded by multilateral
development financial irstitutions; and
f.    undertake all other activities which are conducive to achieving
its broad aims and objectives.
1.03        DBP will gradually expand its wholesale lending activities in
line with the objectives stated above; the gradual reduction of
its retail lending in relative terms will be undertaken in an
orderly manner. Over time, DBP plans to leave most retail
development lending to other financial institutions such that
DBP's outstanding portfolio will have a predominantly wholesale
configuration by the end of 1993.



- 93 -
ANNEX 3.04
Page 2 of 7
General Onerational Princiules
1.04        As a development bank, DBP has to submit to the test of finan-
cial viability. Thus, it will pursue policies that will ensure
a sound capital structure and the generation of sufficient
earnings to cover Costs, earn a profit margin, build up appro-
priate reserves and protect its equity base from erosion.
1.05        The wider social consequences fro- the developmental role the
DBP must play dictate that while it has to pass standard market
tests, it also has to assess its operational and financial
results in terms of their economic and developmental impact.
1.06        DBP will operate on an equal market footing with its private
sector counterparts. These two fundamental principles of
ensuring financial viability within a competitive market frame-
work and of continuing to play a development role jointly
define the place DBP will occupy within the financial system.
As a financial institution with a development mission and as a
development institution with financing responsibility and
viability, DBP is a development bank with the usual functions
and duties of banks under the thrift category.
1.07        DBP shall increasingly concentrate on wholesale lending ac-
tivities in close partnership with private financial institu-
tions duly accredited by the Central Bank according to
pre-agreed criteria from. The accreditation criteria shall
include: (a) a track record of profitable operations and sound
capitalization; (b) an ability to maintain a sound and healthy
portfolio as shown by the institution's level of arrearages;
(c) a qualified management team of good reputation and (d)
adequacy of trained staff, established systems and procedures
to be an efficient and reliable purveyor of retail credits.
DBP shall be active in syndication with private banks and shall
work closely with them to efficiently on-lend development funds
to the private sector. DBP will premise its participation in
the syndicate on the need to ensure that program lending is
fully carried out and to cover gaps that private banks may not
be able to fill.
1.08        Except when specifically allowed under Monetary Board (MB)
regulations or by virtue of agreements that the Government and
DBP will enter into with multilateral or bilateral institu-
tions, DBP will not enjoy special privileges. Thus,
a.    Its obligations will not enjoy government guarantees;
b.    It will have no preferential access to the funds of the Central
Bank;



- 94 -
Page 3 of 7
c.    It will not benefit from special tax privileges;
d.    It will not enjoy undue preferential treatment for deposits of
the Philippine government and of Philippine governaent corpora-
tions;
e.    It will not receive  additional government equity to cover
losses that DBP might incur in the future.
This would not preclude DBP however, from arranglng for equity
increases from the National Government wbich may become necessary to
maintain a sound capital structure as its development lending ac-
tivities increase.
1.09        DBP will have a private sector orientation with autonomy in its
decision-making within the regular regulatory framework and
significant private sector representation in its Board of
Directors.
1.10        DBP will avoid lending to the public sector.
eh b litato,n PJrxiy
1.11       Although its rehabilitation has been substantiaily completed,
DIP reiterates its commitment to carry out the remaining ele-
ments of its rehabilitation plan. DBP will scale down the
number of wholly-owned branches, agencies and offices it will
maintain from the current level of 70 to 15. The pooling of Its
remaining brancb network into five regional development banks
for privatization is to be given top prlority.  Through the
process of privatization of these regional development banks,
DIP shall gradually give way to increasing private sector
participation through equity holdings. A target for such
private sector participation is set at 23X of the total equity
base of the five (5) regional development banks combined in
1989 and 45X in 1990. By the end of 1992, DBP shall have
reduced to minority position its holdings in each of the five
regional development banks.
Investment policis
1.12        DBP shall lend only to investment projects which are tecbnical-
ly, financially, and economically viable. In the case of
investment projects belonging to subsectors which are highly
protected by quantitative restrictions or excessive tariffs,
DBP will exercise careful scrutiny and selectivity.
1.13        DBP shall adopt a lending policy that would achieve a balaneed
regional, sectoral and industrial distribution of its funds
consistent with national development priorities. DBP shall
gear its financial help towards the promotion of economic
development of the country. This will relate to:



- 95 -
Page 4 of 7
a.    provision of its funds for investrent and working capital
purposes; and
b.    establishment of new enterprises and expansion/rationalization
of existing enterprises.
1.14  In its lending activities, DBP shall adopt an interest rate and foes
policy that:
a.    ensures full recovery of all its direct and indirect costs,
including provis,ons as required, plus an adequate profit
margin; and
b.    is consistent with prevailing market rates for loans of
similar maturity and risk.
1.15        For its retail lending, DBP shall base its investment decisions
on its own analysis of the viability of the project sad the
enterprise. Towards this end, DBP will apply specific lending
criteria that include lending only to projects with (a) propo-
nents of good credit standing; (b) sound management; (c)
satisfactory financing and marketing plans; (d) adequate finan-
cial rates of return; (e) technical soundness. DBP shall
maintain a Risk Asset Management Eanual(RAMO) that sets out
credit policies and procedures embodying these lending crite-
ria.
1.16        For its wholesale lending operations, DBP shall lend only to
duly accredited institutions. It will develop and apply
uniform guidelines, policies and procedures for each loan
program to ensure a consistent approach in dealing with accred-
ited institutions. DBP will rely on the credit judgment of the
accredited institutions and not pass upon individual loan
applications, except for large projects involving amounts
beyond a threshold loan amount of not less than 85 million
pesos.
1.17       DBP will carry out adequate monitoring of borrowers and will
require these borrowers to keep proper records of accounts and
furnish operational and financial data to DBP as it may reason-
ably request.
InU*L=APudLAf_ts
1.18       Within the broader limits provided for by law and by the DBP
Charter (Executive Order No. 81), DBP establishes the following
exposure liits in order to maintain a prudent and diversified
loan portfolio:



- 96 -
NNEX 3.04
Page 5 of 7
Except as otherwise agreed by the Monetary Board,
a.    DBP shall limit its total exposure to a single client or group
of companies, retail or wholesale, inclusive of loans, guaran-
tees and equity investment, to 15 per cent of DBP's unimpaired
capital and surplus.
b.   DBP shall limit its total equity investments in a single enter-
prise to no more than 151 of DBP's own total equity and shall
not seek majority ownership or management control of any entity
except in cases where its exposure in the enterprise is in
jeopardy. DBP's investments in its operating subsidiaries will
be exempt from these limits.
C.   Rules fully consistent with prudent banking transactions shall
govern issuance of guarantees or similar commitments.
1.19        DBP agrees to the transfer to it of the IGLF and Apex Loan
programs which the Central Bank is now managing. After the
transfer of the IGLF and Apex loan programs, DBP shall manage
the acquired portfolios on an agency basis and undertake for
its own account new lending under the programs, applying its
normal investment policies and lending criteria, including
protection against foreign exchange risk.
ORerations on An AncY Basis
1.20        DBP may undertake specific lending operations at the request of
the Government in support of government programs/projects. Such
operations will be undertaken only if (i) the Government ear-
marks funds for such projects; (ii) the Government pays the DBP
an appropriate fee for undertaking that function and (iii) such
lending does not entail any financial risk for DBP's own
account and the resultant loans are kept off DBP books.
Socio-Economic Prolects
1.21        DBP may constitute each year a portion not exceeding 301 of its
net income after tax for the previous year into a special fund
for loan, equity and quasi-equity financing of projects of
great socio-economic benefit but which do not fully meet the
financial return criteria of DBP's regular loans. This is
clasified as Window III lending. DBP may add back to the
special fund any loan or investment exclusive of earnings,
previously made from the fund and subsequently repaid. DBP
will charge an interest rate for projects in this category that
will cover the overhead cost and the projected inflation rate
for the year to preserve the real value of the fund.



- 97 -
Ann M  .m0
Page 6 of 7
1.22        Within the framework of Window III lending and consistent with
its development mission, DBP seeks to establish long-term
relationships, mainly by lending medium and long-term funds to
entrepreneurs engaged in projects with high developmental
impact, but subjected to market discipline. Some of these
projects may be in newer fields and with higher risks such that
private financial institutions may be less willing to commit
their resources into such projects over the medium and long
haul.
Retail Operations
1.23        Subject to the predominantly wholesale nature of its opera-
tions, DBP shall continue to engage in direct lending opera-
tions where it shall simply serve as a catalyst, especially in
the strategic sectors where the private sector may still be
hesitant to enter fully. But it must ensure that it does not
erode. its equity base and that it gradually withdraws from the
economic areas which the private sector can take over.
Financial Policies
1.24        DBP will ensure a prudent interest rate and maturity match
between its assets and liabilities.
1.25        To ensure high standards of financial management, DBP will
maintain a planning and budgeting system, an effective and
efficient system of asset and liability management, and a
liquidity management system.
1.26        To finance its operations, DBP shall mobilize private sector
funds and funds from other government financial institutions
such as SSS and GSIS on market terms.
1.27        To diversify fund sources by investor type and maturity, the
bank shall introduce appropriate term instruments.
Canital Structure
1.28        The debt-equity ratio for DBP consolidated with that of its
subsidiaries and taking into account contingent liabilities,
shall not exceed 5:1.
1.29        The Bank shall not expose itself to uncovered foreign excbange
x1sks.
Organization and Staff Development
1.30        DBP will have an effective system of controls, a sensitive and
responsive monitoring mechanism, and a decision-making process
that assigns accountabilities and responsibilities.



- 98 -
Page 7 of 7
1.31        It will also develop technically qualified staff, taking into
account the special skills required for effective fulfiljaent
of its functions. It will provide a compensation package
comensurate with responsibilities discharged and competitive
with private sector remuneration to attract and retain compe-
tont staff members.
1.32       DBP shall maintain its credit committee to undertake evaluation
of all loan proposals which require the approval of the Chair-
man or the Board, before subission to either of the latter,
without ln any manner affecting the prerogatives of the Chair-
man or the Board.
Accounts and Auit
1.33       The Bank shall use generally accepted accounting principles in
recording its transactions, consistent with Central Bank
regulations. It will have a private external audit conducted
anrually.
Nodification to the Pollc Statement
1.34       The DBP will not change this Policy Statement without prior
consultation with, and approval of, the proper relevant author-
itLes.
1.35       This Policy StateAent and any modification thereof, and its
Implementation shall be subject to Philipplne lawo and the
rules and regulations of the appropriate regulatory government
entities.



- 99 -
Pag 1 of 2
IUDUTR1 URC~TORS WO ELGIOXE  NO  'nANCINO 
A. _
1.  Subject to Price Control
Cement and Cement Products
2. Subject to Quanticative Restrictions
Care and Spare Parts
Ttucks and Buses and Spare Parts
Motorcycles and Spare Parts
Pesticides
Consumer Durables as per list agreed under IICP (Loan 3123-PH)
3.  Excessive DRP Protection (unless indicated othbrwise by Domestic
Resource Cost indicators)
Paper and Paper Board Products                                    105
Refined Cooking Oil and Margarine                                 143
Publishing and Printing                                            92
Rubber Footwear                                                   138
Plastic Products (Domestic Market)                                 91
Insecticides                                                       84
Soap and Detergents                                               125
Cosmetics and Toilet Preparation                                  107
Class and Class Products                                           80
Fabricated Metal Products                                          a8
8att.ries                                                         107
Furniture and Fixtures Made of Metal                              139
Subsectors will be dropped from the list as suitable action
prosrm_ are %upleented.



- 100 -
Page 2 of 2
B.  Industrieg Not Yet in Exitenc,e
These would be eligible for financing, except if (a) they were protected
by quantitative restrictions (QRh); (b) by tariffs, whereby the nominal tariff
exceeded the current Maximum rate of 50X; and (c) no agreement existed between
the Government and the industry concerned about the time frame for phasiag
down of protectton below a level of 801 of effective rate of protection (ERP).



- 101 -
ANNEX 4.02
Page 1 of 2
PHILIEPTIE
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FUNDS
BASIC FEATURES
Soutces:                    BITS, NORAD and NDF
Eligible Subsectors: Textile, inter-island
shipping and ship repair, cement, pulp and paper,
and environment.
Administrator: Development Bank of the
Philippines on behalf of the Government of the
Philippines (GOP).
Tems:                        (a)  Grant fund  would be made available from
bilateral funding sources to GOP for
institutional strengthening, training,
technical assistance, and essential equipment
and facilities which are required to initiate
the agreed action program.
(b) Technical Assistance Credits.  Technical
assistance credits will be made available by
DBP to eligible enterprises for a period of
up to 15 years including a grace period of up
to 5 years. DBP will maintain the loan
accounts. (These terms are subject to
confirmation by GOP and the donors.)
The eligible activities include: (a) energy
conservation studies; (b) pollution control
audit; (c) management information system;
(d) quality control study; (e) overseas
training, (f) foreign experts; (g) marketing
studies; and (h) any other legitimate
technical assistance requirements approved by
DBP in consultation with the Bank and the
bilateral agencies.
management of the Fund:      DBP will manage these funds with due diligence and
employ qualified staff.  DBP will set up a
separate acount for each subsector.



- 102 -
ANNE 4-Q2
Page 2 of 2
Loan repaymsut by the beneficiaries to DBP will
be avai1Ublo fot funding future technical
assistauce requlromnts of the specified
subsectors. In the cas. of grant funds, DBP will
receive a fee of 2X of the TA credits under
management.
Qwnerabi;:                  The Governmnt of the Philippines.
Ddsbursa ents.              All funds will be disbursed as the actual actions
are implmented.
ImertLng giajrufznts:    DBP will provide  quarterly reports to the World
Bank and the funding source showing utilization of
these funds and the status of various activities
under implementation.
Audlt:                      levolving funds are to be audited once a year by
external auditors. Copies of the audited report
should be provided to the World Bank and the
concerned bilateral agencies within six (6) months
of the end of the fiscal year.



-103-                          Page   of 9
?RAIUE  MD?-NYA  AIEhNEX
A. 36111E
1. At present, very little industry wide training specifically designed for
cement technology exists. With the exception of training for cement chemists
organized at the central cement laboratory of Philceucor, companies themselves
have to teach their employees the special skills needed by the industry. Only
two business groups have training establishbents where their employees can
receive lectures and training. with the envisaged modernization and
restructuring of the industry, this .pproach to human resource development
will be inadequate and will have to be extended to cover the whole industry.
Present -d Future Mannlng in the Cement Industrr
2. The cement industry in the Philippines employs approximately 5,200 people
of which 25 X are in staff positions and 75 X in production functions. The
present production level of approximately 7.44 million tons of cement
translates into a productivity level of approximately 1,430 tons cement per
employee and year. This represents a big improvaent over previous years, as
it was only 449 tons per employee and year in 1985. It is, however, still
very low by world standards.
3.  The following restructuring of the industry is assumed:
1990             2000
Capacity (1,000 tons)                   7,440            12,400
Number of cement plants                    17                19
Average plant capacity, (1000 tons)       438               653
Number of employees                     5,200             5,800
The number of employees is expected to increase only slightly during the
1990's though a big production capacity increase would be experienced. This
would increase labor productivity by nearly 50 X to approximately 2,140 tons
per employee and year. The demand for upgrading the training of cement plant
personnel on all levels, will, therefore also increase considerably.



- 104 -                        AEX 4 03
Page 2 of 9
Oblectives of Proposed Training
4.       Given the major technological changes envisaged under the proposed
restructuring program, a comprehensive approach towards training is needed.
Training provided on an individual plant level should be intensified and com-
plemented with specialized outside inputs as well a8 provision of training on
a subsectoral level, i.e. as a joint program for the entire cement industry.
The objectives of the program will be to: (a) upgrade the skills of management
& key technical personnel to cope with the preparation and installation of
modernization and expansion projects; (b) improve management & technical
skills at all levels to allow efficient operations of modernized/expanded/and
large new facilities, and (c) train new staff.
Scope and Content of Training Program
5.       The training program would comprise:
-   training abroad, e.g. in training schools set up by international ce-
ment or cement machinery manufacturers
-   domestic courses taught by expatriate experts
-   domestic courses taught by domestic specialists
-   training of job instructors by expatriate trainers initially, and
later by experienced workers, educated as trainers.
6.       The need for the following types of training has been identified:
(a) for plant management and senior engineers:
-    industrial relations
-   modern cement manufacturing technology
-   modern process control in the cement industry
-    safety in cement production
-   environmental aspects
-   logistics and management information systems in large
production companies
-   financial and cost control of large scale production
facilities.
(b) for cement production engineers and technicians:
-   cement raw materials and modern analyzing techniques
-   pyro-processing technology with preheaters and precalciners
-   modern grinding technologies with vertical roller mills and
roller presses
-   production and cost control
-   project management techniques and time scheduling
-   energy conservation
-   pollution control



MM 4. 01
-105-                         Page 3 of 9
(c) for cement plant engineering and maintenance staff:
-   cement process technology
-   modern maintenance techniques
-   integrated process control systems and instrumentation
-   time planning and scheduling systems
-   reporting, scheduling & organizing of large scale operations
(d) for process operators:
-   plant operation
-   process control
(e) for skilled maintenance workers:
-   in-plant training in maintenance
-   preventative maintenance practices
-   modern repair techniques
-   sophisticated control devices
-   safety
imulementation of Training Programs
7.      A Training Steering Group (TSG) would be formed under the Philcemcor;
membership would represent both individual and group owners of cement plants,
sector worker organizations, and the National Manpower and Youth Council
(NMYC). The TSG would be supported by a Secretariat and expatriate training
experts.
8.      The training program as developed by TSG would be given either In the
Philcecor or ln the establishment of selected cement companies. Initial
funding for training program development and related technical assistance
would be from bilateral grants. However, firms participating it the trainlng
courses would cover the costs of training through appropriate fees. In thli
way, the funding would be replenished allowing the training program to become
self-sustaining.
9.       Cost of Trainin8 Programs. The following annual estimates for 1991-
1993 are cost figures in US $:
(a) Training OrganLzergrd1na&or
Training experts on assignment: for 3 years
Salary and benefits - $180,000/year



- 106 -           p                   la
Page 4 of 9
(b)  _versea  Trainng tgr=  of 30 La aem        neiod
Te"chers ad teaching facilities: $40,000.
Travelling: $2,000 airfare (discont) x 30 - $60,000
Accomodation and allowanc: $3,500/onth x 30 - $103,000
Sub-total - $205,000
(c) L_cal trA     by    tiate taer
Salary, Benefits and Hotel: $1,000/dsy x 15 days z 10 tims-
$150,000
Travelling: $3,500 x 10 - $3,500
Sub-total - $185,000
(d) Local training by local snecialists
Courses including preparation: $150 x 15 days x 10 tims - $22,500
(e) Job I_rtor training by         triates
Salary, Benfits and Hotel: $1000/day x 20 das x 2 times  $.0,000
Travelling $3500 x 2 - $7,000
Sub-total - $47,000
(f) Job instructor traini  by local agerinaed workers
$150/day x 20 days x 2 tims - $ 6,000
(g) ZnhwDtoLn .mateiak- $25,000
B.
Objectives of roosed Technical Assistance:
10.     The Technical Assistance program shall cater to companies executing
major rehabilitation projects, large scale expansion or bullding new plants.
It will help develop the technical, economic and managerial skills for the
preparation of the required feasibility stWdies, the monitoring control and
supervision of the engineering construction and comissioning of the upgraded
or new facilities. Technical assistance will also be gIven for the initial
operating period of such plants. 
Scn ad Conen of Techncal Asstance ProymL:
11.     The impl_mentation would be carried out by consultants as required to
provide toebnical assistance to individual plants In the fields of:
-  preparation and/or evaluation of feaibility and project development
studies;



- 107 -                        NEX 4.03
Page S of 9
- assessment and evaluation of contractors' bids to ensure optimal ef-
ficiency of the plants, cost competitiveness and compliance with the
latest e-wironmental protection standards;
- project management know-how and supervisory services during the
construction phase of the new plants;
- technical and commercial training and advice during the commissioning
phases of the projects;
-   assistance during the initial operating period;
-   feasibility study for bulk-handling facilities to improve
distribution efficiency; and
- assistance in the evaluation and costing of pollution abatement
equipment and facilities.
Implementation of Technical Assistance Progxam:
12.      Philcemcor would be the locus of the technical assistance, with  the
individual members of Philcecor which are undertaking expansion plans calling
upon the services of the consultants as required. The beneficiary companies
would cover the costs.
13.      Cost of technical assistance
JUatriate consultants
Salary and benefits: $15,000/month x 6 months - $90,000/year
C. TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE: TOTAL COSTS
14.     The total estimated costs for training and technical assistance for
1991-1993 amount to US$2.33 million as shown in the following table. These
cost estimates are indicative figures.



- 108 -                AM       -z]24.03
- 108 -                       Page 6 of 9
1991      1992      1993      TOTAL
-------  (US$ '00)  )-_-
Training Organizer                   180.0    180.0    180.0    540.0
Overseas Training Courses            205.0    205.0    205.0    615.0
Training by Expatriates              185.0    185.0    185.0    555.0
Training by Local Specialists         22.5      22.5      22.5      67.5
Job Instructor Training by
Expatriates                        47.0      47.0      47.0    141.0
Local Staff                         6.0       6.0       6.0      18.0
Instruction Materials                 25.0      25.0      25.0      75.Q
Subtotal                                                    2.01l.5
TXECI hL ASSISTANCE
Expatriate Consultants                90.0      90.0      90.0     270.0
&ECRETAZ  L & MISC.
LOCA0L COSTS                        15.0      15.0      15.0  -.45.0
TOTAL                                                       2.326.5
D. TERMS OF REFERENCE AND JOB DESCRIPTIONS
I. Training Steering Group (TSG1
15.      The terms of reference of the TSG would include, but not be limited
to, the following activities:
(a) Formulating a policy statement on manpower devolopment for the
subsector as a whole, and developing strategies and guidelines for
the introduction and implementation of a sectoral training scheme.
(b) Conducting a comprehensive subsector survey for manpower training to
(i) quantify current manpower stock by category and level of staff;
(it) identify and prioritize key training needs, (iii) identify and
review existing subsectoral training programs for their relevance and
adaptability for extension; and (iv) assess and analyze sectoral
training demand and recommendations to met the projected demand over
the implementation period of the project;



- 109 -                        AhNNL  4.03
Page 7 of 9
(c) Conducting seminars and workshops for sectoral manpower development
issues;
(d) Providing advisory service and training related information to cement
companies;
(e) Preparing an inventory of operator/technician tasks suitable for the
design of trade skill standards and national testing and
certification by NMYC; and
(f) Developing and executing training programs and packages with
participation of the industry.
II. Training Organizer/Co-ordinator
16.      Oualifications an Exprie
Training engineers with extensive industrial or consulting experience
in the cement industry in training and/or human resources development.
Typically the candidate would be a mechanical or process engineer with
training experience in a cement plant and teaching knowledge. He would have
7 * 10 years experience beyond the Master's level. Work experience in
developing countries would be preferred. The candidate should exhibit sound
knowledge of the overall cement industry in addition to training experience
and knowledge of the latest training hardware, software and source materials
available worldwide to the cement industry. Additional capabilities should
include:
- experience in the assessment of training needs
-   experience in the assessment of the present proficiency and skill
level of plant personnel
-   experience in the evaluation of the present training programes in
the industry
-   expertise in the design and management of training programmes
-   expertise in the procurement of experts, training hard and software
for the operation of the programmes.
17.      Terms of Reference
The training organizer/co-ordinator will carry out a study of the
training needs of the Philippine cement industry, establish data bases on man-
power development for the restructuring program, and analyze the hardware and
software needs for such training programs. One of his main tasks would be to
stimNlate the cement industry into participating in the development and
execution of the training programmes as well as to get the industry's
agreement on the training study and its recommendations. Upon the acceptance
of the study, his tasks will include:
-   Design and structuring of training packages with participation of the
industry



- 110 -                         *        ie 8f
Pap. S of 9
Organization and management of the training packages includLng
procurement of the training experts and cours materials
Assistance to ceomnt plants in undertaking plant speeific training
tasks or industry wide training programes
Assistance to enterprises in preparing plans and specifications for
human development programes including the procurement of the
necessary equipment and training system.
III.  Technical Assistance Ixhext
is.      Ouallfications and BSxerlence
EngineerLng consultanat with extensive industrial and consulting ex-
perience in the preparation and/or. analysis of projects in the eement industry
as well as in the monitoring and supervision of the execution of such
projects. Typically the candidate would be a mechanical, electrieal or process
engineer with training in economics and long-term exposure to project
management techniques. He would have 10 - 15 years experieneo beyond the
Master's level and should possess experience of plant construction and project
development in developing countries.
19.      The candidate should exhibit sound knowledge of the cement industry,
of the preparation and evaluation of indu-trial feasibility studies as well as
of the execution of large scale construction projects. Addltional capabilities
should include:
- experience in project development
- execution and evaluation of industrial feasibilSty studies for the
cement industry
review of plans and specifications for modern large scale cement klln
lines
- review of process technologies
- review of air, water and solids pollution control equipment
- engineering and construction cost analysis
- project management experience
-   experience in the assessment of construction progress and performance
testing for machinery
- operating experience in cement plants
20.      Terms of Reference
The Technical Assistance consultant will provide assistance to the
cement industry in the development of project proposals and relevant
feasibillty studies. He will advise on project proposals to ensure compliance
with the local laws and regulations in regard to pollution control, safety
aspects and quality of machuinery, and assist in the evaluation and costing of
pollution abatement equipment. He would assist in the selection of machLnery
and contractors to ensure cost effectiveness and appropriateness of the



ADR= 4-03
- 111 -                        Page 9 of 9
procured equipment with the raw material sources and production technology.
He would assist individual cement companies by:
advising on required actions for project proparation so that contrac-
tors can execute their work without delays
assisting in the project management control tasks during project
execution
- assisting during commissioning of the equipment with advice on oper-
ation, training, performance testing, issuing of performance certifi-
cates and compliance of contractors with contract agreements
-   assisting in the clarification of operating problem  during the
initial operating period and procuring and organizing specialized
technical assistance packages for special operating or maintenance
needs.



AMEE 4.04
- 112 -                        Page I of 5
mnm&kxumUpuhnLn
TRAININ AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN
THE PULP AND PAPER SUBSECTOR
A. TRAINNG
1.      At present, no formal training system specifically designed for pulp
and paper technology exists in the Philippines. Companies themselves have to
train their employees for the special skills needed by the industry. With the
envisaged modernization and restructuring of the pulp and paper subsector,
this ad-hoc approach to human resource development will be inadequate, the
more so because the modern equipment and control devices are high-tech.
Present and Future Mannin  in the Pul  and Pager Indust
2.       The pulp and paper industry employs about 8,000 people of which 201
are in staff position and 801 in production functions. The present production
level of about 350,000 tons of paper translates into a productivity level of
about 60 tons per labor unit and year. The potential for productivity
increases can be seen in the fact that the corresponding figure in Scandinavia
is about 10 times as much, i.e., 600 tons.
3.      The following restructuring program is assumed:
Capacity (1,000 tons)                       536          900
Number of paper machines                     45           25
Average machine capacity (1,000 tons)        12            36
Number of employees                       8,000        5,000
The number of employees is expected to decrease during the next decade. The
need for higher productivity, however, will require upgrading of training for
mill personnel on all levels.
Objectives of Proposed Training
4.       In view of the major technological changes that would occur under the
proposed restructuring program, a comprehensive approach towards training is
needed. This will involve training on a subsectoral level, i.e., as a joint



- 113 -                        amNE     0
Page 2 of 5
program for the entire pulp and paper industry. The objectives of the program
will be to:
(a) upgrade the skills of management and key technical personnel to cope
with the preparation and implementation of modernization and
expansion projects;
(b) improve management and tecbnical skills at all levels to allow
efficient operations of modernized/expanded facilities; and
(c) train new staff.
Scope and Contents of Training Progirams
5.       The training program would comprise:
-   training abroad, e.g., at technical institutes/universities in
Trondheim, Stockholm, Helsinki; the Swedish Pulp and Paper School in
Narkryd;
-   local courses taught by expatriate experts;
-   local courses taught by local specialists; and
-   training of job instructors by expatriate trainers initially, and
later by experienced workers, educated as trainers.
6.       The need for the following types of training programs has been
identified:
(a) for mill management and senior engineers:
-    industrial relations
-    modern papermaking technology
-   modern process control in the P&P industry
-    paper quality requirements by end-users
-    safety in pulp and paper production
-    environmental aspects
-    improvement of waste-paper collection
(b) for mill production engineers and technicians:
-    deinking technology
-   papermaking process
-    converting machinery
-   human relations
(c) for mill engineering and maintenance staff:
-    pulp and paper processes
-   modern maintenance techniques
-    integrated process control systems



- 114 -                       am  3oS
Page 3 of 5
(d) for process operators:
-   the papermaking process
-   process control
(e) for skilled maintenance workers
-   preventive maintenance practices
-   modern repair techniques
-    sophisticated control devices
Imlasentstion of Training Progain
7.       The Pulp and Paper Nanufacturers Association, PULPAPEL, would be the
forum where training activities would be planned and executed. A training
sub-committee within PULPAPEL would be established for that purpose. PULPAPEL
could sub-contract parts of the training programs to other organizations such
as the Forest Product Research and Industries Development Institute.
8.      An experienced expatriate training expert would have the
responsibility ts. (a) assess the detailed training needs of each company; and
(b) organize and coordinate the training program.
9.       Initial funding for training technical assistance would be from
bilateral sources. Participating companies would cover the costs of the
training through appropriate fees.  In this way, the initial funding would be
replenished allowing the training program to become self sustaining.
10.      Cost of Training Programs. The following annual estimates for 1991-
1993 are cost figures in US$:
(a) Training Organizer/Coordinator
Training experts on assignment (3 years).
Salary and benefits - $180,000/year.
(b) Training Abro4
-   Group of 20 training for a month
Teachers and teaching facilities: $40,000
Travelling: $2,000 airfare (discount) x 20 - $40,000
Accommodation and allowances: $3,500/month x 20 - $70,000
Subtotal - $150,000
(c) Local Training bX Kxnatriate Trainers
Salary, benefits and hotel: $1,000/day x 5 days x 10 times - $50,000
Travelling: $3,500 x 10 - $35,000
Subtotal - $85,000



_.115 -Pogo 4 of 5
(d) Local Trainig b! togal Rpeialists
Courses lncluding preparation: $150 x 5 days x 10 times - $7,500
(0) Job Insttr Tr =iIn b    watriates
Salary, Benefits and Hotel: $1,000/day x 20 days x 2 times - $40,000
Travelling $3,500 x 2 - $7,000
Subtotal - $47,000
(f) Job insut         ining by Lacal Ixerienced Vorkers
$150/day x 20 days x 2 times - $6,000
(g) I;a 3trUm n&tse1a1a - $25,000
B.  TECHNCAL ASSISTA
11.      Obljetives. The Technical Assistance program shall cater to
companies executing major rehabilitation projects, planning energy efficiency
review, improving pollution control, carrying out large scale expansion
projects or building new plants. It will help develop the technical, economic
and managerial skills for the preparation of feasibility studies, monitoring
and supervision of the engineering construction, and comissioning of upgraded
or new facilities. Technical assistance will also be given for the initial
operating period of such plants. In addition, technical assistance grant.
will be given for the implementation of the action programs to develop and
promote waste paper collection campaigns it major cities.
ulnlZLan of Thnical  Assiatance
12.      Tecbnical assistance would be carried out by expatriates to assist
companies in selecting new locations, planning and executing an expansion or
new project. The required expatriates would be production and engineering
experts who would supervise the engineering, construction and also the initial
operation after start-up. Companies availing of this service would cover the
costs.
13.      Annual Co8t of Technical Assistance (USS)
(a)   latriate Consulta3nt
Salary and benefits: $145,000
(b) Waste paner Collection Program
Promotion programs (10 in metro xanil\-and 1 each in 5 other major
cities): $6,000/campaign x 15 - $90,000



- 116 -                        AM     4
- 116 -                r~~~~age S of 5
C.  MAU=ING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - TOTAL COSTS
14.      The total estimated costs for training and technical assistance for
1991-1993 amount to US$2.07 muillion as shown in the following table. These
cost estimates are indicative figures.
1991      1992      1993       Total
(US$ '000)
Training Organizer                 180.0     180.0      180.0      540.0
Training Abroad                    150.0     150.0      150.0      450.0
Training by Expatriates             85.0      85.0       85.0      255.0
Training by Local Specialists        7.5       7.5        7.5       22.5
Job Instructor Training
By Expatriates                      47.0      47.0       47.0      141.0
By Experienced Local Staff           6.0       6.0        6.0       18.0
Instruction Materials               25.0      25.0       25.0       75.0
Subtotal                                                     151 5
--&CHICAL ASSISTANCE
Expatriate Consultants             145.0     145.0      145.0      435.0
Waste Paper Collection Program       30.0      30.0       30.0       90.0
Subtotal                                                       S25.0
SECRETARIAL & MISC. LOCAL COSTS          15.0      15.0       15.0       45.0
TOTAL                                                        2.071.5



- 117 -                        AM          4-05
Page 1 of 6
XNDUSTRIAL RESTUCTRIN  PROJETZG
TRAINING AD TNECHN1CAL ASSI8TANCE IN
3fi TEXTIML SUNSECTOR
A.  TRAIN=
Ba_ckground
1.       The Philippine textile industry consists of about 200 companies
employing approximately 90,000 persons. Over the 1982-83 period, "Fielden
House", a training and productivity improvement firm specializing in the
textiles and apparel subsectors undertook a 'training of trainers" program.
This yielded 75 training officers, 120 job instructors and 16 industrial
engineers. During 1988-89, another training program undertaken by "Fielden
House" was oversubscribed and yielded 30 training officers, 57 job instructors
and 59 supervisor trainers. 'While both programs were successful, they did not
reach the point where a training structure was well established and a self-
sustaining system put in place. The Philippine textile industry now needs a
training framework that can provide continuity. This is highlighted by the
fact that some EEC countries that have smaller textile subsectors (in terms of
both equipment and employment) have well-developed textile education networks
ranging from universities to technical and design colleges and vocational
centers, and covering every aspect of textile management, technology and
production from the academic to the vocational.
Present and Future Nanning in the Textile Industr=
2.       Based on the envisaged restructuring of the industry and assuming
that the staff to operator ratios are similar to those in other South East
Asian countries, the manning levels would look thus:



Page 2 of 6
1990               1995
-........ .000 ---_
Production Operators                    63.0               75.0
Maintenance                              4.5                6.5
Supervisors/Technical Personnel          4.5                6.5
Administration                          1.0                 22.0
Total                               210.0
3.       The projected growth in employment is less than the growth in
subsectoral capacity due to increases in labor productivity that result from
training inputs as well as the introduction of semi-automatic machinery and
more sophisticated technology (i.e., open-end spinning, shuttleless looms,
etc.).
Obiectives of Pronosed Training
4.       Given the major technological changes envisaged under the proposed
restructuring program, training provided on an individual plant level should
be intensified and complemented with specialized outside inputs as well as
provision of training on a subsectoral level, i.e., as a joint program for the
entire industry. The objectives of the program will be to: (a) upgrade the
skills of management and key technical personnel to cope with the preparation
and installation of modernization and expansion projects; (b) improve
manAgement and technical skills at all levels to allow efficient operations of
modernized/expanded/and large new facilities; and (c) train new staff.
Scope and Content of Training ProgrXms
5.       The training program would comprise:
-   training abroad, e.g., in training schools with strong textile
technology programs, such as the Hong Kong Polytechnic, University of
Manchester Institute of Science and Technology, University of South
Carolina;
- local courses taught by expatriate experts;
-   local courses taught by local specialists; and
-   training of job instructors by expatriate trainers initially, and
later by experienced workers, educated as trainers.
6.       The size of the industry in the Philippines suggests the need for a
university-level development center in the area of textile management and
technology. However, since textile specialists, educationists and trainers



AM=; 4- 05
-119 -                        Page 3 of 6
are not readily available locally and must be hired at high cost from
overseas, the short-term need to establish a vocatLonal and in-plant training
program must take priority.
7.       The training program would include the following subjects:
- essential textile technology, calculation and metrology;
- principles, operation and maintenance of textlle equipment in each
area of production, l.e.;  spinning (ring, open-end, worsted systems,
etc.). fabric forming (weaving, knitting, non-woven), dyeing,
printing, finishing;
-   work systems, productivity, flow of materials;
-   information systems, use of computers;
- production planning and control, quality management systems,
energy and water management, effluent treatment;
nmnagement skills, marketing, human resource management.
Implementation of Trainiqn Progrgm
8.       To plan and imolement the textile training program, a Textile
Training Steering Group (TSG) consisting of representatives from the
Philippines Textile Research Institute (PTRI), the Textile Manufacturers
Association of the Philippines (TMAP), the Department of Trade and Industry,
and professional textile training experts would be established to guide the
development and implementation of a sectoral scheme of education and training.
The PTRI would be the executing agency of the training programs. Its existing
facilities will be expanded. A new Training Services Division will be
established within PTRI. An expatriate training organizer/coordinator would
be appointed with the support of expatriate and local experts for the
implementation of the training programs.
9.       Initial funding for training and technical assistance would be from
bilateral sources. Participating firms would cover the costs of the training
through appropriate fees. In this way the initial funding would be
replenished allowing the training program to become self sustaining.
10.      Cost of Training PrograMs. The following annual estimates for 1991-
1993 are indicative and require further refinement (cost figures in US$):
(a) Training 1X&W Lzer/CogrnatoX
Training experts on assignment (3 years). Salary and benefits:
$180,000/year



- 120 -                        AM         4.05
Page 4 of 6
(b) Local Training by Ex2atriate Trainers
2 training experts on assignments. Salary and benefits:
$180,000 x 2 - $360,000.
(c) Job Instructor Training by Expatriates
Salary, benefits and hotel: $1,000/day x 20 days x 2 times - $40,000
Travelling: $3,500 x 2 - $7,000
Subtotal - $47,000
(d) Job Instructor Training by Local Experienced Workers
$150/day x 20 days x 2 times - $6,000
(e) Course Materials: $60,000.
(f) Overseas Training (group of 10 for 2-months course)
School Fees - $100,000
Travelling: $2,000 airfare (discount) x 10 - $20,000
Accommodations and allowances: $3,500/month x 10 x 2 - $70,000
Subtotal - $190,000
(g) Building Modifications:  $331,000
(h) Traini    KLment - $300,000.
B. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Objectives of PEonosed Technical Assistance
11.      The Technical Assistance program shall cater to companies executing
major rehabilitation projects, large scale expansion or building new plants.
It will help develop the technical, economic and managerial skills for the
preparation of the required feasibility studies, the monitoring control and
supervision of the engineering construction, and commissioning of the upgraded
or new facilities. Technical assistance will also be given for the initial
operating period of such plants.
Scoge and Content of Technical Assistance Program
12.      The program will involve offering technical services and techno-
economic validations of investment proposals in the following main areas:
(a) Fibers to Fabrics (FTF). Spinning, texturizing and fabric forming in
woven as well as knitted and non-woven; and
(b) Dyeing, printing and finishing (DPF), with particular reference to
water, energy and liquid waste management and control.



- 121 -                        ARM    4.05
Page 5 of 6
13.      In addition, technical assistance grants will be given to government
entities (NEDA/Tariff Commission and DTI/BOI) for review and training for
tariff/ERP computation for all five subsectors as well as a review and update
of the Advance Tax Credit Scheme for the textile industry.
Iplementation of Technical Assistance Program
14.      A Textile Management Service Unit (TMSU) would be established under
the aegis of TNAP. TMSU will have two expatriate specialists in the FTF area
and one expatriate specializing in DPF; they will be supported by local
technical and administrative staff. TNSU will also call upon the services of
expatriate experts for short-term assignments and spot missions. The
beneficiary companies would cover the costs.
15.      Cost of Technical Assistance (US$)
(a) Expatriates on assip=ment
Salary and benefits: $180,000/year x 3 expatriates - $540,000/yr.
(b) Exoatriates for sDot missions
Salary and benefits and hotel: $15,000/month x 2 expatriates x 3
months - $90,000.
Travelling: $3,500 x 2 - $7,000
Subtotal - $97,000.
C. TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - TOTAL COSTS
16.      The total estimated costs for training and technical assistance for
1991-1993 amount to US$5.06 million as shown in the following table. These
cost estimates are indicative figures.



- 122-                        am    6.05
Page 6 of 6
1991      1992      1993      Total
(US$ 000)
Training Organizer                180.0     180.0      180.0      540.0
Training by Expatriates           360.0     360.0      360.0    1,080.0
Job Instructor Training by:
Expatriates                    27.0      27.0      27.0       81.0
Local Staff                     6.0       6.0       6.0       18.0
Course Materials                   60.0      60.0       60.0      180.0
Overseas Training                 190.0     190.0      190.0      570.0
Building Modification             331.0        -         -        331.0
Training Equipment                150.0     150.0        -        300.0
Subtotal                                                  3L100.0
ZTCNAL ASSISTANCE
Expatriates Long-Term             540.0     540.0      540.0    1,620.0
Expatriates - Spot missions        97.0      97.0       97.0      291.0
Subtotal                                                   91.0.2
s E& MISC. LOCAL   STQ
TOTAL                                                      5.056.0



-123 -                         Page 1 of 7
rAIDUSTRIIARESTRUCTUIN  PRJET
TRAUIN  AND TECNICAL AZSISTACB IN
THE  T-ILA   SHIPIN  SauECTO
A. TRAINING
IA&kg 4d
1.       Currently, between 70 and 80 percent of inter-island maritime
accidents, particularly those involving collisions and groundings, were
attributable to human errors. The general caliber of the subsector's manpower
base requires urgent strengthening. Of most immediate concern was lack of
experienced junior and middle-level officers, both navigational and
engineering, the dimension of which has reached crisis point.
2.       In view of the magnitude of the identified needs of the maritime
education and training sector, in formulating a proposal for training and
technical assistance for the inter-island shipping subsector, it is proposed
that the part of the training system to be addressed under the proposed
Project should be the review and strengthening of in-service training with
emphasis on the apprenticeship system.
3.       The rationale for this selective approach is based on the following:
(a) In many cases the attention given to officer upgrading and the
shipboard training of apprentices in the domestic fleet is
unsystematic, ad-hoc, or non-existent, and contributes to the
recognized deficiency of operationally experienced junior and middle-
level officers;
(b) Few maritime training schools have established formal training
linkages with shipping companies for the placement and monitoring of
shipboard training programs;
(c) The majority of ships officers designated as supervisors of
apprentice training have little incentive to assume this additional
responsibility, and are given no apparent preparation for their role
as trainers;
(4) Existing sea-training record books are overly theoretical instead of
being task-oriented, and span a range of subject areas impossible to
address in the prescribed apprenticeship duration; the tendency is
for record books to be signed-up whether or not the training has
taken place;



ANNEX 4Q6i
-124 -                         Page 2 of 7
(e) Bonding arrangements between the school, shipowner and apprentice are
rare, despite the requiremonts of Republic Act 844, and fall to bind
the apprentice to inter-island service after he becomes a licensed
officer; and
(f) Excess supply from the proliferation of maritime institutes, and
resulting strong competition for available apprenticeship berths,
compels candidates for mandatory apprenticeship training to accept
*V'!cs from companies without assurances that required training will
be provided.
SuuRlv ad Demand
4.       As best as can be ascertained from available data, which are
fragmentary and uncoordinated, the broad composition of the inter-island
domestic fleet is as follows:
Ratio of
No. of    Officers/ratings    Total officers/
vessels   by ship category     ratings ratio
Passenger/container           300           8 : 24          2,400 :  7,200
Tankers                        60           8 : 27             480 :  1,620
General cargo               1,300           6 : 18           7,800 : 23,400
Barges and tugs               300           4 : 12           1,200 :  3,600
TOTAL                                             11.800 :  3_600
The distribution of officers by category of specializaiton is approximately:
6,500 deck officers; 5,800 engineering officers; and 80 radio officers.
5.       Annual officer wastage rates (including losses to foreign flag
carriers) are not commonly maintained by shipping companies. Based on
enrollment and graduation data, it is estimated that the number of successful
associates available for placement in apprenticeship programs each year would
total about 5,800 against the annual inter-island fleet demand for 1,560.
Oblectivea
6.        The reform and strengthening of the national system for inservice
sea training will aim to:
(a) Improve the quality and relevance of sea training through more
systematic programs of supervised instruction and practice;
(b) Coordinate the supply of, and demand for, eligible candidates for
available inter-island apprenticeship opportunities; and



- 125 -ARM  4.
Page 3 of 7
(c) Reduce the high wastage rate of junior officers from the inter-
island subsector.
Cogrdination
7.        A Ship Training Foundation (STF) would be fosrmed under the
Philippines Inter-Island Shipowners Association (PISA) to coordinate, guide
and monitor the maritime apprenticeship program. STF membership would
represent the following subsector agencies:
-   DECS;
-   The Maritime Industry Authority (MARINA);
-   PISA;
United Petroleum Tanker Owners of the Philippines (UPTOP);
-   The Conference of Inter-Island Shipovners and Operators (CISO);
-   The Lighterage Association of the Philippines (LAP);
-   The Philippine Association of Maritime Institute (PAMI);
-   National Manpower and Youth Council (NMYC);
-   The Board of Examination for Deck and Engineering Officers (PRC);
-   The National Telecommunication Commission (NTC).
Scope
8.        The terms of reference of the STF would broadly cover, but not
necessarily be limited to, the folloiwng activities:
(a) Assisting maritime institutes to establish formal linkages with
inter-island shipowners/operators aimed at achieving more systematic
placement of apprentices, and monitoring and recording of shipboard
training.
(b) Coordinating, regulating, and guiding the placement of apprentices
from linked schools, to facilitate an equitable distribution of
maritime graduates among shipowners based on forecast needs, and
between the domestic fleet and foreign flag carriers.
(c) Establishing criteria for the selection of candidates for available
apprenticeship places, and monitoring the selection process.
(d) Preparing recommendations for the design and application of a
uniform system of bonding involving the institute, the apprentice,
and the shipowner.



- 126 -06
Pap 4 of 7
(e)  Forting an inter-agency working group to review and revise
respective Apprenticeship Record Books (nautical, engineering, and
radio), emphasizing the relevance of training content, and practical
application to prescribed school curricula.
(f) Preparation of training implementation guidelLnes for ships officers
designated as apprentice training supervisors.
(g)  Conducting an accredited, mandatory, training program designod to
prepare designated ships officers for their role as training
supervisors.
(h) Providing selective financial assistance to support inservice
training.
(i) Organizing tracer studies of the employment of apprentieeship
graduates to determine, for example, compliance with bonding
requirements; time spent as nonlicensed officers; retention time
within the inter-island shipping subsector; and the continued
relevance of the apprenticeship training content. Tracer study
findings would be disseminated beyond the Immediate membership of
the STF.
(j) Endorsing certificates of service issued by shipping companies to
apprenticeship graduates, as authentication that training has been
satisfactorily completed.
(k) Establishing a subsector computerized in-service (including
apprenticeship) manpower and training data base.
9.       The Foundation's program would be supported from the earning  of a
central fund, administered by DBP. With seed capital provided from bilateral
sources under the IR, the fund would be developed to provide to participating
bodies for training technical assistance purposes as agreed/approved by DBP.
10.      Training technical assistance would be required primarily to belp:
(a) establish the STF secretariat; (b) define operating procedures and an
inLtial work program for approval by the Board of Trustees of the STF;
(c) train the cadre of trainers; and (d) design and implement the training
program for apprentice training supervisors. The Philippines is not short of
professional maritime training expertise. Technical assistance for training
therefore would be mainly complemented by external maritime training
specialists.
11.       Cost of TraLning Program. The following annual estimates for 1991-
93 are cost figures in US$:
(a) Training Organizer/Coordinator: Training experts on assignment:
for 3 years, salary and benefits
$180,000 per year x 3 - $540,000



- 127 -                        AlEM    4.-  6
Page 5 of 7
(b) Training specialists: $250,000 for 3 years
(c) Overseas Training: $190,000 per year x 3 - $570,000
(d) Course materials, etc.: $60,000 per year x 3 - $180,000
5. TICAML. ASSIIANg
DblectiMs
12.      The breadth of the proposed subsectoral action program encompasses a
diversity of complex, but related, tasks. Within the proposed implementation
timeframe it would be difficult, If not impossible, for implementing agencies
including both governmental nad sectoral, to address the comprehensive action
plan without the support of a technical assistance program. The need for
reinforcement is accepted by the Department of Transportation and Comnunica-
tion (DOTC), and other potential implementing ag&ncles. A technical
assistance program will be established to provide continuity of support to
DIP, DOTC, and PISA.
13.       The major objectives of technical assistance services will be to
contribute to the timely and successful implementation of the subsector action
program and to develop the capabilities of implementing agency staff.
SCOne of Servics
14.      The consultants will be expected to perform the following services:
(a)  Ema.l.l. XMu  tk
(i) Develop a program to rationalize the proliferation of agencies
currently involved in the regulation of inter-island shipping
operations.
(il) Update all safety rules for application to all vessels.
(li) Establish systematic ship registry.
(iv) Develop a classification system covering ship safety, repair,
maintenance and operation for all vessels under the Philippine
registry.
(b) Coinuications. Advise on measures to improve and modernize
communication system between ship and shore, and between ships.



- 128 -                         AME    4.06
Page 6 of 7
(c) Safety
(i) Develop and implement an action program to accelerate
compliance with all current and proposed safety-related
recommendations and projects;
(ii) Organize and conduct joint safety seminars and workshops to
strengthen linkages between PCG, MARINA, and the Industry.
(d) Fleet Utilization
(i) Review shipping company schedules and operating costs to
determine how vessel utilization can be improved.
(ii) Develop systems and schedules for planned preventive ship
maintenance.
15.      A detailed work program is to be drawn up by the consultants and
agreed by the DBP. The implementing agencies will be required to assign on a
full-time basis, an adequate number of appropriately qualified staff, who will
be coached by the technical experts to take over, in due course, the services
and technical assistance tasks initiated and developed under the scope of
service. Technical assistance to shipping companies would be on a cost-
recovery basis.
16.       Coat of Technical Assistance
Expatriate consultants: for 3 years
Salary and benefits: $180,000/year x 3 - $540,000
C. TRAINN  AND-TENCAL ASSTSTANCR - TOTAL COSTS
17.       DBP would be the agency for allocating training and technical
assistance resources. The total estimated costs for training and technical
assistance for 1991-1993 amount to US$2.13 million as shown in the following
table (US$'000). These estimates are indicative figures.



ANX4. 06
129 -                         Pag 7 of 7
1991      1992      1993       Total
~- --(US$   000)              -X*@
Training
Training Specialists                  80.0      90.0       80.0     250.0
Overseas Training                    190.0     190.0      190.0     570.0
Course Materials, etc.                60.0      60.0       60.0     180.0
Training Organizer/Coordinator      180.0      L80.0        180.0   540.0
Subtotal                                                   1.540.0
Technical Assistance
Expatriate eonsultants               180.0     180.0      180.0     540.0
Secretarial & Misc. Local Cost          15.0      lS.O       1._ 42.0
TOTAL                                                      2,125.0



- 130 -                        AM    4.07
Page 1 of 5
MUDSTRI^^ ANZESTMCIR         PROJzCS
TRAINING AN TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN
THE SHIP REPAIR SUISECTOR
A.  TAIING
Backgon
1.        In the Philippines, there is currently no formal training system
specifieally designed for the shipbuilding and repair industry. Shipyards
have to train their employees for the special skills needed. The slowdown of
the economy during the early 1980. adversely affected the employment in the
shipbuilding and repair subsector. Many of the displaced workers as well as
managerial level employees were absorbed by the foreign market. With the
recent recovery of the economy, the industry is experiencing a steady growth
and the employment level is increasing. The envisaged modernization and
restructuring of the subsector will require that the existing fragmented and
inadequate approach to human resource development be improved.
2.        The Philippine ship building and repair subsector is concentrated
around the Manila and Cebu regions. There are about 115 licensed shipyards of
varying sizes. On average, maintenance and repair account for about
60 percent to 70 percent of total shipyard revenues; new vessel construction
for about 10 percent to 20 percent; and nonmarine work for about 20 percent.
3.        The sector's association, the Philippine Ship Builders and Repairers
(PHILSAR) currently has a membership of about fifty-four, covering over
90 percent of total yard capacity and about half of the employees. Prior to
the 1980s, there were about 21,000 workers in the subsector; in the early
1980s, the figure went down to around 6,000. Present employment is estimated
at about 11,000 and is steadily rising. It is estimated that in the next five
years, employment in the industry alone would increase at 10 percent to
15 percent annually.
4.        Given its archipelagic nature and strategic location, the
Philippines increasingly needs to rely on an efficient ship maintenance and
repair service industry not only to keep its infrastructure .,osts for the
inter-island transport system low, but also to become internationally
competitive so that it may cater to foreign clients in the Asia/Australia
region.
5.        Although, traditionally, the subsector relies on relatively labor-
intensive methodologies, it offers a potential training ground for vital and
up-to-date engineering and metal-working technologies. The skills learned in



- 131 -
AM 4.07
Page 2 of 5
the sector on an industrial scale and to exacting standards, will b. useful in
developing an enginerin  and metal workin industry in the country.
Obiectives of Eronoed% Trainin
6.       In view of tho rapid recovery and major changes ln t ehology and
sector development strategies that would occur under the proposed
restructuring program, a comprehensive approach towards training is needed.
This will inmolve training on a subsectoral level, i.e., as a joint program
for the entire shipbuilding and repair industry. The objectives of the
program will be to:
(a) upgrade the skills of managemnt and key technical personnel to cope
with the preparation and implementation of modernization and
expansion projects;
(b) improve management and technical skills at all levels to allow
efficient operations of modernized/expanded facilities; and
(c) improve labor productivity through systematic training.
Scooe and Contents of Training Program
7.       The training program would comprise:
(a) training abroad, e.g., at technical institutes/universities or
shipyards;
(b) local courses taught by oxpatriate experts;
(c) local courses taught by local specialists; and
(d) training of job instructors by expatriate trainers initially, and
later by experienced workers, educated as trainers.
8.       The need for the following types of training programs has beon
identified:
(a) welding;
(b) thermal bonding;
(c) repair and rehabilitation of
marine engines and auxiliaries;
(d) aluminum fabrication;
(e) fiberglass fabrication;
(f) ship fitting;
(g) pipe fitting;
(h) electrical installation;
(i) carpentry;
(j) hull design;
(k) marine engineering;
(1) managerial skills; and



- 132 -
Page 3 of 5
(m) computer applications.
Implementation of Training Program
9.        PHIISAR would be the forum where training activities would be
planned and executed. A training subcommittee within PHILSAR would be
established. An experienced expatriate trainer would be appointed to assist
PHILSAR to (a) assess the detailed training needs of each shipyard;
(b) develop a sectoral scheme for education and training for the industry as a
whole; and (c) organize, conduct and coordinate the training program.
10.       It is envisaged that three training centers would be
organized/designated in Manila, Batangas and Cebu. These centers will be
managed by PHILSAR or by a nonprofit organization (foundation) including
representatives for organizations such as DTI, PHILSAR, DECS, MARINA, and
NMYC. These centers will provide skills tialning in ship building and repair
for existing shipyard personnel and for others (out of school youth, trade
school graduates, etc.). The centers would also arrange for expatriate
consultants or experts to conduct training in shipyards as deemed necessary
and to send trainees abroad for further training or to observe latest trends
in technology and/or training programs which may be applicable to the
Philippines.
11.       Funds from bilateral agencies will be provided, with DBP as the
administrator to support the development and execution of the training
prograns. However, participating companies would cover the costs of the
training through appropriate fees. In this way, the initial funding would be
replenished allowing the training program to become self-sustaining.
12.       Cost of Training Programs.  The following annual estimates for 1991-
1993 are cost figures in US$:
(a) Training Orgaimer/Cogrdinator
Salary and benefits: $180,000/year x 3 - $540,000
(b) Training specialists: $250,000 for 3 years
(c) Overseas Training: $190,000/year x 3 - $570,000
(d) Course Materials, etc.: $60,000/year x 3 - $180,000
B.TEHI    ASSAC
Objgctives
13.       The technical assistance program shall cater to shipyards executing
major rehabilitation projects or large scale expansion. It will help develop
the technical, economic and managerial skills for the preparation of



- 133 -                        AM    4,07
Page 4 of 5
feasibility studies, monitoring and supervision of the engineering
construction, commissioning and initial operation of upgraded or new
facilities. Technical assistance will also be given to assist shipyards
develop more aggressive marketing strategies and programs for obtaining
maintenance and repair contracts at home and abroad.
Imnlemejtation of Technical Assistance
14.       DBP would act as executing agency for the technical assistance
program. Part time expatriate consultants would be appointed with the support
of local staff and consultants. Companies availing of the assistance will
cover the costs.
15.       Cost of Technical Assistance Program in (US$)
(a) Expatriate consultants: $120,000/year x 3 - $360,000
(b) Assistance for marketing developmet: $40,000/year x 3 - $120,000
(c) Local staff and consultants: $20,000/year x 3 - $60,000
C. TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - TOTAL COS
16.       DBP would be the agency for allocating training and  technical
assistance resources. The total estimated costs for training and technical
assistance for 1991-1993 amount to $2.13 million as shown in the following
table. These estimates are indicative figures.



- 134 -
Page 5 of 5
1991      1992      1993      Total
-.....-.-.---(US$ '000) -
Training Specialists                   80.0     90.0        80.0     250.0
Overseas Training                     190.0    190.0       190.0     570.0
Course Materials, etc.                 60.0     60.0        60.0     180.0
Training Organizer/Coordinator        180.0    180.0    180.0    540.0
Subtotal                                                    1.540.0
technical Assac
Expatriate consultants                120.0     120.0     120.0      360.0
Assistance for marketing
development                          40.0      40.0      40.0      120.0
Local consultants/staff                20.0      20.0       20.0      60.0
Subtotal                                                      540
Secretarial and Kisc. Local Cost         15.0      15.0       15.0      45.0
TOTAL                                                       2,125.0



- 135 -                       ^SE2 4.08
Page 1 of 3
TRCUUIC&L ASITRITO MEP AND MM1
on UNV , W i
Backgroun
1.      The Environmental Management Bureau (DMI) of the Department of
Environment and Natural Resources (DEUR) is Inadequately staffed and equipped
to monitor industrial emissions and effluents, enforce the existing
enwironmental standards, and assess the pollution of proposed now plants and
major expansions of present facilities. As for the Development Bank of the
Philippines (DBP), it is not equipped to assist industrialists in designing
appropriate pollution control facilities to be included as integral parts of
investment projects or to review and ass0ss the potential environmental
consequences of major programs that it may finance. To ensure that
subprojects financed under the Industrial Restructuring Project (IRP) are
environmentally sound, technical assistance (TA) would be provided to both ENB
and DBP so that loan applications can be adequately reviewed and environmental
compliance assured.
Obiectivea
2.      The objectives of the TA to DMB would be to (a) enable subsector
environmental planning to take place; (b) allow routine appraisal of
integrated pollution control facilities; and (c) transfer the needed
environmental technology so that the process can be continued upon completion
of the IRP. The objectives of the TA to DsP would be to develop a mechanism
to assure that environmental protection, through sound process design and the
inclusion of appropriate pollution abatement equipment, will be an integral
part of funded projects in all subsectors.
Scone and Content of TA
3.      iln. The technical specialists will assist MMS to:
(a) plan an eawironmental audit program for the cement, pulp and paper,
textile and shipping and ship repair industrial subsectors;
(b) identify specialized needs requiring the use of short-term
consultants in environrentcl auditing and in proposed project
appraisal efforts;
(c) conduct environmental audits of industrial facilities within each of
the five selected subsectors using MM and local consultants as
needed;



ANNME A.08
- 136 -                       Page 2 of 3
(d) develop plans/strategies for improving pollution control in existing
plants and facilities for each subsector with particular emphasis on
the issues and actions identified in the respective action programs,
and agree on implementation schedules with the subsectors so as to
achieve compliance with environmental standards by certain target
dates;
(e) evaluate the capabilities of local laboratories and arrange for
sample analyses as needed;
(f) prepare an industrial environmental data base;
(g) prepare a generic pollution control plan with guidelines for each
industrial subsector for use in the approval process of subsector
investment projects with respect to assuring environmental quality;
(h) develop recommended monitoring programs for the five subsectors; and
(i) provide on-the-job training for EMB counterparts.
4.      PM. The technical specialists will help DBP to:
(a) review environmental audit data and findings of ElB;
(b) assist loan applicants in preparing process conceptual designs and
environmental control conceptual designs;
(c) enlighten industry's management and pollution control officers on the
benefits of waste minimization and environmental control through
private meetings, seminars, or through participation in management
staff or production meetings;
(d) review project description documents prepared by loan applicants for
completeness prior to submission to EIIS;
(e) assist loan applicants in the regulatory review process;
(f) identify needs for specialized short-term consultants in preparation
or review of DBP and EMB submissions;
(g) review final designs and equipment specifications for process and
environmental control facilities;
(h) review and evaluate construction and equipment bids for process and
environmental control projects; and
(i) provide on-the-job training for DBP counterparts.



ANNMEX 4,0,8
- 137 -                         Page 3 of 3
Implementation of TA
5.       Funding for the TA is expected to be provided by the bilateral
agencies in the form of grants and DBP will administer the funds.
6.       It is envisaged that one expatriate specialist will be assigned to
ENS and one to DBP for a period of two years. Their work will be supplemented
by full-time local consultants as well as foreign consultants on a temporary
basis to deal with specialized problems.
Cost of TA
7.       The following estimates for a two-year period (total of US$2.3 mil-
lion) are indicative figures:
IISS 00O
Full-time Expatriates (Salary, Benefits:
$180,000 x 2 x 2 years                                720
Temporary Expatriate Consultants
24 person months @ $15,000/mo                         360
Local Consultants (Salary, Benefits:
$30,000 x 4 x 2 years)                                240
Overseas Training                                               100
Travel Expenses                                                 100
Monitoring and Analytical Instruments and Equipment             700
Technical Literature                                             50
Secretarial and other miscellaneous expenses                     30
Total                                               2.300



- 138 -
AMDG 4-09
Page 1 of 3
THE PHILxInS
BMUSTRIA RRSRCTUR           PRJCT
EwMriaLsa2L
1.  Bank S5uprviso dOIr_ t:  The staff input indicated in the table below
is in addition to regular supervision needs for the review of progress
reports, subloans above the free liidt, correspondence etc. estimated
at ten staff-weeks during the first project year, six staff-weeks
during the two following project years, and three staff-weeks per year
thereafter.
Skill               Staff
^;proximate Dates       ActivitEy                            lnnrt                    b
February 1991                                               Fugrinaion  nissLon cial Analysis  8
-Expedite start-up                  Industrial Economics
-Review: implementation of          Environmental Specialist
organizational arrangements;
marketing of program; DBP's
1990 performance and 1991 work plan.
-Provide direction to consultants
for TTA.
-Privatization of DBP
May 1991                Supervision Missio                  Financial Analysis         6
--Review: implementation            Industrial Economics
of training programs; perfor mace
of PI's; progress on Action Program.
-Verify adherence to Operating
Policy Guidelines of Project
and DBP's Policy Statement.
October 1991                                                FInarvision  nI&so  Finacial Analysis  6
-Review progress on subloan         Industrial Econodmis
commitments and disbursem_nts      Environmental Specialist
-Review implementation of Action
Program.
-Privatization of DBP.
February 1992           IMEvsion Mission
Review: DBP's 1991 performance      Financial Analysis         3
and 1992 work plan; subloan         Industrial Economics



ANNEX 4.09
139-                     Page 2 of 3
commitments and disbursements;
implementation of Action Program.
September 1992          Supervision Mission                 Financial Analysis         2
Environmental Specialist
1993          2 Supervision Missions              Financial Analysis         2
Industrial Economics
1994          2 Supervision Missions              Financial Analysis         2
Industrial Economics
1995          1 Supervision Mission               Financial Analysis         1
Industrial Economics
June      1996          1 Supervision Mission.              Financial Analysis         2
Industrial Economist
2.  Borrower's Contribution to Supervisio:
(a)  During project implementation, DBP will provide the Bank with the
following information inter alia, periodically at the agreed dates:
- Operational and Financial Performance of DBP.
- Operational and Financial Performance of PPIs.
- Lending operations:  Comuitments and Disbursemaents by
 Financial intermediary (PFI)
. Type of financial instrument
. Size of Operation
. Industrial Subsector
-  Subproject performance
. Financing composition of subprojects
. Subproject costs and items financed through the loan
. Employment impact
. Sales
. Foreign exchange generation
. Company profits
. Implementation delays



ANNEX 4.39
-140 -                       Page 3 of 3
- Training and Technical Assistance Program
. Progress report on consultant assistance to DBP, EBO and the subsectors.
subsectors.
- Policy Actions
. Progress report on policy measures taken by the Government.
(b)   DBP will be responsible for coordinating arrangements  for Bank
supervision missions, and for providing information required by missions.
(c) Mission briefing meetings on arrival will normally be chaired by the
Chairman of DBP. Mission wrap-up meetings will normally be chaired by the
Chairman of DBP with the participation of an UnderSecretary from Department
of Finance, an UnderSecretary from the Department of Trade and Industry,
the head of EMB and representatives of the PFIs.



- 141 -
ANNEX 5.01
PHILIPPINES
INDUSTRIAL RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.    DBP Annual Reports.
2.    DBP Institutional Development Plan, September 1990.
3.    Project Completion Report on the Philippines industrial Finance Project
(Loan No.M1984-PH), March 1989.
4.    Central Bank of the Philippines, Annual Report, 1989.
5.    Philippines - Environmental Investigation and Evaluation (J.H.
Tomlinson, P.E., July 1990).
6.    Textile Subsector Review (Gherzi Textile Organization, July 1990).
7.    Industrial Restructuring Program of the Philippines:  Action list,
Background Information on the Philippine Economy, and Supplementary
Information for Consultants (Development Bank of the Philippines,
March 1989).
8.    Subsector Study on Inter-Island Shipping/Ship Repair (Barlindhaug Og
Fuglum Als, Norway, January 1990).
9.    The Philippines Pulp and Paper Sector Restructuring Program (Jaakko
Poyry, March 1990).
10.   The Cement Subsector (Austroplan, July 1990).
11.   Cement Subsector Study (ONODA Engineering and Consulting Co., Ltd.,
March 1990).



