Page  1
                             March 17, 1992
The Chairman
Development Bank of the Philip pin.
Sen. Gil Puyat Avenue Corner
Makati Avenue
Makati, Metro Manila
Republic of the Philippines
Secretary of Finance
Department of Finance
Manila
Republic of the Philippines
Dear Sirs:
                            Re:  Loan No. 3287-PH
                                 Industrial Restructuring Loan
                                 Amendment of the Loan Agreement
         We refer to the Loan Agreement (Industrial Restructuring
Project), dated January 23, 1991, between the International Bank
for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Development Bank
of the Philippines (the Borrower). We also refer to the letter
dated March 16, 1992, from the Development Bank of the
Philippines, requesting the Bank to amend the Loan Agreement to
reflect the co-financing agreements (Co-financing Agreements)
entered or to be entered into between the Borrower and the various
banks and financial institutions (Co-financiers) under the Bank's
Export Credit Enhanced Leverage Program (EXCEL) Facility and to
incorporate an optional cross-default clause in respect of the
Co-financing Agreements.
         The Bank is pleased to inform you that, pursuant to the
above request, it hereby agrees to amend the Loan Agreement as set
out in the Attachment hereto.
         Please would each of you confirm the agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and the Guarantor to the foregoing amendment by
signing and dating the confirmation form on the enclosed copies of
this letter and returning one such letter to us for our record.
This amendment will become effective as of the date of this letter
upon receipt of both such confirmations by us.
                                                Sincerely,
                                             Callisto Madavo
                                                 Director
                                         East Asia and Pacific
Region
CONFIRMED BY:
DEVELOPMENT BANK OF PHILIPPINES
By:                                                   Date: March
26, 1992
     Authorized Representative
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES AS GUARANTOR
By:                                                   Date: April
24, 1992
     Authorized Representative
Page  2
                                                        ATTACHMENT
                                                      LOAN 3287-PH
1.        In the Recitals to the Loan Agreement, the existing
Recital "(B)" is relettered "(C)" and the following new Recital
(B) added prior thereto:
      "(B)  the Borrower has concluded or intends to conclude
      agreements with various banks and financial institutions under
      the Export Credit Enhanced Leverage Facility  (EXCEL)  for
      loans up to an aggregate amount of approximately $75,000,000
      equivalent (Co-financed Loans) for the purpose of financing
      the Project;"
2.    Section 5.01 of the Loan Agreement is substituted with the
following:
      "     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the
      General Conditions, the following additional events are
      specified:
      (a)  the Charter or the Statement of Policy shall have been
      amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to
      effect materially and adversely the operations or the
      financial condition of the Borrower or its ability to carry
      out the Project or to perform any of its obligations under
      this Agreement;
      (b)  a change shall have been made in the Operating Policy
      Guidelines without the Bank's consent; and
      (c)  that (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                  (A)    the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                  proceeds of any of the Co-financed Loans made to
                  the Borrower for the financing of the Program
                  shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated
                  in whole or in part, pursuant to  the terms of
                  the agreement providing therefor, or
                  (B)  any of the Co-financed Loans shall have
                  become due and payable prior to the agreed
                  maturity thereof.
            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
            if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
            Bank that such suspension, cancellation, termination or
            prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower
            to perform any of its obligations under such agreement."
