FILE Copy
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 148a-UAR
APPRAISAL OF A
DFC PROJECT
BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
May 30, 1973
Development Finance Companies Division
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.






ABBREVIATIONS
BOA            -          Bank of Alexandria
IBE            -          Industrial Bank of Egypt
SSPIS          -          Special Services to Private
Industrial Sector
GOIndr         -          General Organization for Industrialization
CBE            -          OentraL Bank of Egypt






ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
APPRAISAL OF A FIRST PROJECT TO ASSIST
BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA                                                        i.- ii
SIUMMARY                                                       iii - iv
I.  INTRODUCTION                                                    1
II.  BOA's ENVIRONMENT                                               1
Economic Environment and Recent Economic Performance         1
Economic Planning and Policy Orientation                      2
Institutional Aspects; The General Organization for
Industrialization                    3
Industrial Trends                                            3
Industrial Finance                                           4
Financial Environment and BOA's Role as a Mixed Bank          4
Cost of Credit in Egypt                                      6
III.  THE COMPANY - ORGANIZATION, POLICIES AND PROCEDURES             7
A. Bank of Alexandria as a Whole                              7
Background of Establishment, Legal Status and
Ownership                                               7
Organization                                             7
Board of Directors and Management                        7
Staff                                                    8
Functions and Procedures                                  8
Supervisi4n by The Central Bank                          8
Audit                                                    9
B. IBE's Merger With BOA                                      9
C. SSPIS -- BOA's New Development Banking Unit               10
Organization, Policies & Procedures                      10
Management and Staff                                      11
Training
Project Appraisal                                        11
Project Supervision                                      12
BOA's Disbursement Procedures                            12
Procurement and Import Licenses                          12



-2-
Page No.
IV. RESOURCES, OPERATIONS, FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE                     13
AND POSITION
Resource Position                                             13
Equity                                                        13
Deposits                                                      1
Other Resources                                               4
Characteristics of BOA's Commercial Banking Activities        14
Term Lending Operations                                       15
Evaluation of Loan and Equity Portfolio                       15
BOA as a Whole                                            15
Quality of Short-Term Operational Portfolio              15
Quality of Term Loan Portfolio                            16
Financial Performance and Position                            16
Earnings Record                                           16
Financial Position_                                      16
Implicatior of BOA being a Mixed Bank                         17
V.  BOAtS PROSPECTS                                                 19
The General Setting and Industrial Investment
Perspective                                                  19
BOA's Business Outlook; Commercial Banking Activities         19
Term Lending                                                  19
Projected Profitability and Financial Position                20
VI.  THE IDA CREDIT                                                  22
The Amount of the Credit and its Use                          22
Terms of the Credit to the Government and to BOA              22
VII.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS                                 23
Conclusions                                                   23
Recommendations                                               23



LIST OF ANNEXES
1.   Decision-Making Process for Industrial Investment
2.   Exports of Industrial Private Sector
3.   Organization Chart and Organizational Structure - BOA
4.   Board of Directors - BOA
5.   Highlights of Internal Policies and Procedures for
Commercial Banking - BOA
6.   Balance Sheet as of October 1, 1971 - Former IBE
7.   Organization and Procedures - SSPIS
8.   Policy Statement - SSPIS
9.   Trend of Deposits - BQA
10.   Characteristics of Commercial Banking Activities - BOA
11.  Audited Income Statements, 1969-1972 - BOA
12.   Ratio Analysis, 1969-1972 - BQA
13.   Audited Balance Sheets, June 30, 1969-December 31, 1972 - BOA
1h.   Liquidity and Reserve Requirements in Egypt; BOA's Liquidity Position
15.   Major Assumptions for 5-year Financial Projections - BOA and SSPIS
16.   Projected Income Statements and Ratio Analysis - BOA as a whole
17.   Projected Balance Sheets - BOA as a whole
18.   Projected Cash Flow Statements - BOA as a whole
19.   Notional Projected Income Statements - SSPIS
20.   Estimated Disbursement Schedule for Proposed Credit






BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
Basic Data
1. Year of Establishment:    1957.
2. Other Significant Dates:
1864                      Anglo Egyptian Bank established in London to
expand its activity in Egypt.
1925                      Anglo Egyptian Bank merged with other British
banks into Barclays Bank DCO.
1956                       Sequestration of Barclays Bank DCO, Egypt.
April 16, 1957             Establishment of Bank of Alexandria.
April 17, 1957             Barclays Bank DCO taken over by Bank of Alexandria.
July 1961                  Nationalization of all banks in Egypt.
October 1963              Merger of the Import and Export Bank and Banque
du Nile with Bank of Alexandria.
October 1, 1971           Merger of the Industrial Bank of Egypt and the
Savings Bank of Monsoura with the Bank of
Alexandria.
3.  Ownership:                 (December 31, 1971)
Paid-in share capital of LE 3.0 million (1.5
million shares with a nominal value of LE 2 per
share) fully owned by the Central Bank of Egypt.
. Bank Group Financing:       None.
5. Financial Performance:
a.  Financial Position (1968-1971 as of June 30; 1972 as of December 31)
(x LE '000 million)
1968     1969     1970      1971     1972
Total assets                        169.1    176.3    190.4    183.0    264.9
of which:
commercial loan portfolio           61.5     61.6      63.8     71.7    161.8
term loan portfolio                  -         -        -          -      10.6
equity portfolio                     0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1       0.1
Net worth as stated in balance sheet 5.0        5.1      5.4       5.7      7.4
Long-term debt                        -         -        -         -        3.5



b.   Financial Results (in %)
(x ZEIE'OO)
1968     1969     1970      1971     1972
Earnings before interest,
provisions and tax as % of
average total assets              2.9       3.3      3.4      3.4       3.9
Profit before tax as % of
average equity                   50.8     54.0      59.6     56.4      53.0
Administrative costs as % of
average total assets              1.1       1.2      1.2      1.1       1.2
Stated reserves as % of
year-end operational
loan portfolio (short-
and long-term) and
discounts outstanding             6.1      6.1       6.6      5.3       4.6
Book value as % of par            238      259       270      287       247



iii
ARAB RE'UBLIC OF BaYPT
APPRAISAL OF BANK CF AIWDRIA
SUMMARY
i.        The Egyptian Government requested in 1970 Bank Group finance for
the Indastrial Bank of Egypt (IBE). Shortly thereafter IBE was merged with
the Bank of Alexandria (BOA) as part of a reorganization of Egypt's banks.
This step was undertaken because IBE had proved weak. BOA provides exclus-
ively, commercial banking and term financing to industry of Egypt. It is
the intended recipient of the proposed credit.
ii.       Egyptian industry includes a large textile sector and more recently
developed steel, engineering and chemicals plants. Most industry has been
nationalized since the early 1960's. More recently the Government has
encouraged private enterprise to re-enter manufacturing. Industry has
maintained a steady output under very adverse conditions in recent years,
characterized by acute foreign exchange stringencies. Imported equipment
and goods are extremely scarce.
iii.      Prospects for industrial growth are reasonably favorable provided
foreign equipment were more readily available. BOA is intended to be the
principal source of term finance to the private sector. BOA is a well
nanaged and competent commercial bank. Some training will be needed however
to improve term financing capabilities and BOA is seeking the Bank Group's help.
iv.       BOA has a good financial position and portfolio.  Once BOA obtains
the necessary resources to finance asoe imports, it could help to pramote a
fairly substantial growth of private sector industry. The Gavernment will
contiime to finance most of the public sector industry investments directly,
though BOA will have a complementary role.
v.        The centralized planning system for industry relies essentially on
administrative decisions for the allocation of resources. Interest rates
have no real allocative function in the public sector and are low.
Nevertheless, IDA resources would be lent to ultimate beneficiaries at an
effective cost of 9i% p.a., excluding charges.
vi.       BOA would be a first time recipient of Bank Group financee  Its
financial position, business outlook, and the indications that it will develop
into an effective term finance institution, make BOA a suitable and credit-
worthy recipient of such support. An IDA credits to be relent to BQA, in an
amount of $15 million is recammended.  It would help BQA carry projected
foreign exchange commitments through 1974.
vii.      The proposed IDA credit would be lent to Egypt on standard terms*
It would be relent to BOA at an effective cost of 7% p.a., for up to 1? years.
IDA would enter into a project agreement with BOA. A "free limit" would be
set at $100,000 and the "aggregate free limit" at $4 million.



iv
viii.    BOA wmld stipulate that in using short-term resourcea for long-
term lending it winl pay dae attention to maintaining a suand liquidity
position. BOA would also undertake to consult with the Association it. DO&s
term portfolio equals six times its not worth, with a view to reaching
understanding on any needed additions to BOA's equity base.
ix.      BOA has agreed to lend the proceeds of the credit in such a way
that at least half of the creditflnancee private sector projects and to
spread the credit over a relatively large number of medium and small size
projects.



ARAB RUBLIC OF B3YPT
APPRAISAL OF
BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
I. INTRaDucTION
1.01      In September 1970, the Egyptian Government requested Bank Group
finance for the Industrial Bank of Egypt (IBE). During the subsequent
reorganization of the domestic banking system IBE was merged, in October 1971,
with the Bank of Alexandria (BOA). The latter became the largest commercial
bank in Fgypt. Under the now banking system, BOA is to operate as the only
"mixed" bank in the country; e.g., providing, in addition to coonnrcial
credit, term-financing for productive enterprises primarily in the private
sector and, to a limited extent, in the public sector. In late 1971 the
Government renewed its request for Bank Group finance for BOA. This report
appraises BOA for a first line of credit from the Association to be used
for term-financing of productive enterprises.
1.02      Other industrial projects which IDA is presently considering finan-
cing: are the first phase of a rehabilitation program for the cotton ginning
industry, which has been appraised; a fertilizer project and possibly a
cement project.
1.03      This report is based on the findings of visits to Egypt by
Mr. S. Ahmed (Consultant) in July 1971, by Messrs. PolLan and Piek (IBRD)
in January 1972, by Messrs. Pollan, Piek, El Fishawy, Chanmugan and Pottker
(IERD) in November/becember 1972 and by Messrs. Piek, Chamugan and Haji (IFC)
in March 1973.
II. BOA'S ENVIRONMENT
2.01      Economic Eivironment and Recent Economic Performance . A review of
Egypt's econony may be found in a report entitled "Current Economic Position
and Prospects of the Arab Republic of Egypt" (EMA-56a), distributed to the
Executive Directors under R73-16 on January 23, 1973.
2.02      Egypt's GNP at current market prices was $210 per capita in 1970/71:
among the lowest in the Mediterranean area. In 1960/66 the econqr achieved
a real growth of 6% annually, nearly reaching the ambitious Plan target of
7%. Following a severe balance of payments crisis in 1966, the 1967 war, and
rising defense spending (15% of GNP by 1969/70) there was a serious setback



in economic development. However, after 1968 the economW recovered: GDP
growth in 1969/71 averaged about X  annually, partly helped by aid from
other Arab coantries. Nevertheless, Erpt's balance of payments situation
renains a critical constrainte In 1971/72 the current accounts deficit
reached HE 106 moLlion. At December 31, 1972 Erpt's short-term foreign
exchange liabiJities exceeded foreign exchange assets by &E 245 million.
The continu.ing scarcity of convertible exchange has resulted in seere
shortages of spare parts. Altogether, there was a low level of investment --
in recent years, only 12% of GDP.
2.03      Economic Planning and Polic  Orientation.  In the past decade,
Egypt's econc; was transformed from a predoM y private enterprise
econo-qy to a centrally-controlled system with largely Government-owned
enterprises. Market forces have in the main been displaced by direct con-
trols. The emphasis on central planning is likely to contime. A Five-Year
(1973-77) Plan is currently under discussion in the Government. Reportedly
the new Plan calls for arnnal investments in public sector industry of about
ME 190-220 million -- roughly one-third of proposed tatal investments,
about the same proportion as in the past decade.
2.04      The various nationalization laws included provisions for curpensation
for the nationalized properties. In the case of foreign properties, most
of the claims had been settled by the end of 1969. Egyptian natiornals were
compensated in most cases in the form of Government bonds.
2.05      Since the nationalization of all major industrial units and banks
in the early sixties, public sector industry has dominated industrial
activity accounting now for about 75% of the value of industrial output.
Nationalizations of enterprises occurred ad hoc until 1967 bat not since
then.
2.06      There are no clear-cut sectoral demarcations between State and
private industries. Private enterprises mainly consist of small-scale
industrial units and artisan-type activities: but there are also a
sizeable mnber of firms with 200-300 workers, particularly in textiles.
The private sector is strong in woodworking and leather industries. It
also accounts for about 20-25% of the output in the textile, food, chemical
and engineering industries.
2.07      The Government has recently made statements that there will be
no further nationalization or sequestration of existing private enterprises,
and that it intends to give the private sector "broader scope" for develop-
ment. Early last May the newly-formed Government announced its plans to
create a promotional center for private sector industry. Also the recently
established Arab International Bank for Trade and Development, and the
establishment of free trade zones are designed to encourage foreign private
investment in Egypt. Furthermore, private business representatives and
Government officials expect that existing impediments on private initiative
will be gradually reduced.



- 3 -
2.08 Institttional Aspects the General Organization for Industrialization 1/
In Egypt, over 50 "General Organizations" control, under the supervision
of the respective ministries, operations and investment decisions of public
sector enterprises. As to industry, decision-making is centralized in
the General Organization for Indastrialization (GOIndr) chaired by the
Minister of Indlustry. All public sector industrial investments, and all
private sector investments exceeding LE 8,000, are subject to GOIndr's
approval. The depth of GOIndr's appraisal seems to differ greatly between
public and private investment projects. For the latter, GOIndr's involve-
ment appears limited basically to a check on the consistency of a private
entrepreneur's investment project with governmental allocations of imported,
or scarce domestic, industrial production materials.
2.09      GOIndr appears to have competent leadership and its staff guide-
lines for appraising public sector investment projects are comprehensive.
They cover most of the topics, including economic considerations, relevant
to a judgment on the soundness of each investment proposal. But the Bank
Group has only a scant knowledge of how GOIndr Is final decisions are made.
2.10      Industrial Trends. Accelerated industrialization is a major
objective of the Government since the mid-1950's. In Egypt's first Industri-
alization Plan (1957) the Goverrment took upon itself to establish resource-
based industries such as iron and steel and petroleum extraction. Investments
for import substitution were often not aimed at achieving optiimz prodLctivity.
In the past three years, industrial development became more capital intensive,
focussing on iron and steel, oil extraction and some chemicals -- altogether
about 70% of industrial public sector investment. Annual industrial invest-
ment hovered recently around ME 125 million with more than 90% going to the
Public sector.
2.11      Since the 1960's, value added in industry rose at an average
annual rate of about 6% in real terms. In the past three years, this rate
was nearly 10%. The share of industry in GDP was 23% in 1971. The recent
emphasis on heavy industry has not yet significantly changed the structure
of output.  Cotton yarn and textiles still account for 21%, and food
industries for 19% of the total; of the remaining 60%, the more recently
established resource-based industries take up 20%; iron-ore extraction and
iron-and-steel mamfacturing 10%; and engineering and electrical goods about
30%. Egyptian industry is heavily concentrated in the Cairo/Helvan area.
Substantial industrialization is projected near Aswan, mainly in
electricity-based industries.
2.12      Egypt's industrial capacity was at times considerably under-utilized.
Factors were the premature establishment of large units unable to produce
for export (e.g., steel) and shortages of imported raw material and spare parts.
1/   A review of the decision-making process in Egypt affecting industrial
invmestment and the related responsibilities of various public agencies
is given in Annex 1.



Shortages of local raw materials apparently were a lesser problem.
Capacity utilization appears to have improved in the past year or two,
parl,e  she to some easing of import restrictions.  But under-utilized
capacity persists, mainly in chemicals and in metal manxfacturing and
transforming indlstries.  Also, there has been a backlog of rehabilit-
ation and modernization, particularly in the private sector, because of
convert,ible foreign exchange shortages.
? 13        yt's exports of manufactures, I/ one-third in cotton yarn
and textiles, increased from BE 82.0 million to 6E 110.0 million in the
period 1968-71 -- accoanting for about 40% of total comuodity exports.
There have been slight increases in the share of exports of shoes,
beverages and read;y-mde wear. The only significant changes in the past
decade were the doubling of exports of petroleum products. Although
still relaively small, private sector exports of manufactures, as shown
in Annex 2,, increased by ovaer 50% in the past four years to ME 17.6 million
ir. 1971/72. Leather products, textiles and ready-made wear tcake the
largest share.
2.154     Industrial Finance. There are no well substantiated figures on
the sources iofindustrialnvestment financing.  In the public sector,  most
of the investments are financed by the enterprises themselves and by the
Treasury. Commercial banks., through renewals of overdrafts, play some role
however. The private sector seems, in recent years, to have relied largely
on self-generated funds, some term loans from the former IBE, and to a
lesser extent, on renewable bank overdrafts.
2.1 5     Public sector companies allocate, in addition to depreciation
allowances, on average about 20% of their net income to reserves.  It is not
clear from the available statistics to what extent reserves and depreciation
allowances are kept within the coMpanies, are transferred to general
organizations or to the central government. Resources transferred directly
to the State are pooled in a central Investment Fund for reallocation to
industry. In 1970/71 such transfers were about LE 50.0 million -- somewhat
less than half the public sector investments in indastry that year. They
came mainly from the textile, food and chemical industries.
2.16      Financial BErvironment and BOA's Role as a Mixed Bank. The Government
owns and conr        rough 7the Central Bank of Egypt (CBE), the commercial
banks in Egypt. But banks have a high degree of independence in their day-
to-day management. Credit expansion is closely controlled by the CBE. In the
past three years, despite a restrictive credit policy adopted by the CBE, bank
credit expanded at an annual rate of between 8 and 10%, with heavy Government
borrcwings absorbing most of the expansion. CBE's restrictive credit policy
made for a high liquidity of Fgypt's commercial banks: The actual aggregate
liquidity ratio is over 45%, compared with a minimum liquidity ratio of 30%,
set by the GBE.
1/  Excluding cr  ' si' and bleached rice.



- 5 -
2.17      In late 1971, the Government promulgated a law which reorganized
the domestic banking system. The law became effective in July 1972, and
reduced the number of commercial banks to four, assigning to each of them as
clients, general organizations and related public sector firms. Each bank
caters to firms with the same "basic economic function". Under the new
system BOA is responsible for the financing of "productive"' enterprises
(including industrial, agricultural processing and handicrafts).
2.18      The private sector, while left free to deal with any bank for
commercial facilities, must -- for industrial term borrowing -- deal with
BOA. Most private industry is expected to come anyway to BOA for comercial
facilities.  On July 1, 1972, following the transfer of the various accounts
among the banks, BOA's short-term operational portfolio (which now includes
the important textile sector) doubled to LE 186.o million and the net increase
in deposits was about BE 20.0 million.
2.19      Following the take-over of IBE, BOA operates as the only mixed bank
in Egypt. So far, CBE has not laid down any term financing regulations for
BOA in view of the relatively small share of term loans in BOAls portfolio; 1/
but it is expected to do so when BOA's term lending becomes more sizeable.
(See paragraph 4.16)
2Q20      GOIndr's predominant function in investment decisions and budgetary
financing of most public industrial investments will limit BOA's role in
financing investments in public sector industry.  The Government does not
intend to involve BOA either as an appraisor or as manager of special $unds
for public sector investments. The Government envisages on2ly "a complementary
role" for BOA, meaning that public sector firms, and the general organizations
supervising them,could approach BOA if the Government is unable to provide
needed investment funds.   Thus public sector firms with investment projects
already approved by GOIndr and put on the waiting list by the Treasury, can
choose betwrqn (i) applying to BOA for term-finance -- at an interest rate of
6.5% p.a., - and (ii) postponing the implementation of their projects until
finance becomes available from the Government. At present, Government foresees
BOA's involvement to remain marginal, say less than 5% of annual public sector
investments in industry. BOA itself wants, at first, to go slow in this field,
while it develops its term financing capabilities.
2.21      BOA can reject public sector firms' investment proposals if they do
not meet BOA's own investment criteria. But a rejection by BOA would not prevent
GOIndr from proceeding with a planned investment by having it financed from the
Treasury. However, GOlIdr has assured BOA that BOA will have the opportunity to
suggest changes in a public sector project submitted to it for term financing.
BOA's influence in the shaping of public sector projects is likely to develop
only gradually.
2.22      In the Private sector there is immediate scope for BOA to perform a
normal development banklng fu:nction. The general policy setting is improving.
1/  In the meantime, BOA has applied to CBE to obtain some of the privileges
which were granted to the former IBE; i.e.,(i) the right to float bonds,
(ii) a preferred right, over any other creditors, of seizure on term-loan
clients' assets in case of their liquidation and (iii) exemption from stamp
duties and registration fees.
2/ For local currency loans.



But BOA's effectiveness in this area will depend on its success in gaining
the confidence of private industrialists who remember nationalization. The
fact that BOA has succeeded in retaining a large degree of independence from
the Government, and the good reputation of BOA's management, augur well for
BOA's ability to attract private sector clients. Also, the prospect that BOA
will dispose over untied foreign exchange from an IDA credit is likely to
greatly facilitate this task.
2.23.     Cost of Credit in Egyp. Egyptian low prohibits individuals and
institutions trom charging interest in excess of 7% per annum.  EgyFptian
interest rates have remained unchanged over a long period of time. Banks
normally change between 6 and 7% per amnum (excluding banking charges of bet-
ween 0.5 and 1% per annum) for all credits except cotton financing, for which
there is a preferential rate of 5-A4%. Interest rates are 2-4% on time deposits
and  X  on regular savings accounts. Other savings instruments, e.g., various
govEnmeital savings cetIftcates, yield returns of 5% and ae exmpt bran income tax.
2.24      There are indications that an interest rate held at 7% underestimates
the real cost of capital in Egypt. Although prices are controlled, inflationary
pressures in the past few years appear to have been considerably in excess of
the officia,lg recorded rise in the consumer price index of about 3-4%
aImall,y.     on capital prarided in a form giving access to igorted goods
interest rates often exceed considerably the legal ceiling. 2/
2.25      Wile interest rate in Egypt are low, higher rates would not neces-
sarily lead to inproved resource allocation. In Egypt, interest rates do not
perfom the function nor are they considered tools of resource mobilization and
allocation.  in Egypt's centrally planned econozq, where maximizing returns
from scarce resources has played only a minor role in industrial investment,
decisions to adjust tae pricing system and the criteria for investment would
also be needed to brine abot improved allocation of resources by way of
market prices.  The autho-!.Ar,<  appear to have recognized the benefits of
reducing excessive Governmei  t;onrols.  Also, there is some awareness of
adverse effects on resource aLlocation from past price policies.
2.26      Foreign exchange continues to be a very scarce resource and since BOA
will be operatirg in both the publir^ and the private sector its interest rate
"iiould move in the direction of more f'l0LUy reflecting the real cost of its
resources. Therefore, the Egyptian Government and BOA have agreed. to take the
Bank's current Isnding rate as a basis for determining the costf c the proceeds
from the IDA credit to BOA's sub-borrowers.  On this basis, and allowing for a
reasonable spread, BOA would charge an effective cost of 9.5% per annim (ex-
cluding banking charges) on foreign exchange loans, (See also paragraph 6,05).
1/   According to a recently published study by a parliamentary committes,the
cost of living in the Cairo area went up by 12.5% in the period January-
December, 1972, with prices for such consumer goods as fruits, vegetables
and dress material having increased by 40%, 26% and 22% respectively0
2/   The CBE allows the banks to pass on to borrowers borrowing costs higher
than 7% on short- and medium-term funds borrowed abroad. In the case of
the proposed credit to BOA this practice cannot be followed since the
credit would be made available to BOA through the Government, which, of
course, is itself subject to the legal interest ceiling.



- 7 -
III.  THE COMPANY - ORGANIZATION, POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
A.  Bank of Alexandria as a whole'
3.01      Background of Establishment, Legal Status and Ownership. BOA is the
successor to Barclays Bank D.C.O. in Egypt which was sequestrated in April 1957.
The establishment of BOA, as a joint stock company, and its takeover of Barclays
Bank D.C.O. occurred the same month. In July 1961, BOA and all other banks in
Egypt were nationalized. Since that date, BOA took over two commercial banks:
In October 1963, the Government-owned Import and Export Bank and Banque du Nil,
and in October 1971, two specialized banks: IBE and the very small Savings Bank
of Mansoura.
3.02      As of December 31, 1972, BOA had a paid-up share capital of LE 3.0
million, denominated in 1.5 million shares each with a par value of LE 2.0; CBE
owns all of BOA's shares. BOA's paid-up share capital had remained unchanged at
£E 2.0 million until October 1971, when it was increased to LE 3.0 million
following the takeover of IBE.
3.03      Organization.  BOA has recently introduced a new organization structure
occasioned by the 1971 banking law. The new organization chart shown in Annex 3,
has been approved, as required, by the Central Agency for Organization and
Management. A brief explanation of the main functions of BOA's head office de-
partments in Cairo and Alexandria are given in Annex 3. BOA has a large network
of branches - 80 as of December 31, 1972: 24 in lower Egypt, 19 in Cairo, 8 in
Alexandria, and 29 in Upper Egypt.
3.04      Board of Directors and Management.  As in most public sector units,
all Directors are full-time officers of BOA.  The absence of outside representa-
tion on BOAls Board is an Egyptian perculiarity which is unlikely to change. The
system has worked well in the case of BOA.
3.05      BOA's Board is ccmposed of nine menbers (see Annex 4).  The Chairman
and four Directors are appointed by Presidential Decree for indefinite periods.
The other four members are elected by BOA's staff for a renewable term of two
years; in practice, these elected Board members are recruited from among BOA's
middle management.  Mr. Abdel Al Ghaffar bas been Chairman since 1967.  As BOA's
chief executive, he plays a dominant role in the running of BOA, providing it
with competent and energetic leadership.  Mr. ahaffar has held various important
governmental positions, most recently as Chairman and Managing Director of the
Arab Land Bank. The present management team is composed of experienced com-
mercial bankers, some of whom were trained in Barclays. Messrs. El Bayoumii and
Noureddin -- second and third, in line of seniority in BOA -- head BOA's major
departments.  hTke Chairmah reliea heavily on both.
j/  For discussion of SSPIS, BOA's new development banking unit, see paragraphs
3.17 - 3.27.



_ 8 -
3.o6      The Board usually meets once a month, and decides on all important
matters including major credit applicLtions. The Board makes its decisions by
a majority vote, with the Chairman casting the deciding vote in case of a tie.
lt appears that decisions by the Board -- working like a Loan Committee -- are
taken in a business-like manner and that the CBE, while directing BOA's general
orientation, does not interfere in day-to-day management.
3.07      Most departments heads in BOA's head office and the branch managers
have a long record of satisfactory performance within the institution; there
are still some 250 managers and senior professional employees who have worked
with Barclays.
3 .08     Staff.  BOA has some 3,500 staff members, of whom  approximately
2 . ,uO  are professionals, including 125 managerial staff.  Staff increased by
2b, since 1969, while BOA's assets grew by 30%. BOA estimates that, due to the
reorganization of the banking system, its professional staff will have to in-
crease by another 15% in the next two years. Other public organization in Egypt
regard DOA as a reservoir of well-trained financial experts and have recruited
some BOA staff members. But in the past few years BOA's staff turnover has been
low. BOA's management emphasizes staff training at all levels through profes-
sional courses at various institutions, and through BOA's internal training
programs which seem to be of good quality.
3.09      Functions and Procedures.  The objectives of BOA are very broadly de-
fined in its Articles of Association as "undertaking all comercial banking
activities of whatever type". Following the banking reorganization, BOA's ob-
jectives were broadened to include "the financing, through loans and advances
for short, medium and long periods, of all productive units in the industrial
and agricultural sectors". There will likely be no investing in equity. BOA
does not have a formal policy statement for its comnercial banking activities.
But its internal guidelines and instructions, summarized in Annex 5, appear well
conceived, emphasize prudence, and are being followed in practice.
3.10      Criteria and procedures for processing credit applications and for
obtaining adequate securities for credit commitments are very strict -- largely
based on Barclay's standards. Procedures for follow-up of all accounts by head
Office through monthly reporting by branches seem equally effective. Head
office and branch managers have some latitude in their credit decisions; the
credit limits seem appropriate. (For details see Annex 5).
3.11      Supervision by the Central Bank. Under Egyptian law, the CBE has super-
visory powers normai for a central bank. In addition, in its capacity as General
Organization for Banks, it also controls certain aspects of BOA's operations of
a kind elsewhere reserved to shareholders or a Board in a joint stock company,
including the right to approve the yearly budget and any important changes in the
organizational structure and internal policies and procedures.
3.12      BOA is required to submit fortnightly to the CBE up-to-date statistics
on BOA's liquidity position. Audited year-end accounts have to be submitted
three months thereafter. The CBE also carries out, from time to time, a full
inspection of each Egyptian commercial bank similar to a yearly audit. BOA was
last inspected directly by the CBE in 1966; no date has been fixed for GBE's
next inspection.



- 9 -
3.13      Audit.  In 1965 the Government promulgated Law No. 44/65, requiring all
public sector economic units, including banks, to be audited by special depart-
ments attached to the General Organization under which the particular unit is
placed. These departments are responsible to the Central Agency for Accountancy
which, in turn, is directly responsible to the Egyptian Parliament and the
President of the Republic. Law 44/65 has been implemented for all economic units
except banks because the Agency presently lacks the expertise required for auditing
commercial banks. The auditing law will eventually be applied to commercial bgnks,
although highly unlikely in the next two years or so. The authorities have agreed
that BOA will continue to be audited by qualified, independent -- though not
necessarily private -- auditors, acceptable to the Association.
3.14      BOA's current auditors, appointed two years ago, are Mr. H.M. Rhagheb,
senior partner of Rhagheb El Gamal & Co., and Mr. M.K. Saleh, partner of
S. Barsoum & A.M. Abdel Aziz. Mr. Rhagheb, an accountant chartered in Great
Britain, is the senior of the two. Mr. Rhagheb's qualifications, experience and
professional standing are such as to perform satisfactorily as principal auditor
of BOA. He has done satisfactory audits of BOA. The audit programs, work-
schedules and audit reports, are submitted to the Central Agency for approval and
comment.
B. BtE's Merger with BOA
3.15      In the last few years before the take-over, IBE was only a marginal
term lender to industry engaging mainly in short-term accommodations and renewals
of overdrafts to small private enterprises -- as much as 90% of IBE's business
in 1970-71. IEE's financial position was poor when BOA took over: The debt/
equity ratio had reached 8.1 and an official committee appointed "to reassess the
new worth of IBE for the purpose of the merger with BOA" found that IBE's share
capital of £E 1.5 million had been impaired by about £E 90,000.J
3.16      The Government did not want to strengthen IBE. Rather, it concluded
that the merger would provide Egypt with an institution of greater organizational
and financial strength to engage actively in development financing principally in
the private industrial sector. The poor condition of the former IBE and the Go-
vernment's wish to concentrate all of Egypt's banking services in four commercial
banks favored this course. There are advantages in putting at the disposal of a
new development banking unit BOA's ample local resources, its extensive and
effective branch network and, in general, the competence of BOA's management and
the efficiency of its organization. 2/ In addition, account was taken of the
regard in which BOA is held by the authorities, the important public sector
entities and by the private sector.
1/ It would appear, however, that the Committee's assessment has been over-
conservative and that the take-over price for IBE of about £E 1.4 million
understated IBE's real net worth by about LE 200,000. (IBE's balance sheet,
as approved by the committee, is given in Annex 6).
j   The CBE, in its 1971 comparative analysis of the commercial banks, identified
BOA as "superior to the other commercial banks in the field of banking ser-
vice"   (Figures on CBE's comparative analysis are given on page 3 of Annex 12).



- 10 -
p.   Special Services to Private Industrial Sector (SSPIS) --BOA's
new Development Banking Unit
3.17      Organization, Policies and Procedures.  BOA has created a new Depart-
ment -- SSPIS -- to carry out its term lending activities, as well as to under-
take some commercial banking activities in the private sector. SSPIS is
directed by a General Manager who reports directly to the Chairman. Whereas
BOA presents itself towards third parties as one Bank, it is setting up a
separate SSPIS staff and separate internal accounting systems for its term-
financing and camercial banking activities.
3.1d      BOA's review of the former IBE's organization revealed a weak internal
structure and, in general, inadequate policies and procedures. But there were
some capable staff members in IBE, who are now in BOA. The Central Agency for
Organization and Management has approved, without any amendments, the organization
chart for SSPIS. The set-up of the Department, shown in Annex 7, as well as its
linkages to BOA, are well conceived and appear to fulfill the requirements of an
effective mixed banking institution. The building up of SSPIS as an effective
organization will take time. SSPIS's management, new itself to this task, is
likely to be hard-pressed at the outset introducing SSPIS's middle-management and
professional staff to the ways of industrial term financing. BOA has requested
technical assistance from the Bank Group in improving SSPIS's appraisal work and
in training SSPIS staff (aee paragraph 3.214). The competence of BOA's management
and staff inspire confidence that high professional standards will be attained
eventually.
3.19      An important feature of SSPIS's structure is to actively engage BOA's
branches in private sector term financing. They will be supervised by two or
three centrally located main branches. For the time being none of the brandhes
will be involved in the processing of public sector applications wihich must be
submitted directly to the head office. In line with BOA's commercial banking
practices, branch maragers will have sme discretionary limits for term-loans up
to three years; all applications for loans over three years will be reviewed and
decided upon by the head off i'e  The proposed limits are low:  £E 3,000 per
client for regional branches and 5E 5,000 per client for the main branches. Given
the expected strict supervision by the head office these limits seem acceptable
and could act as incentive for branoh managers to pursue actively private seetor
financing.  Further details on SSPIS s procedures are in Annex 7.
3.20     BOA is now in the process of iplementing the structure, procedures and
staffing of SSPIS. Pending the inauguration of SSPIS's new structure, its mana-
gement has been instructed to carry on the former IBE's regular business, but not
to caivass for new business.
3.21      BOA's Board recently adopted general policy guidelines for term-lending
operations (see Annex 8); they are essentially directed towards maintenance of
sound appraisal standards, diversification of lending operations and financial
prudence criteria. BOA may amend these general guidelines as it gains experience
with its term lending program and has agreed to consult with the Association on
any proposed amendments before they are put into effect.
3] The name appears restrictive since SSPIS will undertake term-lending both
in the private and the public sector.



- 11 -
3.22      Management and Staff. Mr. Abdel Hamid Ahmed Kabodan, SSPIS's newly
appointed General Manager, was until recently one of BOA's Assistant General
Managers. He has been with Barclays Bank and then BOA since 1948. He is a
mature manager with good financial and business experience. While Mr. Kabodan
has wide experience as a commercial banker, his ability to manage development
financing activities is still untested. He is, however, familiar with the con-
cepts and purposes underlying development banking. He is likely to run SSPIS
competently.
3.23      Appointments of a Deputy General Manager and Department Heads are
planned before July 1, 1973. The quality of BOA's middle management gives rea-
sonable assurance that a competent management team for SSPIS can be formed from
among BOA's present staff resources. Initially, about 40 staff members may have
to be placed in SSPIS. Good SSPIS staff candidates are available -- some of the
capable hold-overs of the former IBE, but in majority experienced BOA staff.
There should be no problem in filling these positions.
3.24      Training.  BOA's management wants SSPIS to draw as much as possible on
other term financing institutions' experience. Various forms of training in
development banking have already been arranged, for instance, on-the-job training
for four senior professionals with two development finance companies associated
with the Bank Group: ICICI in India and TSKB in Tarkey. More programs of this
type are likely to follow. BOA is also very interested in training from EDI.
3.25      Project Appraisal.  Some term-financing experience brought in from IBE
can be used by SSPIS. But IBE paid little attention to assessing projects' tech-
nical and economic viability. These are therefore prime areas for improvement.
They should be quite attainable for BOA staff, qualified as it is.
3.26      There are other aspects of SSPIS's future project work which SSPIS aims
to resolve. First, BOA must be careful in building up relations with GOIndr,
particularly as to cooperation and any division of labor, in financing public
sector investment projects. While it would be appropriate for SSPIS in its early
stages to take advantage of GOIndr's appraisal work, BOA must build up and rely
on its own capacity as quickly as possible. Given the attitude of GOIndr's
Chairman, GOIndr seems quite willing to cooperate with BOA. Second, SSPIS has to
learn how to deal with developmental aspects of investment projects, in addition
to considerations of creditworthiness. SSPIS will have to build up strength and
see to it that economic considerations weigh in investment decisions through
appropriate economic appraisals. SSPIS contemplates making internal economic
rate of return calculations for the more sizeable term-loan applications. BOA
will concentrate its economic analysis on private sector projects while building
its expertise. For public sector projects, BOA will initially only review the
economic analysis undertaken by GOIndr. Third, SSPIS realises that it has to
build up capable technical staff. Hitherto, outside professionals were called
in whenever there was a technical problem, but in these cases the focus was
largely on the asset value of machinery and checks on the appropriate installation
of equipment. BOA's management has decided, to add at least three engineers to
the three presently employed. j/ Fourth, a special problem is the usually poor
3] BOA is also thinking of organizing an advisory technical committee from
among senior engineers and managers in public sector companies and other
institutions to give ad hoc advice on the engineering aspects of investment
proposals.



- 12 -
quality of clients' accounts, compounded by the fact that most private enterprises
operate as sole proprietorships and partnerships whose internal flow of funds is
difficult to monitor. SSPIS intends maintaining strict standards for clients'
accounts. At the same time, it plans to assist applicants, whenever feasible, in
improving their accounting system.
3.27      Project Supervision.  BOA intends to operate an effective end-use sys-
tem for term lending, both as a source of up-to-date information on client's
performance, as a tool to help borrowers, and to provide feed-back to appraisal
staff. It is not easy in Egypt to obtain private entrepreneurs cooperation in
submitting operational and financial data to a Goverment-owned institution.
SSPIS supervision of its industrial term borrowers will, however, be facilitated
by client knowledge. coming from BOA's commercial activities.
3.28      BOA's Disbursement Procedures.  Normally, BOA disburses against docu-
mentation (supplier's invoice, bills of lading, insurance policy, etc.). Each
disbursement requires the authorization of the head of the Supervision Department.
Disbursements are generally made to the supplier of the equipment of goods. Costs
of civil works are reimbursed on the basis of the Department's reports, usually
for work completed. Overall, BOA has a well-run disbursement system and similar
standards can be expected for SSPIS.
3.29      Procurement and Import Licenses. All public and private entities must,
by law, obtain an import license for all goods and equipment requiring payment
in foreign currency. Typically,before the license is granted, importers are re-
quired to submit competitive offers to one of the statutory decision committees,
depending on the type of goods involved. Imports can only be undertaken through
the state-owned foreign trade corporations. The preparation of tenders and
receipt of competitive bids are undertaken by one of these corporations. The
committee's decision on the choice of goods to be imported is transmitted to the
Ministry of Industry. This Ministry in turn issues the import permit after
ascertaining the availability of foreign exchange and the priority of the foreign
exchanges quota assigned to that industrial sector. The centralized screening
of proposed equipment imports seems to work reasonably well.
3.30      In the case of the imports to be financed out of the proposed IDA
credit, it is expected that identical procedures will be followed. However, the
specific license application tp the Ministry is to indicate the IDA line-of-
credit as the source of foreign exchange. Thus, there is no need for the Minis-
try to go through the foreign exchange quota priorities. The authorities have
confirmed to IDA that, whenever BOA and the decision committee concerned have
approved a project, and to the extent IDA concurs in the project, the authorities
will promptly make available the import license for the project.



- 13 -
IV. RESOURCES, OPERATIONS, FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AND POSITION
4.01     Resource Position.  Deposits, most of them short-term, make up the
bulk of BOA's resources.  In 1971, following the nerger with IBE, BOA took
on long-term borrowings for the first time. Shown below is a sunmary of
BOA's resources as of December 31, 1972, before distribution of 1972 profits.
A percentage breakdown as of Jane 30, 1970 and 1971 is shown for comparison.
Jane 30
December 31, 1972      1971     1970
Net worth                         7,,421    2.6       2.9      2.7
Provisions                       18,361     6.5       6.5      5.5
Outstanding term borrowings       3,500     1.2        -        -
Deposits                        240,505    84.9      86.8    88.2
Sundry creditors                  8,363     3.0       2.8      2.5
Unappropriated profits            5.,156    1.8       1.0      1.1
283,306   100.0    100.0   100.0
BOA's principal resources are discussed below.
4.02      Equity. As of December 31, 1972, BOA's net worth as stated in
the balance sEeet, stood at LBE 7,421 million and included a paid-in share
capital of LB 3 million and reserves of LBE 4,421 million. However, these
figures understate BOA's real net worth: BOA follows very conservative
policies in creating provisions for bad debts and other contingencies 2J/.
Tax authorities treat BOA's generous provisions in full as tax-free expenses.
BOA, in consultation with its auditors, has estimated provisions in excess of
needs which could be regarded as part of BOA's equity. On this basis, BOA's
net worth as of December 31, 1972, before distribution of 1972 profits, was
at least BE 18.0 million, as follows:
1/  In accordance with regulations issued by the CBE, BOA is changing its
fiscal year from July 1 -- June 30 to calendar years. The period
July 1 -- December 31, 1972 is an interim period and has been audited
separately.
2/   Provisions for "bad and doubtfult" loans, for instance, are made not only
for the full amount of "bad and doubtful"f loans outstanding but also
against loans which are suspected of possible future arrears.



- 14 -
Stated net worth per Balance Sheet:  (LE millions)
Capital          3.00
Reserves         4.42                   7. g
Provisions                                   Estimated
In Books      Requirel    Excetla
Doubtful debts                     9e52          4X52       5.00
For losses on securities          0o61           o.16       0.45
Pensions & retirements            0.34           0e34        -
For emergencies                    0.59          0.39       0.20
Against losses in Gaza             1.01          0.41       o.60
Taxes                              3.20          2.90       0.30        6)
Fixed Assets
Real estate-aarrent value               5.00
In books at                             o.56                  4-44
18.Iil
An important emponent in the real net worth of BOA is the current "Namakt
value" of real estate owned by BOA which is currently œtated at LE 0.56
million   BOA's management and the auditor estimate that BOA's real est4e
values vary between BE 10 to LE 15 million. For the above, a lo figure oa
,E 5 0 million was taken.
4.03     Deposits.  BOA's deposits from public and private sources grew at
an annual average of over 9% in recent years.  BOA's share of all depos d$a
in Egypt remained constant at about 23%. Demand deposits were about 454
savings accounts about 15% and term and other deposits made up abomt 40 of
total deposits with 'BOA as of December 31, 1972.  Largely due to the banks'
reorganization, BOA's deposits rose sharply in 1972 to LE 240.5 milin  140%
more than at year-end 5 >71   A fuller analysis of the trend of BOA's 4osLKts
is 1n Annex 9.
04-OL     Ot1her Resources.  BOA hnad rediscount facilities with the CM,, t.-
cent,ly at BE 16.0 mil-lion, bat has not used them in the last few years.  Now
that, the National Bank of E;Upt is responsible for the financting of fore4gn
trade, BOA 's foreign currerircy balances are ixaignificant.
4.05      Characteristics of BOA"s Commercial Banking Activities. :n tCn post
three years ttivagh Jun2  BOA'  operational short -terB portfoiso gm
from BE 61.6 minlion to BE 96.2 million -- almost 20% annually.  BOA's
coamnercial activities are summarized in Annex 10.
4.06      In accordance with normal commercial banking practice, BOA is pre-
pared to renew overdrafts under certain conditions. Renewable overdrafhs sr
mostly used to finance temporary working capital needs. NoCUlTly, BOA
renews such overdrafts only if the borrower settles its account at least once
a year.  In addition, BOA has renewed several overdrafts which financse  lwatlt.



- 15 -
Such overdraft facilities should be regarded as de facto term financing.
BOA has not kept a systematic record of this type of financing, but
estimates the outstanding amount at approximately LE 10.0 million. Since
BOA can now provide straight term leziding, it may, in consultation with
borrowers, convert smme of these overdrafts into term loans.
4.07      Tern Lending Operatioas.  In the period October 1, 1971 - March 31,
1973, SSPIS processed a substantial. nmuber of projects, all in the private
sector, but for a small total amount: BE 3.5 million mainly to small-scale
entrepreneurs in textiles and metals. The great majority of SSPIS' loans
was for medium term (less than 5 years). BOA has until now focussed on the
merger with IBE and has not yet made any sustained attempt to canvass for
term business.
Evaluation of Loan and Equity Portfolio
4.08      BOA as a Whole. As of December 31, 1972, BOA had a net operational
portfolio of LE 161.W "illion, constituting about 63% of total assets. Non-
operational investments and miscellaneous assets amounted to 7% and cash and
near cash to 30% of the total.
4.09      Quality of Short-Term Operational Portfolio.  BOA, as said, is
cautious and wants good security. It has been quite conservative in the
setting of ceilings on overdraft facilities. As a result of its conservative
approach, BOA's short-term portfolio overall seems sound. The banking re-
organization resulted in a drama.Yc increase in BOA's short-term  credit port-
folio; i.e., by BE 89.7 million -  raising BOA's portfolio to BE 185.9 million
on July 1, 1972. Ninety eight new industrial public sector companies were
added, most important among them the spinning and weaving sector taking up
28% of BOA's commercial portfolio on Decenber 31, 1972. While there is con-
siderable room for modernization, taking its existing equipment into account,
overall standards of performance in Egypt's textile industry appear reasonably
acceptable. Approximately 16% of total textile output, or LE 60.0 million,
was exported in 1970/71, nearly one-third to convertible currency countries.
Electric and electronic industries took up 17.0% of BQA's commercial portfolio,
and food products 11.5%. Further details are in Annex 10. BOA has had no
difficulties with the sectors represented in its portfolio for some time.
Unless there is a major upheaval in these sectors this situation should on the
whole continue. The total amount outstanding in "bad and doubtful" loans of
LE 4.5 million on December 31, 1972 constituted only 2.5% of total operational
portfolio, most of it adequately secured. BOA's actual losses on its commercial
portfolio have been negligible ( on the average less than LE 40,000 per year
in the past five years).
1/   These accounts were taken over by BOA at their book value.  Provisions
made against these accounts by the banks from which the accounts were
transferred have been placed with the CBE in blocked accounts. In case
of write-offs, BOA can avail itself of these funds. Furthermore, the
original banks are required to supplement the funds placed with CBE,
should write-offs on the accounts transferred to BOA exceed the total
amounts of provisions.



- 16 -
h.10      Quality of Term-Loan Portfolio. As noted in footnote 1 on page 9,
write-offs on the term-loan portfolio of LE 7.4 million taken over from the
former IBE appear to have been valued on a conservative basis. As a result,
BOA's present term-loan portfolio is sound.
Financial Performance and Position
4.11      Earniggs Record. While BOA's earnings performance has been good
historically, no clear trend has been distinguished in the past four years.
Overall, BOA has been operating within a comfortable 5% spread despite its
high exposure in low-yielding liquid assets. Also administrative expenses
have been relatively low (1.2% of average total assets in 1972). Write-offs
have been negligible. In 1972, net profits, as percentage of aver-age net
worth (including excess provisions)  was 21.8%.  BOA's audited income statements
for 1969-1972 ake shown in Annex 11. Annex 12 gives ratio analyses of BQA4s
financial perfohmance.
4.12      BOA's shareholders (CBE) are entitled to receive 75% of BOA's yearly
net profit, after decudtion of fixed appropriations for reserves and certain
compensations. The remaining 25% of BOA's yearly net profit so determined ac-
crues to BOA's staff. BOA's yearly pay-outs have been high -- between 80% and
90% of net profit, after appropriation of reserves, in the past four years,.
Since the appropriation of net profits of public sector units is regulated by
the Government, there is little that BOA -ca  do t-o increas ethe percentage of
ploughing back profits. BOA's provision policies, which have the endorsement
of the CBE, have the effect of mitigating the high pay-out requirements. If
excess provisions are added back to yearly net profits, the pay-out ratio was
approximately 6S% in the past four years. In view of the pay-out regulations,
BOA intends to take conservative provisions even more emphatically for its
term loans to build up an miple net worth cusion.
4.13      Finangial Position.  Annex 13 shows BOA's audited balance sheets for
1969 througlh Detember 31, 1972. The following summary table illustrates BOA's
high liquidity as mentioned in paragraph 2.16.
As of Jiue 30,                1269       1970       1971        1972
1. Deposits and other short-
term liabilities         145,518    160,757    156,310    186,558
2.  Liquid assets j             129,599    144,804    101,109    157,680
3. Liquidity ratio
(2 as % of 1)                89. 1%      80.1%      64.7%      84.5%
However, because of the sharp increase of BOA's operational portfolio, the liqui-
dity ratio dropped Sharply, to 45.5% as of December 31, 1972.
4.14      On December 31, 1972 BOA had contingent liabilities totalling about
LE 195 million, including £E 70 million for letters of guarantee issued and
LE 125 million for documentary credits. Approximately 90% of BOA's guarantee
business relates to public sector enterprises; here BOA is always fully covered
by counter guaranteesof the general organizations. For the private sector, BOA
j Including excess liquidity, deposited with the CEE, of £E 30.0 million and
LE 59.0 million in 1971 and 1972 respectively. As of December 31, 1972 excess
liquidity with the CBE had dropped to LE 10.0 million.



- 17 -
restricts its guarantee business to the larger firms it knows well; private
sector guarantees are invariably covered by cash or collateral. BOAts criteria
for issuing guarantees are very strict: Clients' obligations stemming from their
normal working capital requirements are not eligible since this would relieve
the beneficiary from going through the discipline of obtaining a normal overdraft
facility from BOA. In view of the safeguards obtained by BOA, one should not
expect adverse effects on BOA's financial position from its guarantee business.
4.15      Altogether, BOA's financial position is strong.  Provisions largely
exceed any foreseeable losses. BOA's record of collections has been excellent
and actual losses have been negligible.
4.16      Implications of  BOA being a Mixed Bank.  As noted earlier, BOA, un-
like many large commercial banks in other countries, has not done any medium to
long-term lending. Indeed for the foreseeable future the great majority of its
business will continue to be of a commercial nature. At present, CBE does not
intend to lay down any special rules, taking into account BOA term financing.
Nevertheless, BOA and CBE have stated that if and when long-term project finan-
cing becomes a significant part of BOA's business, increasing attention will be
paid to the implications of this for maintaining BOA's sound financial position
as a public deposit bank in Egypt. This is basically the responsibility of CBE.
Given the structure of the ownership a d control of the banking system in Egypt,
the maintenance of BOA's overall financial soundness is reasonably assured.
From this perspective it is useful to note that the BOA situation is not ana-
logous to most other Bank DFC operations. In the latter, the Bank is not only
usually involved in a substantial part of the DFC's business but has also, in
the absence of financial supervision and policies imposed by government agencies,
been de facto the principal source of general financial controls for these
institutions.
4.17      CBE's financial policies followed to date have been quite conservative.
As detailed in Annex 14, liquid assets must be maintained at 30% of commercial
banks' liabilities as defined by CBE. Banks must also maintain a net cash balance
with CBE equivalent to about 18% of-their short-term liabilities. BOA has agreed
that it will use its short-term resources for the financing of its future term
lending program only insofar as the use of such resources is compatible with
the maintenance of a sound financial and liquidity position for BOA as a public
deposit bank. To that end BOA will monitor its liquidity position closely and
maintain a satisfactory balance between the maturities of its own obligations
and those of the loans it makes. BOA intends eventually, in consultation with
the Association, to set an appropriate and prudent limit for using short-term
resources for its term-lending operations (actual medium- and long-term lending
is likely to remain well below 10% of total deposits in the next five years or
so; a prudent percentage).  CBE has, of course, the authority to impose controls
of its own, should it find desirable to do so.



- 18 -
-r1 tf3 Consideration has also been given as to whether some form of debt/
equity limitation is appropriate for an institution such as BOA, i.e. a com-
mercial bank with some long-term lending activities. Here again the CBE does
not intend to now impose such a limit on BOA. For the time being it will con-
tinue, quite rightly, to focus on liqaidity.  Indeed, in the Egytian circums-
tances and given the context of BOA's overall business operation, a debt/
equity limit seems prima facie unsuitable for BQA since short-term deposits
predominate and a definite ceiling on deposits cannot be set sensibly.  To
the ex,tent, however, that BOA's role shifted radically from a commercial bank
to a long-term financier, one would have to ensure that the capitalization of
BOA remains adequate. Appropriate limits are extremely difficult to define
or establish at this point. Consequently, it was agreed between BOA and the
Association that, should a marked change in BOA's activities take place, i.e.
a medilumi- long-term loan portfolio increasing to as much as six times BOA's
net worth as stated in the balance sheet, there will be consultation between
TDA and BOA on BOA's permanent capital base with a view to reaching an ander-
standing on additions to BOA's equity base if and when, in IDA's view, such is
needed. The understanding with BOA provides for a safeguard against an in-
i'lati:on of BOAts equity base, if BOA's excess provisions were to be capitalized
or fixed assets revalued.
In sumiary, BOA exists in a unique environment and it is therefore
difficult to evaluate its portfolio in terms of its intrinsic soundness. Finan-
cially it appears to have a very sound portfolio. Also,traditional financial
tests applied to other DFCs are not applicable in the case of BOA. But BOA's
existing financial management and CBE controls have been conservative and,
given the additional undertakings mentioned above, BOA's creditworthiness should
be assured for the proposed IDA Credit as BOA moves into the term financing
field.



- 19 _
V. BOA'S PROSPECTS
5.01      The General Setting and Industrial Investment Perspectives.  The
overriding determinant of Egypt's current economic performance and prospects
is undoubtedly the Middle East conflict.  NevertheleBs, the Egyptian econony
continues to have areas of considerable strength. In comparison with many
less developed countries, Egypt is relatively favored with human and natural
resources. While Egypt's long-range prospects are favorable, prospects in the near
future for approaching the targeted 6i average annual GNP growth are less promising.-
Obstacles are Egypt's heavy defense burden, the scarcity of convertible foreign
exchange, and the inflexible nature of the centralized decision-making process.
5.02      Egypt's industry has good potential for future growth.  The authorities
count on it to remain the leading sector in the country's development. In the
draft 1973-L977 Plan, industry is given highest priority, claiming one-third of
total Plan investments of LE 3 billion.  The Plan recognizes, in principle, the
need for quick-yielding projects, but the largest investments, are scheduled as
before for heavy, capital-intensive projects such as steel.
5.03      Egypt should be able to develop a wide range of industries.  It has a
large domestic market. There are also good industrial export prospects where Egypt
has a demonstrated comparative advantage -- textiles, food products, leather and
some engineering goods. Also, the country has a great potential for tourism develop-
mnent. As a result of oil and gas discoveries, prospects are good for new resource-
based industries, e.g., fertilizers, cement and petro-chemicals, and for electricity-
baned industries since completion of the Aswan High Dam. Offsetting these prospects
is the fact that a large number of industries, particularly the cotton ginning,
textile and food industries, badly need modernization.
5.04      Altogether, there should be a sizeable demand for industrial investment.
The bulk of industrial investments is likely to continue in the public sector. But
circumstances favor the private sector to play gradually a growing role, particularly
in textiles and engineering products.
5.05      BOA's Business Outlook: Comercial Banking Activities.  BOA has estimated
that its short-term credit portfolio will grow by between 4% and 5% in 1974 to 1977,
reaching nearly LE 210.0 million ($535 million) in 1978. This compares with 6u%
annual GNP growth target in the 1973-1977 Five-Year Plan and an average growth of
BOA's operational portfolio of almost 20% in the past three years. BOA's conmercial
business forecast seems modest and attainable.
5.o6      Term Lending   It is difficult to definitively project SSPIS's term-
lending activities in the next few years. IBE's performance is a poor indicator,
as it had been starved of resources. Furthermore, BOA has so far focused on the
details of the merger and the internal reorganization and has not yet made any
sustained attempt to canvass for term business. Second, the unfavorable investment
climate intil 1969-1970 and the chronic shortage of foreign exchange have held
back private investors. Third, although the Government suffers from a persistent
;L/ See report No. R73-16, dated Tlecember 30, 1972.



- 20 -
shortage of investment resources, the magnitude of BOA's term financing Of public
sector industry will for some time to come, be determined largely by Goafrnment
decisions. 1&ile it has not been possible to quantify the pent-up demand for
term financing because of these circumstances, some yardsticks can be deteloped
to support the expectation that the need for term financing is substarLtial.
5.07      For the private sector, there are tentative Plan figures for the period
1973-77 which put annual gross industrial investment between LE 4 and 5 aillion per
year. These figures represent what the planning authorities consider feasible in
light of extremely constrained resource availabilities. Neither do they recognize
the authorities' recent more liberal approach to private enterprise. It is probably
much better tp gaam   that private sector investment will be at leasas muck in the
next Plan period, if not more, as in recent years, when available data suggest that
annual private industrial investment was about LE 10-12 million.,(,eeeparagraph 2.10).
This estimate is supported by actual private sector investment licensing by GOIndr
which in the past two years, was between UE 10 and 20 million. Furthermore, GOIndr
reports that a substantial pipeline of private license applications are pending.
Altogether, with the reservatlon.9 stated, an aiinual volume of private sector invest-
ment in industry ranging between LE 10 and 15 million is a plausible prospect. With
BOA having the term lending monopoly it must be expected to finance between 30 and
:40% of these investments provided it has appropriate resources.
5.08      As to the public sector. some preparatory work has been done by
GOIndr. Although further planning work is needed, the present expectation is
that over the next two years public sector projects may seek roughly
WE 4 million of foreign exchange financing from BOA and about as much in local
curxrency. The assumption is made that these figures w;ll rise gradually over the
remainder of the plan period.
5.09      If resources were available, then it would be plausible at this time to
project BOA's term lending commitments as follows in the period 1973-77 (rounded
figures; details on forecast Term-lending operations in Annex 15, page 5).
Local Currency            173M         1974        1975         1976           1977
- Private Sector           100       1,550        l,920        2,030          2m O-
- Public Sector          1 200       2 120        2320                        2,980
Total Local. Currency       5         76 1 77                                 5,320
Foreign Currency
- Private Sector         1,420       3,090        3,830        4,150          4,600
Public Sector          1 350        2 400       2,650        2 990             6
m'otal Foreign Currency  2,770           9        6,480        77,9960
T. ta` Comni'omitents    4,670       9,160       10,720       11,810        13,280
5.10      Projected Profitability and Financial Position.  To monitor its situation
and performance, BOA would keep internally separate accounts for its coimercial
banking and term financing. The following analysis is, however, based on BOA's
overall situation.
1/ Assuming SSPIS new structure will be in place by July 1, 1973.



- 21 -
5.11      Major assumptions underlying BOA's five-year financial projections
(1973-1977) are given in Annex 15. They rest on the business forecast in
paragraphs 5.05-5.09. BOA will continue to earn a comfortable spread of about
5% on its commercial banking operations. Profits after tax and provisions are
expected to increase to almost TX 6 million in 1977. The return on average stated
net worth would remain stable at about 50%. hdministrative expenses are forecast
to increase to about I0 3.7 million by 1977 remaining constant at about 1.1% as
a percentage of average total assets.  Provisions, established conservatively,
would increase from IE 1.8 million in 1973 to IE 2.5 million in 1977. This level
appears prudent and provides ample protection. Projected income statements and
ratio analysis are shown in Annex 16.
5.12      BOA's projected balance sheets and cash flow statements are shown in
Annexes 17 and 18. Total assets would grow by about 30% in the five-year period
to LE 355.8 million at the end of 1977. During this period, BOA's term loan
portfolio would increase from 3% to almost 10%, i.e. about LE 37 million, of total
assets. Term debt would increase from 0.5:1 to only 2.1:1 at year-end 1977.
Annual interest payments would remain below 45% of BOA's annual profits before
financial expenses. Principal repayments to the Government on foreign exchange
borrowings would not start until 1975 and would amount to only about LE 1.5
million by 1977.
5.13      To illustrate SSPIS's future financial performance, notional projected
income statements are given in Annex 19. With more expensive foreign exchange term
borrowings, SSPIS's spread would gradually decrease over the next five years to
½% in 1977. Administrative expenses would gradually decline as a percentage of
average term loans outstanding, to 1.1% in 1977. If term business were less, due
to insufficient foreign exchange resources, SSPIS's income prospects would not be
materially worse.



- 22 -
YI. THE IDA CREDIT
6.01      The Amount of the Credit and Its Use.  The projected term lending figures
contain a sizeable element of foreign exchange lending, for which needs are acute.
Indeed, some of the projected local financing may not even materialize unless it
were suitably matched with foreign exchange finance. Private sector industry,
which has been starved most for imported equipment, would proportionately take up
more foreign exchange finance than the public sector which have alternative re-
sources allowing equipment imports from Eastern European countries.
6.02      BOA will have ample local currency resources for its term lending.
Availabilities during the five-year period are unlikely to fall below LE 45 million.
As to foreign exchange, both Government and BOA look to IDA since BOA has no such
res,rces at this time.  For the eighteen months through 1974 the gap to transact
projected foreign exchange commitments amounts to approximately $ 21 million. Since
the implementation of SSPIS' setup may initially experience some delay, financing
of approximately two thirds, or $ 15 million, of theprojected need is recommended.
It would be prudent to limit IDA financing of BOA to this amount and the period of
approximately 18 months until more experience has been gained both with SSPIS and
the demand for term-financing. (The $ 15 million figure is not reflected in the
financial projections which are based on demand per se). The credit is expected to
be disbursed as shown in Annex 20.
6.03      The IDA credit would be available both for replacements and new capacity.
BOA would make an adequate appraisal of the investment project whatever the size of
the individual sub-loan. Term loan appraisals would not be limited to the specific
equipment required so as to avoid turning the operation into a maintenance import
credit for industry. BOA has agreed to lend the proceeds of the credit in such a
way that at least half of the credit finances private sector investment projects.
BOA would also spread the credit over a relatively large number of medium and small-
size projects.
6.04      Terms of the Credit to the Government and to BOA. The mDA credit would
be lent to the Government on normal IDA terms. The credit would be relent under an
agreement between the Government and BOA satisfactory to IDA. On-lending would be
for up to 17 years exclusively for investment projects and carry an effective cost
to BOA of 7% p.a., equal to the legal interest rate ceiling in Egypt. I/ The
Government will assume the foreign exchange risk.
6.05      Agreements have been reached with the Government and BOA that BOA will
lend the proceeds of the IDA credit at an effective cost of 9-1/2% to its term
borrowers, excluding banking charges. This level has been arrived at essentially
by adding a reasonable spread (2-1/2%) for BOA on the effective cost BQA would pay
to the Government.
2]  In view of the legal ceiling of 7%, it was considered impracticable to attempt
to persuade the Government to make an exception to the law to accommodate an
additional 1/4g, with a view to having the Government's onlending rate conform
to the Bank's current lending rate.



- 23 -
VII.  CONCIUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Conclusions
7.01      Industry has developed considerably in Egypt and is likely to remain
the leading sector in the next few years. Much of the capacity built up so far
reflects Government investments in the last decade. Achieving self-sufficiency
has been a major objective which will continue to have weight. There was less
emphasis on obtaining optimum scales end efficiency. Investment decisions in
public sector industry are centralized in the Government, which also has a strong
influence over investments in private enterprise. While the bulk of future industrie
investments will, in the main, involve the State, there are signs that the
Government is now giving private industry more latitude to develop.
7.02      Egypt has a well developed network of financing institutions, including
BOA which from hereon will carry both commercial and term financing responsibilities
in industry. The former IBE had reached a point where the Government felt that its
strengthening would have proved an unrewarding task.  Therefore, the merger of the
IBE with the financially strong and competently run BOA was a good move. At the
moment BOA is still in the process of setting itself up to do a proper term financing
job. Its own institutional strength, the preparatory work already undertaken and the
people likely to be involved, provide a promising base that BOA, through SSPIS,
will run a reasonably effective operation.
7.03      Under the institutional arrangements, BOA would have immediate scope to
assist private industry. The scope would be more limited in the public sector
where BOA would, provide funds complementary to direct Government financing
of State industry. BOA will have to be careful in building up a good working
relationship with GOIndr, the agency now in charge of industrial development. But
there are good chances that BOA will be left free to make investment decisions, in
the public sector, on business considerations.
7.o4      BOA is a well managed and well organized commercial bank with a long and
satisfactory record of experience. It has a sound financial structure and position.
Its commercial business outlook is good. BOA also has good prospects to undertake
a sizeable volume of term lending if it can acquire resources to lend for equipment
imports. BOA is likely to have the needed resources in local currency.
7.o5      Investment allocations in Egypt are steered by administrative fiat and
not by price. Interest rates, which are low, play a marginal role in demand
management and allocative policies.  As set out in para. 2.26 there are, however,
several reasons why BOA and the authorities have agreed with the Bank Group to
having BOA charge a more realistic interest rate on the use of an IDA credit, if
made.
Recommendations
7.06      BOA would be a first time recipient of Bank Group finance.  Its financial
position, business outlook and the indications that it will develop into an effective
term finance institution make BOA a suitable and creditworthy recipient of an IDA
credit Estimated resource requirements for BOAts import financing are about $21
million through the end of 197h. The first credit for BOA, as explained in para-
graph 6.02, should however, be set at $15 million. The proceeds of the proposed
credit would be used by BOA to finance the CIF cost of imported goods.



- 24 -
7.07      The proposed IDA credit should be lent to Egypt on standard terms.  It
should be relent to BOA on agreed terms  stated. in paragraph 6.04.  IDA will enter
into a project agreement with BOA containing those provisions, other than those
relating to the making and repayment of the IDA oredit, normally applied to Bank
loans to development fiance companies.  The "free limit" sbould be set at $100,000
and the  'aggregate free limit" at $4 million.  BOA should stipulate that it will
lend the proceeds of the IDA credit at an effective cost of 9½% p.a. excluding
charges, and that in using short term resources for long-term lending it will pay
due attention to maintaining a sound liquidity position. BOA should furthermore,
undertake that it will consult with IDA if BOA's medium-long-term portfolio equals
six times BOATs new worth as stated in the balance sheet, with a view to reaching
understanding on additions to BOA's equity base if anid when, in IDA's view, such
is needed. The understanding wii h BOA shou41d also provide for a safeguard against
inflation of BOA's equity base, jf its excess provisions were to be capitalized
or its fixed assets revalued.



ANNEX I
Page .1of .2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Decision-making Process for Industrial Investment
1.        General.  Decision-making for industrial investment in Egypt's public
sector takes place at three different levels: (i) by the President and the
Cabinet, (ii) by the respective Ministries, and (iii) by the General Economic
Organizations and, to some extent,- by the public firms themselves. Egypt has
some 50 General Economic Organizatiorns dealing with the economy as a whole, of
which ten are concerned with industry. These holding-type organizations are
under the overall supervision of their respective Ministries. Public firms
(industrial and otherwise) are, in turn, under the guidance of their respective
General Organizations. In other words, these General Organizations act as links
between public firms and the Ministries. The role of the Government in invest-
ment decisions in the private sector is outlined in paragraph 8 of this Annex.
2.        General Organization for Industrialization (GOIndr).  GOIndr is a
branch of the Ministry of Industry. GOIndr has advisory functions in industrial
development and is in charge of coordinating the action of the ten different
General Organizations mentioned above within the framework of Egypt's economic
plans and of the yearly budget. The GoIndr is reBponsible for carrying out
appraisal studies of all industrial sector projects, and plays an active role in
identifying and preparing new projects.
3.        GOIndr has a Board of Directors representing the various Ministries
(in the person of either the Minister or Undersecretary).  The Chairman of the
Board of Directors is the Minister of Industry. Day-today management has been
delegated to a full time professional, Dr. Taher Amin. GOIndr is divided into
nine departments, corresponding to the different branches of industry. Each
department includes specialists in their respective technical fields. GOIndr
has a total staff of about 1,000 of which over 200 are involved in the iden-
tification, preparation and appraisal of projects; its yearly budget for
research in the field identification of new projects is about £E 1.0 million.
4.        Public Sector Investments.  In general, industrial investments are
first proposed to the GOIndr by one of the ten General Economic Organizations.
GOIndr carries out an initial screening of the projects submitted to it to
assess how the project fits in the overall economic plan. If its initial finding
is positive, the General Organization concerned is asked to submit a fairly ela-
borate appraisal report to GOIndr. The General Economic Organization concerned
and GOIndr (and the firm itself in case of an expansion) work together in the
preparation of the appraisal report. The appraisal report includes an assessment
-- both on a five- and ten-year perspective - of the forecast demand for the
products to be produced by the firm. Before the appraisal report is submitted
for approval to the Ministry of Industry, it is reviewed by the Director of the
Central Department for Technical Studies and Research and by Dr. Amin himself.
In 1971 some 70 projects were appraised.



AXNNE1
page 2 of 2
5.        After approval by the Ministry of Industry, the project is studied by
the Cabinet's Planning Committee, headed by the Prime Minister and including
the Ministers of Finance, Economy and Foreign Trade Planning and Industry. The
Planning Committee allocates the funds available in the budget among the priority
projects in different economic sectors. To appreciate the importance of the
Planning Committee in investment decisions, one should consider that these
decisions are taken in the context of an indicative overall development plan. As
a result, funds often must be allocated to the different sectors of the economy on a
pragmatic basis. Nevertheless, the Planning Committee seems to attempt to
maintain a balance between well established long-term targets (as established in
the five year plans) and Egypt's short-term requirements. Appropriation for
the project in the budget takes place after approval of the Planning Committee.
6.        For its own initiated projects, GOIndr is also in charge of following
up the particular project throughout the construction period and during three
months of initial operation.
7.        A matter of special interest is the degree of freedom enjoyed by the
public industrial firma in using their own cash-generated funds for investmient
purposes. Normally, depreciation allowances, provisions and allocations to
reserves (the latter are predetermined by the Government) are left to the firms.
But profits accrue, by law, to the State (75%) and the firm's employees (25%).
The 75% of the surpluses accruing to the State reportedly enter into an Invest-
ment Fund. The Investment Fund is apparently used as a balancing item in the
budget, meaning that other sectors can, and often do, benefit from the surpluses
received by the Investment Fund.
8.        Private Sector Investments.  Private sector enterprises or investments
above LE &,000, must obtain a license from GOIndr (Law 21, 1968), before they
can be established and carried out. Thus, practically all private industrial
projects have to be approved by GOIndr.  GOIndr's involvement is limited
basically to a abeck on the lonsistency of the entrepreneur's investment plan
with the Government s own inv6stment plans.  The entrepreneur must fill out a
auest-ionnaire which is first reviewed by one of GOIndr's nine specialized de-
partments; if the department concerned recomraends approval, the project is
reviewed by a committee headed by Dr. Amin. (Dhis committee includes members
f the ten General Organizations for Industry and an official. from the Federation
of Industries, which represents both public and private sector industries). The
committee looks0 closely into the project's needs for raw materials;  these needs
have to fit into the overall allocation for raw materials reserved for the
private sector. If the project has a foreign exchange component (investments or
raw materials), it also needs an import license from the Ministry of Finance,
Economy and Foreign Trade. The processing of private sector applications normally
takes less than two months.
E4ENA/DFC
Janiary 26, 1973



ANNEX 2
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
Exports of Industrial Private Sector
(x  E 'oo0)
Industry                1 968/t9       1969/70        1970/71        1971/72
Weaving and Clothing            1,748          2,539          2,972         14,h22
Foodstuffs                      1,076            830            691           588
Chemical                          557            892          1,915         1,763
Metallurgical                     201             85            121           194
Leather                         4,905          5,648          5,867         6,o43
Woodworking                     1,51l          2,057          3,527          2,641
Handicraft Products             1,214          1,116          1,0h7         1,733
Building Materials                 18              7             15            17
Other                              35             13             40            27
Total                     11,268         13,187        16,195         17,h28
E1ENA/ DFC
March 30, 1973






AliN 3
ODAAUZZATIPl CH AlrAND OIMlIZ&ATmIMIL SMUCTDIRI OF BANK OF AL .ANmD                                          Page 1 of 1
I. Organimation Cbart
DGeral Assaml
Board of Dirzmtora of
The Ceontral Bmk
Board of Direotors
Denaral H   ger                                                     F.eefra           rrl   Hngerl
Sin Mter of                                                           Can aztMmbrond Mober of
tie Board                                                             V.c Board                                          t   Board
H.H.                                                                  I Baooe  A.l.A.  oae                                LIM. ZLUIIE
L Deputy  eneral GDepoty  Omerel
LInager                      !Nager
__  _  __  L                                 5  El Din Nourad                                    V0a4nt
Depute General                                    tditat Ouer
HMager                                              ner
A.F. BOirW.                                      1Vo   T
1   5ouritV   |  | edioaa Af_-
Dept.              fair  Dept.|
0  .ral M se  l
|:.A                            .           .aeerl  one
=ma1n"d       ro
|Dt  0Z1                                                         AU     otherOer
w vnt   |                          | II Z1 Noboe    |                                        | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vant
M/  M ' Orwgidation Chart IS  TM  in ine  9.



ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 4
II.  Organizational Structure
Main functions of Head Office Departments
A.  Service Departments
1.   Department for Organization and Administration
- Preparing studies on the Bank's organizational structure.
- Participating in establishing and amending of work schemes.
- Preparing and updating training schemes and supervising
their execution; management of the Bank's training center.
2.   Department for Plaiming and Budget
Preparing the Bank's budget and analyzing its future
resource needs and their utilization; following up on
implementation of the budget.
- Preparing monthly financial position data and other statistical
data.
-  Formulating policies for increasing the Bank's savings accounts.
3.  Department for Financial Affairs
Preparing the Bank's annual financial statements and keeping
the Central Accounts, Ledgers and Statistical Registers
concerning the Balance Sheet and Tnccmne Statement items.
Keeping registers and analysis ledgers concerning the Head
Office's financial activities.
Checking the daily movement between the branches.
4.   Department for Administrative Affairs
- Following up with the branches on findings of Inspection
Department.
- Undertaking studLes on the internal working schemes
with a view to improving the Bank's services.
- Following up on general instructions concerning administrative
affairs.
- Participating in the preparation of studies on the establishment
of new branches.
5.   Board of Directors' Secretariat
- Preparing memoranda for the Board of Directors and other
major Committees of the Bank, and following up on the resolutions
issued Ln connectlin therewith.
- Preparing draft decisions and instructions to be issued by
the Chairnma   and following up on their dissemination.
- Analyzing - s?r,-da and reports submitted by the Head Office
dep.e. ~   ~to the nanagement and recommending appropriate
a c,-,   -.r3,Qru    taha Board.



ANNEX 3
Page 3 of i
6.  Department for Economic Research
- Preparing research studies on local and foreign economic matters
relevant to the Bank's operations.
- Publishing a quarterly economic bulletin and an internal monthly
review.
- Participating in the preparation of the Bank's annual report.
7.   Inspection Department
-   Inspecting the Branches and Head Office departments to ensure
proper application of instructions, analyzing discrepancies
and proposing means of adjustment or improvement.
-   Undertaking internal control by means of examining the
accounts and vouching the entries relating to past trans-
actions.
-   Undertaking a general audit of the Bank's operations to ensure
conformance with adopted working schemes.
-   Participating in the study of internal regulation schemes and
examining proposals for their improvement.
-   Carrying out spot checks and surprise inspections of Branches.
8.   Legal Departments (Commercial Banking and Term Lending)
-   Drawing up credit contracts and their notarization.
-   Representing the Bank in all legal matters and giving legal advice.
-   Carrying out investigations and supervising the application of
laws and regulations affecting the Bank's business.
-   Investigating client companies' statutes and legal status, and
giving legal advice on the ownership of securities.
The functions of the following Service Department are self-explanatory:
9.   Department for Personnel Affairs
10.   Complaints Department
11.   Department for Premises and Supplies
12.   Security Department
13.   Medical Affairs Department
B.   Operational Departmentsl/
1.   Credit Department
-   Formulation of the Bank's credit policy and dissemination of
the necessary instructions pertaining thereto.
-   Analyzing applications for credit facilities that are  beyond
the Branch managers' permitted limits, and preparing recommendations
for appropriate action and decision.
- Following up the adequacy of isecuri{ies for extende credit
facilities.
_- BAls MHead ofrice departments for commercial banking activities only;
the development banking departments are discussed in Annex 7.



ANNEX 3
Page   o of 1
2.  Follow-up :jpartment
-   Analysing the Financial position and financial performance
of cltent companies. (For public sector companies
the rqports are sent to the company itself the supervising
Public Organization, and the Central Bank.i
-    Following up the above analysis with the client companies.
3. Department for Promotion and Public Relations
-    Promoting the Bank's services and conducting its public
relations.
-    Coordinating the recreational and social activities of
the Brnk's personnel.
Deprtm   for1oreiRations
-    Establishing and strengthening relations with foreign corres-
pondents, exchanging banking facilities with them and following
Up the Bank's activities through them.
-    Follaoing up the implementation of instructions, issued by
the General Administration for Exchange Control and other
authorities, relating to foreign exchange and foreign trade
operations.
EMA/DFC
January 20, 1973



ANN1A Li
Pane 1 of 2
BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
The Board of Directors
(Situation as of December 31, 1972)
I.   Appointed Members.
Name and Position              Date & Mode of Appointment       Previous Experience
Ahmed Abdel Al Ghaefar -            6.2.67  - Presidential           Arab Land Bank:
Chairman                    59                  Decree of 1967       Chairman & Managing
Director
Mohamed Mostafa                                                      Central Bank of
El-Bayoumi - General                                                 Egypt:  Manager
Manager & Member of the   51        4.10.70 -  Presidential          (2 years)
Board                                           Decree of 1971       Bank of Alexandria:
.kneral manager
W4 yeara)
Mostafa Mohamed            48       5.2.66  - Presidential           Bank of Alexandria:
Noureddin - General                             Decree of 1966       Taxation Department
Manager & Member of                                                  Manager (2 years)
the Board                                                            Assistant General
Controller
(2 years)
Assistant General
Manager (6 years)
1/
Ali Mohamed Ali Hussein -           4,10.71 - Presidential           Ministry of Economy
General Manager & Member  54                    Decree of 1971       & Foreign Trade:
of the Board                                                         Under-Secretary
Bank of Alexandria:
General Manager and
Member of the Board
since 4.10.1971.
Mostafa Mohamed                      4.10.71 -  Presidential         Ministry of Economy
El-Missary                 54                   Decree of 1971       and Foreign Trade:
Under-Secretary
Bank of Alexandria:
General Manager &
Member of the Board
since 4.10.1971
II. Elected Members.
Ibrahim El-Nahas -                   14.9.64 - Election              Bank Misr, Saudi
Assistant General          60                                        Arabia:  Manager
Manager                                                               (5 years)
Import & Export
Bank of Egypt:
(26 years)
Bank of Alexandria:
Director of Admin-
istrative Dept
(3 years)
1/ Seconded by the Government for three year
teaching assighment in Iraq; seat vacant.



ANNE 4t
Page 2 of 2
Name and Position,    Age      Date   Xode           t          Previous Experience
Kamal Abdou Abdel Gaber -           14.9.64 - neout±Q                Bank of Alexardria:
Manager, Inspection          44                                      Assistant Manager,
Department                                                           Cairo Branch
(4 years)
Kamel Mohamed Saleh -              29A1.1t69 - Sleetion              Bank of Alexandria:
Manager, Musky Branch        55                                      Manager, Sherif
Branch (3 years)
Ibrahim El- Dessouki                7B466  -  l.ction                Bank of Alexandria:
Ismail - Manager,,           49                                     Assistant Manager,
Port Said Branch                                                    Sh&nif Branch
(4 years)
EMiNA/DFC
January 8, 1973



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 4
BKNK OF ALEXANDRIA
Highlights of Internal Policies
and Procedures for Commercial Banking
I.   Credit Policies
1. Each credit application must be carefully analyzedtaking ihto
account various criteria set by the Head Office, to ensure
that the credit falls within the Bank's general credit policy.
The Bank does not engage in the financing of operations of a
speculative nature.
2. Judgments on the financial standing of the applicant are based
on information obtained from various sources, which must be up-
dated periodically. Client companies must provide periodically
financial statements of a nature and with a frequency to be
determined by BOA.
3. In the case of applications for renewals and/or increases of
existing facilities, special criteria are to be applied to
assess the results of the custamer's accounts with BOA (movement
of the account; percentage of bills paid, unpaid or returned to
customer; value of goods delivered and value withdrawn;
doumentary credita opened and docuents negotiated,etc.).
h. Utilisation of the credit facilities may under no circumstances
exceed the authorized limits unless an waiver has been obtained.
5. At present, the following credit limits apply:
Credit Limits                       Sanctioning Power by:
LE 200,000, of which LE 70,000 in blank _/ Chairman of the Board-/
£E 100,000, of which LE 35,000 in blank    General Manager, Credit Department
(Alexandria) and General Manager
in charge of Cairo Branches
LE 35,000, of which LE 5,000 in blank       Deputy General Manager, Credit
Department
LE 20,000, of which LE 4I,000 in blank      Assistant General Managers,
Credit Departm.ent
LE 15,000, of which LE 3,000 in blank       Head of Credit Administration
LE 15,000, of which £ZE3,000 inr.blank      Managers of Main Branches   /
LE 7,500 - 12,000 (depending on senibuity),
of which LE 750 - 1,000 in blank            Managers of A Branches
LE 1,000 - 5,000, of which LE 750 in blank Managers of B and C Branches
LB 500, of which LE 200 in blank            Offices and Agencies
1/ i.e. without a legally enforceable security.
2/  The Chainman may exceed these limits in special cases, provided that the sanction
is presented for approval at the next Board meeting.
2/ BOA's branch offices are classified, according to the volume of business and
territory and the population covered, into:
Main Branches  (3)     A Branches  (9)      B Branches  (19)
C Branches    (42)     Offices      (1)     Agencies      (6)



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 4
6. W,hen accepting bills for discount and/or for pledge, satisfactory
information on the financial standing and morality of all
parties of the bill must be obtained. Bills must represent genuine
operations relating to commercial activities.  Advances may not exceed
the margins of security set for the various types of bills.
7. For advances granted against merchandise, the Bank requires among
other things that:
a) The merchandise to be held as security is not
of a perishable nature, its prices are stable
and a reasonable period for storage is fixed
according to its nature.
b) The Bank has effective possession and control
of the merchandise, or it ia held by an
independant acceptable third party for account of
the Bank.
c) The Bank's charge on merchandise is absolute
against both client and third parties.
d) The merchandise is insured against risks of fire
and robbery with benefits ceded to the Bank.
e) The merchandise is valued at the lower of market
prices or invoice prices, and a reasonable
margin is maintained at all times.
8.  For advances to cantractors, oession of contract are mrely
regarded as an indication of the iarco of paymntj  in auch
cases the Bank normally insists on collateral as security.
Separate accounts must be opened for each contract ceded to the
Bank. Strict regulations are applied for immediate follow-up
with the customer and third parties concerned, in case any
delay occurs in the periodical payments to be made under the
contract.
9.  Except in very special cases, the Bank does not provide
guarantees for commercial debts.
10.   In the appraisal of applications for Letters of Undertaking
the following guidelines must be taken into account:
a. Adequacy of applicant's financial means to
justify any unsecured portion of the Letter
of Undertaking.
b. The facility should be within the scope of
prudent banking risks (that is, not overlap
with the risks to be undertaken by the company).
c. The collateral advantages derived from the
account must justify the granting of the
facility.



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of .
d. The business in respect of which the undertaking
is issued should be and remain concentrated
with the Bank.
The Bank invariably insists upon a full cash cover whenever a demand
for implementation of the guarantee seems probable. In certain cases
a lower cover is accepted but the cash must be augmented by period-
ical additional payments until a 100% cover is realized.
II. Head Office Controls over Facilities Granted
1.   Branch Offices must submit to the Head Office weekly (for Accounts
over ME 100,000) or fortnightly(for Accounts up to LE 100,000)
return sheets of accounts held with the Branch Office, commenting
separately on:
a. Accounts which at any time during the preceding
period covered by the return have been in excess
of authorized limits.
b. Accounts which have been in violation of stipulated
conditions.
c. Accounts for which limits have expired.
Returns on these accounts must present:
i) the maximum liabilities during the period
at the least favorable position;
ii) the cause and expected duration of any
irregularity;and
iii)  the sources from which settlement is expected.
2. Branch Offices must submit by the 15th of each month a past-
due bills report, giving details on any bills discounted that are
overdue, including overdue interest and other liabilities
outstanding in the name of the discounter. At the end of
each month a report must be submitted covering bills taken
for ary individual drawee (or maker in case of Promisory
Notes) for amounts in excess of:
i)  3E 1,500 for Main Branches
ii)  LE 500 for all other Branches
These reports must include details on the total bill maturities
during the month covered by the return, together with
percentages of unpaid or extended bills or of bills withdrawn
by remitters or discounters.
3. Branch Offices must submit semi-annually a full record of
customer   accounts in excess of the authorized limit, indicat-
ing such aspects as:



ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 4
a)  Customer's name, occupation and capital
b)  Limits sanctioned and expiry dates
c) Liabilities outstanding
d)  Security stipulated a.-d margins under the
limits ssnctioned
e)  Nature of security actually held:  guarantees given
by third party (bills, statistics for past six months
showing total maturities and percentages unpaid or
extended); tangible security (merchandise and produce,
proterties mortgaged, stocks and shares)
f)  Rates of interest and ccinission for al1 classes
of facilities
g) Statistics of account for last six months and
the previous year
h)  Remarks relating to the account and its conduct;
any irregularity in the account
Accounts below reporting limits are aggregated as follows:
E 2000 for Main Branchbs
LE 1,500 for A Branches
3z 500 for all other Branches
4.  Bad and Doubtful Debts Reports:
Full reports, drawn up in accordance with specific guide-
lines, must be submitted for each bad or doubtful account
as of March 31 and September 30, and, at irregular times and
on short notice, as notified by the Head Office.
5.  A Failure Form must be submitted to the Head Office for each
client who is unable to meet his obligations to BOA or who
appears to be in difficulty. This form is also submitted
for any account where:
i)  interest is to be suspended
ii) legal action is being taken or has been threatened
iii)  through error or omission, the Bank is involved in
actual or contingent losses or claim
iv) legal action is taken against the Bank
Liabilities for which a Failure Form is submitted are further
processed for liquidation.
EMENA/DFO
January 8, 1973



ANNEX 6
FORMER INDUSTRIAL BANK OF EGYPT
Balance Sheet
as of October 1, 1971
(as approved bZ the Government Committee)
(x LE '000)
Assets
Cash and banks                                                          225
Accounts receivable                                                     577
Accrued income on loans                                                 546
Current Assets                                                        1,348
Government bonds      )
and other illiquid    )                                               1,183
investments           )
Loans and advances                                                   13,606
Less:  Provisions                                                        -
Loan portfolio (net)                                                 13,607
Fixed assets (net)                                                      177
(including assets
acquired on account                                                     (101)
of loan default)
Total Assets                                                         16,31h
Liabilities & Equity
Accounts payable                                                         792
Dividends Payable                                                        76
Current Liabilities                                                     868
Term borrowings:
Bonds                                                                  7,500
Renewable short-term )
accommodations         )                                              6,097
from commercial banks )
Total term borrowings                                                 13,597
Provisions for taxes )
and staff indemnities )                                                  439
Provision for decrease )
in investment value       )
Share capital                                                         1,500
Reserves and surplus
(accumulated losses)                                                     (90)
Met worth                                                             1nh10
Total liabilities equity                                             16,314
= ===
EMENA/DFC
January 5, 1973






Annex 7
Page 1 of 3
SPECIAL SERVICES TO PRIVATE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR (SSPIS)
ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURES
Organization
1.        The proposed Organization Chart, on page 3, calls for three operational and
two Head Office Departments and for the creation of special term lending sections
in at least two main branches. For the time being there will be no special term
lending sections in the approximately 20 branches which are expected to be involved
in SSPIS's activities. Twrm lending sections, under direction of the branch manager
in the main branches will, however, closely supervise these branches.
2.        SSPIS' organizational structure has been drawn-up in anticipation
of growth. Not all of the units may be needed at the outset. For instance,
SSPIS may decide to combine initially the legal work into two or three sections
instead of the five shown in the Chart. But BOA's management has preferred to
get the approval of the Central Agency for Organization and Management for the
"ideal" set-up of SSPIS so as to avoid having to go back to this agency later
on to obtain approval if additional operational sections were needed.
Procedures
I. Appraisal Work
i) Projects below Discretionary Limit
3.        BOA's policy of granting branch managers a discretionary limit below
which they can commit the BOA will also apply to SSPIS. On present thinking --
but these proposals are still to be approved by the Board -- the
discretionary limits will apply only to term-loans below three
years; loans beyond that term will be appraised and processed directly by the
Head Office. Neither will discretionary limits apply to public sector lending
which will be handled directly by the Head Office. As for SSPIS financing
activities other than term-lending (hire-purchase, installment-sale and working-
capital financing of artisans etc.), BOA's normal credit limits will apply-
(see for breakdown, page 1 of Annex 6).
4.        BOA's management is thinking of the following discretionary limits for
term-loans up to three years:
Cairo and Alexandria branches              BE  5,000 per client
Regional Branches                          BE  3,000 per client
ii) Projects above Discretionary Limit
5.,-    Regional branches must submit applications over their discretionary limit
to the main branches or to the Head Office, depending on the amount involved: one
in the Cairo area (located in the former IBE building), one in Alexandria, and
probably one in Asyut, a medium-sized town located in Upper Egypt. Each of these
main branches will be responsible for the full appraisal of applications below their
own discretionary limit for term-loans. Applications beyond that limit must be



Annex 7
Page 2 of 3
passed on for appraisal to the Head Office; the-mair branches must make sure
that the applications have been satisfac-torily completed.
6.        In view of the relatively low discretionary limits of the branches,
the bulk of the decision-making for SSPIS' industrial lending program will come
to the Head Office.
7.        The Section Chie-" Credit will have primary responsibility for the
processing of term-loan applications in the Head Office. The three technical
sections in the Department for Term-Lending will make separate contributions on
the economic, technical and financial aspects of the appraisal but the Section
Chief Credit will have final responsibility for the appraisal report to be
submitted for approval by the Manager for Term-Lendingf. who in turn submits
reports with a recommendation through the Deputy General Manager to the General
Manager. The next step is a Loan Committee (similar to a development finance
company's Executive Committee). Projects the General Manager rejects are to be
notified every three months with an explanation to the Loan Committee.
8.        The envisaged Loan Committee normally will meet once a week, and will
likely be composed of:
i) General Manager of SSPIS and/or Deputy General Manager
(Chairman of the Loan Committee)
ii) Manager of the Term Lending Department
iii) Manager of the Follow-up Department
iv) Legal Advisor, SSPIS
v & vi) Two senior officers of BQA.
The Loan Committee will make its decisions by majority vote, with the Chairman
casting the deciding vote in case of a tie.
9.       'Th.e General Manager of SSPIS will report periodically to the Chairman of
BOA's Board on investment decisions. On present thinking, the Committee will have
discretionary power to approve term loans up to LE 100,000 per client. All loans
over BE 100,000, and all loans, irrespective of amount, which raise BOA's total
exposure in a single company above LE 100,000 must be submitted for approval, together
with the Loan Committee's recommendation, to BOA's Board.
II. Management Information and Internal Accounting System
10.       BOA is working out a system to provide SSPIS' management with up-to-date
information on such aspects of BOA's term-lending operations as (i) lists of
projects under study and pending commitments, (ii) progress reports on disburse-
ments for approved loans, (iii) early identification of problem projects in BOA's
term-loan portfolio, (iv) monthly reports on arrears, and (v) appropriate feedback
to SSIPS' Term Lending Department of information gathered by the Follow-up Department.
11.       BOA is also setting up separate internal accounting systems for its
term-financing and commercial banking activities.
D4EN.A/DFC
h~ril 10, 1973



SPFCIL SUEtG  ¶S ¶V EI EVATS INStUL SaM   (MSPmI)
GANMATlION GNRT,.                                                                                     AN
Page 3 of 3
Oenerol Nma.ae
Dep|l5' General Hn e
FtR-_DOD         0110    MRr
tanager of                                                  t.                    Menage? Gm*s                            of IS~M o
sw Contracts m;                    o liceoio  Small
Total rdto  (legal Dtanoe a
Sta%ial DoSectontaletaco Gataf                                                           Section (Salf
se cci                Forei
Dorroallog             S oPrro  8aA
Pyoffl aprof PLof                                                   I              MproIl e |tI Prote Staff
~~~~~~~~~~~~VfoIMrm   io 2o                                                                                                   snntaff 11 fr 
~~~~~~~~~Staf ega    i.on Gal                                                             Sr[ecion Galef -9                    eotio  GF de fr
F _ se ff L Dzp~a-see                      5                    im                                 Ctoh
K|1&2 alhis ._n .                                 Sd  |
Otblr PFrofsP                                              2
sionals~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~floto Gh63
Gala ~ ~ ~~cton (Salaf                                  ectica Galef
Troot  in i                                                                   n   loe
Sot FrBre       *odStf
t' Qah lef-
S ot~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ionbal Ana ysta 4 
0th . Cii                                                               tl r. rar  lac n
jecta in ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~ifa 
TotaliPfenleso   taff aeln                                                                       2
7 ata1   2                                                                           I
Section lGtef7a97
SSFIS Staff,   2G0                                                                            9 
1973






ANNEX a
page 1 of 2
BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
Policy Statement for Term-Lending Operations
as Approved by the Board on April 23, 1973
Goals.
1.        Supporting industrial production through the financing of investments
whether in the form of establishing or modernization factories or in the form
of expanding existing factories.
2.        Investigating methods of investment according to the needs of society
and in cooperation with the competent governmental bodies.
Scope of Long-term Lending Operations
a) Scope of Financing.
1) Financing shall be confined to projects which contribute to the economic
development of the State.
2) Financing shall include enterprises of both the public and private sectors,
after their securing necessary governmental licenses, and in accordance
with the laws and regulations.
b) Investment and Financial Policy.
1) SSPIS shall select projects on the basis of their economic, technical,
financial, and administrative soundness, and also on the basis of the
extent of the usefulness of the project to the balance of payment of
the State and with a view to extending financing to the largest possible
geographical area.
2) SSPIS shall endeavor to cause the financing to include diversified projects
in different industrial sectors.
3) SSPIS shall take into account that its financing of a project shall not
exceed a certain portion, to be determined by the Board later, of the
financing demands of the project.
4) With the exception of special cases, SSPIS shall not grant to an enter-
prise loans which would exceed 25% of their paid in capital and reserves.
5) In long and medium-term lending operations, SSPIS shall normally secure
real securities or any other acceptable securities, the value of which
shall not be less than 75% of the amount of the loan.
6) Repayment periods for medium and long-term loans shall not usually exceed
15 years with a grace period of 1 to 3 years.



ANNEX $
page 2 of 2
7) Bank of Alexandria shall take into account that the aggregate amoUnt of
the louns it shall obtain would not exceed 10 times the amount of the
capitaj and the rights of shareholders. This limitation shall not apply
to the loans obtained by the Bank for ordinary commercial operatiQns or
to inter banks facilities.,
Other AssistaMe to Productive Enterprises,:
1.        The activity of SSPIS shall not be confined to the provision of various
loans to enterprises but shall extend to the provision of advice, when requested,
in the administrative, economic and financial spheres, with a view to raising the
standard of industrial development in the State. To that end SSPIS shall endeavor
to build up the required expertise.
E14ENA/DlFC
May 1, 1973



ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 3
BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
Trend of Deposits and Interest Rates
1..  Interest Rates
Under Central Bank regulations, all commercial banks pay the same
interest rate on the various types of deposits as follows:
Demand Deposits:          no interest, no charges
Time and Notice Deposits:
i) Private Sector:
15 -  30 days            2% per year
30 -  90 days           2;s per year
90 - 180 days            3% per year
180 -   1 year          3A% per year
over  1 year            4% per year
ii) Public Sector:
A1U periods               2% per year
Savings Accounts
The interest on Savings Accounts is 3½% per year. BOA also offers
a lottery system with a basic interest of 3% per year, and the
possibility to increase it to 4%.
2. Trend of Deposits
See analysis page 2 of this Annex.



i)  Breakdo,m by Tpe of Depodt; Public Versus Private Sector
(June    70- December 31, 1972;  LE'000)
1971                                                1972
I                               Ila         IV      I                                           TV      I       _         II              III         IV       D ec,mbor 31, 1972
In  s                                                I  as                                                III aas
I as             II as   Total     oI as                             II as  Total       or              I as               II as  Total     of
Pablic    %      Private    %      per      total  Public      %     Private    %       par     total  Public      %      Private           pr       total   Public    Private
Typo of Deposits      Sector  or AI   qetr   of TT  Type.   deosi  Seetor   of III Sector   of III TvDe   deposits  Sector   of III                tr        III Tpe       deposits Vector   Sector   Total
Demand Deposits       58,957   71.1   23,931    28.9   82,888    46.6   51,537    66.9   25,401    32.1   76,938    45.3   60,j92    66.9   29,865    33.'   90,257    44.4           N.A.     N. A.   109,373
Time Deposits         43,651    76.9   13,097   23.1   56,748    31.9   36,691    74.9   12,257   25.1   4d,948    28.8   49,383    78.1   13,832    2'.9    63,2'5   31.1           N.A.      N.5A.    77,667
Other Depodit_l/      23,301    95.7    1,042     4.3   24,343    13.8   26,145    96.3       998    3.7   27,143    16.0   26,262    88.7    3,344    11.3   29,506    '4.6         N.A.      N.A.    31,087
Savings Acoounts        -        -    13,747   100.0   13,747    77.7       -         -    16,878   100.0   16,878    9.9       -         -    20,242   100.0   20,242      9.9      N.A.      NM.      22,376
Total:               125,909    70.8   51,817   29.2  177,726   100.0  p14,373    67.3   55,534   32.7  169,907   100.0   36,037   66.9   67,283    33.1  203,320   100.0    134,644  105,775   240,503
T The bulk of thue depositS consist of cash-covers against Letters of Guarantee isaued
by BOA.



ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 3
Average annual net growth per type of deposit during the 1970-72 period was as follows:
TMe of deposit
Demand deposits                    4.4%
Time deposits                      5.7%
Other deposits                   10.8%
Savings accounts:                 23.6%
ii) Breakdown by Depositing Entity; as June 30 (XME'000)
1970              1971         1972
% of
total
Amount deposits Amount  %  Amount   %
1. Public and Private sector
productive enterprises       119.7    67.4   112.4  66.2  125.7  61.8
2. Private small-scale industry
and private individuals       38.3    21.5   42.0   24.7  47.2  23.2
3. Public sector general
organizations                  2.5      1.l4    3.5     2.1    3.9   1.9
4. Central Government entities      12.2      6.9     8.1    4.8  19.7  9.7
5. Miscellaneous                     5.0      2.8     3.9    2.2    6.8   3.4
Total               177.7   100.0  169.9  100.0  203.3 100.0
iii)  Breakdown by TyPe of Business of Depositing Ehtity (Items 1 and 2 under
Breakdown ii) only); as of June 30 (XIVOOO)
1970             1971             17
Amount 1    %    Amunt M     %   Amount      _
Industrial     134.9   85.4   134.8   87.4   154.4   89.1
Connercial      14.4    9.1      12.5    8.1      12.2    7.1
Services         5.4     3.4      4.4     2.8      4.5     2.5
Agriculture      3.3     2.1      2.7     1.7      2.2     1.3
Total:         158.0   100.0    154.4  100.0   172.9  100.0
EMENA/DEC
January 20, 1973






ANhN IP
BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
Characteristics of Commercial Banking Activities
(June 30, 1969 - June 30, 1972J
(LE '000)
i)  Portfolio outstanding by type of borrower
Type of Borrower               1969             1970              1971             1972
Amount   _       Amount           Amount      L    Am
Public and private
sector companies            41,608    67.5  43,283    68.9   'c,$6c    69.2   64,290   74.8
Financial institutions        10,700    17.4  11,200    17.8   15,50"   21.6  17,100   19.9
Public sector general
organization                   480     0.8       900     1.4      296     O.i.      566    o.6
Private sector small-
scale entrepreneurs
(craftsmen, etc.)            8,813    14.3    7,01    11.9    6,284       8.8    4,019    4.7
Total          61,601   100.0   62,854   100.0  71,640   100.0  85,975  100.0
Of which - in public                                                            r
sector             52,300    84.9  51h,200    86.2   48,600    67.8   55,100   64.1
- in priva.e                                                  I
sector              9,301    15.1    8,654    13.8   23,04O/ 32.2   30,875   35.9
Total          61,601   loo1.   62,8514   100.0  71,640   10oo.    85,975  100.0
ii) Portfolio outstanding by economic activity of borrower_/
Sector                         1969              1970             1971              1972
Amount   _       Amount            Amount    _      Amount    p
Industry                      43,600    85.7   44,100    85.J  149,100    87.5  65,Loo   9L.9
Agriculture                       320     o.6      212     o.L      310      0.6      316    o.5
Trade                          4,500      8.8    4,900     9.5    4,700      8.&L    2,800   )i.1
Services                         964      1.9      797     1.5      570      1.0      329    o.5
11iscellaneous                 1,517      3.0    1,645     3.2    1 L6o      2.5      -      _
rotal          50,901   100.0  51,6514  100.0   56,1140   100.0   68,075  100.0
1/  Private sector ine]udes parts of loans and advances to financial institutions -errrent
to the private sector.
2/ Excluding loans to financial institutions for which no breakdown by sector is available.
i!4bNA/DFC
Ap.ril 23. 1>'73






ANNZX 11
bANK  F ALIEXAliRTI
Audited Income Statementa June 30, 1969-jun 30. 972 and July 1. _1972-Deowber 31. 1972
X _ _ M ~~~~~~B _OU
July 1 - Decawbar 31. 19
1969                          1970                            197t                           1921
Income
Interest on dePoite                    205                            463                            643                            755                   )      200
Income ftom non-operational
inrestj2,ts               600             805            549           1,012            643           1,286            4D            1.213   )      185        385
Interest on loans end discounts                     h,594                          4,521                          4,253                          6,093   )               5,48S
Cosedesions, fees  nd other
chargea                         2 218                          2,852                         2'984                           3,170   )1233
TotlInon e                                          7,618                          8,386                          8,523                         10,476   )               7,106
Financial costs
Interest paid on deposits            1,784                          2,116                          2,116                          2,470                        1,501
Intrent paid on long temr
borrovir g-
Comlssiona aid fas                                  1.784             _            2116              _            2.116             _            2,470            53     1 251
Operating Kxpenaes
Salariea                             1,402                          1,451                          1,493                          1,749                          961
Other operatirg expenses               624          2,026             6            2.150                            2                                            331     1.292
Operating Incorm                                    3,8C9                          4,120                          6,275                           5,518                  4,260
Provisions
- for possible losses on
operational pwrtfolio           760                            651                            897                          1 ,490                         500
- for otker possible
e,3pensea            342           1.102            350           1.001            24            1,6               512          2,002          354        854
Gross earnings                                      2.706                          3.119                          323 6                                                  3,406
Taxation al1osence                                    477                           8a0                           1,353                             191                  1,572
Not Profit                                                                         2.279                          t.776                                                  1.834
Acpprpriattoi
1A    reserve                                 111                            114                              99                           255
othr rerves                                   223                            227                             17C                           421
Dividends                                   1.895                          1.938                           1l                            2,649
2,229                          2,279                           1,776                         3,325
1/  Under Central Bek reguIations, all oommreldl banks are requlred to
allocate yearly not profita* as ollowUs
Source                               Purpose
i)  5% of ,t profit to                    Statutocy reaerve
ii)  10% of Mut profit to                  Genral reserves
ii1)  5% of paid-up capital to              Central Bank and Staff
iv)  iO% of rest (nst profits              Central Bank to cover
minus i-iii) to          supervision  id manaammst ooats.
v)  Rest (net profits minus i-itv)        To be distributed betWeen Central
Bank end BDA staff as follai 
.75% Central Bsk
-25% Bo.SWtf
B y law defined as lbring, sinuo (a) xpm-sse, (b) depreoiation,
(c) pro'Iliona for bad and doubtful loans aM for taxation, net of write-offs.
3 This percentage to be reduced to 5% whsen total equity exceeda 10% of
total deposita.
Broken down oa follows.
10 Paid out in cask
5% kept in blorked account for local services
10% kept in blocked account for central services.
The blocked acconta are kept with the Central Dank and can be used tar staff remuneration
of firms whiob are in the construotion period or are realising loss"e due to external
circumstances.
IENA4/DFFC
January 10, 1973






ANNEX 12
Page 1af 3
BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
Financial Performance (1969 - 1972)
Ratio Analysis
I.   Ratios of Profitability.
1.   Total Earnings before Interest, Provisions and Tax
as % of Average Total Assets
1969  : 3.3%                   1971  : 3.4%
1970  : 3.4%                   1972  : 3.9%
2.   Operating Income as % of Average Total Assets
1969  : 4.1%                   1971  : 3.9%
1970  :  h.0%                  1972  :  4.5%
1/
3.  Net Profit as % of Average Net-worth
1969  : 20.6%                  1971  :  14.1%
1970: 19.7%                    1972  : 21.8%
4.  Net Profit, plus Portion of Yearly Provisions Pepresenting
Reserves, as % of Average Equity
1969  : 26.7%                  1971  :  19.4%
1970  : 24.9%                  1972  :  29.7%
5.   Net Profit as % of Year-End Share Capital
1969  :  111.4%                1971  :  88.8%
1970  :  113.9%                1972  : 110.8%
II.   Average Rate of Growth
1.   Average Annual Rate of Growth of Profit before
Tax and Provisions (%)
1969  : 6.4%                   1971  : 3.8%
1970  :  8.2%                  1972: 29.1%
III.   Financial Earnings and Margins
1.   Gross Income less Financial Costs as % of Average Total Assets
1969  :  3.5%                  1971  :  3.4%
1970  : 3.-L6                  1972  : 3.9%
1/ Including excess provisions.



ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 3
2.   Income from Non-Operational Investments and Operational Loans
and Operational Loans and Discounts as s of Average Non-
Operational Investments and Operational Loans and Discounts
Outstanding
1969     7.0%                  1971  : 8.0%
1970  :  7.5%                  1972  : 9.0%
3.   Income from Non-Operational  Ivet        as% of Ave rage
Non-Operational Investmnents
1969     1.3%                  1971  :  2.9%
1970  :  1.7%                  1972  : 3.8%
4&  Financial Cost a          Average Deposits and Borrowings Outstanding
1969  :  2.0%                  1971  : 2.3%
1970  : 2.3%                   1972  : 2.h%
IV.   Administrative Costs
1.   Administrative Costs as % of Average Total Assets
1969  ; 1.2%                   1971  : 1.1%
1970  : 1.2%                   1972  : 1.2%
V.   Reserves
1.   Reserves plus Provisions as % of Year-End  _perational Loan
Portfolio and Discounts Outstanding
1969  :  27.1%                 1971  : 26.8%
1970  :  28.1%                 1972  : 2h.8%



ANNNEX 12
Page 3 of 3
VI. Comparative ratio analysis by CBE
BOA       Highest/Lowest of
other Commercial Banks
1. Commissions and fees as % of total income 30.6               25.5
2. Operating expenses as % of total income   46.5               52.2
3. Salaries and wages as % of total income   18.5               23.0
14. Annual provisions and appropriations to
reserves as % of total income               23.9             16.8
5. Productivity:
i) Total income: total number of
employees       LE 2,832           LE 2,56o
ii) Total income: total wages           LE 5,410           LE 4,342
iii) Net Profit:  total wages            LE 1,580           LE 1,320
VII. Share Capital
1.  Book Value as % of Par Value of Share Capital
1969  :  259                   1971  :  287
1970  :  270                   1972  :  2147
VIII. Pay-Out
1.   Total Pay-Out as % of Par Value of Share Capital
1969:  94.7%                   1971  :  71.7%
1970:  96.7%                   1972  : 101.9%
2.   Total Pay-Out as % of Net-Earnings plus Portion of Yearly
Provisions Representing Appropriations to Hidden Reserves
1969  : 65.6%                  1971  : 58.2%
1970:  67.1%                   1972  : 67.6%
EMENA/DFC
January 25, 1973






AlNNEX 13
BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
Audited Balance Sheets, June 30, 1969-December 31, 1972
(£Z '000)
1969           1970_          1971                           December 31, 192
LSSEES
Liquid Assets
Cash                                  3,823            5,o48          5,672                          8,711
Central Bank of FP4t; currenit
accournt      56,579          76,738         67,349                         46,799
(of which excess liquidity)' 2.                                     (30.000)                      (10,000)
Short-term assets                             60,402           81.786         7,3,21                               55,510
Local banks                                          14,161          16,0149                       27,173
Foreign banks and correspondents      9,585           7,797           4,886                          5h321
Temporary inestments                 34,018          22,287          12,752                        13,
of whicht (Government securities)   (12,901)         (12,960)        (9,495)                       (12,421)
(Debentures and other securities)  (21,117)         (9,327)         (3,257)                       (1,681)
Sundry debtors           9.32o                       10.917          15762418697   65
Loans, advances and discounts                 61,601           62,854         71,640                 161,E48
of which:
Term loans                                                     -                                   (10,600)
Discounts to specialized banks             (10.79)          (11 200)       (ISA0Q)                 (16,100)
(Provisions for losses)                      (10,071)        (11,001)        (12,778)                             (18,361)
Net Fixed Assets                                1,425           1,284          1,295                                  563
Government bonds required by law               373               6               1
Total Assets                                 13___14
Contingent Assets
tQmP99we'.t acceptance liabi24ty)      113,341          134,858        139:040                              196,677
LIABILITI1 MND EQ-UIT-
Dnemand and Short Term Deposits     64,817            75,794         72,595                        109,375
Customers' Accounts in Foreign
Oarrenqr             8891             7,094                                         5,501
Total Deposits                                73,708           82,888         76,938                              114,876
- fixed (over 6 months)             57,826           56,748          48,948                        77,667
- Savings accounts                  12,575            13,747         16,878                        22,377
Other Deposits                        19,542 89,9143   249314,838              92,969                25,585       125,629
Sundry Creditors                               5,388            5,0o42          5,570                               8,363
Long-term borrowings                            -                _                                                  3,500 2/
Net Profit before distribution                  2 228    2_ 2,77                1,776                                5,156
Th1,27          18,4        -    772£
Shnre C-apital                         2,000           2,000           2,060                           3,COO
Reserves                               3,069            3,403           3,745                          4,421
Total Equity                                  5,069            5,403      -     5,745                                7.421
Total Liabilities and Equityr                176.336         190,448          182,998                              2 ,945
Contingent liabilities                       113,341         134,858          139,o4o                              196,677
(Liabilities oh acceptances)
/1 Under Central Bank regulations, BOA's excess liquidity is to be kept in
a separate account - withdrawable on demand - with the Central Bank, at
an interest rate of 1.5% per year.
2 During period July 1, ].971-December 31, 1972
Apri 1973
April 1 973






ALiNhi 14
Page 1 of 2
BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
Liquidity and Reserve Requirements in Egypt,
The Bank of Alexandria's Liquidity Position
I. Liquidity Ratio:
The Central Bank requires commercial banks to maintain net liquid
assets of not less than 30% of total outstanding liabilities,as defined
below. Banks are required to show the ratio on the first and last
Thursday and at the end of each month.
BOA's liquidity position
as at 6/30/72, according
Formula                   to Central Bank's Formula
( E'ooo)
i)  Liquid Assets
1.    Cash                                              5,864
2.    Balances with Central Bank                       37,451
3.    Gold                                                -
4.    Uncleared effects                                 7,615
5.    Treasury Bills
6.    Bills discounted(When maturity does not
exceed three months, must bear at least
two commercial signatures)
7.    Government securities and securities
guaranteed by the Government,valued
at the lower of market value or book
value              13,647
8.    Due on banks        1/                           24,43Z
9.    Total Liquid Assetsr 1 - 8                        9,014
10.    Less - Loans guaranteed by above assets:
A - From       C.B.E.
B - From       Commercial Banks
C - From       Others                          -
11.    Net Liquid Assets = 9 - 10                       89,014
ii)  Liabilities
12.    Checks, drafts,etc., outstanding                  2,827
13.    Net due to banks                                  2,269
14.    Deposits in local currency                      181,462
15.    Un-cash covered value of letters of
guarantees issued                                33,585
16.    Total liabilities = 12 - 15                     220.143
iii)  Liquidity Ratio;  Net liquid assets (11) as %           4043%
of total liabilities (16)
At the end of December 1972 BOA's liquidity ration,
as ccnputed above, had dropped to 31.3%.
1/ Excess liquidity deposited with the Central Bank is
excluded from lirl.id n8set.s in the rcompltation of the
ratio. The Central Bank regards these funds as
investmients.



ANNgX 14
Page 2 of2
II.   ARes iwe Requirem'ents
Commercial banks are required to maintain at all times an actual
net balance with the Central Bank equal to a varying percentage of the
average daily balance of deposits, dues to banksand checks and drafts.
outstanding. The percentages, since 1962, are as follows:
During October            17.5%
During November-
January            15%
During February           17.5%
During March-September   10%
The weighted average cash reserve ratio is therefore 18.3%.
In the period 1968-71, BQA's actual average cash reserve ratio was
as follows:
1968/69:          26. 8/
1969/70:          36.4%
1970/71:          46.4%
Following the banking reorganization, the cash ratio dropped to
approximately 22% in September 1972 and to approximately 16% in December
1972.
EMENA/DFC
January 20, 1973



ANNEx 15
Page 1 of 5
BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
Major Assumptions for five-year Financial Projections
A. Commercial Banking Activities
I. General
No changes during 1973-1977 in the following regulations:
a) Interest and commission rates as set at
present by the Central Bank of Egypt.
b) The cash reserve ratio.
c) The liquidity ratio.
d) Appropriation of net profit as defined in Law 14/1965
for commercial banks as presently applied (See footnote
1; Annex 11).
e) Tax rates as presently applied.
II. BOA
1.   BOA budget figures for the year ended 12/31/73 as approved by
BOA's Board; notably:
a) Change of fiscal years from June 30 to
December 31;
b) Balance Sheet figures as of June 30, 1972,
have been amended to incorporate new
accounts transferred to and from BOA in
accordance with Presidential Decree No.
2422/71 following reorganization of the
banking system.
2.   No retirement on bonds issued by the former IBE of £E 3.5 million
outstanding at June 30, 1972.
3.   National loans due during 1973-77, to be reimbursed by the State
at maturity.
4. BOA's deposits are expected to grow by about 30% in the 5-year
period, as follows:



ANNEX 15
Page 2 Of 5
(LE million)
Actual                        Projected
1/                  December 31
June 30      July3
TYpe of Deposit           1972     1972    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977
Current Deposits          94.4     108      112     116      123     131      140     149
(average annual growrth
of 7%)
Time Deposits             63.1      63       71      77       80      83       86      89
(average annual growth
of 3%)
Savings Deposits          20.2      20       21      22       24      26       29      32
(average annual growth
of 10%,
Other Deposits            22.4      29       29      30       31      32       33      34
Total:                200.1     220      233     245     258      272     288      304
5.  No changes in paid-in share capital of LE 3.0 million.
6.   No changes in yield on i)  temporary investments in national loans
and bonds, e.g.
- Investment Fund 1981 : 2.1%
- Palestine Loan        : 3.5%
- National Develop-
ment Loan             : 3.0%
- National Institute
Bonds 1971-1976       : 2.3%
- National Institute
Bonds 1973-1978       : 2.3%
ii)  other temporary invstments, e.g.
- Credit Foncier Bonds: 2%
- General Organization : 3%
for Reconstruction
Bonds                 : 2%
iii) investments required by law, e.g.
- holding with Central
Bank                 : 2.1%
7.  On the basis of projected credit expansion in 1973-1977 Plan and taking into
account BOA's role since the reorganization of the Banking system, BOA's
short term credit facilities are expected to grow by about 30% during
1973-1977, as follows:
1/ Amended after posting of companies' accounts, transferred to
or fron the bank on 7/1_



ANNEX 15
Page 3 of 5
Type of Client                Actual                   (U million)
Public Sector                  Jul.y 1,          Projected: December 31.
Credit facilities to sectors   1972   1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977
originally financed by BOA       48      48      51     53     55     58      63
Credit facilities to product-
ive sectors transferred to
BOA on July 1, 1972:
- Spinning and weaving
sector                         42     45     50      50     51     52      54
- Other productive sectors       46.3   46     49      52     55     59      64
136.3  T3-9    10    T1    1i71   T9    11-
Credit facilities to Private
Industrial Sector                 37.9   38.5   41.3   42.6   43.3   45.1   46.3
Total:            174.2  177.5  191.3  197.6  204.3  214.1  227.3
8.   Interest received on average outstanding balance as follows:
i) 'Gredit facilities to
Public Sector : 6%
Private Se¢tor: 6.5%
ii) Lines of credit to
specialised banks : 5% and 5%
iii) Excess reserve with
Central Bank        : 1.5%
iv) Lines of credit to
SSPIS               : 2.25%
9.   Interest paid on deposits on average outstanding balance,as follows:
- demand deposits : -
- time deposits    : 3%
- savings accounts    3.5%
10.  Interest paid on local currency borrowings (bonds issued by former IBE) : 3%.
11.  Salaries and other operating expenses:
average annual increase of approximately 5%



ANNEX 1S
Page 4 of 5
B.  SSPIS' Term Lending Activities
As sumDtions
1.   Interest rate on loans:  Foreign currency loans: 9.5%
Local currency loans:   6.5%
2.   Charges and fees. 0.75%
3.   Advisory services: small charges may be levelled in appropriate
cases; income from this source has been ignored.
4.   Yield on short-term investments: 2% (average).
.  Interest rate on borrowings:
i) Local currency lines of credit from BOA: 2.25%
Term: Composite repayment schedule reflecting
repayments by sub-borrowers.
ii) IDA cred-it 7%. Term: Composite repayment schedule to
the Government reflecting repayments by sub-borrowers.
6.   Approvals, commitments/ and disbursements: Figures based on
projected demand; e.g., ignoring resource constraints.
7.   Relationship between approvals, commitments and disbursements:
i) Approvals: As per forecast given on page 5 of this Annex.
ii) Commitments; 60% of approvals (net of cancellations) will
be committed in the year of approval, 40% in the following
year.
iii) Disbursements: 35% of commitments will be disbursed in the
year of commitment, 60% in the following year, 5% in the
third year.
8.   Average repayment period for loans: 7 years, including 2 years of grace.
9.   Provisions for bad debts and losses: a notional 1% of outstanding
loan portfolio has been entered. Write-offs have been estimated at 20%
of annual provisions.
10. Personnel and general expenses: 10% of BOA's overall annual personnel
and general expenses.
11. Dividend: According to Egyptian regulations.
12. Durable assets: The acquisition of durable assets has been ignored in the
projections for SSPIS.
13. Projections for SSPIS show term lending only; e.g., any special short-
and/or medium-term financing schemes, such as installment-sale financing
or short-ter- "Inancing of artisans and craftsmen, have been ignored.
'1 Defined as 1c-v  contracts signed by clients.



ANNEx 15
Pagenf 5
Forecast of Term-lending Operations 1973-77
(in LE '000)
1973     1974    1975    1976       1977
Approvals 1i
Local Ourrency
Private sector                       1,190    1,800   2,000   2,110    2,420
Public sector                        2,000    2,200   2,400   2,800    3,100
Total                                  3,190    4,000   4,400   44,910    5,520
Foreign Currency
Private sector                       2,360    3,575   4,000   4,250    4,830
Public sector                        2,250    2,500   2,750   3,150         00
Total                                  4,61o    6,075   6,750   7,400    8,330
Total Approvals                          7,800   10,075  11,150  12,310   13,850
Commitments
Local Currency
Private sector                         714    1,556   1,920   2,026    2,336
Public sector                        1,200    2,120   2,320   2,640    2,980
Total                                  1,914    3,676   4,240   4,666    5,316
Foreign Currency
Private sector                       1,416    3,089   3,830   4,150    4,598
Public sector                        1,350    2,400   2,650   2,990    3,360
Total                                  2,776    5,489   6,480   7,140    7,958
Total Conmiitments                       4,690    9,165  10,720  11,806   13,274
Disbursements
Local Currency
Private sector                         250      973   1,642   1,939    2,043
Public sector                          691    1,462   2,144   2,422    2,743
Total                                    941    2,435   3,786   4,361    4,786
Foreign Currency
Private sector                         496    1,931   3,264   3,904    4,290
Public sector                          473    1,650   2,436   2,757    3,103
Total                                    969    3,581   5,700   6?661    7,393
Total Disbursements                      1,910    6,016   9,486  11,022   12,179
/1 Net of cancellations
EMENA/DFC
April 16, 1973






ANNEX 16
Page 1 of 3
BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
Projected Income Statements
January 1 - December 31, 1973-1977
INCOME                                1973        1974         75      1976       1977
Income from non-operational
investments                          257         256        250       195        150
Interest on Short-term advances
and discounts                    10,600      11,270    11,783    12,308    13,02d
Interest on term loans                 522         779     1,339      2,041      2,729
Commissions and fees                 1,849       1,864     2,031      2,200      2,425
Total income                      13,228     14,169    15,403    16,744    18,332
EXPENSES
Financial costs:
Interest paid on deposits            3,087       3,200     3,350      3,520      3,710
Interest paid on term borrowings
-  domestic                          105         105        105       105        105
-  foreign currency                   34         193       512        909      1,316
3,226      3,498      3,967      4,534      5,131
Operating expenses:
Salaries                             2,061       2,172      2,288     2,432      2,584
Other operating expenses               922         931        950       979        998
Depreciation                            79          65         75       119        150
3,062      3,168      3,313      3,530     3,732
Operating income                     6,940       7,503     8,123      8,680      9,469
Provisions                           1,807       1,952      2,129     2,322      2,518
Gross earnings                     5,133       5,551     5,994      6,356      6,951
Taxation allowance                     939         730     1,071      1,024      1,074
Net Profit                         4,194       4,821     4,923      5,334      5,677
2MENA/DFC
April 18, 1973



Page 2 of 3
Ratio Analyses
I. Ratios of Profitability
1. Total Earnings before Interest, Provisions and Tax
as % of Average Total Assets
1973       3.8             1975        4.0
1974   :   3.9             1976   :4.1
1977   :  4.2
2.  Operating Income as % of Average Total Assets
1973       2.6             1975        2.7
1974 :   2.6               1976   :   2.7
1977   :  2.8
3. Net Profit as A of Average Stated Net Worth
1973       52%             1975        50%
1974   :   53%             1976        51%
1977       52%
II. Average Rate of Growth
1. Average Annual Rate of' Growth of Profit before
a                      .Provons    %
1973       25.7            1975   :   8.2
1974        8.1            1976        6.8
1977       9.1



ANNEX 16
Page 3 of 3
III.   Financial Earnings and Margins
1. Gross Income less Financial Costs as % of Average Total Assets
1973   :  3.7             1975   :  3.8
1974   :  3.8             1976   :  3.8
1977   :  3.8
2.  Income from Operational Short-term and Term Loan Portfolio
as % of Average Operational Short-term and Term Loan
Portfolio Outstanding
1973       6.2            1975       6.0
1974   :  5.9             1976        6.1
1977       6.2
3. Financial Cost as % of Average Deposits and Borrowings Outstanding
1973   :  1.3             1975   :  1.4
1974   :  1.3             1976   :  1.5
1977   :   1.6
IV.  Administrative Costs
1. Administrative Costs as % of Average Total Assets
1973   :  1.1             1975   :   1.1
1974       1.1            1976        1.1
1977   :  1.1
V.  Reserves
1. Reserves plus Provisions as % of Year-end Short-term and Term Loan
Portfolio Outstanding
1973       3.8            1975   : 4.1
1974       4.0            1976        4.2
1977   :  4.3
EMENA/DFC
January 28, 1973






ANNEX 17
BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
Projected Balance Sheets, December 31, 1973 -_1977
(£9E '000)
Dec. 31,     Dec. 31,      Dec. 31,      Dec. 31,     Dec 31,
.1973        .1974          1975         1976          1977
Assets
Cash, Short-Term deposits       67,b20        75,122        53,420        93,468       96,620
and dues from banks
Temporary investments            9,912        10,195         9,543         6,025         6,076
Sundry debtors                   9.352        10 152        105           10,952       11,552
Total Current Assets            67,092                     103,515       110,445      114,-24
Advances and discounts         173,200       179,500       106,250       196,000      209,250
(of which
to the private sector)       (10,600)      (11,000)      (11,bOO)     (12,300)      (12,800)
Lines of Credit to
Specialised banks             16,100        15,100        16,100        1d,100       16,100
Long Term loans:
- local currency                7,259         8,641        11,1b6        13,820       16,123
- foreign currency                 969        4,550        10,057        15 809       21,154
Total Operational Portfolio   199,528        210,791       225,593         326,627
Less:  Provisions                17,946       19,342        20,b78        22,450        23,7 M
Total Operational
Portfolio (net)              b1l,552       191,449       204,715      221,279       240,d42
n,quity Investments                 1o6          106           1o6           1o6           106
Net fixed assets                    578          578           570           570           576
Total Assets                   =262358       2    _7_602   3098014      33=?14=9      3551M
Liabilities and Equity
Deposits - demand              116,000       123,000       131,000       140,000       149,000
- term                 77,000        °0,000       63,000         6,000        89,000
- savings              22,000        24,000       26,000        29,000        32,000
- other                30,000        31 000       32,000        33,0o0        34,000
Total Deposits                275,000                      272,000      218,000       304.000
Tax payable                         939          730         1,071         1,024         1,074
Dividends payable                 3,339        3,835         3,909         ,252          4,691
Dues to Banks                     1,000        1,500         2,000         2,500         3,000
Sundry Creditors                  5,613        6,013         6,213         6,419         6,613
256,091      270,078       285,195       302,195       319,378
Term  borrowings: domestic       3,500         3,500         3,500         3,500         3,500
foreign          969        4,550        10,057        15,809        21 154
Total Liabilities              260,560       278,12,       298,750321,5
Share capital                     3,000        3,000         3,000         3,000         3,000
Reserves                          5,798        6,474         7,164         7,904         8,742
Total liabilities and equity  269,355        257,602       305,914       332,408      355,774
EMENA/DFC
April 30, 1973



ANNEX 18
BANK OF ALEXANIRIA
Projected Cash Flow Statements 1973-1977
(Years Ending December 31)
(LE '000)
1973     1974     1975     1976     1977
Sources
Profit before tax                    4,194    4,821    4,923    5,334    5,877
Add back non-cash chargest
- provisions                       1,807    1,952    2,129    2,322    2,518
- depreciation                        79       65        75      119      150
Net increase in demand and
term deposits                     12,000   13,000   14,000   16,000   16,000
Local currency loan
collections - short term          18,700   214,300   29,500   37,000   44,500
Collections on term loans            1,053    1,053    1,2141    1,727    2,1483
Decrease in noeoperational
investments                          479         -      652    3,518        -
Increase (decrease)in dues
to banks                            (500)     500       500      500      500
Increase in sundrs creditors,
deferred items, etc.                 200       200      200      206 1Q
Total Sources:                      38,012   45,891   53,220   66,736   72,222
Uses
Increase in sundry debtors             100      800       400      400      600
Local currency loan disbursements
- short term                      33,900   32,600   39,750   51,000   62,750
Disbursements - term loans             9141    2,435    3,786    4,361    4,786
Increase in fixed assets                79       65        75      119      150
Cliarges against provisions            526      456       523      315      556
Tax                                  1,763      9339      730    1,071    l,M14
Di.vidends                           -a572    3,339 a3 35    3909   _         2
Total Uses:                         33,881   40,634   49,099   61,175   74,118
Cash surplus (deficit)              (4,131)  5,257    4;121    5,561   (1,896)
EPA/DFC
April 30, 1973



Annex 19
SPECIAL SERVICES TO PRIVA'TE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR (SSPIS)
Notional Projected Income Statements 1973-1977
(Term Lending only)
1973      ,97i       195     1976      1K7
a:1teres  or, oar. portfolio
- 1T-h--l1 cirz'sv:v 1;,oan-.      !i7,6      517        6L5        81.3      973
- foreign currency laons             46       262        691;    1,228      1,756
Com-nissions and fees                  35        69         82         89       10'
Total                                I,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J    2~~~~~,1,_3u
hCf * \'i   j  -    
ITiterest -o-DaL line of
credit B,A                        165       178        223       282        337
Interest paid Gn forei,gn
carrency 103ns                     34       193        512        909     1s3J6
199       371        737      1,191     1,53
OperRting }hbrjenses
Sala ries                             206       217        229        213       258
Cther opeiating expenses               9Z        93         95         98       100
310       32        37          3
Oerating Income                        60       167        362        598        818
Provision for bad debts                82        132       21L-       302        388
Gross earnings                      2)         7         7           9 
Taxation allowance 1/                -           7        28         56         82
Net profit                                   2T        120        2         3
1/ @ 19% of -toss earnings
E 2:ZNA/DFC
April 12, 1973



Annex 20
BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
Estimated Disbursement Schedule for the Proposed IDA Credit
(in Thousands of US $)
1973
Fourth quarter                                  100
1974
First quarter                                    400
Second quarter                                  800
Third quarter                                 1,100
Fourth quarter                                1,800
1975
First quarter                                 2,,500
Second quarter                                3sOOO
Third quarter                                 2,100
Fourth quarter                                1,400
1976
First quarter                                    700
Second quarter                                   400
Third quarter                                   300
Fourth quarter                                  200
1977
First quarter                                   100
Second quarter                                  100
15,000
EMENA/DFC
April 30, 1973



