cONPORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 412 UAR
Development Credit
Agreement
(BOA Project)
BETWEEN
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 29, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 412 UAR
Development Credit
Agreement
(BOA Project)
BETWEEN
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 29, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 29, 1973, between ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth
in the Schedule to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Bank of Alexandria" or "BOA" means the Bank of Alexandria
operating under the laws of the Borrower which was established by decision of
the Board of Directors of the Borrower's Economic Organization and ratified by
presidential resolution dated April 16, 1957 and merged with the Industrial Bank
of Egypt and the Savings Bank of Mansoura on October 1, 1971;
(b)   "Project Ag-cement" means the agreement between the Association
and the Bank of Alexandria of even date herewith, as the same may be amended
from time to time;
(c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and BOA pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement, as
the same may be amended from time to time;
(d)   "sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be made by
BOA to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to BOA under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and "free-limit


﻿4
sub-loan" means a sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a free-limit sub-loan
pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement;
(e)   "investment" means an investment other than a sub-loan made or
proposed to be made by BOA out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to BOA
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in an Investment Enterprise for an Investment
Project;
(f)   "Investment Enterprise" means an enterprise to which BOA proposes
to make or has made a sub-loan or in which it proposes to make or has made
an investment;
(g)   "Investment Project" means a specific development project to be
carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a sub-loan or
investment;
(h)   "Egyptian Pound" and "E" mean the currency of the Borrower;
(i)   "foreign currency" means any currency other than the currency of
the Borrower;
(j)   "Articles of Association" means the Articles of Association of BOA
appended to the decision dated March 25, 1957 of the Board of Directors of the
Borrower; and
(k)   "subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the
outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively
controlled by BOA or by any one or more subsidiaries of BOA or by BOA and
one or more of its subsidiaries.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account for amounts expended (or, if the Association shall so agree, for
expenditures required to be made) by BOA under a sub-loan or investment to
finance the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Investment Project


﻿5
in respect of which the withdrawal is required; provided, however, that no
withdrawal shall be made in respect of a sub-loan or investment unless (i) the
sub-loan or investment shall have been approved by the Association; or (ii) the
sub-loan shall be a free-limit sub-loan for which the Association shall have
authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account.
(b)   A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan for an Investment Project in
an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit which shall not exceed
the sum of: (i) $100,000 equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts
financed or proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit for any
other project directly and materially related to such Investment Project; and (ii)
$4,000,000 equivalent, when added to all other free-limit sub-loans financed or
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the foregoing amounts
being subject to change from time to time as determined by the Association.
(c)   Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree and
subject to the limitation contained in Section 5.01(a) of the General Conditions,
no withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures made by an 11.vestment
Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject to the Association's approval, or in
respect of an investment, more than ninety days prior to the date on which the
Association shall have received in respect of such sub-loan or investment the
application and information required by Section 2.02(b) of the Project Agreement
or, under a free-limit sub-loan, more than ninety days prior to the date on which
the Association shall have received in respect of such free-limit sub-loan the request
and infonrmation required by Section 2.02(c) of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1977 or such other
date as shall be determined by the Association.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.05. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15 and
October 15 in each year.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing
October 15, 1983, and ending April 15, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on April 15, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿6
Section 2.07. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall take such steps as shall be necessary to
protect BOA against risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange
between the various currencies used in BOA's borrowings and lending operations.
Section 2.09. The Borrower hereby agrees to designate the Chairman of BOA
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required
or permitted under Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Description of the Project;
Use of Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. The purpose of the Project is to assist BOA in financing the
development of productive facilities and resources in Egvpt. The Project consists
in the financing by BOA of Investment Projects througn loans to and investments
in productive enterprises in Egypt, in furtherance of the corporate purposes of
BOA.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
BOA under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and BOA for a period not exceeding seventeen years including three years of grace
at an interest rate of four and one-half per cent (4-1/2%) per annum plus a Ministry
of Finance, Economy and Foreign Trade charge of two and one-half per cent
(2-1/2%) per annum and under such other terms and conditions as shall be
satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(c)   The Borrower shall take and cause all its agencies to take all action
which shall be necessary on their part to enable BOA to perform all of its obligations
under the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and shall not
take or permit to be taken any action which might interfere with such performance.


﻿7
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall issue or cause to be issued as soon as needed
all permits, import licenses and all other authorisations required for the carrying
out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of the respective obligations of any party under this Agreement, the
Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the administration,
operations, and financial situation of BOA and its subsidiaries and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of BOA.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by any party of its obligations under this Agreement,
the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.


﻿8
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. This Agreement, the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the
execution, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.02 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon, and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   BOA shall have failed to perform  any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement;
(b)   the Borrower or BOA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   any part of the principal amount of any loan to BOA (other than
deposits) having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in accordance


﻿9
with its terms, have become due and payable in advance of maturity as provided
in the relative contractual instruments, or any security for any such loan shall
have become enforceable;
(d)   a change shall have been made in the Articles of Association so as
to impair the ability of BOA to carry out its obligations under the Project
Agreement;
(e)   a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution or liquidation
of BOA; and
(f)   a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created or acquired
or taken over by BOA, if such creation, acquisition or taking over would adversely
affect the conduct of BOA's term financing operations or BOA's financial situation
or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01. of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a), (b) or (f) of Section 6.02 shall
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   the event specified in paragraph (c), (d), or (f) shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01(b) of
the General Conditions:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly executed and delivered on
behalf of BOA or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly executed and
delivered on behalf of the Borrower and BOA or ratified by all necessary corporate
or governmental action.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:


﻿10
(a)  that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, BOA and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of BOA in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and BOA and
constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and BOA in accordance
with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date October 29, 1973 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance, Economy and Foreign Trade of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance, Economy
and Foreign Trade
Lazoughly
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt
Cable address:
ECOTRADE
Cairo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿11
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT
By /s/ Ahmed Tawfic Khalil
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Gregory B. Votaw
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿12
SCHEDULE
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Development Credit Agreement, the provisions of
the General Conditions are modified as follows:
(1)  The following subparagraph is added to Section 2.01:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning set forth in
Section 1.02(b) of the Development Credit Agreement."
(2)   The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the words "the
Project" A the end of Section 5.03.
(3)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) is renumbered as Section
6.02(h).
(4)   Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Association. If (a) the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account shall have been
suspended with respect to any amount of the Credit for a continuous period
of thirty days or (b) by the date specified in paragraph (f) of Section 2.02
of the Project Agreement no applications or requests permitted under
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have been received by
the Association in respect of any portion of the Credit, or having been so
received, shall have been denied, or (c) after the Closing Datc an amount
of the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the
Association may by notice to the Borrower terminate the right of the
Borrower to submit such applications or requests or to make withdrawals
from the Credit Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount
or portion of the Credit. Upon the giving of such notice such amount or
portion of the Credit shall be cancelled."
(5)   The words "The Project Agreement" are added after the words "the
Development Credit Agreement" in Section 6.06.
(6)   The words "or the Project Agreement" are added after the words "the
Development Credit Agreement" in Section 8.02.


