CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 412 UAR
Project Agreement
(BOA Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
DATED JUNE 29, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 412 UAR
Project Agreement
(BOA Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
DATED JUNE 29, 1973


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 29, 1973, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and BANK
OF ALEXANDRIA (hereinafter called BOA).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Arab Republic of Egypt (hereinater called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that BOA agrees to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS BOA, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. BOA shall carry out the Project described in Section 3.01 of
the Development Credit Agreement and conduct its operations and affairs in
accordance with sound financial and investment standards and practices, with
qualified and experienced management and personnel, and in accordance with the
Articles of Association.


﻿4
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with and subject to the provisions of the
Development Credit Agreement, BOA shall submit Investment Projects to the
Association for approval or for authorisation for withdrawals to be made from
the Credit Account.
(b)   When submitting a sub-loan (other than a free-limit sub-loan) or an
investment to the Association for approval, BOA shall furnish to the Association
an application, in form satisfactory to the Association, together with a description
of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project (including
a financial and economic analysis of the Investment Project and a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent
to BOA under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) and the proposed terms and
conditions of the sub-loan or investment, including the schedule of amortization
of the sub-loan or of repayment by BOA of the amount to be used for the
investments and such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.
(c)   Each request by BOA for authorization to make withdrawals from
the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit sub-loan shall contain a summary
description of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to BOA under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement) and the terms
and conditions of such free-limit sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization
therefor.
(d)   The terms and conditions of BOA's sub-loan agreements with
Investment Enterprises, including repayment of any sums made available to an
Investment Enterprise out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to BOA shall (i)
include interest at the rate of seven per cent (7%) per annum plus normal banking
charges (if any) and the Ministry of Finance, Economy and Foreign Trade charge
specified in Section 3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement and (ii) shall be
satisfactory to the Association.
(e)   The amortization schedule applicable to each Investment Project shall
provide for an appropriate period of grace, and, unless the Association and BOA
shall otherwise agree (i) shall not extend beyond fifteen years from the date of
approval by the Association of such Investment Project or of authorization by
the Assocation to make withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect of the
Investment Project, and (ii) shall provide for approximately equal semi-annual, or
more frequent, aggregate payments of principal, interest and charges or
approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequest, payments of principal.
(f)   Except as the Association and BOA shall otherwise agree, applications
and requests made pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section shall be
submitted to the Association on or before March 31, 1975.


﻿5
Section 2.03. (a) BOA undertakes that, unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, any sub-loan or investment will be made on terms whereby BOA shall obtain,
by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal
means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Association and BOA,
including, in the case of any such sub-loan and to the extent that it shall be
appropriate in the case of any such investment, the right of BOA to: (i) require
the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial and
managerial standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require that (1) the
goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant factors
such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability
of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of services, of
their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them and (2) such goods
and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
(iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association if the
Association shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction
included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records
and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the Investment Enterprise shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such
amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice; and (2) without any
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover marine, transit and other
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit to the place of use or installation, any indemnity
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the Investment
Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain all such information as the
Association or BOA shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the Investment Enterprise;
and (vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Investment Enterprise to the use
of the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform
its obligations under its contract with BOA.
(b)   BOA shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment Project
in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Association and BOA, (ii)
comply with its obligations under this Agreement, and (iii) achieve the purposes
of the Project.
Section 2.04. BOA shall furnish to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to BOA under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the Project,
the Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, and the sub-loans and
investments.


﻿6
Section 2.05. BOA shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement and any other agreements under which funds have been lent or
otherwise put at the disposal of BOA by the Borrower or its agencies or others
for relending, investment or management. BOA shall promptly inform the
Association of any action which would have the effect of assigning, or of amending,
abrogating or waiving any material provision of, any such agreement.
Section 2.06. If BOA establishes or acquires any subsidiary, BOA shall cause
such subsidiary to observe and perform the obligations of BOA hereunder to the
extent to which such obligations shall or can be applicable thereto, as though such
obligations were binding upon such subsidiary.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) BOA shall maintain records adequate to record the progress
of the Project and of each Investment Project (including the cost thereof) and
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the operations and financial condition of BOA.
(b)   BOA shall maintain separate accounts for its term lending operations
relating to the Project.
Section 3.02. BOA shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association, as soon as available but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of BOA and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. BOA shall not make any repayment in advance of maturity
in respect of any outstanding debt of BOA (other than deposits) which, in the
judgment of the Association, would adversely affect BOA's ability to meet its
financial obligations.
Section 3.04. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between the Association
and BOA, BOA shall consult with the Association as to the measures to be taken


﻿7
by BOA to expand its equity base should loans disbursed by BOA and outstanding
which have maturities exceeding one year at any time equal six times the amount
of BOA's paid in share capital and statutory and other free reserves.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation and Information
Section 4.01. The Association and BOA shall cooperate fully to ensure that
the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and BOA shall from time to time, at the request of either party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under this Agreement, the
administration, operations and financial condition of BOA and its subsidiaries, and
any other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of BOA and its
subsidiaries.
Section 4.02. The Association and BOA shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit or the performance by either of
them of its obligations under this Agreement or by BOA of its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03. BOA shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect
the records referred to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement and any relevant
documents.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of BOA and of the
Association hereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:


﻿8
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify BOA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For BOA:
Bank of Alexandria
49, Rue Kasr El Nil
Cairo
Arab Republic of Egypt


﻿I
9
Cable address:
BANALEX
Cairo
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of BOA may be taken or executed by the Chairman or such other person or persons
as the said Chairman shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. BOA shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of BOA, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by BOA pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Gregory B. Votaw
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
BANK OF ALEXANDRIA
By /s/ Ahmed Tawfic Khalil
Authorized Representative


