Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CA? /s--C7
Report No. P-3942-ET
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
1N AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 31.3 MILLION
TO ETHIOPIA
FOR A
DROUGHT RECOVERY PROGRAM
March 26, 1985
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS I/
Currency Unit = Ethiopian Birr (Br)
USS 1.00 = Br 2.07
Br 1.00 = USS0.48
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
Government: July 8 - JulY 7
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
1 meter (m)           =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)      =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)       =  2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m.ton) =  2,205 pounds (lb)
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AISCO           Agricultural Inputs Supplies Corporation
AMC         : Agricultural Marketing Corporation
ARDD            Animal Resources Development Department
CFF         : Compensatory Financing Facilitv
CPSC         :  Central Planning Supreme Council
DAP         : Diammonium Phosphate
EPHLMICOR   : Ethiopian Pharmaceutical Corporation
,OE          : Governnent of Ethiopia
ILCA        :  International Livestock Center for Africa
MOA            Ministrv of Agriculture
MTC          : Ministry of Transport- and Comrunications
NATRACOR       National Transport Cu,poration
NCCP         : National Committee for Central Planning
NWTRC          National Water Resources Commission
PADEP           Peasant Agricultural Development Program
RRC         : Relief Rehabilitation Conmission.
SPIDC           Spare Parts Imports and Distrih:tion Corporation
1/ The currencv equivalent between the !TS dollar and the
Ethiopian hirr has heen constant from 1973 to the date of
this report.



ETHIOPIA             FOR OFMICUIL USE ONLY
DROUGHT EMERGENCY PROGRAM
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:        Ethiopia
Amount:          SDR 31.3 million (US$30.0 million equivalent)
Beneficiaries:  Ministry of Agriculture, Relief and Rehabilitation Commission
(RRC), National Road Transport Corporation (NATRACOR),
National Water Resources Commission
(NWRC)
Terms:           Standard
Progam
Objectives:      The proposed program would help the Government to provide crucial
relief and rehabilitation services to alleviate the impact of
drought and famine on human welfare. The main program objectives
are to support the recovery of peasant crop and livestock
production; to increase the Government's capacity to cope with
the drought situation and to implement the relief effort; and to
reduce the fiscal and balance of payments impact of the drought
resulting from diversion of foreign exchange from development
purposes to relief operations.
Program
Description:    To achieve tne objectives, the program would assist three key
sectors - agriculture, transportation, and water supplies.
Specifically the proposed program would fund 50,000 tons of
fertilizer and US$2.0 million worth of plant protection chemicals
and the same value of veterinary drugs and equipment for boosting
1985 agricultural production by peasant farmers; about 100
four-wheel drive trucks for the Relief and Rehabilitation
Commission, for transporting food from main stores to rural
distribution centers, also spare parts for maintaining the public
and private truck fleet; water pumps, motors and generators to
repair about 170 mechanized and 800 hand-operated wells and
boreholes in the drought areas; and two drill rigs with ancillary
equipment for constructing potable water supplies.
Program
Risk:            Because this is a one year program, the main risk is that goods
would arrive late. For that reason, program processing has been
expedited. Participating Ethiopian agencies were encouraged at
appraisal to Initiate procurement procedures and retroactive
financing for about half the fertilizer is proposed. There are
also the risks of further rain failure, and of reduced agri-
cultural benefits if policy reforms are not implemented on time.
There is some risk that RRC trucks may, at times, be unable to
deliver needed relief supplies to some remote villages because of
security constraints, or be used for purposes other than trans-
porting relief supplies in disaster areas. The program risks are
considered acceptable in view of the emergeacy nature of the
assistance and the critical needs to be met.
This document has a rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Program Costs:
US$ Million
Local     Foreign      Total
COMPONENT
1. Agricultural Inputs for
Nationwide Peasant Production
(a) Fertilizer (50,000 tons)                      5.3         12.5        17.8
(b) Plant protection chemicals                    0.2          2.0         2.2
(c) Veterinary drugs and equipment                0.6          2.0         2.6
Sub-total                                6.1         16.5       22.6
2. Transport Equipment
(a) Trucks (100) and spares for RRC               1.7          4.0         5.7
(b) Spare parts for NATRACOR                      2.5          5.1         7.6
and the private sector
Sub-total                                4.2          9.1       13.3
3. Rural Water Supply Equipment
(a) Rehabilitation of existing                    0.7          2.5         3.2
boreholes
(b) Drilling rigs (2) and                         0.4          1.7         2.1
ancilliary eqnipment
Sub-total                                 1.1          4.2         5.3
4. Technical Assistance
Strengthening of Technical                     -           0.2         0.2
Support Unit in MOA
Sub-total                                 -           0.2         0.2
Total Program Cost                                   11.4         30.0       41.4
of which, Taxes and Duties                            4.5           -          4.5
Total Program Cost (net                               6.9         30.0       36.9
taxes and duties)                                          -
Financing Plan:                                                 US$ Million
Local     Foreign      Total
IDA Credit                                             -           30.0        30.0
Government of Ethiopia                                11.4           -         11.4
TOTAL                                                 11-4         30.0        41.4
Estimated Disbursements:
USS Million
IDA Fiscal Year                                               FY86    FY87
Annual:                                                        25.0     5.0
Cumulative:                                                   25.0    30.0
Rate of Return:              Not Applicable.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO ETHIOPIA
FOR A DROUGHT RECOVERY PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendatlor. on a proposed
development credit to Ethiopia for SDR  .3 million (US$30.: million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to he p finance a drought recovery
program.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report on Ethiopia (No. 4683a-ET) entitled
Ethiopia, Recent Economic Developments and Future Prospects, was circulated
to the Executive Directors on May 31, 1984. The report's findings are
reflected in the following paragraphs. A new economic mission will visit
the country in late March and April 1985. A summary of social and economic
data 4s included in Annex I.
Structural Characteristics
3.        Ethiopia, with a population of about 42 million in 1984, is the
third most populous country in Africa (after Nigeria and Egypt). About 89
percent of the total population is rural. The country's land area extends
over 1.2 million square kilometers and may be broadly divided into two main
geographical zones, namely: the highland plateau of central Ethiopia, and
the surrounding lowlands. Its capital city, Addis Abeba, located in the
central highlands, has a population estimated at around 1.4 million.
4.        Agriculture is the mainstay of the country's economy, accounting
for about 50 percent of GDP, 90 percent of exports, and 85 percent of total
employment. Crops account for about 80 percent of the gross value of
production with livestock and livestock products accounting for most of the
remainder. The major food crops are tef (a locally consumed cereal),
maize, barley, sorghum, wheat, pulses, and oilseeds. Coffee, the principal
export crop, generates over 60 percent of the country's export earnings.
Other export crops include oilseeds, pulses, cotton, sugarcane, fruits and
vegetables. The country's livestock herd is the largest in Africa; the
export of live animals has begun to increase in recent years.   Ethiopia's
known natural resources include gold, platinum, copper and potash. Some
petroleum exploration has taken place in the past, but no petroleum
reserves have yet been proven. None of these minerals has been exploited
on a large scale, and in most cases the potential for commercial
exploitation remains to be established. There are prospects for the
exploitat'on of geothermal energy. The country's main potential lies in
agriculture, for which the natural conditions of several areas are
favorable. Nearly 95 percent of the land under cultivation is operated by



-2-
individual farmers who have user rights to landholdings averaging two
hectares or less. Manufacturing industry, which accounts for about 10
percent of GDP, is heavily dependent on agriculture; agro-ba3ed industry
constitutes around 70 percent of large- and medium-scale industry.
Randicrafts and small industry art operated by private owners. Domestic
trade, especially retail trade, and road trapaport are still largely in
private hands. Public sector control and ownership covers all of banking
and insurance, shipping, railway, airways, utilities, almost all of
large- and medium-scale manufacturing, and a large proportion of
construction.
5.        With an estimated GNP per capita of around US$140 (1983) and with
a vast proportion of the population (estimated at around 60 percent) living
below the absolute poverty level, Ethiopia remains amongst the poorest
countries in the world. Health services in Ethiopia are limited and
require major improvements to combat high rates of morbidity, and infant
and maternal mortality, worsened by the drought. Life expectancy is still
at a low level of about 46 years. Housing and sanitation facilities,
especially in the towns, are poor and need urgent attention.
Notwithstanding the country's rich endowment of fertile land and
substantial agricultural potential, its wide variation in topography and
extremely rugged terrain have been serious obstacles to internal
transportation, drought relief work and economic development in general.
Nearly three-quarters of Ethiopia's farms are more than half-a-day's walk
from all-weather roads, and for the same reason, access to drought-prone
areas has been severely cGnstrained.
The Drought
6.        Ethiopia is in the grips of a severe drought of a magnitude
unprecedentedI In recent hietory. Part III of this report describes the
drought situation in detail. The worst affected areas are the regions of
Welo, Tigrai, Eritrea, Gonder and even the less drought-prone southern
region of Sidamo (Map IBRD 18763, attached). According to Government and
United Nations estimates, the total number of people requiring immediate
relief assistance soared from 5.2 million in March 1984 to nearly 8 million
in 1985. Many UN agencies and non-government organizations have stepped up
relief operations during the recent past and these efforts have been
augmented more recently by major increases of assistance from bilateral
sources. These relief efforts are, however, severely constrained by
limited port capacity at Aseb, lack of access roads, inadequate transport
and limited access to areas affected by civil unrest.
Recent Macroeconomic Developments
7.        Since the 1974 revolution, Ethiopia has made considerable social
progress, as reflected by significant increases in literacy and school
enrollment and a modest rise in life expectancy. The literacy rate rose
from 7 percent in 1973 to over 40 percent in 1981 and the primary school
enrollment rate increased from 19 percent to 47 percent over the same
period. These achievements have not, howevet, been accompanied by
commensurate economic growth. During the decade ending 1983/84, the gross
domestic product grew at an average annual rate of only 2.2 percent in real
terms.



-3-
8.        The years 1974/75 through 1977/78 were marked by internal
political upheaval and armed conflicts which resulted in stagnation and in
some cases even declines of production in the commodity producing sectors.
The economy recovered thereafter, with GDP growth averaging 5.4 percent per
annum during 1978/79 and 1979/80. Annual development campaigns (or
Zemetchas) paved the way for this recovery through a target-setting and
monitoring process, combined with increased budgetary allocations to
agriculture and industry. Growth occurred mainly in agriculture, which
benefited from good weather, and from industry, through a greater
utilization of industrial capacity. The economy, however, witnessed a
set-back during the following four years ending 1983/84, with GDP growth
declining to around 2.9 percent per annum. As a result of the current
drought, GDP growth is likely to be stagnant or even negative, in 1984/85.
The principal causes for the set-back in economic growth in recent years
were droughts and inappropriate policies (para. 14) which affected
agriculture, and capacity constraints (notably in industry), owing to low
rates of investment in the past. The ratio of total investment to GDP has
remained for many years at around 11 percent, due largely to constraints on
domestic as well as external resources. Domestic savings, have averaged
around 3.5 percent of GDP during the four years ending 1983/84, partly
reflecting the basic consumer needs of a low income country and the high
level of public expenditure relating to defense and security needs. In
addition, inflows of official development assistance have remained low in
recent years, averaging only around US$6 per capita per year as compared to
over US$20 per capita for developing countries in Africa.
9.        Ethiopia also experienced a sharp deterioration in the terms of
trade in recent years. The terms of trade index (1979/80 base) declined by
about 27 percent during the three-year period ending 1982/83, reflecting
mainly the decline in coffee prices and increased import prices. The value
of imports rose significantly in recent years while the value of exports
declined (see Annex I). Consequently, the current account deficit widened
to over 7 percent of GDP in 1982/83 and 1983/84. These external account
deficits were financed by significant increases in long-term capital,
reflecting in large part disbursements of concessional loans from various
sources, and also by a moderate increase in grant aid. Ethiopia's external
debt service ratio, which had been of the order of 6 percent of export
earnings in the late 1970s, increased sharply to about 12 percent
(excluding IMF transactions) in 1983/84, as export earnings declined and
more debt service payments fell due. Including IMF transactions, the debt
service ratio rose to a high of nearly 19 percent in 1983/84.
10.       Notwithstanding these adverse trends, government fiscal and
monetary management has been prudent.   The country has a relatively
competent public service and in general, its ministries, departments and
most public enterprises are reasonably well managed. The overall budget
deficits remained below 5 percent of GDP for the period 1978/79 to 1981/82
and modest current account surpluses were achieved in these years. But
during 1982/83, the overall budget deficit rose to a level equivalent to
about 9 percent of GDP, principally due to a near doubling of capital
expenditure and an increase in current expenditure, reflecting in large
part a government decision to settle arrears due to parastatals in one
year. However, the overall deficit was brought back to a level equivalent



- 4 -
to 4.5 percent of GDP in 1983/84. The trend was similar in regard to money
supply. During the three-year period ending June 1982, money supply
increased by around 8.5 percent per year. But during the year 1982/83,
money supply increased by over 15 percent. Net credit to the Government
expanded by 68 percent in 1982/83 owing to the massive increase in
government financing requirements. In 1983/84, money supply expanded by
about 11.3 percent. Meanwhile, net credit to the private sector declined
by about 10 percent in 1982183. The inflation rate (as measured by the
Addis Abeba retail price index) dropped from an average of 13 percent
during 1978/79 and 1979/80 to about 3.3 percent during the four year period
ending 1983/84.
11.       The Government has taken a number of decisions since late 1982 to
reverse these deteriorating trends. With a view to introducing a
short-term focus, the Government's ten-year plan (1984/85 - 1993/94) was
phased into three sub-plans -- a two-year plan, a three-year plan and a
five-year plan. The two-year plan has now been overtaken by the conditions
created by the current drought. Official pronouncements have stressed the
importance of revitalizing agriculture through increased investment,
guaranteed producer prices and diffusion of improved technology to farmers;
the need to restore confidence amongst entrepreneurs engaged in small scale
industry; and the need to attract foreign investment and technology to
develop the country's resources. But actual progress in these directions
has been slow.
12.       Other noteworthy steps include a Joint Venture Code introduced in
January 1983 to promote joint ventures between foreign investors (public or
private) and Ethiopian public enterprises, and the formulation of proposals
to simplify and rationalize the system of direct and indirect taxes and to
make the tax system more income-elastic. A Central Planning Supreme
Council (CPSC) chaired by the Head of State has been responsible for the
preparation, approval, and oversight of economic plans, while a Council of
Ministers has been responsible for implementation. In June 1984, the CPSC
was reorganized into a National Committee for Central Planning (NCCP) with
a view to carrying out the central planning function on a more systematized
basis. The main organs of the NCCP are a National Committee (chaired by
the Read of State), an Executive Committee, a Secretariat and Regional
Planning offices.
13.       Although the above-mentioned initiatives by the Government are
steps in the right direction, there are a number of issues which require
attention. It is yet unclear whether the projected levels of investment
can be financed, given the low domestic savings rate, the claims of the
drought and other priorities for recurrent expenditure, and the limited
inflow of official development assistance (para. 8). While overall
budgetary deficits reflect prudent financial management, they also indicate
limited success in attracting external concessionary assistance. Likewise,
with the value of merchandise imports running at double the value of
merchandise exports, a major expansion in exports and/or import
substitution, and restraints on imports are called for, in order to reach a
more sustainable external current account deficit. According to the IMF,



Ethiopia's real effective exchange rate appreciated by over 50 percent
against the trade weighted basket of currencies during the period 1980 to
December 1984. The overvalued exchange rate and the lack of an effective
package of export incentives have tended to reduce margins for producers of
export commodities in local currency and have inhibited the growth of
exports.
14.       As regards sectoral issues, several other factors apart from the
drought appear to have impeded agricultural growth. Although some
initiatives have been made towards improving the Government's agricultural
and marketing policies, to date these have not been translated into
adequate incentives for farmers to expand production and marketed surplus.
Other constraints include the low use of improved seeds and fertilizer,
inadequate agricultural extension and research, and restrictions on
inter-regional grain movement by private operators. The precise role of
the private sector is yet unclear - the business climate does not appear to
be conducive to savings and investment, particularly in industry. Although
there has been a remarkable improvement in literacy and general education,
all sectors are affected by the shortage of managerial, technical and
professional staff, indicating the need for stepping up higher education.
Medium-Term Prospects
15.       The Ethiopian economy remains hampered by its weak infrastructure
(notably roads), low productivity in agriculture, heavy dependence on one
export commodity (coffee) subject to international export quotas, a small
industrial base, and shortages of skilled manpower. Apart from this set of
unfavorable initial conditions, the availability of domestic resources for
investment is constrained by the Government's outlays on internal security,
while import capacity is constrained by the continuing deterioration in the
terms of trade and by low levels of external resource transfers.
Moreover, the recent recession in industrialized countries had inter alia
inhibited the expansion of non-coffee exports. The current drought has
caused a major setback, driving an already vulnerable economy to the brink
of crisis.
16.       Ethiopia's rapid population growth also poses severe problems for
the future.  Population growth, currently estimated at around 2.9 percent
per annum, implies a doubling of Ethiopia's population in 26 years or less,
and threatens to absorb most of the gains in economic growth and social
welfare foreseeable in the next decade. The demand for food, energy and
social services would increase dramatically and may lead to adverse
consequences in the overall ecological balance. The nBt impact could be a
stagnation or possibly a decline in the living standards of the Ethiopian
people. Population policies are needed, based on analytical work
concerning the dynamics of population growth and movements and their
effects on agriculture and other sectors. Unless steps are taken to reduce
fertility through an expansion of family planning services, there could be
little significant improvement in per capita income nor of living
standards. Ethiopia needs a multisectoral population policy - which
implies an expansion and strengthening of basic maternal and child health
services into which family planning must be integrated.



- 6 -
17.       The need now, after addressing the immediate short-term crises,
is for a medium-term approach to development, and in particular, to build
up capability to cope with future droughts. With a record of generally
satisfactory demand management, Ethiopia needs to orient economic policy
towards expanding the directly productive sectors, particularly agriculture
and industry, and to increase economic efficiency in the use of resources.
There is a need to develop a more realistic macroeconomic framework for the
Government's forthcoming three year plan (beginning mid 1986) and to
present well balanced portfolios of viable projects, within these plans.
The financing of increased public investment would call for greater efforts
in domestic as well as external resource mobilization. The marketing
framework and incentive structure in the agricultural sector need to be
improved in order to step up agricultural growth, and the business climate
for private small-scale enterprises, particularly in industry, should be
made more favorable for increased investment, output and exports. In
general, the authorities should consider making greater and more flexible
use of macro-level policy instruments (e.g. exchange rate and wage
policies) and less use of direct, administrative controls. The attainment
of higher growth rates would also depend on raising the operational
efficiency of public enterprises and on alleviating skilled manpower
shortages. Despite several constraints and limited room for
maneuverability on the part of Ethiopia's economic policy-makers,
conditions exist for a GDP growth rate of about 3 percent per annum over
the medium-term and for gradually improving the living standards of the
population provided the Government makes a concerted effort to increase
savings and investment and to pursue policies which foster growth and
accelerated development.
External Assistance
18.       Unlike many other African countries, Ethiopia has no major
traditional bilateral source of technical and financial assistance. The
Bank Group was for some years the largest source of loans and credits, but
in recent years the European Economic Community, the African Development
Bank, the Soviet Union, the German Democratic Republic, and Czechoslovakia
have expanded their support, while development assistance is continuing
from Sweden, and Italy. As noted earlier (para. 6), in response to the
current drought situation, which has received much international attention
recently, there has been an unprecedented increase in relief assistance
both from official sources as well as non-government organizations. But
the level of concessionary aid to Ethiopia for long-term development has
been very low (para. 8). Ethiopia is in need of substantial resource
transfers to support investments that will enable a reasonable rate of
growth to be achieved, particularly in view of the country's poverty, low
level of savings and weak balance of payments position. Within the limits
imposed bv its perceived security needs, over the past few years the
Government has directed available resources towards economic and social
development; it has restrained salaries, squeezed the import of
non-essentials, and increased taxes significantlv.
19.    According to debt information provided bv the Government to the
Bank's Debt Reporting System, the total debt outstanding and disbursed was
about USSI.2 billion as of December 31, 1983. The ratio of Ethiopia's debt



-7-
service to export earnings remained low (para. 9) up to the last two or
three years because of the relatively low level of external loan
coumitments, and the tendency of some donors to shift to support on grant
terms. In addition, Italy, Finland, Sweden and J&pan have concluded debt
forgiveness arrangements with Ethiopia. The U.S. Exim-bank made a loan in
1979 for aircraft purchases. The IMF has provided Trust Fund loans and
assistance under the Compensatory Financing Facility (CFF). As of December
31, 1984, Ethiopia's net borrowings under the Trust Fund stood at SDR 24
million and drawings outstanding under the CFF stood at about SDR 14
million. In May 1981, an IMF stand-by arrangement for Ethiopia in an
amount equivalent to SDR 67.5 million was approved to support an 18-month
program designed to strengthen overall fiscal performance and help improve
the balance of payments. This standby was fully disbursed and its
performance criteria were met. Repurchases of drawings under that stand-by
are now taking place; the amount outstanding as of December 31, 1984 stood
at SDR 62.6 million. No formal request for further IMF assistance has been
made to date.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
20.       Bank Group lending to Ethiopia since 1950 totalled about US$838
million (less cancellations) as of September 30, 1984, consisting of 35 IDA
credits totalling about US$713 million, 12 Bank loans totalling about
US$109 million, and five IFC commitments totalling US$15.7 million. Much
of the lending (US$228 million) was committed between fiscal years 1974 and
1978.  Subsequently, the compensation issue led to a two-year interruption
in new lending (para. 25).  Since FY1973, lending has been on IDA terms
only.  IBRD's share of total public debt outstanding and disbursed as of
December 31, 1984 is estimated at about 3 percent, and IDA's at 23
percent. Their shares of total debt service in FY1983 are estimated at
about 12 percent and 9 percent, respectively.
21.       Bank Group lending focussed on the construction of trunk roads,
power and telecommunications facilities until the late 1960s, when its
emphasis shifted to agriculture and education. Since 1973, eleven credits
totalling US$208 million have supported agriculture and some attracted
co-financing or other complementary assistance. Credit 1088-ET of February
2, 1981, together with co-financing from Sweden and the International Fund
for Agricultural Development, is assisting the agricultural minimum package
program, which represents the core of the Government's efforts to assist
peasant agriculture. A recent credit (Credit 1429-ET of March 23, 1984) is
assisting the Government to increase the country's foreign exchange
earnings from coffee exports through improvements to coffee processing and
marketing. In addition, the last four credits for roads have placed
emphasis on meeting agricultural needs. Since 1973, three credits
totalling US$138 million have supported educational development. Annex II
contains a summary of Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments.
22.       Project implementation in Ethiopia, although subject to some
difficulties, is generally quite satisfactory. Ethiopia's overall record
compares favorably with other countries in the Eastern Africa Region. In



-8-
recent years, security problems affected three IDA financed agricultural
projects, but two of them eventually made satisfactory progress. Some
projects, especially in agriculture, suffered from management problems.
But projects in the highways, education, and telecommunications sectors
continue to have strong management. Financial problems, rising labor costs
and occasional shortages of construction materials have also detracted from
efficient project implementation on occasion. However, the Government and
the project managements have generally been successful in resolving these
problems. In addition, the economic and social reforms introduced since
1974 necessitated structural and operational changes in a number of
projects. In some cases, the changes were beneficial and in others
detrimental. For exampla, the scope of the first Coffee Processing Project
was widened as a result of the land reform and the take-over of washing
stations, whereas the Addis Abeba Dairy Development Project experienced
production losses following the take-over of some farms by peasant
associations.
23.       Ethiopia's disbursement performance on projects assisted by the
Bank Group has also been reasonably satisfactory. The ratio of
disbursements to undisbursed funds in Ethiopia over the past five years was
about equal to the Bank-wide average and above the average for the Eastern
Africa Region.
Assistance Strategy
24.       We propose to continue to assist the Government to devise and
implement policies and programs to (i) improve the policy framework for
increased production and exports through economic and sector studies,
advice on agricultural pricing and marketing policies and assistance to
implementation of the Government's Drought Action Plan (para 33); (ii)
improve the policy framework and institutional structure for domestic and
external resource mobilization and allocation through advice on tax
reforms, and on better planning and monitoring of foreign aid; (iii)
improve the policy framework and instituitional structure for public and
private sector efficiency, through advice on price policy reforms, anc on a
clearer role for the existing private sector; and (iv) accelerate human
resource development through advice on population policy, education and
skilled manpower development. Addressing the drought situation in its many
aspects has become a major country assistance theme. In our economic work,
we intend to focus on resource mobilization issues, public investment
reviews, export incentive issues, and human resource development. In our
sector work, we have been carrying out studies of the agricultural sector,
including a joint study with the Government on farmers' incentives and
marketing efficiency, and also studies of the energy, industry, education,
and population, health and nutrition sectors. In our lending work, we plan
to continue emDhasizing the productive sectors and essential infrastructure
to help address the country's capacity constraints and deteriorating terms
of trade. A third power project has been appraised to help develop
domestic energy resources to meet the needs of Ethiopia's growing economy,
and a peasant agricultural development project is being prepared to help
increase the productivity and incomes of small farmers. A livestock
project and a forestry project are also being prepared. We are making
concerted efforts to arrange co-financing for proposed projects. Informal



discussions are underway but no decision has been taken concerning a
possible donor conference on Ethiopia, either a UNDP Round Table or a
resumption of the Consultative Group.
Compensation
25.       In recent years, the Government has made good progress In
resolving compensation claims for assets nationalized in 1975. The
Ethiopian Government has negotiated a share-purchase agreement with IFC in
respect of its shares in the Metahara Sugar Company and in the Textile
Mills of Dire Dawa. The Government's Compensation Commission has settled
with IFC's partner in Metahara, a Dutch firm which had a large claim, and
with IFC's major enterprise partner in the Textile Hills, a Japanese
company. A settlement with IFC's individual partner in the Textile Mills
has also been reached. The Commission has settled with a major British
claimant, and has made an offer to a major American claimant. The
Commission has also settled with five or more smaller German, Japanese and
American claimants, and has entered into negotiations with a number of
others. In addition, the Ethiopian Government and the Italian Government
have agreed on an arrangement to settle all Italian claims.
PART III: THE DROUGHT SITUATION
26.       Because of high population density, rugged terrain, erratic
rains, severe soil erosion, and security problems, food production in
northeast Ethiopia is barely adequate for self sufficiency in a "good'
farming year. A 'below average' farming year threatens disaster in this
area. The northeast, comprising Eritrea, Tigray and Welo, has a population
of over eight million people. It has steep erosion-prone land that has
been cultivated for several hundred years and with increasing intensity as
population growth accelerated in recent decades. Land degradation has been
severe and about half the agricultural land is now classified as very
seriously or seriously eroded. In the last ten years, the Government with
help from the World Food Program and other donors including IDA (Credit
1088-ET) has spent about US$180 million (80 percent in the last four years)
on soil conservation in this and neighboring areas, but hardly 10 percent
of the damaged area has been treated. In addition, weather conditions over
the last three years have been progressively less favorable for farming,
with crop production in 1983 down to about 60 percent of 1981 levels.
Production has also been adversely affected by civil unrest in the area and
by inadequate farmer incentives. The rest of the country had average level
production during 1983, but local 3upplies were inadequate to compensate
for the shortfall in the northeast and some adjoining areas.
27.       In 1984 climatic and general farming conditions ranged from
unfavorable to catastrophic throughout the country. Showers, normally
expected during the November to February dry season that maintain grazing
and water supplies, did not occur; the short rains (February - May),
Important for short-term crops grown in the northeast during this season
and for sowing sorghum and maize (which account for about 45 percent



- 10 -
of national cereal production) failed altogether and the main rains (June
to October) came late and stopped early. The rain deficit La illustrated
on map IBRD 18765. In addition, farmers had to contend with exceptional
peat and disease outbreaks, which affected root crops as well as grain
crops. Draft animals were weakened by the drought, which caused reduced or
inadequate land preparation and poor weed control. As a result, there will
be a virtunl crop failure in the northeast. An FAO Crop Assessment team
that completed its work in late November 1984 estimated that 1984 crop
production will be 1.7 - 2.01l million tons or 25 - 30 percent below the
7.31/million ton average2/ production. The assessment is the best
avaTlable and agrees subitantially with that of the Government's Relief and
Rehabilitation Comnission (RRC). A summary of the FAO findings is given in
Annex IV.
28.       The damage to livestock is also severe.  The International
Livestock Center for Africa (ILCA) estimates cattle mortality, based on its
own herd losses, to be at least 50 percent of the cattle population in the
southern rangelands areas. The mortality rate may well be higher in the
northeastern area where, in addition to mortality from lack of feed and
water, farmers may have slaughtered their animals for food.
29.       As has been well publicized, the result of the disasters
described above has been severe famine, predominantly in the northeastern
areas, but also in adjacent parts of other regions and in the southern and
eastern lowlands (see maps IBRD 18763 and 18764). RRC and the United
Nations estimate that about 7.93/ million people will depend totally on
food aid for the 12 months of l§85, until the next main grain harvest at
the end of the year, requiring about 1.333/million tons of grain. Lack of
food and repeated crop failure have not only caused the death of many
people, but have triggered a massive exodus of farmers and their families
from drought areas, with an estimated 4,000-7,000 people moving per day
during December 1984. An FAO mission that worked in Ethiopia during
November/December 1984, to assess the financial and other requirements to
resettle these people, estimated that between 65,000-100,000 people have
moved from the northeast to various areas in western Ethiopia during
November 1984 and the rate of exodus seemed to be accelerating. Some of
the food aid will be needed for these new settlers immediately, but the
process of allocating land and providing minimum infrastructure, housing
and services,4/ and farming equipment will take a long time. Resettlement
issues, howevir, are complex and require detailed analysis; we are planning
to review the Government's resettlement efforts more closely (para. 58).
1/ Root crops expressed as cereal equivalent.
2/ Three years (1981/82-1983/84).
3/ March 1985 estimate.
4/ Including medical and veterinary services to control human sleeping
sickness and animal trypanasomiasis, caused by tsetse fly which is found
in parts of the resettlement areas.



- 11 -
Drought Relief Requirements
30.       The best estimates available at appraisal, of incremental drought
requirements for December 1984 - December 1985, came from the office of the
Special UN Coordinator for Drought in Ethiopia, and amounted to $355.8
milllon. Since then there have been considerable pledges by donors and the
estimates have been refined by intensive dialogue of the Coordinator with
the Government and donor representatives. As of March 1, 1985 the total
assistance gap is estimated to be $277.8 million classified as follows:
Food  - 570,000 tons                     $123.0 million
Water supplies                              4.0
Medical supplies                            4.0
Shelter/Clothes                             4.6
Vehicles and spares                        28.2    -
Internal transport costs
of relief supplies                      114.0
Total                                   $277.8 million
This is equivalent to about 28 percent of estimated 1984/85 imports
(excluding the exceptional relief) and a little under twice the value of
official current transfers in 1983/84. The Government's request for
rehabilitation inputs (para. 33), compiled by concerned Ministries and
reviewed and approved by the National Committee for Central Planning,
(agricultural inputs, livestock rehabilitation, water supplies, irrigation
schemes) is additional to this and amounts to some US$500 million
equivalent.
Budgetary Effects
31.       The Ministry of Finance informed the appraisal mission that about
US$111 million equivalent had been tentatively provided for in the 1984/85
budget to finance relief and other operations related to drought. This sum
amounts to about 10 percent of the estimated total current revenues for
1984/85. It is equivalent to about 40 percent of average annual capital
expenditures for the four years 1980/81-1983/84 and would increase the
1983/84 overall deficit of about US$227 million equivalent by nearly 50
percent.
32.       it is unlikely that substantial additional domestic revenues can
be found to finance drought relief efforts. In its 1984/85 budget, the
Government has introduced new measures to raise additional revenues (e.g.,
a levy on civil servants' salaries) and to cut back on imports and
recurrent expenditures relating to non-essential items. But the direct and
indirect effects of the 25-30 percent estimated shortfall in this year's
grain production would squeeze financial resource availabilities throughout
the economy, and could well depress total tax receipts. On the expenditure
side, there is limited scope to reduce current spending on economic and
social services without aggravating sorely stretched facilities further,
while the security situation continues to lead to heavy security outlays



- 12 -
Thus the major impact of the Government's relief spending is most likely to
take the form of cuts in capital expenditure, a large part of which Is the
government's contribution to foreign-financed projects.
The Government's Drought Action Plan
33.       Intensive preparatory work on a Drought Action Plan was initiated
by the Government in September 1984. The Government's priorities for
relief and rehabilitation programs are clear. Food, medicines, tents,
blankets and clothing represent the most pressing relief requirements. In
addition, there are urgent needs for considerable strengthening of the
transport fleet, port equipment, aircraft, spare parts and for funds to pay
food and other relief material handling and transport costs. On the
rehabilitation side, the Government ascribes highest priority to programs
for massive resettlement; to develop medium5/ and rm1pr6/ irrigation on a
large scale; to rehabilitate existing and construct new potable water
supplies, particularly in the drought affected areas; to extend the track
and road network in those areas; and to provide adequate inputs to all
farming areas to facilitate high crop production in 1985. Inputs include
fertilizers, pesticides, veterinary equipment and drugs, seeds, handtools,
oxen and tractors. The appraisal mission was convinced of the urgency of
strengthening the efforts to address some of the emergency problems
particularly in the area of food and relief material supplies, 1985 food
production, transportation and water supplies in the drought areas. The
magnitude of the Government's requirements, as endorsed by the United
Nations, (para. 30) illustrates that the credit proposed in this report
could only address a small fraction of the needs.
Organizational Arrangements
34.       The Drought Action Plan is designed and directed by the National
Committee to Combat Natural Calamities, assisted by NCCP. The National
Committee is chaired by the Head of State. The Government's Relief and
Rehabilitation Commission (RRC) is the main agency dealing with relief and
rehabilitation activities. It was established in 1973 to transport and
distribute relief supplies, resettle disaster victims, and to operate a
grain production monitoring and drought early warning system. Given the
severity of the current drought, however, the Drought Action Plan calls for
the assistance of virtually every Ministry and parastatal agency.
Consequently, a series of subject matter committees have been established,
each headed by a coordinator, that report to the National Committee (Chart
27054). The coordinators are mostly Government Ministers, but the Head of
State is the "Agricultural Coordinator".
5/ Works providing irrigation for 200 to 3,000 ha of land.
6/ Works providing irrigation for less than 200 ha of land.



- 13 -
International Response
35.       There has been a massive international response to assist the
relief effort. Assistance has come from IJN agencies, multilateral and
bilateral donors and non-governmental organizations. It extends to
virtually every form of relief assistance needed by the Government (para.
33). The international effort is coordinated by the UN Assistant Secretary
General stationed in Addis Ababa and appointed specifically for that
purpose. His office, in close collaboration with the Government, monitors
relief requirements, maintains a list of pledges and receipts of relief
assistance and keeps donors informed of gaps that remain to be filled in
the relief program (para. 30). In addition to relief efforts there have
been two major commitments for rehabilitation assistance. The first of
about US$27 million equivalent by Italy, to be administered by UNDP, is to
be used for minor irrigation. The second, of about US$19.5 million by
IFAD, will focus on national seeds supplies, and on provision of small
tools, soil conservation, water supplies and health programs for Hererge,
north Sidamo, south Shewa and north Gamo Gofa regions. To avoid overlap
with the international relief effort, the IDA appraisal mission liaised
closely with the UN office and with UNDP, IFAD and FAO teams that were in
Ethiopia during December 1984. At the time of credit negotiations, in
March 1985, the UN Assistant Secretary General confirmed that the proposed
IDA assistance (para. 59) would be sound and consistent with his office's
assessment of drought needs, integrated with the activities of other
donors, and supportive of the overall relief effort.
PART IV - SECTORAL BACKGROUND
The Agricultural Sector
36.       The main contributions of the sector to the economy have been
summarized in paragraphs 3 and 4 above. Unfortunately, agricultural growth
has been inadequate in the past decade. Production has been largely
stagnant since 1979/80, while the population has grown at about 2.9 percent
annually. The sector has, therefore, not been able to support economy-wide
growth, to forestall increases in consumer food prices, or to improve food
supplies, reduce malnutrition or build up reserves to forestall famine in
drought years.
Area and Production
37.       About 5.5 million hectares in Ethiopia are cultivated for field
crops including cereals (about 82 percent of the total), pulses (about 14
percent), and oil crops (about 4 percent). The main cereals are tef,
maize, sorghum, barley and wheat. In addition, about one-half million
hectares are cultivated for coffee, about 50,000 hectares for cotton and



- 14 -
about 20,000 hectares for sugarcane. Cotton and sugarcane are grown mainly
under irrigation for domestic consumption. Livestock also plays an
important role in most Ethiopian farms (para. 4). Smallholdings, most of
which are two heLtares or less in size, account for about 95 percent of the
country's cultivated land and produce about the same proportlon of total
agricultural production. But production methods are generally primitive.
State farms account for most of the remainder of production and cooperative
farms for about one percent.
38.       Virtually all crop production and some 75 percent of livestock
production originate In Ethiopia's highlands which form a 50 million
hectare plateau at an altitude generally exceeding 1,500 meters (see map
IBRD 18763). About two-thirds of the highlands have rainfall over 800 -
and high potential for agricultural production. This area currently
supports about 70 percent of the population. The rest of the highlands,
comprising parts of Eritrea, Tigray and Welo Regions, which have been most
severely hit by the drought, has unreliable rain and large, severely eroded
areas. Agricultural production is uncertain there. The rest of Ethiopia
consists of the lowlands. In the west, they comprise a sparsely populated
strip along the Sudan border, with quite good agricultural potential, not
developed to date hecause of human and animal health hazards and the hot
climate. The other lowland areas are hot and dry, populated by nomadic
pastoralists who practice little crop production. Of the total arable
area, only about 1.5 percent or 80,000 ha are irrigated. Irrigation
schemes are mostly large scale, situated in the lowlands and devoted to
industrial crops. Investigations are underway to explore irrigation
potential for smaller schemes in drought prone areas, to decrease
dependence there on rainfall for crop production.
39.       The Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for smallholder
production, soil and water conservation, and forestry activities. It
provides farmer extension services, organizes and assists peasant
associations and cooperatives (para. 40), and advises and assists farmers
on livestock production and protection. The Ministry is now undergoing a
reorganization to allow intensification of development efforts. It will
have four sections, each administered by a Vice Minister, respectively
responsible for natural resources protection and development (forestry and
soil conservation); rural development (roads, irrigation, storage);
cooperatives and agricultural development (peasant crop production and
cooperatives advisory services); and livestock resources development. Many
of MOA head office tasks will be decentralised to nine zonal centers in
line with proposals jointly developed by government and IDA staff during
the PADEP (para. 41) preparation process. Eight of nine zonal
representatives to head MOA zonal teams have been appointed. The Institute
of Agricultural Research is responsible for agricultural research, while
the Agricultural Marketing Corporation (AMC) markets cereals, oilseeds and
pulses purchased locally to stabilize prices and assure proper food
distribution. During 1984, the Agricultural Inputs Supply Corporation
(AISCO) was established under MOA to procure and distribute fertilizer,
seeds and pesticides to peasant farmers, functions previously carried out
by AMC. The Ministry of State Farms is responsible for developing and
managing state farms, and its affiliate, the Ethiopian Seed Corporation, is



- 15 -
in charge of implementing a national seed multiplication program. The
Ministry of Domestlc Trade is responsible for domestic agricultural price
regulation, licensing, market analysis, trade regulation, and improving
market infrastructure. Similar functions relating to foreign markets are
vested in the Ministry of Foreign Trade. The Ministry of Coffee and Tea
Development has primary responsibility for the coffee subsector, lncluding
improvement in coffee production, harvesting and processing. The principal
entity for providing medium- and long-term financing for agricultural
projects as well as short-term production credit to peasant associations
and cooperatives is the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank. The
plans and budgets of the institutions are all subject to approval by the
National Committee for Central Planning (NCCP).
Goverment's Agricultural Strategy
40.       The Government attaches priority to agricultural development, and
its primary economic objectives are to increase the production of
foodgrains, mainly by smallholders, and to expand and diversify export crop
production by both smallholders and the state farms. It conducted a land
reform program in 1975, that included nationalizing land, giving
cultivation rights to over 5 million cultivators, and establishing peasant
associations, service cooperatives and producer cooperatives. Peasant
associations are local authorities dealing with land distribution,
conservation and development. There are about 19,600 associations and all
farmers are members. About 3,200 service cooperatives have been
established covering about 75 percent of farmers, to provide a range of
services, mainly crop marketing and consumer goods and inputs sales to
members. Only about one-third of these cooperatives are functioning
actively to date. Over 1,000 producer cooperatives have been established
to undertake communal farming by members, but only about 10 percent have
been registered, which represents the Government's recognition that the
cooperative is functioning effectively. While peasant associations and
service cooperatives show promise of making decisive contributions to
agricultural development, producer cooperatives have to date absorbed large
Government resources with relatively small results.
Proposed Peasant Agricultural Development Programs
41.       Increased smallholder production has been supported in recent
years primarily by increased application of fertilizers, improved seeds,
pesticides, farm implements and strengthening of advisory services under
the IDA sponsored agricultural minimum package program. However, the
success of these efforts has been tempered by an increase in Government
control over marketing and pricing in the sector and by the
disproportionate allocation of resources to producer cooperatives and state
farms relative to individual farmers. IDA has assisted two projects in
support of the agricultural minimum package program (Credit 416-ET of July
5, 1973 and Credit 1088-ET of February 2, 1981). A mid-term review of the
second minimum package project concluded that agricultural growth has been
disappointing because of unfavcrable weather, inadequate producer pricing
margins, inefficient use of agricultural field staff, poor liaison among
agricultural institutions in Ethiopia providing research and extension



- 16 -
services, and inadequate budgetary support. A revised program for
intensifying services to the peasant sector is now being prepared with Bank
assistance and is referred to as the Peasant Agricultural Development
Program (PADEP). In addition, during the past two years, joint GOE-IDA
studies of farmers' incentives and marketing issues have been executed.
IDA has provided assistance under ongoing projects for an in-depth review
of the livestock sub-sector, now completed, and a highland reclamation
study that is currently underway. The latter comprises a comprehensive
examination of technical, economic and sociological factors affecting
natural resources and people's livelihood and welfare in the highlands. It
is, therefore, particularly relevant, with its focus on the areas most
severely affected by the drought and with the objective of designing a
strategy and projects to rehabilitate the area.
42.       To improve agricultural performance, IDA is assisting the
Government to address several major issues during the preparation of PADEP,
including agricultural pricing and marketing policies, input distribution
mechanisms, agricultural extension methiods, and institutional
arrangements. Output prices, for example, need to be restructured to
improve incentives to help speed the spread of improved seeds and
fertilizer, and restrictions on inter-regional movement of grains need to
be relaxed to encourage increased production and marketed surplus.  *The
disproportionate allocation of resources to producer cooperatives must also
be redressed. In October 1984, the Minister of Agriculture set out the
main features of the Government's proposed policy for grain marketing.
While the lng-term goal would be the socialization of wholesale trade
through service cooperatives, consumer cooperatives, and government
parastatals, the private sector would retain a definite role for years to
come. The share of marketed grain production handled by its Agricultural
Marketing Corporation (AMC) would be limited to its present handling
capacity (about one-third of the market) and that would allow private
traders and service cooperatives to handle the remainder under rules and
regulations to be set by the Government. The handling capacity of AMC
would increase only gradually in the coming years. Limits would be placed
on the extent to which private traders would be required to deliver their
grain purchases to AMC, and they would be able to move grain from surplus
to deficit areas.
Bank Lending for Agriculture
43.       IDA has committed about USS195 million during the last decade to
help finance ten agricultural projects in Ethiopia.   Six are still being
implemented. The projects have focussed on peasant agriculture (the
minimum package program and area development schemes), drought-affected
areas (forestry, soil and water conservation and settlement), export and
industrial crops (coffee, livestock and irrigated crops), grain storage and
marketing, and through a recently signed project, on strengthening
agricultural research. Many of these projects attracted other external



- 17 -
donors in view of the importance of agriculture to the economy as a whole.
Project implementation has been generally satisfactory, but in some
Instances, like MPP II (Credit 1088-ET) and the Grain Storage and Marketing
(Credit 789-ET), physical implementation has been satisfactory but policy
objectives were not met. The reason for this anomaly was largely the
unsatisfactory producer prices and marketing policy, which has subsequently
become the subject of intensive policy dialogue between the Bank and the
Government (paras. 41, 42).
44.       The US$10 million Drought Areas Rehabilitation Project (Credit
485-ET) following the 1973/74 drought disaster is particularly relevant to
the present situation. It helped to finance a broad range of rehabilita-
tion measures including improving roads, water supplies, rangelands, health
services and agricultural research; also fostering rural crafts,
identifying resettlement areas and developing a pilot scheme to
rehabilitate a typical catchment as a model for the region. The following
findings emerge from the Project Completion Report, soon to be issued.
Implementation was slower than planned, but if seen against the background
of the drought situation, revolution and land reform, and the need to
establish new project implementation units, achievements of the project
were satisfactory. Most physical targets were met but the spread of
activities may have been too wide so that each component could only address
a small part of the needs of the area. Consequently, while project
facilities and sermces have reduced suffering in the present emergency to
some degree, the benefits were masked by the enormity of the disaster. Two
main lessons have emerged. First, focussing on fewer objectives may make
more impact on the economy; and second, if new project units have to be
established, implementation will be slow. These lessons have shaped the
program proposed in this report (para. 53).
The Transport Sector
45.       Ethiopia's transport system comprises approximately 43,200 km of
roads (including 13,300 km of all-weather roads of which about 4,000 km are
paved), two ports at Aseb and Mitsiwa, one 780 km railway line linking
Addis Abeba and the port of Djibouti, small maritime and coastal shipping
operations, river and lake transport (of relatively little significance),
two international airports at Addis Abeba and Asmera, and 27 small
airfields and rudimentary airstrips. Roads comprise the country's dominant
mode of transport. Away from the major roads, animals are the primary
means of transport.
46.       The transport system is inadequate to support an efficient
production and distribution system. It is particularly poorly developed
in the agriculturally rich west and in the south and south-east, and is in
need of rehabilitation in many areas. Moreover, adjacent regions often
lack links between them, thereby militating against the development of a
strong, integrated national economy. The provision of transport services
in Ethiopia, however, is made difficult and expensive by the country's



- 18 -
large geographical area, rugged topography, severe climatic conditions, and
widely-dispersed population.
47.       Ethiopia's road network is one of the least developed in eastern
Africa, with a density of only 10 km per 1,000 km2 and 0.4 km per 1,000
people. The main network extends radially from Addis Abeba with few
interconnecting links; large areas still lack an all-weather link to the
capital or to other economic centers. The road network has expanded
considerably in recent years. The length of paved roads and the total
length of the networks have increased 2.4 times in the last sixtecn years.
Nevertheless, much of the main road network needs extensive rehabilitation
and upgrading.
48.       The road transport industry is dominated by private truckers,
mostly individual owner/operators who own about 75 percent of the country's
trucking fleet. Entry into the trucking industry is subject only to
compliance with normal minimum personal, safety and financial requirements,
but truckers for-hire must be associated with the Government-owned National
Road Transport Corporation (NATRACOR), a parastatal road regulatory and
transport company under the aegis of the Ministry of Transport and
Communications (MTC). In 1984 the total public road transport capacity in
the country amounted to about 6,732 trucks, 839 tankers, and 4,911 buses
(878 large). Of these, NATRACOR owned and operated 910 trucks, 160
tankers, and 450 buses. There has been traditionally a shortage of
trucking capacity in the country despite the importation of a large number
of new trucks in recent years. In particular, there seems to be a shortage
of medium and small size trucks for urban/suburban and short-haul services.
The situation is exacerbated by the general shortage of foreign exchange
for repair and maintenance of the fleet.
49.       Since 1950, the Bank Group has committed about US$200 million for
eight road projects in Ethiopia.  One is still under implementation.  The
first three concentrated on main roads, while subsequently there has been
growing emphasis on institution building and secondary roads. The last two
have been sector projects that support Government road sector programs.
Bank Group lending has been generally successful. Apart from physical
achievements, significant institutional strengthening has been attained.
The ongoing project has an important component under which construction of
about 3,000 km rural roads is planned in the next two years (FY1985 and
1986). The list of roads to be constructed has recently been revised to
respond to the needs of agricultural projects and arising from the
drought. Accelerated rural road construction will help to improve delivery
of relief materials.
Rural Water Supply
50.       Rural water supply infrastructure in Ethiopia is extremely weak.
Only an estimated 7 percent of the rural population have access to
"improved water supplies", and even for those with access, walking
distances are often long. The Ethiopian National Water Resources
Commission (NWRC) has the primary responsibility for the planning, design,
construction and operation and maintenance of rural water supply



- 19 -
facilities, and It has for several years concentrated on the drilling of
boreholes although in recent years it has also assisted the construction of
hand-dug wells, protected springs, and ponds. NWRC's annual investment in
rural water supplies has risen from about US$5 million equivalent in
1977/78 to about US$12 million in 1981/82. About half of the funding was
provided by external assistance. The Ministry of Health and several
non-governmental organizations have also constructed rural water supplies
in recent years. A Water Supply and Sewerage Project was approved by the
IDA in 1972, and was completed in 1978. Since then, the Bank Group's
involvement in the sector in Ethiopia has been limited to supporting the
development of water supplies through components of a number of rural and
urban development projects. A minimum level of contact has been maintained
with the sector through a UNDP project preparation unit based in Nairobi
which has been assisting the Government with the preparation of the
Ten-Year National Investment Program.
51.       The long drought has caused many streams, springs and ponds to
dry up. These were sources of water both for people and livestock. The
food deficit areas (Map IBRD 18764) are the worst affected by water
shortages and the resultant ill-effects are exacerbated by the urgent need
to provide reliable and hygienic water supplies to the camps and relief
centers that have been established in the drought areas. There is,
therefore, urgent need to rehabilitate existing wells and boreholes to
utilize available underground water and to drill additional wells. NWRC,
which has developed considerable experience in constructing and operating
water supplies (para. 72), has been constrained in its efforts to provide
these services by lack of foreign exchange for well pumping and drilling
equipment.
PART V - THE DROUGHT RECOVERY PROGRAM
52.       The proposed drought recovery program is based on the overall
Drought Action Plan prepared by the National Committee for Central
Planning, and on more specific plans of RRC and MOA, supplemented by verbal
presentations of government agencies involved in relief and rehabilitation
activities. An IDA mission visited Ethiopia in December 1984 to design and
appraise the proposed program in consultation with the Government. A
Credit and Program Summary is provided at the beginning of this Report.
There is no Staff Appraisal Report. Negotiations were held in Addis Ab#ba,
on March 15 and 16, 1985. The Ethiopian delegation was led by Ato Legesse
Tickher, Head of the Investment and Credit Department of the Ministry of
Finance, and included Ato Alemu Denekew, Head, Legal Department Ministry of
Finance; Ato Tadesse Yiberta, Manager, AISCO; Col. Negash Tekle Hariam,
General Manager, NATRACOR; Ato Melesse Endalamaw, Read, Planning and
Programming Department, NWRC; Ato Brook Bekele, Head, Equipment and Supply,
NWRC; Ato Tsegaye Asfaw, General Manager, AIDB; and Ato Berhanu Tesfaye,
Head of Transport Department, RRC.



- 20 -
Project Rationale
53.       The severity of the drought is endangering millions of lives,
disrupting the economy and virtually negating current development efforts.
The crisis calls for quick international action to assist GOE relief and
recovery efforts. Furthermore, unless immediate action is taken to address
the needs and constraints arising from the drought, there are prospects
that the country's productive capacity during the 1985 season would be
seriously impaired. Based on the lessons of the Drought Areas
Rehabilitation Project (para. 44), the proposed program focusses on only
three of the Government's relief and rehabilitation programs (para. 33) -
agricultural inputs, transporta.4rn support and equipment for potable water
supplies. All three need critLcal external assistance urgently. At
appraisal, no other donors had offered assistance for those sectors. At
negotiations the Government confirmed that, despite donor pledges
subeequent to appraisal, particularly in the transport and water supply
sectors, all components to be financed by this program represent vital
requirements for its relief and rehabilitation efforts. To facilitate
quick disbursement, components were designed to fit into programs of
agencies able to execute them and utilize program funds effectively.
54.       Program objectives are to:
(i) support the recovery of peasant crop and livestock production;
(ii) increase the Government's capacity to cope with the drought
situation and to implement the relief effort; and
(iii) reduce the fiscal and balance of payment impact of the drought
resulting from diversion of foreign exchange from development
purposes to relief operations.
55.       This would be a one year program which would therefore address
short-term problems only. The IDA country assistance strategy encompasses
longer-term issues as well in making the drought situation a major theme of
IDA work in Ethiopia. Preventing repetitions of the famine tragedy will
require solutions to such issues. Unfortunately, droughts will recur and
it is unlikely that the drought prone areas can be transformed to food
self-sufficiency in the short-term, and some not even in the longer run.
Consequently, overriding priority should be given to establishing a food
supply and distribution system that can deliver food to those in need.
While primary support for such system is coming from UN and other relief
agencies, the Bank would join in discussions with them and the Government
over its possible role in helping to prevent future disasters. To lessen
reliance on commercial food imports and foreign food aid, there are several
options for producing more food for people in the affected areas as:
boosting production in the high potential highland areas, rehabilitating
the drought areas, and resettlement. In the face of resource constraints
careful analysis is needed as to which option, or which combination of
options, should be pursued.



- 21 -
56.       Investment In high potential areas would lead to the most rapid
increase in food production and the highest returns to the economy,
provided adequate incentives for food production are offered to farmers.
This approach is followed in the program proposed in the present report.
However, opportunities for improving the lower potential areas also need to
be considered. Reha'ilitation programs would be long-term, comprising
possibly water storage and irrigation, soil and water conservazion, rural
infrastructure development and researcb into increasing agricultural
production. While returns to the economy by way of food production would
be much lower than developing high potential areas, most rehabilitation
programs are labor intensive, bringing much needed employment and food to
the disaster areas.
57.       Because the latter areas may not be able to support the present
population even with considerable rehabilitation efforts, and in view of
future population growth, the resettlement option also needs careful
consideration. The reasons for lack of exploitation of areas proposed by
the Government for resettlement include human and animal health hazards,
particularly those caused by tsetse fly and the unpleasantly hot climate
that does not appeal to Ethiopian highland farmers. These difficulties can
be overcome, but large scale settlement would be another costly long-term
program, and on the basis of experience from earlier settlement efforts in
Ethiopia, would have slow gestation in terms of agricultural production.
58.       Thus, both rehabilitation and resettlement are slow and costly
programs for which success is uncertain. Careful evaluation is needed to
determine what resources can reasonably be devoted to them. The highland
reclamation study (para. 41) is attempting to evaluate the costs and
benefits of options to improve the drought areas, and to prepare several
rehabilitation projects. However, because of the importance given by the
Government to resettlement, the Bank plans to study it closely to clarify
the role it can play in Ethiopia's long-term drought recovery efforts.
Bank policy discussions on PADEP (paras. 41-42) are an important part of
this activity, as is the highland reclamation study. Finally, other
projects in preparation, and related sector work, covering livestock
development, forestry, agricultural training and road construction, support
the long-term objective of increasing the resilience of the economy in the
face of drought. A full agricultural sector study in FY86-87 is expected
to bring the various themes of Bank analysis together for the Government
and the donor community.
Program Components
59.       The proposed program would finance the foreign cost of:  (i)
fertilizers, pesticides and veterinary drugs for peasant farmers; (ii)
spare parts for the public and private truck fleets, and four wheel drive
5-10 ton trucks for the Government's Relief and Rehabilitation Commission
(RRC); and (iii) pumps, motors and generators to repair water supplies in
drought areas and drill rigs with accessory equipment to rehabilitate water
supplies and construct new ones in those areas. The program would also



- 22 -
fund technical assistance for the Ministry of Agriculture's (MOA) Technical
Support Unit (para. 65) to provide administrative services for the
program. The inputs component was designed to meet the 1985 requirements
of peasant farmers. The water supplies component corresponds to the
National Water Resources Commission's (NWRC) 1985 rehabilitation plans for
the drought areas and its implementing capacity. By contrast, the needs
for the transport sector identified by the Government were greater than
available program finance (para. 30).
60.       The program would provide important ingredients for food
production by funding most of the imported inputs needed by peasant farmers
during 1985. These would mostly be used in higher potential agricultural
areas. This would be the most cost effective way of boosting Ethiopia's
agricultural production during 1985 and reduce to some extent tte need for
food aid for the less productive areas. Tne main short-term input need in
drought areas would be seed, most of which would have to be purchased
locally. The Government preferred not to use IDA funds for seed, and has
obtained financing from EEC and IFAD for the 30,000 tons of seed for 1985.
61.       The transport and water supplies components would support the
relief effort directly in the disaster areas. Program assistance would
improve potable water supplies there considerably by facilitating
rehabilitation of about 170 mechanized and 800 hand operated wells. The
nurchase of about 100 four wheel drive trucks would go a long way to
overcome the critical bottleneck of transporting relief supplies from
Government stores to remote villages. Access to some areas may, however,
remain constrained by security problems. Importation of spare parts,
including tires and batteries would allow critical restoration of trucking
capacity. Inadequate capacity because many trucks lack spares, has impeded
movement of relief supplies from port to disaster areas.
Detailed Features of the Program
62.       Agricultural inputs would include about 50,000 tons of
fertilizers, mainly diammonium phosphate (DAP) and a one year supply of
plant protection chemicals and veterinary drugs and equipment. Quantities
have been based on existing stocks and consumption in previous years.
Fertilizer up-take by peasant farmers during 1984 was 48,000 tons, despite
unfavorable farming weather, and is likely to be at the same level in
1985. With only 21,000 tons in stock the proposed purchases would cover
seasonal requirements and leave a modest carry-over. Plant protection
chemicals and applicators are for direct MOA use to control such migratory
pests as locusts, army worm and Ouelea (weaver birds), and for sale to
farmers for crop protection purposes. During 1984, crops were severely
decimated by various pests including a serious army worm infestation and
adequate insecticide stocks are needed to safeguard the new crop. Use of
veterinary drugs and equipment would be similar in that part is to be used
by the MOA Animal Resources Development Department (ARDD) for animal
disease prevention and control and the remainder is to be sold to stock owners.



- 23 -
Anti-helminthics (to control internal parasites), acaricides (to control
external parasites), and trypanocidal drugs (for use in tsetse fly areas)
are the most commonly needed drugs. The drought has caused the death of
much stock in the worst hit areas and has weakened the remaining stock
everywhere thereby making it more susceptible to diseases. The drugs are
badly needed for preserving surviving livestock.
63.       Transport equipment and spare parts would address only a part of
Ethiopia's urgent need for additional transportation capacity, to deal with
movement of food from port to drought areas without disrupting other normal
transportation needs, including transport of agricultural inputs and
produce. Investments are needed for port equipment, long-haul road
transport, short-haul four wheel drive trucks and truck spare parts,
including tires and batteries. The necessary port equipment to step up the
ports' throughput is already on order, financed by bilateral assistance;
and both government officials and the UN assistance coordinator stressed
the overriding priority for trucks to carry food and other relief materials
from regional depots to relief and feeding centers and remote villages,
mostly over rough roads or rudimentary tracks. The next highest priority
would be truck spare parts, since many vehicles, both of the publicly and
privately owned fleets, are out of use for lack of spares. The program
would, therefore, finance the purchase of about 100 four wheel drive trucks
for RRC, ranging from five to ten tons capacity, spare parts for existing
RRC trucks, and spare parts both for NATRACOR and the private sector of the
road transport industry.
64.       Water supply equipment is urgently needed. primarily to
rehabilitate existing boreholes and wells in the drought areas chat have
broken down for lack of replacement equipment. In addition, the water
supplies construction program is handicapped by inadequate and old drilling
equipment that has mostly been used for longer than its expected lifespan.
The National Committee to Combat Natural Calamities (para. 34) has assigned
highest priority to restoration of non-functioning water supplies in the
drought areas and construction of additional supplies there. The program
would make a vital impact on those needs by financing about 170 pumps and
engines, about 90 generating units and about 800 hand operated pump sets
for rehabilitating drought area supplies and two drilling rigs with
necessary ancillary equipment to replace existing worn-out equipment. A
list of the type of equipment needed is shown in Annex V.
65.       Technical Assistance.  The MOA Technical Support Unit would
coordinate disbursement and progress reporting activities (para. 80), and
would be available to offer advlce on procurement problems. To ensure its
effectiveness, the program would provide financing to continue for 12
months, technical assistance presently funded by Credit 1088-ET, when that
project is closed on June 30, 1985, as well as some equipment items needed
to strengthen the unit.
Program Implementation
66.       The program covers several sectors of the economy.  The main
implementing agencies would be units operated by or affiliated to MOA, RRC,
MTC and NWRC. The Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB)



- 24 -
would play an important supporting role by providing credit to AISCO and
NATRACOR to enable them to procure program goods (pars. 73). Procurement
of goods would be the most crltical activity that would determine
implementation pace. In general, program components are not interdependent
and program activities would be executed by each relevant agency. An ad
hoc committee of participating Institutions has been established, under the
Chairmanship of the Vice Minister for Finance, and will be maintalned to
coordinate the program (Schedule 4, Section l(b), draft Development Credit
Agreement). It will meet only as needed, to transmit information, and to
resolve any program implementation issues that may arise. Administrative
coordination would be provided by the MOA Technical Support Unit (para.
65), through which disbursement requests and progress reporting would be
channelled by other participating agencies and which would be available to
advise on procurement problems. The Unit has gained considerable
experience in such work during the Minimum Package Projects implementation
and would be able to provide the necessary services, as the workload
generated by the Second Minimum Package Project (Credit 108-ET) is
decreasing.
67.       The Agricultural Inputs Supplies Corporation 'AISCO) would import
and organize the distribution of fertilizers and plant protection
chemicals, and would also import veterinary drugs and appliances. The
Corporation was officially established in October 1984 but preparations for
its establishment go back almost two years. It takes over functions
previously performed by the Agricultural Marketing Corporation (AMC) and
for that purpose has also taken over AMC staff dealing with inputs imports
and sales, leaving AMC free to deal with food crop marketing only. While
AISCO has the capability to procure fertilizers and arrange port to store
transport, it does not have the capacity for field distribution.
Consequently the method used in the past would be continued for the 1985
season. This would entail distribution through 325 MOA and RRC stores in
the rural areas. Over 80 percent of these are situated 4n high potential
farming areas which would ensure that the bulk of the inputs would be used
there. MOA Cooperative and Agricultural Development Department staff would
channel the inputs to farmers through Service Cooperatives and Peasant
Associations (para. 40).
68.       Credit to AISCO for importing program fertilizers would be
provided by the AIDB, while credit to Peasant Associations and Cooperatives
would also be provided by AIDB in areas covered by its branches and
directly by AISCO in other areas. The credit and distribution system has
not been satisfactory in the peet. As a result of discussions and a joint
GOE-IDA investigation, the system is now the subject of an IDA financed
study to improve operational efficiency of AISCO and of the credit system.
It has been costly, with cumbersome credit arrangements, and is not
suitable to deal with anticipated large scale expansion. However, the
system has delivered inputs to farmers to date and can be expected to do so
for the 1985 season. Reform of the system would not be possible for that
season, but would be an important aspect of future IDA lending, in
particular of the proposed Peasant Agricultural Development Project.



- 25 -
69.       Demand for plant protection chemicals is derived from MOA's own
requirements for dealing with migratory pests and farmers' demands
ascertained by MOA staff at field level. Procurement and distribution
procedures would be similar to those described for fertilizers, although in
the procurement process, AISCO receives technical guidance from the
Ethiopian Pharmaceutical Corporation (EPHAMICOR). This Corporation has
been the government agency to import veterinary drugs and appliances and
would provide these services to the program. Sales of drugs to farmers
would be for cash, as in the past and would be handled by ARDD staff
through its 460 rural animal health centers. However, needy farmers,
particularly those badly hit by the drought, would be covered by MOA animal
health services. With all agro-chemicals, sale prices are based on costs,
excluding departmental staff costs, since most staff also perform advisory
as well as distribution functions.
70.       Procurement of transport equipment would entail purchase of about
100 4-wheel drive trucks for RRC and spare parts for RRC, NATRACOR and
private dealers. RRC does not have international procurement experience;
NATRACOR, which has successfully purchased vehicles and equip2zent abroad
for several years, has agreed to provide the necessary procurement
assistance. RRC comprises several departments and its transportation
department would operate the truckr and use spare parts to be purchased by
program funds. The Department now successfully operates a fleet of about
280 trucks and runs one central and six regional worksbops. There is an
adequate number of experienced truck drivers and mechanics.
71.       A parastatal agency, the Spare Parts Imports and Distribution
Corporation (SPIDC), a NATRACOR subsidiary, would import spares already
specified in detail for use of the NATRACOR fleet and for sale to both
public sector and private sector truck owners. SPIDC imports about US$12
million worth of spares per year, including tires which account for about
half the value, and has adequate experience in inter-national purchase and
in the distribution of spares. At least 50 percent of spares funded by the
program would be sold to the private sector (Schedule 4, Section 3(b),
draft Development Credit Agreement).
72.       Procurement of pumps, motors, generators, drill rigs and
supporting equipment for the water supplies component would be undertaken
by the Water Supply and Sewerage A'thority, an agency that operates under
the umbrella of NWRC. The suthor.ety, assisted as necessary by other NWRC
agencies, has satisfactor-r international procurement experience. The
Authority also has an aleqtate tean of engineers, drillers and other
technical staff to undertake the program of water supplies rehabilitation,
drilling of additional water supplies, and operating them. The Government
agreed to ensure that NWRC would make adequate arrangements to operate the
pumping and drilling equipment funded by the Credit (Schedule 4, Section 4,
draft Development Credit Agreement).
73.       AISCO and NATRACOR would require credit to pay for imported
goods and AIDB provides such credit to the two corporations. The
Government would take steps to ensure that prompt and adequate credit will



- 26 -
continue to be provided (Schedule 4, Section 5, draft Development Credit
Agreement). The Ministry of Finance would ensure prompt issue of import
licenses to AISCO and NATRACOR for the specified articles.
Cost Estimate& and Financing
74.       Total program cost is estimated at US$41.4 million equivalent,
including duties and taxes of about US$4.5 million. The foreign exchange
component is estimated at US$30.0 million or 81 percent of total program
cost, net of duties and taxes, of US$36.9 million. Costs are based on
December 1984 prices, projected to June 1985 levels. Since procurement of
all goods, equipment and vehicles is likely to take place at that time and
since the amount of funds available will determine quantities to be
purchased, contingencies have not been applied to the cost estimates. A
detailed breakdown of costs is given in the Credit and Program Summary.
75.       The proposed IDA credit of SDR 31.3 million (US$30 million
equivalent) would finance all foreign costs representing about 81 percent
of total program cost net of taxes and duties. The Government would
finance the local costs of US$6.9 million equivalent, plus taxes and
duties. Of the proposed IDA Credit, the Government would make available
about US$4.0 million to RRC for trucks and spare parts, and an additional
US$0.2 million to MOA for the Technical Support Unit.  The Government would
provide AISCO with access to about US$12.5 million equivalent foreign
exchange for the import of about 50,000 tons of fertilizers and about
US$4.0 million of foreign exchange for the import of plant protection
materials, and veterinary drugs and appliances. It would also provide
NATRACOR with similar access to about US$5.1 million of foreign exchange
for the import of spare parts (including such items as tires and batteries)
for trucks.
Retroactive Financing
76.       All the goods and equipment to be financed by the program are
urgently needed for use in Ethiopia. Consequently, all participating
program agencies were encouraged, at appraisal, to prepare bid documents,
to be published or distributed soon after negotiations. However,
fertilizers must be in the field before sowing time and their purchase,
therefore, requires overriding priority. Some are needed immediately to
cater for the early rains planting season. While about 21,000 tons balance
f- . last year are in the country, the amount is scattered in different
locations and, with the transport shortage, it would be difficult to
redeploy the material to where it is needed. Hence, the Government
authorized AISCO to place an order for 24,000 tons DAP in November.
However, the fore'gn exchange balance had become so precarious that the
Ministry of Finance reluctantly decida:d that the necessary foreign
exchange, about US$6 million, could not be allocated. The appraisal
mission ascertained that procurement procedures had been satisfactory.
Twelve firms from nine countries responded and bid evaluation was fully
satisfactory. To help ensure the timely placement of fertilizer in the
rural areas, retroactive financing of up to US$6.0 million for this purpose
is proposed. With prospects of reimbursement by the Association, AISCO



- 27 -
prospects of reimbursement by the Association, AISCO awarded a contract for
the fertilizers for prompt delivery at Aseb, Ethiopia. With credit
signature scheduled for April 1985, additional retroactive finance would
not be needed.
Procurement and Disbursement
77.       All items to be funded by the program are needed most urgently
and procurement speed is therefore vital.   Special procedures would
therefore be justified that nevertheless encourage reasonable competition
among suppliers. Fertilizer (US$6.0 million7!) has already been purchased
(para. 76).  The balance of about 26,000 tons (US$6.5 million7/) would be
procured through international competitive bidding.  An advertisement
giving full specifications and delivery requirements would be placed in the
local press and would be circulated to embassies of Bank member countries,
calling for sealed or telexed replies within 30 days. Bids would quote
cost and freight value in US dollars, valid for 30 days. Specific brands
of spares made only by one manufacturer would be purchased directly from
the manufacturer. All other goods (US$17.3 million7/) would be purchased
by limited international bidding, which would entail obtaining at least
three bids from well established suppliers. The exception would be
purchases by MOA for the Technical Support Unit of less than US$2lO,00 per
item that could be done by prudent shopping. The total value of items
purchased in this way should not exceed US$100,000. Technical assistance
would be procured according to Association guidelines. A procurement plan
is given in Annex VI.
78.       For any orders exceeding US$250,000 in value, full documentation
(including list of bidders, advertisements, invitation to bid, draft tender
documents, draft contracts, bid evaluation and recommendation of contract
awards - as applicable in each case) would be sent to the Association for
review prior to contract award.
79.       The Association would disburse against: (i)  100 percent of
foreign expenditure for imported goods and vehicles; (ii) 80 percent of
local expenditures for goods procured locally but not for vehicles all of
which would have to be imported; and (ii1) 100 percent of foreign cost and
80 percent of local cost of technical assistance. All disbursements for
amounts exceeding US$20,000 would be fully documented. Reimbursements for
amounts of less than US$20,000 would be made on the basis of Statements of
Expenditure. Disbursement requests from all participants would be
submitted tbrough the MOA Technical Support Unit. Most components would
require only one procurement package and therefore the disbursement
schedule is not comparable to general IDA disbursement profiles.
Disbursements are expected to be completed by October 31, 1986, the
proposed Credit Completion Date.
Reporting
80.       During the program implementation period, the MOA Technical
Support Unit would furnish monthly reports, giving the progress of
7/ Foreign cost.



- 28 -
procurement, to the Association before the twentieth of each month. In
addition, each quarter the report would include comments on utilization of
program supplies and equipment, such as number of water supplies
rehabilitated or amount of agro-chemicals sold. Within six months of
completing the program, the MOA Technical Support Unit would prepare a
completion report acceptable to the Association, that would describe the
procurement of items funded by the program, their utilization and impact of
the drought position (Schedule 4, Section l(a), draft Development Credit
Agreement).
Accounts and Audits
81.       Program accounts would be maintained by NWRC, RRC and the MOA
Technical Support Unit. AISCO and NATRACOR would keep accounts to record
the acquisition and ultimate disposition of the goods financed by the
Credit. All these accounts including Statements of Expecditure would be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association and then
submitted to the Association not later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year during the implementation period (Section I.01, draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Environmental Impact
82.       Plant protection materials would constitute the only components
that could affect the environment adversely. The materials would be partly
used by trained MOA staff to control migratory pests and partly by
farmers, advised by MOA pest control staff. Only chemicals would be used
that have been approved by the National Drugs Committee, which is
responsible for testing and approving all plant protection materials for
use in Ethiopia. The amounts of pesticides that would affect the
environment are relatively small and in these circumstances, it is not
envisaged that the unavoidable pest control work, arising out of this
program, would have harmful effects on the environment.
Benefits and Risks
83.       Fertilizers would be expected to raise production by roughly
200,000 tons of grain, worth US$40 million in terms of import
substitution. Benefits from plant protection materials would also be
considerable in preventing agricultural production losses, but there is no
exact basis for quantifying benefits. With regard to pest damage, however,
early warning systems point towards a build up of serious army worm
infestation that could be devastating unless controlled, and part of the
materials to be funded by the credit would be army worm control chemicals.
The benefit from veterinary medicines would be similar. Animal health
protection would be particularly relevant, with animals having to seek
fodder in areas not normally grazed because of health hazards, but now
representing one of the few sources of fodder reserves.
84.       Benefits from relief components cannot be quantified but could
only be described in terms of saving lives and reducing malnutrition. The
new trucks would help to improve presently inadequate road transport



- 29 -
facilities. They are especially designed to take food to areas
inaccessible to available two-wheel drive trucks, which would help to save
lives of many people who now have to walk long distances for food. With
the existing national transport fleet already inadequate to deal with vital
food and other transport needs and of considerable age, the spare parts
component would be a crucial factor in sustaining essential services. The
benefits, in terms of maintained relief effort and other vital economic
activities including agrlcultural production and Internal food
movements,from keeping the existing fleet in order, would be very large.
The spare parts funded by the project should also help greatly to alleviate
the cost of immobilized vehicles. Finally, providing the proposed limited
level of water in the drought areas is an essential minimum for survival.
Extreme plight is being suffered by peopla in the drought area not only
from lack of drinking water but also from disease resulting from poor
hygiene due to lack of water.
85.       Because it is a one year program, the main risk would be that
goods would arrive late. For that reason, credit processing has been
expedited and participating Ethiopian agencies were encouraged to initiate
procurement procedures at appraisal time. In addition, retroactive
financing for 24,000 tons fertilizers would be made available. These
measures would meet the most urgent priorities. The program faces a risk
that the rains do not come as expected, and that the policy reforms
(para. 42) are not implemented on time, and that therefore the agricultural
inputs do not lead to the anticipated restoration of food production.
The program alao faces risks that RRC trucks may, in some cases, be unable
to deliver supplies to some remote villages beyond the relief centers
because of security constraints, but substantial program benefits are
expected to accrue even if they are unable to do so. There is also a
possibility that the trucks would be used for purposes other than
transporting relief supplies in disaster areas, which will be addressed
through monitoring by the RRC of truck utilization. Finally, it is
conceivable that some government officials will misinterpret the IDA
emergency program as a signal that the donor community is prepared to
provide financial support for long-term peasant agricultural development
programs in the absence of detailed follow-through and implementation
programs for the recently adopted basic reforms in grain pricing and
marketing (para. 42). In general, the project risks are considered
acceptable in view of the emergency nature of the assistance, and the
critical needs to be met.
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
86.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between Ethiopia and the
Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V Section 1 (i) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association,
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
87.       Special features of the draft Development Credit Agreement are
listed in Section III of Annex III to this report.



- 30 -
88.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit will comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
89.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
March 26, 1985



-31-                                                Annex I
T A I L E  3A                                      PACc E
ErTIOPLA               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ETHIOPIA                            REFCRENCC GROUPS (WEICHTD AVEAES) 
D5DT                    (MOST RECgNT ESTIMATE) lb
RJCENT         LOW INCOME AFRtICA        MIDDLE INCONE
19bk       197 I    EDb  cSTUIAiLb!  SOUTH OF SAHAA        AFRICA S. or SAHARA
MUtTwu DSo. oe)
ToTAL                               1221.9      1221.9   1221.9
AGRICULTURAL                         574.9      593.5    593.1
G10 P  CRITA (US)                        30.0       60.0    140.0              249.1                    1112.9
ENOWT  hTION ru CIh   WTA
(KILOCRAMS o0 OIL EQUIVALENT)         7.0        23.0      24.0              62.8                     529.0
POULATII ASD VITAL STAT!SlCS
PoPULATIONHlMD-TEAR (THOUSANDS)    20093.0    Z5450.0  32933.0
uRAuN POPULATION (z or TOTAL)         6.4         9.7      14.7              19.2                      29.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POrULATION IN TEAR 2000 (HILL)                           57.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILL)                            230.5
POPULATION MONENTUW                                       1.9
POPULATiON DENSITY
PER SQ. KN.                         16.4       20.6      26.2              32.5                      55.8
PER Sq. KM. ACRI. LAND             35.0        43.0      53.9             119.2                     11.5
POPULATION ACE STRUCrURE (Z)
0-1A YUS                           *3.9       44.8      45.1              45.b                      45.4
15-64 YRS                          53.5        52.6      52.3              51.5                      51.7
65 AND ABOVE                        2.6         2.6       2.6               2.9                       2.9
POPULATION CROWTH RATE (2)
TOTAL                               2.1         2.4       2.1               2.8                       2.8
URBAN                               5.5         6.5       5.6               6.2                       5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)          50.8       49.9      47.2               48.6                     47.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PeR THOUS)          28.3       25.7      18.1              17.7                      15.2
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.3         3.3       3.3               3.2                       3.2
FAMILY PLANING
ACCCPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)
USERS (1 OF MARRIED WOMEN)           ..           .        .
INDEX OF POOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                        103.0      101.0      82.0 /c           65.8                      91.6
PER CAPIrA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREKENTS)        91.0       87.0      76.0              86.4                      98.2
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)           12.0        69.0      59.0              49.9                      56.7
Of WHICIH ANIIAL AND PULSE        29.0       28.0      22.0 Id           18.3                      17.0
CHILD (ACES 1-4) DEATH URAT'           2.o       33.0      25.0              23.8                      18.7
ERlALTE
LIFE EXPECT. AT 8IRTH (YEARS)         36.5       41.0      46.8              48.4                      51.7
INFANT NORT. RATE (PER  TBOUS)      172.0       151.0    122.0              117.5                     102.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (2POP)
TOTAL                                ..         6.0       6.0 /I           21.8                      35.6
URBAN                                ..          ..      32.C7             61.5                      54.1
RURAL                                z- o. 2.07                            14.2                      27.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                1. 4.0              14.0 If           32.0
URBAN                                          67.0      56.0 7T           69.2
RURAL                                ..         8.0       8.0 7F           24.8
POPULATION PER PNYSICIAI          100470.0    75740.0  58490.0 I          27477.8                   11948.3
POP. PER NURSING PERSON           14920.0      7880.0   5440.0 7.1         3396.2                    2248.9
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             3000.0     3080.0   3060.0 1           1089.0                     986.9
URAN                              220.0       390.0    790.0              395.2                     368.7
RURAL                                ..    15960.0  10150.0 7e           3094.0                    4012.1
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..       10.6
IsC
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTZAL                               ..         4.5        ..
URBAN                                3.5        4 .2
RURAL                                ..         4.5
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOH
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URBAN                               2.7          ..
RURAL                                ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (z or WELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..          ..
URBAN                              58.2 /b       ..
RURAL



- 32 -                                                    Annex I
T A B L E   3A                                      PACE 2
ETKIOPIA                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
ESlTOPIA                              REtERENCE CROUPS (VEIZGTED AVERAGES) a
NOST                     (MOST RECENT   TtrHATI) tb
RECENT          LOW INCOME AFRICA        MIDDLE INCME
1962        197Dd o ESTIMAT, b         SOUTH OF SAHARA      AFRICA S. Of SAHMA
EDUCATIOU
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
P RIMAXT:  TOTAL                      7.0        16.0      46.0               69.2                      91.0
MALE                      11.0        23.0      60.D               78.8                      90.5
FEMALE                     3.0        10.0      33.0               57.6                      73.6
SECONDANS: TOTAL                      0.4         4.0      12.0               13.1                      17.4
MALE                       1.0         6.0      16.0               17.6                      23.7
FEMALE                     0.1         2.0       8.0                8.3                      14.D
VOCATIONAL (% OF SECOSDARY)            20.3         4.5        ..                7.2                       5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              37.0        48.0      63.0               46.1                      38.6
SECONDARY                            13.0        28.0      44.0               25.9                      24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (I)                  ..        12.8 /i  53.0                44.3                      35.6
COnRDWTOU
PASSENCER CARS/THOUSAND POP             0.8         1.6       1.8 /a             3.8                      20.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/TROUSAND POP            *.9         6.3       8.0               41.9                     100.8
TV RUCEIVERSBlNOITSAND POP                          0.3       1.0                2.D                      18.5
NEWSPAPER (-DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION
PER TNOUSAND POPULATION               2.1         1.1       1.7                5.4                      17.2
CINFA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA           ..          ..        ..                1.4                       0.3
LAWK FORCM
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TmOUS)            8975.0     10957.0  13523.0
FEMALE (PERCEPT)                     35.7        35.2      33.2               36.5                      33.8
ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)                88.0        84.0      80.0               77.4                      57.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    5.0         6.0      7.0                 9.8                      17.4
PARTICIPATIDN RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                44.7        43.1      41.1               41.0                      36.3
MALE                                 58.6        56.9      54.3               52.1                      47.6
FEMALE                               31.3        29.7      27.6               30.2                      25.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY LATIO               1.0         1.1       1.2                1.2                       1.4
ILCOm[ DIsrXUmTONe
PERCENT OF RIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
NIGcEST 5 oF HOUSEHOLDS                ..
HIGHEST 201 OF HOUSEHDLDS              ..
LOJEST 20S OF HOUSENOLDS               ..
LOEST 40Z OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..
FOVE M TAICE GROUPS
ESTDULTED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOKE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..         ..      190.0              X68.3                     525.3
RURAL                                 ..          ..       65.0 /a            90.8                     249.0
ESTDIATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..         ..       77.0 /a           107.7                     477.4
RURAL                                 ..          ..       37.0 7;            65.0                     186.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOKE LEVEL (1)
URBAN                                  ..         ..       60.0 /a            34.7
RURAL                                 ..          ..       65.07              65.6
NOT AVAIIABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T t S
/a   The group averages for *ech indicator are popula:ion-vaLghted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries eomon the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unl-oe otherwive noted. -Deta for 1960" refer to ary year between ;959 and 1961; -Dst for 1970- between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate  berw.on 1980 and 1982.
/c  FAO data differ somewhat from Ministry of Ariculture data;  /d 1977:  ls 1976;  If  1975: LL  1978;  /h Addlt
Ababa &nly;  /i Ags 10 years *nd over. D 1979.
JLUS1 1984



-33-                                                                                  Annex I
Page 3
fteem   ilehote  the date no desa      ieete    assa i, isued'iLT        see smhnirlr.so, o5 t.1ii.atle, itsrldes h         e1 .   s.q. trst tow ? svp  as. WI    is..r-seatIiy
efee I. htim of tek  i.e. ef sceejetie   4. e    e  1al eecpu"s edb  difie!.=   aquA. is ebtlils.e "iqthe dEco. it m.  WsEt. tsecet..nstm
StariE11E     e . "a.    'S. intaincts teadl.. ee  eterieilt  steel. ejr ditt.ehtse.tfl.
ftieie)    t it.   M uterc   *     dii. ehi anr"s   ftc Psg.141tl se  ho s.ijhe   sttei ttt as     eto  sat tedi4ic. ad et-  ely oo ajei-ty  Et itsu a 1.e.      E. It
lvu  Is St  le  t am ittcaet.  Stics, the Cewre4c .1 teamt la  sew   ft. Indites"" te  diedu    Imseccl"   fdo    . toeatihit        ee5    I 2.wS aiere  cailst sPEeNh
steled i. retsccq seecee  if WE aictitetatcctst                That-... a        me4    t sIr eaftklit sueriet tit. -Li..'      todistst, at 5 _ tIe   -t ath  dEsttrl smd
b..)                                                                                g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Ppiate  di.tdsd hy ass.,.4 sl ptatsi
stiesf&   ,oat .eicsrie tad eowM. ed inisti sI-s, iCe5                                                    tee   aia   Etesi at scv*tcip  tesi.
14Z.Fadie  date.                                                                             fsssi.vp           rcte  c We   Pealsts. levie  bp  Eaeher .1pesttt
uPInuk-  etsiaelso             qisite  se n.sdeer. it   et ,t-as.aeei                           atesatits adse  aMee  stst  it'teat  1taei'lisill sties  as
W   PEsNI-st. astatk   -  %14fists aste    Etis  tic  WItle   ISO.                     eetiiw  es .Eiilat.
eeeo. cc4. a0  eat ate.                                                                         hq e  let a. ph~la tsc..  eselst    i.iiefoopi. das0s-p            ar t5iEd.
ar aOMO                  Aic .a Pateiu.-.ee a-       s ad pEt e-. eic.k                      enitet..ws. III. lntslasci Slat dbt aI  sc-ee.1.4-. .es.Es todk1.
55eeihi  sMPiicip     -i mi .rs:i  i   qam- et S         s. s.uita  ehi.                   iaiisicestcss                  clo racteses.
cii 441a ieee d1tata.        M.0elnle 'p"l1911                                                          .atredlt...       -  ae   as   tSes  .   s             dehre
c  is          net  - as. itMei is  CU. mItt. Es  t" lis~1
toop-MM,  r d.t.4vteae te                        itCced.   (btA   eS    eiheid    - WItt tIIt .  soI.d terc
see  asatitect iis. itic, a  see dees.                     etmi beheld tatOe.,tmea em                                        "a. sIss
~hltrilEe                                                                             iet.etsas e1itat. set na- ies a-tee.5NM15455f fBhe
too                       -A j7rdiitl - Ceree   ps,alt is  iMlet i.eea  he        esc  rnasat pa   inm  I   et.  a   tm.   ae                        eeta
i.- T J -Iii       1e      - soda   oo.d e  ,i en-c  sor.. asI 11vde.ws.rsi                                    tealeCis.ssseasptaa                        icr.s
res.  i. etete E.tc  trte11ity eses els  t.   theelet ..-.1 itts. arhe_. ad  .a,s! l_asimiW   sstnt
ssi9ir   attic  ia tf-teilt  tetadiul  tE  lata  is-e  see pet t_lij
pielt  titcmlo.te        ssryi the.. atsmeIII          it thee=1. eis
1tet1d sistife -   c   sI.Sg                ...s ad. bne  -srsii  niesitey4 fr  f                                               s- tt L ttna F  ..PEm.uslas 
raterod hec  shmteer. iptmeartns.   !eeei 1st                                                 prmnrr s     Pal. i-E.  IIIestsa  ssii   ist lasf ttt mes- . Mo.ba
reidits  eis.C  ssosrsitn  theo k..t.4o.             hit  et   Ca teia                        WeehcSstdtrditse   aih    tpretLeets 
ito.Eeb  rteo lait. of e1 stscIar  ate,eicet .1ev ate stin-.     E   thpps...is  r"et.a   t.   h  etla  aee-, at.
bni  i  te  iaetsd   t.rseeiaie  ii, theI11 tasat-i- it. the tet--Ies.sre .i -                              . nit sa  tale  - Cerata  .-- t             fe:ssedt
Nell.1 ad   :e sis Ittias.tem E       I' tt, rdt' s cc 1,- iseav   Can.                         estei  retsits    :lt,m West es.1  et, sveeSrss   te ti
is. as    fti  h   a  teoti. tee. herehe                  llc.  Ito                           estli   tidd
otmef aIepl tme   stepe   i    aitd  osttta   i                                     sec    eateCme.. intrene et.eeesedsrti    _ _tnde amsilmit
clmet  teioap   apiei   me      ~ teo  Iotamsio   the ast -r _io tS                      S   nees,oetii  a   te   eeecsmteet
i.m iEm  tea tettlit  tia-             raits.I    -lIt    it                        ttpada.ai  at-datiete   l  eeryitmtv-
-te6 lee, act.                                                                            aeti.seh. i  me-  ritv  ad  essd                -   IIse  sta.sas  _deii i"s
totl re   i ~Cie, adMI data.                                                        atet ivrtts eea    - Utram asihetoods   oto -
F.,ai le   oct    et..Iftst h..iit.  t -il                  I- ..... . eeiee  te-4                    MWs            t    ,   W&'nrt55WI                   I
Pbtotais.! A" least te.(ftsai- lete -   C"ot  et.   toeattta                 1i-                i  ie.s~ci
resistmoe reheo4eevj-chs  "mCInbte   tsba                                                         tdsat  ess  aim ..dt. tt,ss -All at rvaess  eesiod ds
Sods bitc  tet% tier tht.    i.- lrEsl i. tWint  - thadsi_ al-tteae                                         ismtet   t  tteetya.  reth   wssi    ir
jetpeam te    hOt, ilf, a   5161 dets 9".,                                                      Itea -itts  itti .ee    iletteadiee.             .r jkE-kt.E
tepaFtate    ite. 11141. saT_.d      sa   date.                                               eetsrs  esii  -   th1ee   ssits=    ti;atisd  Vttsoi
tee, tiy  rte   "lom   ti-petmsi.   se    o  ee.ts   t                                          iteei   tdiI   aeitcts   euer   atmad                          f C rttdt
55*.                                                                                 psbiiestie antS  weaEt, taIIeLnda              deTe.       E.i  is earc
- estrs. Isea emtsdl-easl'ahtssstaeet                                              al   c  e   pr  -les stfe   ems.                         -
yaeiv ysmtic   icy  tairst e se cd    wtost      tmacsls   ESt  Ertcs                 metle                                                        IIcI
atew. U tetie-tedtlte  eqs she ate p reel itiec or 5oae to-sdhese tst-efto
rr anree   Wo1t. ;   istrd          nt I   ta   ars       -Ee.r fies  el                  ci ti NeCI
FLa-tri   -st.pmm   en   scsi   s  eibaten atEIPs. I-                                       -l at.t5  s.tselte   a   cidietssie   taei    o.   t
sceC r-brSsl.e ats E it  Itee  nineeas. rEd ee-"   .tla  clt.ca  e.td                                   ft"         Lt. E"e" iss 9 a-ay leo..t'at-         tei
hesad 5 etiese! state  troatet ivies atihosi teat-es. ivlt). Isodt, teetoa ,eI. Et.W
teti.                                                                       rae.leiittn tee. CiortcPE.-miotsl rete. tad  oat ta   EL P       .atttius  at
.in-tIt P. tvs  eimttrss   ttelcee     teee   rsaeo    tees 9                                  yi-.             an.. tMto         atl    u. a       fel  lhrlit 
red EEI smvtle.t sauit on lta scets C e-ttibte Ico paeoety lsr ddile Pd                       tettMsec  sotistpa.1 etotsod vale. pI-asee 100.16 dii 5Wai tepae
SE.   atlitl  tstvI EL   se1 tiss la, cit-   prsseIe.icd       e  e                           CML.59 '* 5115         es.   hes sL e ti         tIsretivt            rItem
Is.1ss  sod -th. a   It. sent,)  setv eanl  sEtasd sof -       eeh   as.. is               Z. reiii   e-Edttm ras   h  tesic.       inc. tin tret.  A*
qsssitls  seMi, fed          oo. p    aleet. a   toiaet. 1a d  3-trtiatis.   deiite.4         ret aMnt   st  Ie  c   oe1  se
qi  S        dsolhett  .  islsde S   L Atli5I yssEvi tst tetie                                     t        -
se  'ashd1.ti  ea-n   mrt End    If" dat.  IJ!=t.P,                                  E.          Ifl3flpj        IIe-.~Lt-.  .1 0
tee. t-np ty.vapta.    eatp snIp ..L-   ot ta v    i     ltteed    latin.                      MG.arsIm.tiho II   ISrieta teec  20 torsce a- 1        av.ecc0eee.
aptr.,eLta   tsri   sai  tdb  tilke fluids lrIt  cic dia                                      ta_scitstde. 
-eitnse.e  ii grs if  tte  pes dc p.r de. adtic ares  ef nest sad111
veIn irse ia. if cbht  top esee otel   esta   r i.d   ThosepIEI2    tt.f- .I     -t    5.                                                                       I   rt
.Ctz' cr  N-' lb .-olo-j's   toak,Iroc1fl4."tiio.Lts. ae see  sppItaeelieese  0   aet ple!.
eidrd  ar   ao   htte Eao        C .I..- lr     at1istdl stldo  ace- 11ti
it eshsol  reiti  - masate. 19sv-  19a 0 adt...eee.        etei  n                          eel   elesee    te   aedeteiet
Thid hrt  ta   lari; feam-et levi ) -e  --Iat.                                        tatts   hiPtEIceieieceLat e-,L..                      t  -ie.edred 
.r.Caoat  ttei esr v tie es nt , tao"l -. Peetet   pprx-.t 1s                                 helt  teat1       te    ee!i  ot 1s   Iolbt oar .a
Sli_ te   -ltshtt 1-1Mtee thsss   -dtet ee   l  tEtoee .                  Inteicutod teetev..esen to                      t -   sme cashf-1 st          P_ie- the    Et tro
.'w aEso  i tEdet ttes i           c tine   or Step            -a.eno   eotstm                t.rirltc   see    oai.i  siltd.   ntoptsp
11 f-  -t-I WE EIII. - P,ttett roelec. mLt Aetlt.?sdtt..,ts1I,                                                  oo..!!   ahe
it  mnt  mte,ie.  a is:data                                                             vs1..1-F'-,t.   -ut8
year tt ap  Mt thoae.ce lies writs: itS, Nova eel iS"J.a leta.ol.-I  f 111.9  ~ r
Attst t sisbit (ereet.iEeslaties - lna  ces  aad rsl   _-f ..t                                                 p-t  .
-ee tory  ite   s  eoteine.. thei  sP---          ev..t"   .e    C
siotst escee sit.  -eeail  at eteIatI !Wtntad  Zs   e   ie  "t  sate
A.sae. to metooe-e     1 tee di(r.as et tosltiol-d   eaaI    re,  n 
-a dohe  et "'Ete Ctota~ebt  e II, I  rre1sedhemrtsJi ta
psEastoids.  eter  anptte vPs."tc-ee                  - tn EL. Ceed  5? tit."
th  tlitieeaddiesal  etiassere  t. Ei.m         -ima  eIee
Settns   by nd?-hers tvtse at ee    If Ct p1trset



-34-                                              Annex I
Page 4 of 5
Economic Indicators
Croea  National Product in FY 1984 1/                         Annual Rate of Crowth of CDP at Constant Fator Cost (1)
USS MR.      2                        1977-81        1981        1982      FY1983      1964 1/
CDP at Market Prices             5063.0      100.0                      3.2           3.0         1.1         5.1      2.5
Investmnt                         641.2       12.7
Cro.. Doetic Savings              160.0        3.2
Resource Balance                 -481.2       -9.5
Export of Coeds and NFS           5S0.1       11.5
Import of Coods and HFS          1061.3       21.0
OutRut in FY 1984 L1
Valus Added
US$ Mln       2
Agriculture           2172.9    47.8
Industry               711.7    15.7
Services              1662.7    36.5
437. 3    TC
Government Finance               Central Covernment
(Br-min)           I of GDP
rY 9574'l  Frn 1984       FY1981-83
Current Receipts           2202.5         21.0          19.9
Current Expenditures       2110.9         20.1         20.0
Current Surplus             91.6           0.9         -0.1
Capital Expenditure  561.3                 5.4           6.0
Money. Credit and Prices
(Fiscal Tearo)                                    1979        1980         1981         1982        1983          1984 1/
(Million Br. outstanding end of period)
Money and quasi-oney                             2063.6      2332.1       2377.6      2643.7       3040.4         333.7
Bank Credit to Central Government                 862.3      968.1        1107.9      1186.1       1979.4        2293.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector and
Financial Institutiso                          1205.6     1592.0       1657.4       1879.4       1688.6        1798.8
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money as X of GDP                                  25.8        27.4         26.9         28.8        31.0          22.7
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                               12.9        12.5          1.9         7.3          4.3            -
Iank Credit to Public Sector                      12.5        12.3         14.4         6.6         67.6          15.9
Bank Credit to Private Sector                     34.0        32.1          4.1        13.4        -10.2           6.5
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this tsble are *t the average exchange rate prevailing during th' period covered.
All Fiscal Years are Erom July 8 to July 7.
1/ Provisional Data for 1984.



- 35 -                                            Annex I
Page 5 of 5
see Of !=aunts
:oc; ofr ars s               1980     1981     1982      1983     1984 1I
(WIllon USS)                    (Fiscal YesriAverqe 19B1-83)
USS MIS.       S
-res of Good, NFlS             584.2    554.8    519.9    541.0    556.1          Coffee             241.4        61.0
rci  of Goods, NFS           798.3    793.4   881.3    955.8   1018.6           Pulses              13.3         3.4
area Gap (deficit --)       -214.1   -238.6   -361.4   -414.8  -462.5           Oilseeds            10.2         2.6
Rides 6 Skins       43.1        10.9
st_mt Tocom  (not)             7.2    -6.5      -2.3     -9.9      -5.9        Oilseed cake          5.0         1.3
atO Transfers (not)           19.9     24.7      45.2     83.5    107.2         Other               62.9        20.8
.mCe on Current Acet.       -ITI71  -MT   -7TrT   -TmT   -IM-:                  Total              M             .oU
cial Transfers (not)          59.9    59.9      67.6    120.9    162.0         External Dcbt, December 31, 1983
-ace NLT Capital (not)         0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0                                  USS Kln
Ic iLT uorrowisg (not)       103.6    110.5    245.4    191.3    122.2
Disburso_nts                  (122.8)  (132.5)  (278.0)   241.1  (217.9)
Amortlzation                   (19.2)   (22.0)   (32.6)    49.8   ( 95.7)        Total outstanding A
t-ters Capital              -14.3    -6.0       18.9    -9.5       10.9          Disbursed                1222.6
ge In reserves                                                                   Debt Service Ratio for 1983
* increase)                   40.4     59. 7    -57.7     47.0     42.4
-r Item
ci. errors)                   -2.6    -3.6       44.2    -6.5      23.7         Total Outstanding &
Foreilgn Assets                                                                   Disbursed               11.5
id year)                     177.8    118.6    178.6    107.3      65.8
-rleum XIports               118.3    13B.7    159.1    174.1    125.9
- .rolisu  Product                                                               IBRD/IDA Lending (Sept. 30, 10q4)
Iworts                         37.0    27.0       14.0     19.0     1L.4
(USS HiM)
IBRD     IDA
:of EI chane SinCe 1973
US$1.0O - Br. 2.07                                                               Outstanding 
-r.1.00 - US$O.46                                                                 Disbursed           40.3    395.8
Undisbursed          -       311.0
Outstanding Incl.
-_not___pl_c__le                                                                 Undisbursed        40.3    706.8
-sot *pplicab-l--
- not available
-rtoislonal
uary 198 5



- 36 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of September 30, 1984)
Am o u n t
Loan or                                                            (US$ Million)
Credlt                                                           (less cancellations   Undis-
Number      Year    Borrower         Purpose                         Bank       IDA     bursed
Tvelve loans and twenty credits fully disbursed                      108.6    232.2
Cr. 603-ET   1976    Ethiopia      Rangelands Dev.                              27.0      2.5
Cr. 708-ET   1977    Ethiopia      Road Sector                                  32.0      0.1
Cr. 707-ET   1977    Ethiopial/  Revised Amibara                                25.0      5.5
Cr. 789-ET   1978    Ethiopla      Grain Storage & Mkg.                         24.0      5.8
Cr.lC88-ET   1981    Ethiopia      Agric. Minim  Pkg. II                        39.22/    7.7
Cr.1141-ET   1981    Ethiopia      Education V                                 35.02/    8.4
Cr.1275-ET   1982    Ethiopia      Agric. & Indust. Dev. Bank                   30.02/   23.9
Cr.1366-ET   1983    Ethiopia      Urban Development                           20.02/   17.6
Cr. 1386-ET   1983    Ethiopia     Petroleum Exploration                         7.02/    5.6
Cr.1404-ET   1983    Ethiopia      Second Road Sector                          70.02/   64.7
Cr.1429-ET   1984    Ethiopia      Coffee Processing & Marketing                35.02/   33.2
Cr.1509-ET   1984    Ethiopia      Sixth Telecommunications                    40.031   40.0
Cr.1520-ET   1984    Ethiopia      Sixth Education                             70.03/   70.0
Cr.1521-ET   1984    Ethiopia      Agric. Research                             22.04/   22.0
Cr.1522-ET   1984    Ethiopia      Technical Assistance                          4.04/    4.0
Total                                          108.6    712.5      311.0
of which has been repaid                      68.3      5.7
Total nov outstanding                           40.3    706.8
Amount sold                         6.0
of which has been repaid          6.0                     -         -
Total now held by Bank & IDA
(prior to exchange adjustments)                40.3    706.8
Total Undisbursed                                 -         -      311.0
1/ US$1.7 million disbursed under former Cr.418-ET, Amibara Irrigation, has been
repaid out of the proceeds of the new Credit.
2/  Credits 1088-ET, 1141-ET, 1275-ET, 1366-ET- A'4-ET, 1429-ET, 1509-ET, 1520-ET,
1521-ET, and 1522-ET are denominated in - Rs (SDR 31.4 million, 28.2 million,
27.0 million, 18.0 million, 6.5 milli'., 64.9 million, 33.2 million, 38.7 million,
67.3 million, 21.1 million, 3.9 million, respectively.
3/ Effective March 13, 1985.
4/ Effective March 12, 1985.



- 37 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of Seprember 30, 1984)
US$ Million
Fiscal                                               Type of              Amount
Year          Obligor                                Business    Loan    Equity    Total
1965       Textile Mills of Dire Dawa I              Textiles     1.5       1.0        2.5
1966       Ethiopia Pulp and Paper Co.               Paper        -         1.9        1.9
1968       HVA Metahara, S.C.                        Sugar        5.5       3.5       9.0
1970       Textile Mills of Dire Dawa II             Textiles     0.4       0.2        0.6
1973       Textile Mills of Dire Dawa III            Textiles     1.5       0.2        1.7
Total Gross Commitments                                8.9      6.8       15.7
Less cancellations.
terminations,
repayments and sales                          8.9       6.0      14.9
Total Commitments now held by IFC                      -        0.8        0.8
Total Undisbur8ed



- 38 -
Annex III
SUPPLEME;rARY PROGRAM DATA SHEET
I.    Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare program:                          Two weeks
(b)  Preparation by:                                         IDA staff in
consultation
with the
Ethlopian
Government
(c)  Initial discussions with IDA:                           October 1984
(d) Appraisal Mission:                                       December 1984
(e)  Negotiations:                                          March 1985
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:                          July 1985
II.   Special IDA Implementation Action
Retroactive financing for fertilizer.
III. Special Conditions
(a) The Government would take steps to ensure that at least 50 percent of
the spare parts financed under the program would be sold to the
private sector (para. 71);
(b)  The Government would make adequate arrangesents to ensure proper
operation of the equipment purchased and facilities installed under
the program (para. 72)-
(c) The Government shall cause AIDB to provide credit to AISCO, and
NATRACOR, and cause AIDB and AISCO to provide credit through service
cooperatives to farmers, who purchase agricultural Inputs financed
out of the Credit, credit being on terms and conditions consistent
with standard rates in Ethiopia (paras. 68, 73).
(d) The Government would maintain an ad hoc Committee under the
Chairmanship of the Vice Minister of Finance, for overall
coordination of program activities (para. 66); and
(e) MOA would furnish monthly reports, giving the progress of
procurement, to the Association, before the twentieth of each month
(para. 80).



- 39 -
Annex IV
Page 1
FAO CROP ASSESSMENT MISSION
INTERIM REPORT TO RRC
The purpose of the FAO missio.; was to assess the 1984 harvest
prospects of cereals and pulses, at the request of the Relief and
Rehabilitation Commission.
The mission arrived in Addis Ababa on 28 October 1984. During
this period, the mission consulted various Government agencies on matters
relevant to its work and also spent 18 days in the major food grains
producing areas of Welo, Arsi, Bale, Gojam, Welega and Shewa Regione and a
part of the most important area of north-eastern Bale. While in the field,
the mission obtained useful data from the Ministry of Agriculture's field
staff, inspected growing crops, and talked to farmers about growing
conditions and crop performance in virtually every awrajah traversed.
The mission travelled over 4500 kilometers during its field
trips. These areas visited comprise a good and representative portion of
the most important areas of production as well as the most affected areas.
In Addis Abeba itself, extensive consultations were held with the Ministry
of Agriculture, Central Statistics Office (CSO), the Institute of
Agricultural Research, National Meteorological Services Agency,
Agricultural Marketing Corporation, Ethiopian Seed Corporation, Ministry of
State Farm Development, and the International Livestock Center for Africa,
as well as with the Relief and Rehabilitation Commission's Early Warning
and Planning Services Unit. Only indirect information on Eritrea, Tigray,
Gonder, Hararghe, and the south-western Regions has been obtainable. Our
method has been to try to estimate roughly percentage changes in area and
yield of the main cereal and pulse crops in the Regions covered.
Good cooperation has been had from the Agencies mentioned. It
shouid be stressed that the percentage changes have been applied to the
production and area estimates of the annual surveys of the Central
Statistics Office. The CSO's estimates are noted as still provisional. It
appears that the RRC's estimates of persons seriously affected apparently
are essentially consistent with mission calculations.
Total crop production will depend on areas planted or harvested
and the yield per hectare.
The production from belgl/ crops, namely barley, some tef and
pulses, was lost because of the failure of the belg rains practically
everywhere in the country.
The i984 main rainy season was characterized by its start earlier
than normal in May, poor or erratic rainfall distribution, its stoppage
arouna September and therefore its short duration, particularly for long
duration crops (maize and sorghum) and other late planted crops. Rainfall
1/ Early rains - February to May.



- 40 -
Annex IV
Page 2
was below the normal and that of 1983. The worst drought-stricken regions
include Welo and NE Shewa where no crops were produced in many areas.
For various reasons, the planted acreage was below normal. The
failure of the belg resulted in a very short time available for land
preparation and sowing, especially for the long-duration crops normally
planted in the preceeding March - early May. Draft oxen were weak due to
the lack of forage and water, following a long period of drought, and
therefore could not cultivate the normal acreage. During the season, lack
of rains at the normal planting time of tef, wheat, barley and pulses
prevented sowings and contributed to the reduction of area planted. There
is evidence too that very wet soils, especially heavy clays, hampered
cultivations.
Planted crops in some areas failed to establish owing to
germination failures resulting from lack of rain after planting and army
worm damage. Where some degree of establishment was achieved, plant
population was low and weed infestation high.
Confronted with an abnormally short planting season, farmers had
to carry out land preparaion with weak oxen, hurriedly. Seed-bed
preparation was rather inadequate, and this must have also contributed to
poor crop emergence and weed infestation. Tef, which requires thorough
cultivations and a clean seed-bed, was particularly adversely affected by
poor land preparation.
Since time for cultivations and sowing was short, and there were
droughts at normal planting times, crops in some areas had to be planted
late. With the early cessation of the rains, these crops would suffer
moisture stress at the critical heading and grain development stages.
Significant yield reductions are expected, especially since this year's low
rainfall would make a smaller contribution than in a normal year to soil
moisture reserves on which some crops generally depend to reach maturity
after the rain.
Crops planted rather too late (August and September) would be
worse affected and some would have no chance of maturing in the absence of
showers after the main rainy season or early 1985 belg rains. Depending on
areas, these crops include some wheat, barley and the pulses. In
particulaz, the latter, which were planted in September, as done normally,
would have very little residual soil moisture this year.
The major surplus areas, normally, of GoJam, Shewa, Arsi, Gonder,
Welega, and northern Bale should have a sharply reduced surplus this
season. In addition to Welo, Tigray and Eritrea, all of north-eastern
Shews has been very severely affected, as well as eastern Gonder and
probably Hararghe, even the Chercher highlands.
It must be noted that perhaps up to 20% of the important enset2/
crop has been lost to probably bacterial wilt disease, in southern Shewa
2/ Enset or false banana (Enset ventricosum), a plant of the banana
family, but food is extracted from its stem and roots.



-41 -
Annex IV
Page 3
and r3rth-western Sidamo Regions. Normally enset production should be
about five to six hundred thousand tons of grain equivalent. This appears
to have been reduced in 1983 and 1984 by over one hundred thousand tons.
Owing to the apparent reduction of the normal harvested area, and
almost certainly reduced yields per hectare, the mission estimates that the
1984 total cereal and pulses production of the peasants' main crop season
would drop by 25-30% of the normal. Production losses are expected to be
highest for maize, sorghum, tef and the pulses (especially chick peas,
vetches and Irntils) and in the normal low rainfall kolla3/Zone.
The three-year, "normal", base-period of CSO was not a period of
high production, and the crops of 1983 were also low, mostly due to
drought. The "normal" production from all sources is estimated at about
7.3 million tons. A 25 to 30% reduction means a shortfall of between 1.7
and 2.0 million tons. This may be roughly equivalent to the ordinary
consumption of between 6.5 to 8 million persons. (See the Table attached).
Seed supplies for the 1985 beil and kiremt4/ rainy seasons will
be limited and critical, following crop failures and poor level of
production of the 1984 moher5/ crops.  Besides, following the continuing
drought, farmers especially in the lowland areas have either lost or
disposed of their draft oxen. The urgent replacement of these animals for
the 1985 cultivation is necessary to ensure the maximum possible advantage
being taken of the 1985 rainy season.
This report should not create the impression that crop condition
was inadequate everywhere or in most areas of the country. As is well
known, rainfall is especially very variable in Ethiopia, even within the
same locality. Thus, some areas had been fortunate in having timely and
adequate rainfall, and early planted crops in those areas were
satisfactory.
L.J. Marenah                                                J.H. Dalton
Plant Production and Protection Officer                     FAO Consultant
FAO Regional Office, Accra
3/ Lowland.
4/ Main rains.
5/ Main harvest.



APPROXIMATE GROSS PRODUCTION (PROVISIONAL)
(Thousand Metric Tonnes)
Eth. 1973   Eth. 1974   Eth. 1975   Eth. 1976          Eth. 1977
Crop and Year            (1980/81)   (1981/82)   (1982/83)   (1983/84)          (1984/85)
Crop and Pulses:
Peasant's main crop               6059         5537         7139         5954       4400 to 4700 I/
State farms                        256          283          230          203        160 to  190
Peasants' "Belg" crop             218           200          270          "O"            200 2/
Sub-Total                   6533         6020         7639         6157       4760 to 5090
Adjustment for approximate
cereal-equivalent for enset 4/,
root crops, etc.                     580          590          610          510 3/         520 3/
Adjusted total, main
carbohydrate food items             7113         6610         8249         6667       5280 to 5610
INDEX: 1981/82 - 1983/84
"Normal", 7300  100                   97           91          113           91         72 to 77
1/ Down 25 to 30% from "normal", 3-year average 1981/82 - 1983/84.
2/ Assumed 10% reduction in 1985 due to shortage of oxen, etc., assuming good weather 1985.
3/ Reflects 20'. reduction assumed in enset from Eth. 1976 due to disease, SW Shoa, NW Sidamo.
4/ Enset or false banana (Enset ventricosum), a plant of the banana family, but food is extracte
from its stem and roots.
Sources:  1980/81 - 1983/84, based on CSO Preliminary Results of annual surveys.                                x 
1984/85 -           Mission's assessment of likely percentage declines in production                   x
due to drought diseases, etc.  Enset estimates by mission member                   c
based on mid-1970's study.



- 43 -
Annex V
Page 1
WATER SUPPLIES COMPONENT
A. List of Pumping and Electricity Generating Equipment
Description                            Quantity
Vertical Shaft bore hole Pumps
1801 pm x  70 m.                                 8
1801 pm x  90 m.                                 9
1801 pm x 120 m.                                10
2401 pm x  70 m.                                 8
2401 pm x  90 m.                                 5
Submersible Pumps
1201 pm x 130 m.                                17
1201 pm x 185 m.                               16
1801 pm x 135 m.                                16
1801 pm x 160 m.                                15
1801 pm x 200 m.                                13
240 1 pm x 150 m.                               10
2401 pm x 200 m.                                 7
Generating Set
11   KVA                                        17
15   KVA                                       32
17.5 KVA                                        15
20   KVA                                       23
25   IVA                                         7
Surface Centrifugal Pump
1801 pm x  60 m.                                 8
1801 pm x  80 m.                                8
2401 pm x 100 m.                                 7
2401 pm x 120 m.                                 7
Hand Pump                                        800



- 44 -
Annex V
Page 2
WATER SUPPLIES COMPONENT
B. Drilling Rigs and Ancilliary Equipment
Description                            Quantity
Rotary/DTH Drilling Rig                            1 No.
Cable Tool Drilling Rig                            1 No.
Auger Rig                                          2 Nos.
Truck, Cargo Crane                                 2 Nos.
Pick up, 4 x 4                                     4 Nos.
Truck, Cargo 12.5 ton payload                      2 Nos.
Water Trailers 5 m.                                2 Nos.
M.S. Well Casing                                   2 Nos.
6  5/8" O.D.                                 2580 m.
8  5/8" O.D.                                   600 m.
10 3/4" O.D.                                  270 m.
PVC Well Casing
6  5/8"                                      4200 m.
8  5/8"                                        750 m.
PVC Screens
6  5/8"                                       960 m.
8  5/8"                                        85 m.



- 45 -
Annex VI
Procurement Plan
(US$ Million)
Procurement Method             Total
Project Element              ICB       LIB      LCB    Other   N.A.    Cost
Fertilizer                   17.8        -        -        -       -     17.8
(12.5)      -         -        -      -    (12.5)
Plant Protection              -          2.2      -        -       -      2.2
Chemicals                    -         (2.0)     -        -      -      (2.0)
Veterinary Drugs              -          2.6      -        -       -      2.6
& Equipment                  -         (2.0)     -        -       -     (2.0)
Trucks                        -          4.2      -        -       -      4.2
-        (3.0)      -        -      -      (3.0)
Truck Spares                  -          9.1      -        -       -      9.1
-        (6.1)      -        -      -      (6.1)
Borehole Equipment            -          3.2      -        -      -       3.2
(Pumps, Motors               -        (2.5)      -        -      -      (2.5)
& Generators)
Drilling Rigs                 -          2.1      -        -       -      2.1
& Ancillary Equipment        -         (1.7)     -        -      -      (1.7)
Technical Assistance          -          -        -        0.1    -       0.1
_         _         -       (0.1)   -      (0.1)
office Equipment              -          0.1      -        _       _      0.1
OffieE n-  -(0.1)1/   -      -      -      (0.1)1/
TOTAL                   17.8       23.5       -        0.1    -      41.4
(12.5)     17.4       _       (0.1)   -    (30.0)
Figures without parentheses show total cost.
Figures in parentheses show costs financed by IDA.
1/ Rounded. IDA finance fractionally less than USSO.1 million.



ETHIOPIA
DROUGHT RECOVERY PROGRAM
Grain Price Trend In Selected Markets
Reogon   WELO                   Region   GONDER               Regicn   SIDAMO             Region   SHEWA          .    Region   KARERGE                 Region   AR,
Awraj   Rayana Kowo             Awroja   Gaynt                Awyaoj    Sidama            AwT)a   MenogeSha             Awna. Chechr                    Awrqo   rcho
Crop     rEF                    ctoro    rEF                  Crop     MAIZE              Crop     TEF            h                          . . .      Crop     TEF
260-
240 -1984
220-
200 -
180
160                                                                                                                 1984                    1984
` 140           *.      *
i2                                           19 I84                                                                                                                      `91
100                                     00 01984                                                           s *  s * 1 6
80                                                                          ,r*.e
60                                     00'00s.sa*,**.0' 196.3
1983
410                                                                                *e1983
20
.iutV  Aug, Sept Oct.        Juty Aug Sept. Oct.           July  Aug. Sept. Oct.         Ju~ty Aug. Sept. Oct.         Juty Aug. SepW  Oct.          JuIy Aug. Sepit. Oct.
SoLwcer. fellet and Rehabilitation ComvnlsWon - Governmrent of Ethiopia - Decerrer 1984.
Woud Bank-2 7053



ETHIOPIA
DROUGHT RECOVERY PROGRAM
Government Relief and Rehabilitation Planning,
Coorc,inating and Executing Organizafton
National Ccvnmiflee
to Comrbot Natural Calamltles
(Short & Long-Teim Solutions)
NatCoal Committee toa
Central Ptannmn
Relief       transport        ettlement      Agaiculture     State Farm     Construction       Planning &      InfSe_Ction rrr cdict,01r          Ad           lntCmiat)0ont
Coordinatol    C=ainoo        lronammrn         Coordnci       Coordiflof    Development         ProgrammIn;rr     & Contrai     Imp'lements     CooraTor II    lCity rL
Coordrr'ufoi                                   Coordinator        C=*ndalvo       Coorama,r~a     Coc~inaol                     Cocwlinatc*
Zone
AwrTaj       _
Wod Bar* -27064



ETHIOPIA
DROUGHT RECOVERY PROGRAM
Program Organization Char
Cooxdinating ComTmittee
Minisfr ofd Finatnce
Tectnn,ca  X
l- __ llSurf Unit
r  ,,],, e >rt    l    l  4tFtNlCll  1 1   f tV(lto Sect  r    A51reultfua  l          Peassanett  j   |             |       e<7V1
Sparo l arts       Inputs Surppives           Coweratrve                          Caostr ton
t. <,#g, VeJtIur I  ,  [.<rISCCirlDoitia                 Depairtrrent                           Aulr. Ya?
LxwooetspnT            Deveb!pment
Dntro  L epir trnenl   Ceirtm ent
A cWd Ecr k -2 7G55



IBRD I8763
A.R OF EGYPT                                                                                     44SAUDI  4
ARABIA
SUDAN    J    P                                                                 E T H I O P I A
f1 A(             YEMEN                                                          Approximate Govartirnr.it Propow'd
q   BOD5 S    -                                                               Rewienvneril Arecas
~ALt HA   , SOMAL IA                                                             Western Lowlands Boundory
.H            PIA      .                                                    L       Pastoral Areas
;   > *t   _  <§ ~   -20         0    Crop Production Highlondt                  200.
|ZA.RE  f4e 2KElSlYA  ia-  -                                                                o    Provincial Capmtook
*    Notional Capital
--AN4DRUN 0I' \                                                                  -        Isohyets. mm
TANZANIA                       SEYCHELLES                                              1500 Meter Contour t.ne
-::   __^,            36-                  /                                              Provincial Boundar,i-
^W--~-                  -                                       -        ~-~  Internationol Boundarmes
,- rW aF-                                                                 , ^     .       0    100      200     300 KILOMETERS
0           100         200 MILE5
Y E MEN                     P.D.R
S    U      D    A     N --                                 e2t\  -  ' 
6  E   R A 3 , ~T I G RA t Y                               *
IAier                                           A B                      YEE
WESTERN                                                                                                       0 RSifHARERGE  /   8'
WEL\ MI    T I BALE1                                                                                /
_          w               7    M O  _JAM    Des
a.      .4. \                                                     _           ._{
__ANDA   b                  3°' K E N Y A                        40'                                  4.?
e-OF.                                                                              S-MARCH   1985



l ARA RE                                         36                                                    dip 
LIBYA       OF CVPT         AUD            e
EG~~~Y 2 -3SAUDI |5
7,-  U D A    N 
Z A   II 
\ KFA i°GONA>A   
~~ s .  D 8   N./.
.          six                           '' ,-   '              \ \ ; .210.
U GA N DA   ,,.   t                 *;~~~~~~~A,



I BRD 18764
--. 42                                          W     IN MILLIONS PEOPLE ARE  T H  I O  P I A
AREA WHERE PEOPLE ARE IN              tOADSUNDeRCONSTRUCTiON.
*    NEED OF FOOD ASSISTANCE                       ALL.WEATHER
1,  TOTAL POPULATION BY PROVINCE.
8?.      *         |                  ~~~~~~~~~~~IN MlILLONS                   GRtAVEL. ALL-WEATHER
2.6  ESTIMATED POPULATION BY PROVI NCE    =   A LWAYS
~~~    d~~~~~~~.. ~~~~~~NEEDING FOOD AID, IN MILLIONS                                RIVERtsle
1. _ b   *  ' 
-X |   Phl,@  _   Nf+4   INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS            *    NATIONAL CAPITAL
04.   PORTS                                  POVINCIAL CAPITAL
S    E    A                            ROADS,                                    PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
ASPHALT, ALL-WEATHER                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
"-A- 5'**B,~'                                           -        GRAVEL. ALL-WEATHER
-      RURAL AND/OR DRY-WEATHER             -
-'.F:--   '.-
X     w   ........................ }?.....................G        v?   i   f   0   F   A   °   F   IV
WEIO   "'"            ~~~DJ IBOUTI
D-/ /               4 
_                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~S  O  M   A   L  IA|
ffi  - ~                  ,9i,     ^15_               4.f-9    .: -/  
-_ 7-~10/0.1   
-~~~~~~~~~~AI. - -3.>~ 
=' . -     -                       - ;                                                                                          10 t    b - 
Y"bo
b.n  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
.J -_ ff ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMAERS 0  100   MO   L    200    2 0300  350  400
-af_ -ABE/AMILLS O                                                                       i4       i                  260      Lk
MARCt 1985



_ EGYPT, t 0    SAUDI oi                                         44                                     .A.R OF E_
ARABIA      j
' y'YM  .                    RAINFALL DEVIATION  FROM  THE MEAN                          I
(--3AN     {   \ x           IN PERCENTAGE FOR 1984 SHORT RAINY SEASON                            SUDAN
ADDIS      I                                       20%       Above Normal
(AttLBA  ..SMALIA                                     1"
-  ETHIOPIA 7                                     *20% lo -19      Norm-l.
*\     _8           ,  .                                 -20% to -59%     Below Normal
20.
20                       -60%       Much Below Normal
4s,<, K ENYA i                                                                                        ZAIRE fr
4Vt,  \.                                      f   Provincial Copiokls
V75UlluNDl   9>/   sEYCHELLES                   ^   Notional Capital
} TANZANIA (7                                                Proviincial Boundories|
-* -Internotionol Boundaries
36'
ft     _ - -.                  -                                                                                -
0   100  200  300 KILOM:-TERS
i   _X_          I I                         O       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~100  260 MILIES     :
- -  a   -U_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ____         _ _                                                                - - -.
S-- - --  I-           r                                                                       6          
)                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~16.
-16 
ARAB
YEMENYEMEN
-PE> e    '     REP    _
: U  D  A  N  j              _         \    <s  -.e              r                                    S U  D
12*-~~12
Wl            _       v ~~~~~~~~~~LO  jDJIBOUT I       -12r
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
IL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A   L IA        
4.              7~~
A         E                                                        _8                    -8 GANDA
A   t     ~~~36'  K E N  Y A        40-      /4|4' Gwmrsu trnuUAD



IBRD 18765
_A.RR OF EGYPT                                    40'
'!-Pl  ~ SAUDI
ARABIA       j                                    E T H I O P I A
!i-                .   . ,    o                        RAINFALL DEVIATION FROM THE MEAN
SUDAN  (!  YMEPDNY'  ! -IN PERCENTAGE FOR 1984 MAIN RAINY SEASON
SUDAN              'MAR IYEMEN
C {   * HtHA   MALIA                                  *20% to -19%       Normal
ETHIOPIA  /                                        -20% to -59%       Below Normal
20'                   .4 +~                                                          .:-~e*  20-  c-60%  Much Below Normal  20-
. t}~~~~~~~~~-0
ZAIRE  I\o )KENYA
Provincial Capitals
J"S'$3   > D +                                                    *   Nalional Capitol
_ TANZANIA .      ~        SEfCHELLES                                 Provincial Boundories
TANZANIA.-  Internat.onal Boundaries
.                                            0    100   200   300 KILOMEIERS
_0@  .  wO  100   200 MILES
16    6'
16~ ~ ~                    (   - -o.-
s  \  Aersx  x,. . _          YEME N    *          ~~~~~P. D. R.
-ARRAB   <  YEMEN
REP    J
S U D A N
124.
|A         W&      KEENEGA              4 S  )                \
2 1 \   hDD:> ;i' '|  /   \   HARERA j9,
W~~~~~~. 8%r;  ;!.{-.  
,.    GOFA'                        \     
A                                   _                                           _                  S O M A L I A
UGANDA  t36    K  E N  Y  A                        40'                          44-
FEBRUARY 1985



I



