RESTRICTED
Report No. PA-41a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank ond its affihiated organizotions.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completenei. The report may
flot be published nor moy it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCnION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
COCOA PROJECT
IVORY COAST
Box No1  
May 4, 1970
Agriculture Projects Departrent



CURRUCY EQUIVALMTS
US$ 1            =    277.71 CFAF
1 CFAF           _    Us$ 0.004
L Million CFAF   =   US$ 3,601
WEIGETS AND MEASURES
(Metric Systea)
1 hectare (ha)    *   2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)  =   0.624 miles
1 kilogram (kg)   -   2.204 pounda
1 metric ton      =   2,204.6 pounds
1 liter           -  1.057 U.S. quarts
iBEBEVIATIONS
SATMACI:   Societe d'Assistance Technique pour la Modernisation
Agricole de la Cote d'Ivoire
SEDES:    Societe d'Etudes pour le Developpement Economique et
Social (France)
FED:       Fonde Europeen de Developpement (EEC)
BEI:       Banque Europeenne d'Investissement (EEC)
SODEPALM: Societe pour le Developpement et ltExploitation du
Palmier a Huile (Ivory Coast)
IFCC:      Institut Francais du Cafe, du Cacao et autres Plantes
Stimulantes (France)
CFDT:      Compagnie Francaise de Developpement des Textiles (France)
BNDA:      Banque National pour le Developpement Agricole (Ivory
Coast)
CSSPPA:   Caisse de Stabilization et de Soutien des Prix dos
Production Agricoles (Ivory Coast)
COFROR:   Compagnie Francaise d'Organisation (France)
CAA:       Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (Ivory Coast)
BDPA:      Bureau pour le Developpement de la Production Agricole
(France)
BSIE:      Budget Special d'Investissements Economiques (Ivory Coast)
SACO:      Societe Africaine de Cacao (Ivory Coast)



IVORY COAST
COCOA PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ................ ............   i - i
I.     INTRODUCTION ................................... .             1
II.    BACKGROUND  ......          .......................t*         1
A.   General .......... .......................................  1
B.   Institutional Structure .....      ...................  3
C.   Cocoa Production                     ...... ..*.  .    5
D.   Societe d'Assistance Technique pour la
Modernisation Agricole de la Cote
d'Ivoire (SATMACI) ......................            6
III.   THE PROJECT AREAS ........7........... ... .... .......        7
IV.    THE PROJECT .. ..    . . ..*.* ..................     .7
A.  Definïtîon ...... -*-... ********..* .....-*            7
B.   Detailed Features . .. .... . .   .. .......           8
Planting and Rehabilitation Program .......       8
Field Development ... ... ..... . ...             9
Selection of Farms scd Size of Holdings ...      10
Credit Arrangements .......................      il
Input Supplies..  12
Study for Stage 2 Project .................      13
C.   Co0t Estimates and Proposed Financing .........       14
C08t Estimates .....  ........14
Proposed Financing                               15
Procurement ........                             17
Dîsbursements .......                            17
Accounts and Audit          ................t .. ..    18
This report i8 based on the findinga of an appraisal mission comprising
Msesrs. Whyte, Betache, Kordik (Bank) and Hamond (Consultant) which visited
the Ivory Coast ln November/December, 1969.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)                                      Pa&e No.
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMEN                                   18
Societe d'Assistance Technique pour la
Modernisation Agricole de la Cote
d'Ivoire (SATMACI).                         18
Project Coordination.                          20
Marketing Organization .20
VI.    YiELDS, OUTPUT, MARKETS AND PRICES, FARM INCOMES
AND GOVERNMENT REVENUES ...................                 21
A.  Yielda and Outputs    .....................          21
B.  Markets and Prices       ......................     22
C.   Farm  Incomes   ............. .O.  ........... .. .  22
D.  Goverument Revenues ............................     23
VII.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .....    .     ..........        23
VIII.  RECOMMENDATIONS        ..............  .......................  25
ANNEXES
1.  Agricultural Background
2.  Research and Extension Services
3.  Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Agricole
4.   Societe d'Assistance Technique pour la Modernisation Agricole
de la Cote d'Ivoire
5.  Areas of New Plantings and Rehabilitation
6.  Technical Aspects
7.  Cocoa Development Study
8.  Project Costs
Table 1 - New Plantations
Table 2 - Rehabilitation
9.  Project Financing
10.  Estimated I.B.R.D. Loan Disbursements
11. Project Coordinating Comittee
12.  Selling Price Calculations
13.  Farm Budgets
Table 1 - New Plantation
Table 2 - Rehabilitation
14.  Governuent Sources and Applications of Funds
15.  Economic Rates of Return
16. Financial Returns
Table 1 - Government
Table 2 - Farm
MAP



SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project for the plantation and rehabili-
tation of cocoa in the Ivory Coast. A Bank loan of US$ 7.5 million is pro-
posed. Cocoa is the Ivory Coast'a third largest export earner after coffee
and timber and the country's cocoa exports account for about 11% of total
world trade. When the project reaches full production, output would be
increased by some 28,000 tons a year compared with current production of
about 150,000 tons.
ii.       The project would comprise the planting of about 19,000 ha of
cocoa and the rehabilitation of about 38,000 ha of cocoa not yet in full
production. The project would be carzied out on sma8l farms averaging
about 7 ha in size, each farm plantino some 2.5 ha of cocoa.  It would
include the provision of improved seeds; credit to farmers for seasonal
inputs and equipment and the cash required for hired labor; extension serv-
ices; training facilities; a warehouse; vehicles; prospecting and survey
and a study for a second phase cocoa planting program.
iii.      Project costs are estimated at US$13.6 million equivalent includ-
ing interest on the Bank loan during the development period. 0f this total
US$9.0 would be for new plantations, US$3.2 for rehabilitation, US$0.4 for
a study for a possible second stage project, and US$1.0 for interest dur-
ing development. The proposed loan would finance the foreign exchange
costs and US$l.l million of local currency costs, together amounting to
55% of total project costs. The Government would contribute 25% of proj-
ect costs and the remaining 20% would be met by farmers' contributions and
reinvestment of farm credit repayments. Procurement of most of the equip-
ment and materials, amounting to US$4.5 million, would be by international
competitive bidding.
iv.       The project would be implemented by the Societe d'Assistance
Technique pour la Modernisation Agricole de la Cote d'Ivoire (SATMACI),
which is a statutory corporation under the control of the Minister of Agri-
culture. Farm credits would be channelled through the Banque Nationale
pour le Developpement Agricole.  SATMACI is well managed but the appoint-
ment of a project manager and a strengthening of its cocoa extension serv-
ice would be required for execution of the project. Its financial posi-
tion has been unsound because of inadequate permanent capital and delays
in receipt of funds from the Government to finance agreed operatïons, but
the Government is taking steps to increase SATMACI's capital and reorganize
its operations.
v.        The project would produce substantial foreign exchange earnings
and would increase participating farmers' încomes. Annual net earnings of
foreign exchange at full production are estimated at US$ 9 million from
new plantations and US$ 5 million from rehabilitation. Based on the cur-
rent estimate of long-term cocoa prices of 27 US cents/lb, the economic
rate of return from new plantations is estimated at 20% and from rehabili-
tation at 35%. A sensitivity analysis shows that even if prices were to
fall to 20 US centsllb, the chances of which are negligible, and yields
were reduced by 25%, the return would be 8% from new plantations and 9%



- ii -
from rehabilitation. The financial return to the Government from new plan-
tations is estimated at 35% and from rehabilitation at over 50%.  Farmers
would have adequate incentives to participate in the project by reason of
increased incomes and satisfactory returns en invesvenrt.
vi.       The project is suitable for a Bank loan to the Government of
US$ 7.5 million for a period of 15 years including 7 years grace.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Ivory Coast has requested Bank assistance
to finance part of the costs of a cocoa planting program and of a rehabil-
itation scheme for existing cocoa plantations. The objective of these pro-
grams is to further diversify agricultural production in the forest areas
of the Ivory Coast, to introduce modern methods of cocoa plantation estab-
lishment and maintenance and to increase farmers' incomes and the country's
foreign exchange earnings.
1.02      The project for which assistance is sought includes planting of
about 19,000 ha of cocoa and rehabilitation of about 38,000 ha of cocoa
planted with high yielding varieties and not yet in full production.
1.03      This report is based on the findinge of a Bank mission which
visited the Ivory Coast in November-December 1969, consisting of Messrs.
Whyte, Betsche, Kordik (Bank) and Hammond (Consultant).  The project was
identified by the Bank's Permanent Mission to West Africa in 1965. Prep-
aration was in the hands of the French consultant firm Societe d'Etudes
pour le Developpement Economique et Social (SEDES) assisted by PMWA staff
and a Bank pre-appraisal mission.
1.04      The Ivory Coast received three Bank loans for agricultural de-
velopment in 1969. A total of US$ 9 million was made available for the
establishment of outgrower oil palm and coconut plantations. US$ 3.3 mil-
lion was lent for a commercial oil palm plantation. The third loan of
US$ 4.8 million was for the construction of a palm oil mill. Progress
on these projects has been satisfactory.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      The country's population ls estimated to number 4.7 million and
is growing at a rate of about 3 to 3.5% per annum (includïng 1% growth
from immigration). More than 80% of the working population is directly
engaged in rural pursuits. In addition about 360,000 foreign workers,
mainly from Upper Volta, are employed in agriculture. Annex 1 describes
the general economic and agricultural background of the Ivory Coast.
2.02      The Ivory Coast has a land area of about 322,000 km  broadly
divided into two ecological zones. Bordering the Atlantic Ocean in the
south, Liberia in the west and Ghana in the east, the tropical rain forest
zone stretches about 200 km inland. To the north the forest gradually
diminishes, and is replaced by a savannah zone, which covers the remainder
of the country extending to its northern borders with Upper Volta, Mali
and Guinea.
2.03      The rapid urban and industrial growth of the past decade has
contributed to the declining importance of the agricultural sector in the



-2-
overall economy. In 1968, agriculture, forestry and fishing accounted for
34%' of GDP at market prices. In the same year per capita GDP, including
urban population averaged CFAF 68,500 (US$ 277).
2.04      Agriculture, however, is the country's most important foreign
exchange earner. The 1968 fob value of agricultural and forestry exports
amounted to CFAF 96.4 billion (US$ 390 million) representing about 92% of
total exports. Coffee and timber together accounted for about 55% of ex-
ports in terms of value. The Ivory Coast is now the world's third largest
producer of coffee, with 1968 exports amounting to 214,000 tons. In the
same year 121,500 tons of cocoa, 147,000 tons of bananas, 45,000 tons of
fresh and canned pineapples and 2.6 mi'llion m3 of timber were exported.
2.05      The general agricultural policy objectives of the Government
are - to become self-sufficient in foodstuffs except for livestock prod-
ucts, to expand the output of traditional export crops to the limit set
by export market possibilities and to seek diversification opportunities.
The mainstays of future development will continue to be coffee, cocoa and
timber but increasing emphasis will be laid on diversification into oil
palms, fish, cotton, rubber and other products.  The Government is committed
to two major investment projects - the Kossou Dam power project on the
Bandama river and the San Pedro regional development project. Both proj-
ects are partly interdependent since farmers of the Kossou region, to be
flooded by the dam reservoir, would be settled in the hinterland of the
San Pedro port. Construction of both projects has already started and
these as well as continued development of the Abidjan area will require
substantial allocations of resources over the next several years.
2.06      To implement its policy the government is using several approaches.
Underlying all agricultural development schemes is the basic objective of
promoting productivity improvements and limiting production growth resulting
from the traditional system of expanding low yielding areas. The means of
doing so are specialized extension services, provision of farmers credit
for specific investment purposes, and indirect subsidies mainly in the form
of reduced interest rates. Public investment in agriculture has increased
from about 12% of total public investment from 1960-1966 to about 26% es-
timated for the period 1967-1970.
2.07      The development program for oil palms and coconuts has received
financial assistance from the Fonds Europeen de Developpement (FED), the
Banque Europeenne d'Investissement (BEI), the French Caisse Centrale and
IBRD. By 1970/71 about 44,000 ha oil palm and 6,500 ha coconuts will have
been planted under the program. Rubber plantings, however, progressed only
on a modest scale, mainly due to declining rubber prices during the past
years and high plantation establishment co8ts.
2.08      Under the Ivory Coast's Five Year Development Plan covering the
period 1971 to 1975, increased emphasis will be put on rice and cattle de-
velopment. Expansion of oil palm, coconut, banana, pineapple, cotton and
cocoa is also envisaged by the Plan. New crops such as sugar cane, kenaf
and avocados will be introduced and productivity of coffee production is



-3-
to be improved. Rubber development, which had received high priority in
previous Development Plans, but had not been implemented in recent years,
may be pursued if the recent strength of world market prices should con-
tinue.
2.09      The plan's overall annual growth target for the agricultural sec-
tor is about 4.7%. This would be slightly lower than actual growth during
the past 10 years when the rate for agriculture was about 5% per annum.
Since coffee is still the determining factor in regard to the sector's
growth, the lower increases in future coffee output resulting from quota
limitations will have more impact on sector performance than higher output
gains from other crops.
2.10      Agricultural development prospects, especially of the forest re-
gion appear favorable. Introduction of modern cultivation methods has
started only recently and large tracts of good land have not yet been taken
under cultivation. There is scope for expanding individual holdings because
population density, especially in the forest area, is low. Average popula-
tion density of the country's southern part is only 15 per km2.
2.11      The land tenure system is based on the traditional African tribal
pattern with farmers having no title to their land. However, village
boundaries are clearly defined and land within community boundaries is
allocated to farmers by the Chiefs according to each farm family's labor
potential. Since employment of hired labor is common, relatively large
holdings, averaging about 7.3 ha in the forest area, have been established.
Present cropping patterns in this area put emphasis on coffee, of which
the average farm has about 4 ha. Cocoa is on average planted on about 2.5
ha withi the remaining acreage allocated to food staples, mainly root crops
such as cassava and yams and to plantains.
2.12      Average yields of "traditional" crops such as staple foods, coffee
and cocoa are low. Poor husbandry practices and the lack of the use of
improved inputs are mainly responsible for the low coffee yield of about
360 kg per ha. Application of insecticides and some modest use of fertil-
izer has increased average cocoa yields to about 400 kg per ha.
B. Institutional Structure
2.13      Responsibility for agricultural development is shared by two
ministries. Crop production, forestry and freshwater fisheries are under
the direction of the Ministry of Agriculture and a separate ministry is
responsible for Animal Production. Development Planning is in the hands
of the Planning Ministry, while detailed agricultural development program-
ming is the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture. Execution of
these programs is entrusted to a number of agencies, e.g. the Societe
d'Assistance Technique pour la Modernisation Agricole de la Cote d'Ivoire
(SATMACI) for coffee, cocoa and livestock development and the Societe pour



- 4 -
le Developpement et l'Exploitation du Palmier a Huile (SODEPALM) for oil
palm and coconut development. A new institution is being formed for rice
development (para. 2.26).
2.14      Agricultural research is undertaken by various French organiza-
tLions under a technical assistance agreement with France, and research
costs are equally shared between the two countries. Fuller details of
these arrangements are given in Annex 2. Coffee, cocoa and cola nut re-
search is undertaken by the Institut Francais du Cafe, du Cacao et autres
Plantes Stimulantes (IFCC).
2.15      All the organizations concentrate on applied research, which is
of the highest standard. Due to the excellent qualifications of largely
expatriate research personnel and their long term assignments, continuity
of research work is assured. The organizations' long established experi-
ence and the pooling and application of results obtained from their world-
wide network of research stations is al8o beneficial to development of
crops covered by them.
2.16      Agricultural extension activity is fairly recent.  The Govern-
ment has entered agreements with various agencies, which provide specialized
extension services for individual crops. SODEPALM is in charge of oil palm
and coconut extension, and the Compagnie Francaise de Developpement des
Textiles (CFDT) is under contract for cotton extension. Cocoa and rice
extension is provided by SATMACI, which is also establishing a coffee ex-
tension service.
2.17      The Banque Nationale pour le Developpement Agricole (BNDA), was
formed in January 1968 to replace the former Caisse Nationale de Credit
Agricole (CNCA) and to be the main instrument for financing agricultural
development. BNDA's constitution, organization and operations are de-
scribed in Annex 3. Because most agricultural credit has been provided
by specialized agencies such as SODEPAlM, CFDT and SATMACI, and because
it is not staffed to provide extension services necessary to evaluate
technical and financial aspects of credit applications, BNDA has tended
to provide social credit only. However, in order to increase BNDA's par-
ticipation and experience in agricultural credit operations, all credit
funds required for the Bank project and for the cocoa program as a whole
will be channelled through BNDA (para. 4.12). In its social credit op-
erations BNDA has improved on CNCA's record, which was poor, through es-
tablishing mutual guarantee societies and cooperating with existing ex-
tension services.
2.18      Marketing of agricultural commodities is mainly in the hands of
well established private traders. Cooperatives, with the exception of those
for banana and pineapple, have not been successful, mainly due to manage-
ment problems. Exports of coffee, cocoa, snd cotton are controlled by the
Caisse de Stabilisation et de Soutien des Prix de Production Agricoles
(CSSPPA). The functions of CSSPPA particularly in relation to cocoa are
described in para. 5.11.



- 5 -
C. Cocoa Production
2.19      Cocoa was introduced in the Ivory Coast from Ghana and Liberia
around the turn of the century. First plantings were made close to the
Ghanaian border in the east. Since then cultivation of cocoa has spread
to the western parts of the country (see map). Total cocoa average was
estimated at 172,000 ha in 1954 and at about 450,000 ha in 1968. Most of
this is in the hands of amall farmers growing about 2.5 ha each.
2.20      Cocoa production has increased correspondingly from about 58,000
tons in 1954 to 150,000 tons in 1968. The Ivory Coast is now the world's
fourth largest producer of cocoa accounting for about 11% of total world
trade.
2.21      Until the early 1960's cocoa production increases were the re-
sult of acreage expansion, and average yields remained static around 300
kg/ha. Since extension services did not exist, plantation establishment,
reaching an average 16,000 ha annually, was uncontrolled. Losses of plant-
ing material of the Amelonado variety were, and are still high owing to
the farmers' ignorance of sound planting techniques and plantation mainte-
nance. Despite the low average yields obtained under this system farmers
still show interest in expanding cocoa production because of good cash
returns.
2.22      Efforts by the SATMACI cocoa extension serviçe to improve pro-
ductivity of plantations made under the traditional system have given good
results.  Mainly due to anti-capsid spraying average yields have increased
and are now about 400 kg/ha. Also, some increases in output have been
obtained from the use of fertilizers. Purchase of spraying equipment by
farmers increased from 38 units in 1960 to about 2,000 units annually
since 1965, and the total number of sprayers now in use is about 13,000.
The use of insecticides has increased correspondingly, from about 17,000
liters in 1960 to an average of 380,000 liters annually over the past 5
years. Fertilizer was first used on cocoa in 1964 when 630 tons were
applied. During the past three years the average annual usage of cocoa
fertilizers has been 1,800 tons of a 12-15-18 compound.
2.23      The Ivory Coast has extensive areas of land suited to cocoa pro-
duction. While these could be planted up under traditîonal extensive me-
thods of cocoa establishment, farme so established would have a low yield
potential and their owners would be highly susceptible to fluctuations in
prices, a condition which has plagued the West African cocoa industries
sînce their inceptlon. Farms with high yielding planting material and
improved establishment and maintenance techniques would be capable of
yields which would cushion their owners against the vagaries of weather
and world prices. The proposed Bank project would have this objective,
as would other cocoa planting programa in the 1971-1975 Five Year Plan.
The plan, includîng the Bank project, envisages the planting of 59,000 ha
of cocoa, and the rehabilitation of a further 47,000 ha. The Plan allo-
cates US$13 million for this purpose, although a program of this magnitude
would probably require expenditures of US$27 million.



-6-
D. SATMACI
2.24      A full description of SATMACI which would be responsible for
execution of the project, is given in Annex 4. SATMACI was formed in April
1958 as a statutory corporation under the authority of the Ministry of
Agriculture. It is governed by a Council of Administration of nine mem-
bers including the Ministers of Agriculture and Finance and Economic Af-
fairs, and is managed by a Director-General appointed by the Council.
2.25      SATMACI's principal activities at present consist of cocoa re-
habilitation; rice cultivation, marketing and milling; and livestock op-
erations consisting of beef cattle ranches and a forage production center.
A coffee extension service is being introduced. These activities are
carried out through a chain of field officers responsible to divisional
directors for each activity at headquarters. With the exception of its
warehouse operations involving the supply of materials on credit to farm-
ers, which have been financed by a revolving fund since 1967, SATMACI's
operations are financed by the Government under agreements which determine
the activities to be carried out, usually for a period of one year. Thus,
though in theory SATMACI is financially autonomous in fact it is almost
wholly dependent on Government appropriations and functions more or less
as a Government department.
2.26      SATMACI was recently reorganized on lines recommended by the Com-
pagnie Francaise d'Organisation (COFROR) and its rice operations, on which
it suffered substantial losses, will shortly be transferred to a new stat-
utory corporation. The chart attached to Annex 4 shows the organization
of SATMACI's future operations in cocoa, coffee and livestock and the man-
agement structure for the Bank project. SATMACI's activities are divided
functionally into technical services, commercial operations and administra-
tion, with technical services sub-divided under directors responsible for
cocoa (including the Bank project) and coffee, and livestock.
2.27      SATMACI's technical and financial management is sound and ite
accounting system is satisfactory. Its current financial position, on
the other hand, is bad. The balance sheet as at December 31, 1969 given
in the table at Annex 4 shows an excess of current liabilities over cur-
rent assets of about CFAF 155 million, short-term bank loans of CFAF 825
million, and a net worth of only CFAF 290 million in relation to fixed
and other non-current assets of about CFAF 1,860 million. This position
ls a result of three main factors:
-    use of short-term funds to finance long term assets;
-    losses on rice milling and marketing which have not
been met by government funds; and



- 7 -
-    delays in receiving goverrment funds in reimbursement
for expenditure on agreed activities.
2.28      In order to put SATMACI on a sound financial basis, the Govern-
ment has increased its capital by CFAF 775 million. This increase in funds
together with transfer of the unprofîtable rice operations should elîmi-
nate the need for excessive short-term borrowing in future. However, to
ensure the prompt provision of funds for the project, a special project
fund will be established (para. 4.24).
III. TUE PROJECT AREAS
3.01      The project would be confined to rain forest areas where SATMACI
is already active. New plantings would be undertaken in the western region
where cocoa planting is expanding, and rehabilitation in the traditional
cocoa growing areas of the south and east. The cocoa areas of the Ivory
Coast have been divided by SATMACI into zones each comprlsing one to four
political districts. The zones are numbered and new planting would take
place in zones 9 through 15 which include the main population centers of
Man, Daloa, Gagnoa, Bouafle and Divo.  Rehabilitation would be in zones 1
through 11 and 14 and 15. Details of areas to be planted and rehabilitated
in each zone are given in Annex 5 and the zones are shown on the map.
3.02      Due to the relatively low population density of about 12 inhab-
itants per km2 in zones scheduled for new planting, land is abundant and
IFCC soil surveys have shown that much of it is suitable for cocoa cultiva-
tion. Land tenure arrangements are as described in para. 2.11.
3.03      Main road communications in the project area are satisfactory,
and in new planting zones forest exploitation has lef t a dense grid of
penetration tracks which would facilitate project operations and subsequent
cocoa evacuation to the main traffic arteries. The road network in the
traditional cocoa growing areas is satisfactory. Cocoa would be taken by
truck to Abidjan where all exports would be shîpped. The average distance
from the new planting zones to Abidjan is about 300 km for zones 9-11 and
14-15, and about 700 km for zones 12-13. However cocoa from these two
distant zones would eventually be exported through San Pedro thereby re-
ducing the haul to about 300 km. Distances from the rehabilitation zones
to Abidjan would average about 150 km.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Definition
4.01      l`he project would consist of the planting of about 18,830 ha of
cocoa and the rehabilitation of about 38,000 ha of young cocoa plantations
of high-yield potential which are not yet fully productive. It entails:



- 8 -
(a) provision of improved seeds and materials to establish
cocoa nurseries;
(b)  provision of credit to farmers for fertelizer, insecticides,
spraying equipment and cash required for hired laborz
(c)  provision of adequate extension eervices;
(d)  provision of training and training facilities for extension
officers;
(e)  construction of a warehouse to facilitate input distributior;
(f)  prospecting and a cadastral survey for program implementation;
and
(g)  implementation of a study for a second phase cocoa planting
program.
4.02      The project would aim at increasing farmers' incomes and Govern-
ment revenues by diversifying agricultural production in the rain forest
region. It would bring new land under cultivation, ensure optimum produc-
tivity of high yield potential planting material, and increase the yields
of already planted cocoa farms by introducing modern cultivation techniques
and input use.
4.03      The project would be executed by SATMACI under the overall re-
sponsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture. Farmers' credits would be
channelled through BNDA. IFCC would supply seeds and would carry out
technical training while the French Bureau pour le Developpement de la
Production Agricole (BDPA) would carry out extension training. A Project
Coordinating Committee would be established to ensure close cooperation
between the Ministries and organizations concerned in the project. The
organizational arrangements for the project are described in Chapter V.
B. Detailed Features
PlantinR and Rehabilitation Protram
4.04      Establishment of cocoa nurseries to provide planting material
would commence in late 1970, and planting of cocoa would start in 1971
and be completed by 1974. All cocoa plantings under the project would be
in production by the end of 1977. The rehabilitation program would be
initiated in 1971, and be completed in 1974. Full production of all re-
habilitated cocoa plantations should be reached by 1975. The anticipated
life of cocoa trees planted under the project would be at least 30 years.
The following table provides a schedule of project planting and rehabili-
tation and Annex 5 contains details of the planting and rehabilitation
program by location.



- 9 -
SATMACI PLANTING AND REHABILITATION PROGRAM 1971-1974
New Plantin& - Ha
1971      1972      1973       1974      Total
Annual Total             3,790     4,820     4,900      5,320     18,830
Cumulative Total         3,790     8,610    13,510    18,830      18,830
Rehabilitation - Ha
Annual Total            13,000     8,000      9,000     8,000     38,000
Cumulative Total        13,000    21,000    30,000    38,000      38,000
Field Development
4.05      New Plantings.  Plantings would take place only on soils approved
by SATMACI soil surveyors as being suitable for cocoa, and in most cases
would be made:
-    on land which has been used for food trop production for
two to three years following its clearing from forest; and
-    on land covered with secondary forest.
Only light shade would be needed as fertilizer would be applied annually
to project plantings in the first few years of their growth. The result-
ing vigorous growth would cause the canopy of the cocoa trees to close in
the third or fourth year after planting after which time the degree of
shade would be of less importance.  On food cropped farms, plantains
would be planted as shade, and on land covered with secondary bush se-
lected trees would be retained for this purpose during the clearing
process. Cocoa trees would be planted in lines at a spacing of 3m x 2-1/2m
giving about 1,300 trees/ha. The varieties planted would be amelonado-Amazon
hybrida, or open-pollinated polyclonal Amazon material, V/ for which seed
would be obtained from IFCC seed gardens (see Annex 6). Hybrid seed is
only now becoming available, but sufficient would be available for some
13,500 ha of project plantings. Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions tlhat the project would have preference in bi-clonal seed supplies
over any other cocoa development programs in the Ivory Coast.
4.06      Investigations have shown that soils of the project area are
generally deficient in phosphorus and potassium, and that applications
of these nutrients together with nitrogen result in the more vigorous
1/   Produced by planting selected Amazon types in seed gardens where the
trees pollinate each other producing a considerable degree of hybrid
vigor in their progeny.



- 10 -
growth of cocoa seedlings and subsequently in higher yields. A compound
fertilizer providing 12 parts of nitrogen, 15 of phosphate and 18 of potash
would be applied to project plantings.
4.07      Groups of participating farmers would establish central nurseries
under SATMACI supervision, and subsequently establish their farms as de-
scribed above. Following the initial planting, gaps where seedlings had
died would be replanted for which a 10% provision in seedling supplies has
been made. Important maintenance operations thereafter would be keeping
the plantings satisfactorily free of competitive weed growth by slashing
and weeding, the control of insect pests, and pruning and shaping of cocoa
trees. A benzene-hexachloride insecticide would be suitable for pest con-
trol in most cases, but other appropriate insecticides would be made avail-
able to farmers as required. Insecticide spraying would be organized on
a group basis and one motorized sprayer would be needed for about each 25
ha of cocoa planted; this sprayer would be owned by the group. Further
detalls of cocoa establishment methods are given in Annex 6. It is antici-
pated that new plantings of cocoa would come into bearing in !the third year
after planting.
4.08      Rehabilitation.  Rehabilitation would be confined to existing
plantations of young amelonado cocoa which had not reached full bearing,
and which thus would quickly respond to improved maintenance methods and
efficient pest control measures. Elements of the rehabilitation process
would be filling vacancies where cocoa plants had died out, adjusting
shade, pruning and shaping the cocoa trees, adequate farm maintenance,
and - most important - the control of capsids. The latter would be done
on a group basis, and provision is made under the project for one motorized
sprayer for each 25 ha of cocoa being rehabilitated by a group of farmers.
lThe insecticide used would be a proprietary benzene-hexachloride (that now
used is Lindane) which would be applied in two annual sprayings at the
beginning and end of August.
Selection of Farms and Size of HoldinRs
4.09      No shortage of farmers wanting to participate in the project is
anticipated. The primary condition for participation, other than the pos-
session of land suitable for planting with cocoa, or of cocoa suitable for
rehabilitation, would be willingness to join with other farmers in a group
which would be mutually responsible for debts incurred under the project,
and consequently acceptance of the candidate by other farmers in the group,
see para. 4.14. Each group would have a membership of 40 to 50 farmers;
since in rehabilitation areas the average area of cocoa owned by farmers
is about 2.5 ha, their total cocoa acreage would be between 100 and 150 ha.
In new planting areas some participants would already be cultivating cocoa,
but not all of them.
4.10      Following the system used by SATMACI in other rehabilitation
areas, groupe would be organized by SATMACI field staff. In new planting
zones these would visit areas where soil surveys have shown a suitable ex-
tent of cocoa soils, and explain to farmers the objectives and elements of



- il -
the project, and of the group system.  Interested farmers would then form
their group and elect representatives who would formally request SATMACI
support. Following Head Office approval, SATMACI soil survey teans would
delimit the land for new planting; wherever possible this wôuld be in large
contiguous blocks to facilitate supervision. In rehabilitation zones, the
procedures for group formation would be similar.
4.11      For new planting, farmers would be required to commit themselves
to planting a minimum of one ha, and tce maximum of new planting allowed
would be 10 ha. It is not anticipated .hat many farmers would be able to
plant more than about 3 ha since, firsz, under the traditional land tenure
system, the amount of land allocated to a family is in line with that fam-
ilyts capacity to manage the land; and second, hired labor is not in ready
supply due to the high demand for labor being generated by the country's
development programs, and would probably not be available for larger areas.
Credit Arrangements
4.12      All funds required for farm credits would be channelled through
BNDA by the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement (CAA), which would be respon-
sible for providing funds for the project as a whole (para. 4.24). BNDA
would pass the funds on to SATMACI, who would have full responsibility for
administering credits at the farm level, and would receive all farmers'
credit repayments and interest from SATMACI. BNDA would then pass on to
CAA the portion of farm credits financed by the Bank and retain those fi-
nanced by the Government for reinvestment in agricultural development.
BNDA would keep control accounts for the credit program as a whole.
4.13      SATMACI would supply needed materials and equipient on credit, and
would make cash loans to meet hired labor costs. It would also be respon-
sible for keeping credit records and for credit recoveries. These func-
tions would be carried out by staff and extension workers in each zone and
would be supervised by Head Office. The procedures would be similar for
new plantations and rehabilitation.
4.14      Farmers would be selected and formed into groups as described
in para. 4.10. The formation of effective groupa would be vital to a
successful credit operation, as farmers in each group would be mutually
responsible for each other's debts and no further credit would be made
available to groups which had an unsatisfactory repayment record. No
credit would be allowed to farmers not in groupa.
4.15      After a group is formed and extension workers have explained to
its members their and SATMACI's respective rights and duties, a group con-
tract would be signed between SATMACI and each member of the group. Copies
of the contract, which would set out the obligations of all parties, would
be sent to SATMACI Head Office and to the Sub-Prefect of the district. As-
surances were obtained during negotiations that the contracta would be
satisfactory to the Bank.



- 12 -
4.16      Assurances were received during negotiations that, except as the
Bank should otherwise agree, the extent and serms of credlt would be as
follows:
New Plantations - The full cOft of fertilizer, insecticides
and sprayers together with cash totaliing CFAF 14,00O per ha
to meet the costs of hired labor -7ould bc nsde availa.e cr.
credit. The cash credits would be paid in three tranches oz
CFAF 10,000 in the planting year and cFAF 2,000 in each of
the next two years. The second and third tranches would
depend on satisfactory performance by the individual borrower.
There would be a grace period of four years from planting for
both interest and principal and repayment would be over the
following eight years by equal instalments with interest at
5-1/2%.
Rehabilitation - Farmers would receive credit for 80% of the
cost of insecticides and sprayers during the two-year period
of rehabilitation. Interest at 5-1/2% would be capitalized
during this period and repayment would be made over the fol-
lowing two years.  These terme are the same as those now in
force for rehabilitation.
The low rates of interest for both replanting and rehabilitation credits
would be acceptable in view of the high taxation levied on farmers through
export duties coupled with the low producer prices relative to market cocoa
prices (para. 5.13), and the success of existing programs at similar 4nterest
rates.
4.17      The chief concern in these credit arrangements is that of repay-
ment procedures. The most effective way to recover credits would be for
repayments to be deducted from crop proceeds, but this would require SATMACI
to have a menopoly of cocoa marketing and it would not be desirable to upset
the present system of marketing through the private sector. Consideration
has also been given to the possibility of requiring a standard deduction
to be made from the fixed price payable to all farmers but this would be
extremely difficult to administer because of the wide disparity of credit
utilization among farmers. Therefore, the proposed system of collective
responsibility by groups coupled with adequate credit control by SATMACI's
extension workers and Head Office staff, together with overall control by
BNDA, appears to be the most feasible way to ensure credit recovery and
one which gives reasonable assurances of success. This is borne out by
the repaynent record of such mutual guarantee groups in the past two years
which is over 90%.
Input Supplies
4.18      Cocoa seed would be produced by IFCC seed gardens on the Insti-
tute's research stations and distributed by SATMACI trucks to farmer groups
which would establish nurseries. Nursery materials such as wire netting,
watering cans, fertilizer, etc. would be supplied by SATMACI and paid for



- 13 -
in cash by farmers.  Polythene bags, fertilizer, insecticides and spraying
equipment would be purchased in bulk by SATMACI and distributed from its
central warehouse in Abidjan to regional stores. SATMACI has already es-
tablished such stores at strategic points throughout the cocoa growing
area. Only one additional warehouse would be required to supply farmers
in the far west of the project area.
4.19      Farmers would themselves supply all other needed inputs.  These
would include the simple hand tools used in cocoa farms, bamboos and palm
leaves for the construction of nurseries, plantain suckers for establishing
shade, and labor - most of which would be family labor except in the year
of planting when an estimated 51 man days per ha of hired labor would be
required. The cost of hired labor is estimated at about CFAF 250 for an
eight-hour man day, plus 15% contingencies.
Study for Stage 2 Project
4.20      Much land suitable for cocoa production and other agricultural
activity exists in zones 12 and 13. Preliminary surveys have shown that
there are large tracts of good cocoa soils, probably of the order of 30,000
ha, now under exploited forest. These areas are almost uninhabited, and
the opportunity is thus afforded for developing them on a planned basis
rather than allowing them to be developed, as would otherwise occur, in
an uncontrolled and inefficient manner. Cocoa should be a key crop in
the development of these areas, although a wide range of other crops should
and would be grown.
4.21      A study would be made under the project to determine the best way
of developing these areas; and within the context of the plan so developed
one or more investment projects would be prepared. In summary, the study
would encompass:
-    sail and land capability surveys;
-    determination of settlement procedures and schedules;
-    planning of physical and social infrastructure; and
-    analysis of financial and economic costs and benefits.
Preliminary terms of reference of the proposed study, a summAry of which ap-
pears in Annex 7, have been agreed with the Government; the study would be
carried out by consultants who, together with their conditions of employment,
would be approved by the Bank. It is estimated that the study would cost
about CFAF 111 million (US$ 400,000) and would require about 100 man months
for completion. Key study personnel would be an agronomist, engineer, agri-
cultural economist and a social economist.



- 14 -
C. Cost Estimates and Proposed FinancinR
Cost Estimates
4.22      Project cost estimates are based on current costs but include
contingency allowances of 10% for materials and 15% for SATMACI staff
salaries, hired labor and the study for the second stage project. The
total cost of the project is estimated at CFAF 3,506 million (US$12.6
million) excluding interest. New plantation accounts for CFAF 2,496 mil-
lion (US$ 9.0 million), rehabilitation CFAF 899 million (US$3.2 million)
and the stage 2 study CFAF 111 million (US$0.4 million). Including con-
tingencies, on-fari costs would account for about 67% and administration
costs about 29% of new plantation costs; the respective proportions for
rehabilitation would be 38% and 51%. Thus, while the majority of new
plantation expenditures would be for farm materials and equipment (75%
being for fertilizer), more than half of rehabilitation expenditures would
be on salaries and overheads for project administration and extension serv-
ices. These services are essential for the creation of an asset in the
case of new plantations or the substantial improvement of an existing
asset in the case of rehabilitation and in both cases they give rise, as
much as direct farm inputs, to benefits over a long period. The following
table summarizes the local expenditures, foreign exchange and total costs
for the project. Further details are given in Annex 8.



- 15 -
SUMMARY PROJECT COST ESTIMATES
CFAF Million            US$ Million             %
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange
NEW PLANTATIONS
On-farm costs       667.0   835.9  1502.9    2.40    3.01    5.41           56
Administration      513.0   119.3   632.3    1.85    0.43    2.28           19
Buildings &
vehicles            3.2    22.4    25.6    0.01    0.08    0.09           88
Survey and
prospect           32.0      6.6    38.6    0.12    0.02    0.14           8
Training             10.5    14.9    25.4    0.04    0.05    0.09           59
Contingencies       164.3   106.9   271.2    0.59    0.39    0.98           39
Sub-total:   1390.0  1106.0  2496.0    5.01    3.98    8.99           44
REHABILITATION
On-farm costs        98.6   213.3   311.9    0.35    0.77    1.12           68
Administration      352.8    45.8   398.6    1.27    0.17    1.44           il
Buildings &
vehicles            1.1      8.0      9.1    0.01    0.02    0.03         88
Survey and
prospect           32.6      5.8    38.4    0.12    0.02    0.14          15
Training             15.6    22.1    37.7    0.06    0.08    0.14           59
Contingencies        70.3    32.9   103.2    0.25    0.12    0.37           32
Sub-total:    571.0   327.9   898.9    2.06    1.18    3.24           36
Study for Stage 2   19.4    77.8    97.2    0.07    0.28    0.35            80
Contingencies          2.8    11.1    13.9    0.01    0.04    0.05          80
Sub-total:      22.2    88.9   111.1    0.08    0.32    0.40          80
TOTAL PROJECT      1983.2  1522.8  3506.0    7.15    5.48   12.63           43
Interest on Bank
Loan                -      264.7   264.7      -       0.95    0.95       100%
Total Foreign
Exchange Costs            1787.5                      6.43
ProPosed Financing
4.23       It is proposed that a Bank loan of US$ 7.5 million would be made
to the Government to finance the estimated total foreign exchange costs of
the project and US$ 1.1 million of local costS.  The loan would be for a



- 16 -
period of 15 years including a grace period of 7 years, the disbursement
period, and would finance interest on the loan calculated on the basis of
the first five years of the new planting project and the first three years
of the rehabilitation project.  The term of the lor-  .a'kes into accoun_
the period in which the farmers credits would be recovered - up to 1985
for new plantations and up to 1977 for rehabiltation - and the cesb fo>-
to the Governnent from the project.
4.24      The Bank loan would finance about 55% of total project costs.
Remaining project co0ts would be met by Government budgetary allocazions,
farmers' credit repayments and by farmers' contributions. All project
funds would be channelled through CAA, which would then provide funds re-
quired for farmers credits to BNDA for transmittal to SATVACI (para. 4.12)
and meet directly SATMACI's project administration and other costs.  For
new plantations, farmers would meet the full cost of nursery materials
and tools and part of the cost of seeds and plastic bags, the remaind'er
being met by Government subsidy, which would amount to CFAF 3,760 pe- hs.
and about CFAF 7 million (US$ 25,000) for the project. In the case of
rehabilitation, farmers would meet the full cost of tools, and make a
down-payment of 20% on the co0t of insecticides and sprayers. The follow-
ing table summarizes the financing plan which is shown in more detail in
Annex 9.
CFAF Millions
Farm
Bank  %  Govt.  %  Farmer's 8     Credit Re-  %   Total
Cont.       payments
New Plantations   12 9  52  770  31      209    8      228      9   2496
Rehabilitation     440  49  155  17      192   22      112     12    899
Stage 2 Study       89  80   22  20       -      -      -             111
1818  52  947  27     401   11      340     10   3506
Interest on
Bank Loan          265 100   -    -       -      -      -       -    265
2083  55  947  25     401  Il1    340         9   3771
As explained in paragraph 2.27, there have been considerable delays in the
past in the provision of funds by the Goverrnent to meet SATMACI expendi-
tures on agreed programs. In order to ensure the continuous and timely
flow of funds for the project, assurances were received during negotiations
that the Government would establish a special fund which would be replenished
quarterly with amounts required to meet Governnent contributions in the
succeeding quarter. A condition of effectiveness is that an initial deposit
of CFAF 25 million shall have been paid into the fund.



- 17 -
Procuremient
4.25      Procurement of fertilizer, insecticides, sprayers, and vehicles
(totalling about US$5.0 million) would be by international competitive
bidding. A preference of 15% would be allowed to local manufacturers.
The remaining new plantation and rehabilitation costs totalling US$7.3
million would not be subject to international competitive bidding. Of
this amount US$6.0 million would be salaries and hired labor, US$0.1 mil-
lion for seeds which would be supplied by IFCC, US$1.0 million for tools
and nursery materials, which farmers themselves would procure or supply,
and US$0.2 million for plastic bags for which international procurement
would be impractical. In hiring consultants for the Stage 2 Study, stand-
ard Bank procedures would be followed, i.e. the Government would invite
proposals from several firms and the selection would be subject to Bank
approval.
Diabursement
4.26      Disbursement of the Bank loan would be made against 100% of the
CIF cost of imported materials, 80% of the costs of project administration
and extension services, 50% of the cost of hired labor, and 100% of the
foreign exchange costs of the study together with interest on the loan of
US$950,000. Applications for disbursement would be supported by contracts,
shipping documents and certified records of expenditures. The following
table which is given in more detail in Annex 10 summarizes estimated dis-
bursements:
US$
million
New Plantation
Fertilizer                                     2.15
Insecticides, sprayers and vehicles (100%)   0.35
Project staff and extension services (80%)   1.13
Hired labor (50%)                              0.51
Rehabilitation
Insecticides, sprayers and vehicles (100%)   0.49
Project staff and extension services (80%)   0.91
Stage 2 Study (foreign *xchange costs)              0.32
Interest                                            0.95
Contingencies                                       0.69
TOTAL                                          7.50
It is recommended that any surplus funds remaining in the Loan Account be
cancelled.



- 18 -
Accounts and Audit
4.27      Farmers credit accounts would be kept in each zone and credit
accounts would be controlled by SATMACI. All accounts would be subject
to inspection by SATMACI's internal audit and inspectorate service. Ac-
counts would be kept by CAA for the project fund. BNDA and SATMACI would
keep separate project accounts, which would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank. Assurances were received during nego-
tiations that copies of the accounts and auditors' report, together with
the complete annual accounts, would be submitted to the Bank within four
months of the close of each financial year.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGE>ENT
SATMACI
5.01      Details of the organization, operation and financial status of
SATMACI are given in Annex 4. SATMACI cocoa operations are centered in
a Head Office Cocoa Division controlled by the Director for Cocoa and
Coffee. The Director would assume overall responsibility for carrying
out the proposed project; but in view of his responsibility for on-going
cocoa operations a cocoa project manager, who would report to him, would
be engaged to be in direct charge of both the new planting and rehabilita-
tion components of the project. During loan negotiations, assurances were
obtained that the project manager would be appointed before December 31,
1970 and that his terms and conditions of service would be acceptable to
the Bank. It is likely that the project manager would be an expatriate.
5.02      SATMACI field operations are based on regional and zonal offices,
and in cocoa areas the staff of these are responsible for work on cocoa
as well as other agricultural activities. To meet project needs, cocoa
officers would be appointed to each zonal office in new planting areas,
and these would assist zonal officers in supervising the work of agricul-
tural assistants allocated on a sub-zonal basis. The zonal cocoa officers
would be university graduates, as are the zonal officers, who had received
special training in cocoa work, see Annex 2. Agricultural Assistants would
be secondary school leavers who had received an li-month training course in
cocoa at the IFCC school. SATMACI direct contact with farmers would be
maintained by field workers, primary school leavers with about 5-1/2 months
of cocoa training, and about seven of these would be responsible to each
agricultural assistant.
5.03      In new planting zones, a field worker would be alloted to super-
vise no more than 50 farmers or 100 ha of cocoa, whichever is the smaller,
in his first year of posting to the project; and in his second year this
would be increased to a total of 100 farmers or 200 ha of cocoa. There-
after, he would continue to supervise the 100 farmers or 200 ha for a fur-
ther six years, after which supervision intensity would be halved, and
further reduced three years later. In rehabilitation zones, field workers



- 19 -
would each supervise 100 farmers or 200 ha in the first two years, and 200
farmers or 400 ha in the next two years. Thereafter, the coverage would
be reduced to one field worker for about 3,000 ha. The above supervision
ratios appear satisfactory, but, in view of the absence hitherto of or-
ganized new planting programs in the Ivory Coast, may require strengthen-
ing in new planting zones in the early years of the project. This would
be watched carefully by supervision missions; and during negotiations as-
surances were obtained from the Government that the densities proposed
above, including the positions of zonal cocoa officers, would be maintained
and would be increased if the Government and the Bank agree such an increase
to be necessary.
5.04      To improve his extension impact, each field worker would estab-
lish a one ha cocoa plantation in his area. This would serve as a demon-
stration to familiarize farmers with new methods, and to test modified
techniques. The mobility of extension personnel would be ensured by pro-
viding light motorcycles to field workers and agricultural assistants.
Regional and zonal officers would be provided with cars.
5.05      SATMACI field activities and warehouse operations under the pro-
ject, including the control of input distribution to farmers, would be
subject to supervision by the SATMACI inspectorate. This office has a
staff of six inspectors, who would carry out frequent and unannounced spot
checks.
5.06      Staff.  A large proportion of SATMACI key personnel is expatriate.
For its cocoa operations, 10 expatriates are employed at headquarters and
five at its regional offices. Expatriate personnel is well qualified and
Ivorian counterparts are being trained by them for eventual takeover. The
position of the Director for Cocoa and Coffee would be of crucial impor-
tance for the project and assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the Bank would be informed and given an opportunity to comment before
any change in this position.
5.07      Due to the planned reduction of field personnel engaged in on-
going SATMACI rehabilitation programs, about 60 field workers, and nine
agricultural assistants would be available immediately for the project,
and would be adequate for the first year of the project operations. A
total of 285 field workers and 41 assistants would be required by 1974 when
project staff would reach the highest level.
5.08      All new personnel posted to the project would be given a 22-week
training course. This course would be in two phases and consist of:
-    technical training by IFCC at Divo; and
-    extension training by the French Bureau pour le Developpement
de la Production Agricole (BDPA) at Gagnoa.
Additional nine-week refresher courses for project staff would be conducted
by the same organizations at two-year intervals.



- 20 -
5.09      To accommodate the increased number of staff undertaking train-
ing, some extensions to existing buildings at Divo would be undertaken.
The cost of such extensions has been included in project estimates, to-
gether with the salaries and allowances of four expaiata inst-ucto-s.
Project Coordination
5.10      Successful project execution would depend upon close cooperation
between the Ministries of Agriculture, Finance, and Planning, IFCC, t.e
Caisse de Stabilisation et de Soutien des Prix des Productions Agriccles
(CSSPPA), BNDA, and SATMACI.  A 'Project Coordinating Committee" woud 'e
set up to obtain immediate action, whenever required, from Ministriec and
agencies concerned with the project. The Committee wvould be chaired by
the Minister of Agriculture or hie designate, and would include senior
officials from the Ministries of Finance, and Planning, the CSSPPA, IFCC,
BNDA and SATMACI. Details of the Committee are given in Annex 11. The
establishment of the Committee is a condition of effectiveness of the
oan.
Marketing Organization
5.11      The purchase from producers and export of cocoa in the Ivory
Coast is mainly in the hands of the private sector, but is controlled by
the Government through an autonomous agency, the CSSPPA, whieh itself mar-
kets and exports about 10% of the annual cocoa crop.  The main function of
the CSSPPA ïs to protect farmers from price fluctuations within a season
by guaranteeing for each crop year a fixed farm-gate price. At present
CSSPPA regulates prices for the main export crops, namely coffee, cocoa
and cotton and also watches prices for pineapples, bananas, oil palm prod-
ucts, groundnut and cotton products wîth a view to întervening if necessary.
Marketing and price regulation through state organizatLons of this kind is
common in West African Entente countries.
5.12      Farmers sell cOcoa to local buying agents who in turn work for
private licensed exporters. The buying agent pays farmers the guaranteed
farm-gate price and is himself allowed a fixed commission. The farm-gate
price for the 1969/70 campaign was fixed at CFAF 80/kg and has oscillated
during the preceding 10 years from CFAF 63.75 to 88.75 according to world
prices.
5.13      Licensed exporters may only purchase up to their alloted export
quota tonnage. They arrange transport to Abidjan, present their consign-
ments for quality inspection and weighing, condition beans where necessary
and arrange for shipment. They are free to export their quotas on the
world market through their own channels, but must obtain prior selling price
and quantity clearance from CSSPPA. The CSSPPA at this point may counter-
offer or withhold export permission according to its judgment of the pre-
vailing market situation. The exporter ie allowed a predetermined handling
charge and commission. He either pays to, or receives from CSSPPA the
difference between the market price obtained and that paid to farmers.



- 21 -
Because world prices have been generally higher than prices paid to farmers
under the differential, CSSPPA has accumulated substantial reserves (para.
6.08).
5.14      Cocoa beans are inspected for quality by CSSPPA at buying centers,
road checkpoints and dockside. Exporters are not allowed to export off-
grades and these are sold to the Societe Africaine de Cacao (SACO). Some
off-grades are processed into products such as cocoa-butter, cake or paste.
SACO owns a 32,000 ton manufacturing plant in Abidjan which in the last
few years has operated near full capacity.  Differences between SACO's ex-
port prices and the ruling price for beans are paid to or compensated by
CSSPPA. Due to improved quality control resulting in few off-grades and
the uncertain outlook for cocoa-butter, it is not proposed to increase
SACO's capacity.
VI.  YIELDS, OUTPUT, MARKETS AND PRICES
FARM INCOMES AND GOVERNMENT REVENUES
A. Yields and Outputs
6.01      The probable yields from new plantations and the incremental
yields from rehabilitated cocoa are discussed in Annex 5. Newly planted
cocoa would start producing about 200 kg/ha in the third year after plant-
ing. Full production would be reached in the 7th year when the yield
would be about 1,000 kg/ha. This is equivalent to about 890 lbs/ac and
is higher than the estimated yield from the Ghana replanting of about 700
lbs/ac; the higher yield is explained by the use in the Ivory Coast of new
rather than ex-cocoa land. Rehabilitated cocoa would yield about 600 kg/ha
from the 3rd year after rehabilitation, an incremental yield of 240 kg/ha
over the yield from unrehabilitated cocoa of about 360 kg/ha. This is
about the same as that estimated for Ghana rehabilitated cocoa. It is
probable that yields from new plantations and rehabilitated cocoa would
start to decline when the trees are about 20 years old that by year 30 the
yields from both would be about 250 kg/ha. In view of the uncertainty
over yields in the later years, project calculations have been based on
a life of 20 years for new plantations and a remaining life of 13 years
for rehabilitated cocoa. Project earnings are, therefore, underestimated
but the effect on the economic and financial rates of return is not signi-
ficant.
6.02      At full production, the annual yield from new plantations would
be about 18,830 tons and the încremental yield from rehabilitation about
9,120 tons giving a total increase of some 28,000 tons due to the project.
This compares with an estimated total production in the Ivory Coast of
about 165,000 tons in 1969/70 and a projected production of some 215,000
tons by 1974/75.



- 22 -
B. Markets and Prices
6.03      The world cocoa market in the last decade or so has been char-
acterized by fairly steady increases in production and consumption, both
rXsing at about the same average rate of 4.5% p.a. World production rose
£rom an average annual level of 776,000 long tons between 1945 and 1955
to an average 1,190,000 long tons in the last ten years an increase of
53%. As pointed out by the Bank's Economics Department, "A notable fea-
ture of the postwar cocoa situation has been that large increases in out-
put, as in 1965, have not led to prolonged surpluses. On the contrary,
consumption has responded quickly to increased supplies and lower prices,
with the result that the market has tended to be cleared in a brief period.
Considering that the levels of per capita consumption of cocoa are rather
low even in the developed countries, there is scope for avoiding a struc-
tural imbalance between supply and demand in the medium term future."l/
6.04      World cocoa prices have fluctuated sharply during aIl of the
postwar period. After a pronounced decline from 44.3 US cents per lb
(Spot New York for Accra) in 1958 to 21 cents per lb. in 1962, prices
rose slightly in 1963 only to fall again in 1964 and 1965, reaching a
record low of 17.3 US cents per lb. in 1965 which was the year of the
largest world cocoa crop ever. Largely because of the decline in Ghana
production, world consumption has exceeded production during the last four
years. This situation is reflected in a sustained rise in prices which
began to recover in 1966 and had reached 45.7 US cents per lb. by 1969
(average January-November). As noted in the Bank ' study cited above,
"it was .... expected that high prices will induce intensification of inputs
in cocoa with the result that current production capacity will be exploited
to its maximum. The increased supplies will no doubt tend to induce a
gradual readjustment of the price level over the next few years."'
6.05      Project calculations have been based on a price of 27 US cents
per lb spot New York for Accra cocoa. This price is slightly below the
Bank's Economics Department forecast of the price trend by the mid-1970's
of 30 US cents per lb spot New York. The equivalent Ivory Coast price,
calculation of which is shown in Annex 12, is CFAF 170,192 per metric ton.
This takes into account a price differential of 0.25 US cents per lb in
Ghana's favor and a common market preference for 75% of the Ivory Coast
cocoa crop.
C. Farm Incomes
6.06      Farm budgets per hectare of new plantation and rehabilitation
are given in Annex 13. They are based on the current farmer's price of
1/   Stabilization of Prices of Primary Products - Cocoa, IBRD Economics
Department, May 1969.



- 23 -
CFAF 80 per kg. and the credit terms outlined in para. 4.16. Annual farm
income per ha from new plantations is estimated at about CFAF 23,200 (US$80)
in year 6 increasing to about CFAF 64,500 (US$230) during the credit repay-
ment period and at about CFAF 75,700 (US$270) thereafter. Farm income from
rehabilitated cocoa is estimated at about CFAF 44,100 (US$160) a year com-
pared with about CFAF 26,200 (US$95) from unrehabilitated cocoa. Income
per man-day from new plantations is estimated at about CFAF 810 after the
credit repayment period and at about CFAF 660 from rehabilitated cocoa.
These rates compare favorably with estimated incomes per man-day of about
CFAF 790 from oil palm and CFAF 400 fro* coffee and with a current estate
vage rate of about CFAF 250 per man-day.
6.07      Annex 13 also shows the estimated farm income per ha of new
plantations on the assumption of a 25 percent reduction in yield. The
income would still be satisfactory at CFAF 13,200 (CFAF 281 per man-day)
in year 6 rising to CFAF 44,500 (CFAF 571 per man-day) during the loan
repayment period and CFAF 55,700 (CFAF 710 per man-day) thereafter. These
figures would apply equally to a 25 percent reduction in producer prices.
D. Goverument Revenues
6.08      Revenues to the Government from the project would be substantial.
Annex 14 shows that, taking into account export duties and the difference
between the price paid to farmers and net receipts to CSSPPA from a world
price of 27 US cents per lb. cif, the Government vould earn a cash surplus
from 1976 from new plantations, and from 1974 from rehabilitation.  The
total surplus over the life of the project is estimated at about CFAF 13,600
million (US$49 million) from new plantations and about CFAF 4,300 million
(US$15 million) from rehabilitation. of the amounts which would accrue to
CSSPPA, about CFAF 7,300 million from new plantations and CFAF 2,600 million
from rehabilitation, present regulations require that 60% would be trans-
ferred to a reserve fund against CSSPPA losses, 30% would be reînvested
through the Budget Special d'Investissement (BSIE) in economic and social
undertakings, and 10% would be transferred to BNDA. Receipts from export
taxes would be taken to general Government revenues.
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The project's primary benefit would be the increased production
of cocoa bringing substantial foreign exchange earnings, satisfactory re-
turns on investments made under the project and higher incomes for partici-
pating farmers. Important secondary benefits would include the modernization
of Ivory Coast cocoa production through the use of new planting material
and up to date field techniques, the strengthening of extension services,
and improvements in the farm credit system.



- 24 -
7.02      Based on a world price of 27 US cents per lb. it is estimated
that at full production the project would contribute about US$9 million
a year in net foreign exchange earnings from new plantations, and about
US$5 million from rehabilitation, these amount-:  Feg -'-e est-ma:e: F0'
value of exports less debt service on the Bank loan 7,r.d the fcreign. ex-
change costs of farm inputs and administratioZ.
7.03      The calculation of t1e return to the economv from the Dr'  .: -S
shown in Annex 15.  It takes into account fu;-L labor costs.  At the I   sSUC
price the return from new plantations is estinated at about 20% but :he
return has also been tested for sensitivity at various prices and w-ith a 25
percent reductîon in yield. The results are as follows:
Price in lJS Cents Der lb.
NEW PLANTATIONS                      20    25    27    30    35
With assumed yields                  12%   18%   20%   22%   26%
With reduction of 25%                 8%   13%   15%   17%   20%
The likelihood of a long term cocoa price of as low as 20 US cents per lb.
îs negligible and the above returns, even with a 25% drop in yield, are
satisfactory.
7.04      The rate of return from rehabilitation has also been calculated
at the above prices and with a 25% reduction in incremental yield. The
results are as follows:
Price in US Cents per lb.
REHABILITATION                       20    25    27    30    35
With assumed yields                  20%   31%   35%   40%   49%
With reduction of 25%                9%   20%   23%   28%   36%
7.05      Annex 16 shows the calculation of the financial returns to the
Government and on farm units. Based on a world price of 27 US cents per
lb. the return to the Governnent from new plantations would be 35% with
full estimated yields and 30% with a 25% yield reduction. The return on
farms would be 16% and 11% respectively assuming a farm-gate price of
CFAF 80/kg. The return from rehabilitation would be over 50% to both
Governiment and farmers with full yields and about 38% with 75% of in-
cremental yields.
7.06      The above calculations show that the returns to the economy from
the project would be satisfactory. Net funds accruing to the Governnent
would contribute materially to the overall development budget of the coun-
try, while at the same time farmers would have adequate incentives through
increased incomes (paras. 6.06 and 6.07) and would be relatively prosperous.



- 25 -
However, to safeguard the position of farmers, assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the Government would inform the Bank of any pro-
posed changes in producer prices which might adversely affect the ability
of farmers to repay credits.
VIII. RECOMIENDATIONS
8.01      The Project is technically, economically and financially sound
and suitable for a Bank loan of US$7.5 million for 15 years including 7
years grace. The main assurances obtained during negotiations were:
(a) the project would receive preference in supplies of bi-
clonal seeds (para. 4.05);
(b)  contracts between SATMACI and farmers' groups would be
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 4.15), and terms and con-
ditions of farmers' credits would be as agreed with the
Bank (para. 4.16);
(c) the Government would establish a project fund to meet
project cost8 (para. 4.24);
(d) a project manager acceptable to the Bank would be appointed
before December 31, 1970 (para. 5.01);
(e) new appointments to the position of Cocoa Director would be
in consultation with the Bank (para. 5.06).
8.02      The following would be conditions of effectiveness of the loan:
(a) that the Government will have established and made the
initial deposit into the project fund (para. 4.24);
(b) that the Project Coordinating Committee will have been
established (para. 5.10).






ANNEX 1
IVORY COAST
COCOA PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL BACKGROUND
Introduction
l.        About 70% of the Ivory Coast's population of 4.7 million is en-
gaged in agriculture, forestry or fishirn> and in 1968 contributed about
34% to GDP at market prices. liowever, agriculture's relative contribution
to GDP has declined during the past years due to the more rapid growth of
the industrial and services sectors. This happened despite a significant
increase in agricultural production the value of which, excluding forestry
and fisheries, rose from CFAF 67.9 billion (US$275 million) in 1960 to
CFAF 99.9 billion (US$400 million) in 1968.
2.        Nevertheless, agriculture, including forestry and fisheries, re-
mains the country's foremost foreign exchange earner, and amounted to about
CFAF 96.4 billion (US$390 million), and about 92% of total export value in
1968. Exports are still heavily dependent on timber, coffee and cocoa
which combined accounted for about 85% of agricultural exports in 1968 as
compared to 92% in 1960. The declining importance of these three commodi-
ties has been due to the faster growth of banana, pineapple and other agri-
cultural exports.
3.        Although the Government is trying to achieve self-sufficiency in
food, imports are still required.  The 1968 value of food imports amounted
to CFAF 11.3 billion (US$45 million). Rice is still the most important food
import but imports are declining because of increased domestic output.
Beverages, sugar and dairy products are mainly imported to satisfy demands
of the large expatriate community.  There are indications that the country
will become self-sufficient in rice and sugar during the next 10 years.
Imports of meat and dairy products, however, are likely to increase, mainly
due to the growing purchasing power of the population.
The Environment
4.        Annual agricultural output ie to a large extent dependent on
seasonal climatic conditions. In the southern forest zone annual rainfall
between 1,400 mm and 2,000 mm combined with high temperatures and high levels
of humidity permit cultivation of practically all tropical crops. Rainfall
in the northern savannah area is around 1,100 mm annually, and suited to
grain crops such as sorghum, maize and millets, groundnuts and cotton.
5.        The country's topography is favorable for agricultural production.
Most of the country is gently rolling, gradually rising from sea level to
about 500 m at the northern border, but the western region is more mountain-
ous.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
6.        Soils vary from the deep heavily leached soils mainly found in
the forest zone to the shallower and poorer sandy soils of the savannah.
Lateritic pans and accumulations are frequently found in the savannah
region just below the soil surface.  These accunulatXons tend to mrk-
mechanical cultivation difficult and expenslve. Ail soils are poor 'in
phosphorus and organic matter and respond weli to ferti!-zation.
Important Cro2s
7.        Ccffee, all of it robusta, is the most important agricultural
crop. Cultivation is on an extensive basis, with trees scattered under
forest cover and the crop is grown without the use of inputs. Consequently
average ylelds are low at about 360 kg/ha. Productîon increases during the
past years have been almost exclusively the result of acreage expansion. Pro-
duction amounted to about 137,000 tons in 1960 and reached a record high of
272,000 tons in 1968. Since the Ivory Coast's export quota under the Inter-
national Coffee Agreement is only 184,000 tons and local consumption is
around 5,000 tons, sizeable quantities have to be exported at low prices
to non-quota countries. Owing to low labor and input requirements, however,
production is likely to continue to increase and the Plan envisages a total
production of about 300,000 tons by 1980.
8.        The slower rate of coffee growth in future seems realistic, espe-
cially in view of the prospects for alternative crops such as cocoa and oil
palms. Growth in coffee will also be limited by a coffee productivity im-
provement program which the Government proposes to launch under SATMACI and
which may lead to a reduction in coffee acreage and control new planting.
9.        Next to cocoa which is discussed in paras 2.19 through 2.23 of
the report, bananas are the most important agricultural export. Production
for export increased from about 85,000 tons in 1960 to 193,000 tons in
1968. The industry is still relying heavily on supplies from European-owned
and operated plantations, which are efficiently managed and produce high
quality bananas. Bananas are of the Poyo variety which have a delicate
flavor but are susceptible to bruising, requiring boxing of fruits. Since
exports depend on the European markets, future increases in output appear
limited.
10.       The pineapple industry is operated on a similar basis.  European
plantations provide a productIon nucleus and outgrowers supply additional
fruit. Output increased from about 20,000 tons in 1960 to 87,000 tons in
1968. Most pineapple is canned and only small quantities are exported as
fresh fruit. There appears to be good prospects for expanding tbe sale of
canned pineapple in Europe, and the Plan envisages production to reach
148,000 tons by 1975.
il.       Oil palms grow throughout the country's forest area.  Fruits from
the wild growing trees are collected and oil is extracted by primitive
methods. While the oil is consumed locally, kernels are sold for export.
To diversify agricultural production in the forest area, the Government
embarked on a large-scale commercial oil palm planting program, combined



ANNEX 1
Page 3
with planting schemes for outgrowers.  The program started in 1963/64
assisted by the Fonds Europeen de Developpement (FED), the Banque Europeenne
d'Investissement (BEI), the French Caisse Centrale, and IBRD. Production
from new plantings reached about 98,000 tons in bunches, ln 1968, and should
be around 850,000 tons by 1975. Presently most palm oil produced is con-
sumed locally and the kernels alone exported.
12.       Other crops important for the southern rainforest area are coco-
nuts, which are planted along the coast. Copra output is primarily used
to supply the growing local margarine incustry. While plans envisaged a
substantial development of rubber, only s relatively small area was planted
and there has been no significant progress in the past ten years because of
declining world market prices. The recovery of rubber prices in 1968/69
has led to renewed interest, and two manufacturera, Michelin and Goodyear
are now promoting large-scale production schemes. Cola nut production by
amallholders is also of some importance reaching 50,000 tons in 1968.
13.       Cotton is the only important export crop grown in the northern
savannah region. Intensive production atarted only in the 1960's, but
is expanding rapidly. Output increased from about 6,000 tons seed cotton
in 1960 to 48,000 tons in 1968. Cotton production is now characterized
by relatively high standards of productivity with average yields amounting
to about 900 kg/ha, although all cotton is produced by amallholders. The
Plan's production target for 1975 is about 117,000 tons with average yields
to be raised to 1,000 kg/ha.
14.       Food crops produced in the Ivory Coast are mainly yams, rice,
plantains, cassava and food grains. Production over the past few years
grew slightly faster than population, e.g. about 3%. While an abundance
of land could permit the continuous expansion of staple food production,
organized marketing for these products ia badly needed to guarantee cheap
and regular supplies of the growing urban population.
15.       Livestock plays only a minor role in overall agricultural produc-
tion. Tripanosomiasis has prevented cattle raising in most parts of the
country and farmers generally lack experience in livestock management. Con-
sequently the livestock population of about 380,000 head of cattle and 1.6
million sheep and goats has remained relatively stable.  Increasing demands
for meat are being met by large importe, mainly from neighboring countries
in the north. Increases in local production can only be expected from
ranches, some of which are in the procesa of establishment.
16.       Timber from the southern forest areas is the Ivory Coast's most
important export commodity. In 1968, the value of timber exported (CFAF 25
billion) surpassed receipts from coffee sales (CFAF 24.5 billion). Presently
only few species are exported, only one or two trees are removed per hectare.
This exploitation system is advantageous from the agricultural point of view,
because it prevents the depletion of soil cover and minimizes the danger
of soil leaching and erosion. However, many species of good technological
quality but hitherto unknown on European markets are left unexploited and
wasted.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
Factors Influencing Agricultural Production
17.       Land tenure follows traditional African patterns and is character-
ized by the absence of freehold titles. Under custQnmary tribal c1-wZs,
young farmers have the right to apply to viLlage chiefs for land.  Lana
allocations are usually geared to the availability of family labor and to
the supply of hired labor.  As a consequence, farm s'zes are r.cve 
large by Afrîcan standards, and average about 7 ha in most areas. Despit?
these large farms it is estimated by the Government that only about 28Z,' of
cultivable land is now farmed and most of it on a very extensive Sesis.
18.       Extensive production is likoly to remain the prevailing pattern
for many years. The lack of general agricultural extension services (see
Annex 2) and an efficient agricultural credit system will hamper the devel-
opment of intensive agricultural production. Agricultural credit, except
for oil palm, coconut, cocoa and cotton production is practically unavail-
able, and the agricultural lending institution, the Banque Nationale pour
le Developpement Agricole (BNDA) which lacks experienced staff, is mainly
concerned with providing social credit to mutual guarantee societies.
19.       The absence of organized marketing has also been a bottleneck in
agricultural development. Trader margins are usually high leaving farmers
with little incentive to expand the production of crops. Cooperatives have
usually failed after short periods of operation because of the lack of qual-
ified management.  The distribution of those farm inputs used by farmers
is reasonably organized through a SATMACI distribution chain which has
Centres d'Approvisionnement des Planteurs (CAP) located at strategic points
throughout the country.



ANNEX 2
IVORY COAST
COCOA PROJECT
RESEARCH AND EXTENSION SERVICES
A. Background
1.        The Ivory Coast's natural environment permits the cultivation of
a wide range of tropical products. Tree crops such as coffee, cocoa, oil-
palms, coconuts, rubber and cola together with bananas and pineapple are
the most important cash crops of the southern rainforest area, and cotton
and rice of the northern savannah region. Important staple food crops are
maize, millets and sorghum, groundnuts and root crops such as cassava, yams
and sweet potatoes.
2.        Agricultural research has so far concentrated on cash crops and
staple foods have received only minor attention. After gaining independence
in 1958, the Ivory Coast entered a 25-year agreement with France under which
French organizations carry out agricultural research. The following French
institutes are presently active in the Ivory Coast:
Institute                                 Field of Activity
Institut de Recherches pour le Cafe,
le Cacao et autres Plantes Stimulantes (IFCC)            Coffee, cocao, cola
Institut de Recherches pour les Huiles
et Oleagineux (IRHO)                                     Oil palm, coconuts
Institut de Recherches pour le Coton
et des Textiles Exotiques (IRCT)                         Cotton
Institut de Recherches sur le
Caoutchouc en Afrique (IRCA)                             Rubber
Institut Francais de Recherches                          Pineapple, bananas,
Fruitieres Outre-Mer (IPAC 1/)                             citrus, avocado
Institut de Recherches Agronomiques                      Sugar cane, rice,
Tropicales et de Cultures Vivrieres (IRAT)                 otaple foods
Centre Technique Forestier Tropical (CTFT)               Forestry
Institut d'Elevage et de Medecine
Veterinaire des Pays Tropicaux (IEMVT)                    Livestock
Office de la Recherche Scientifique et                   General agronomy,
Technique d'Outre-Mer (ORSTOM)                             soils, fisheries,
cheeklng IFCC re-
search results
1/   Previously Institut des Fruits et Agrumes Coloniaux.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
All institutes are engaged primarily in applied research. Basic research
is carried out by the agricultural faculty of the Abidjan University to a
limited extent. Under the French-Ivorian agreement, costs of research are
shared equally by the two countries.
B. Cocoa Research
3.        Cocoa research started ln 1959 under the direction of IFCC.  The
organization's headquarters are in Paris and the local directorate is
stationed at the research station at Bingerville near Abidjan. Substations
are in Divo and Abengourou. A third substation has been recently estab-
lished in Guiglo. All stations maintain numerous experimental plots through-
out the country, thereby guaranteeing adequate coverage of all ecological
zones.
4.        IFCC research is organized in three departments.  Genetics is
responsible for plant breeding, production of hybrids and control of seed
production. Main tasks of the agronomy department are cocoa chemistry and
physiology, pedology and cocoa agronomy. The plant control department con-
centrates on entomological and phytopathological research.
5.        The efficiency of research work is enhanced by the frequent
exchange of research results among the numerous IFCC institutes in foreign
countries, e.g. in Cameroon, Togo, Madagascar, CAR, the French Antilles,
Reunion, and New Caledonia. The scientific exactness of research results
is usually checked by ORSTOM.
6.        According to IFCC's terms of reference, it concentrates on:
(i) the breeding of improved planting material;
(ii) cocoa pests and diseases, and the control of these;
(iii) development of improved cultivation techniques (fertili-
zation, pruning, shading etc.);
(iv) development of improved processing techniques; and
(v) liaison with the SATMACI extension service, and provision
of recommendations for improving cocoa production.
7.        IFCC has been succesaful in carrying out its work.  New hybrid
varieties developed by IFCC show the promise of high yields and improved
pest control techniques and cultivation practices have been developed. Due
to the long-term agreement with France and the long-term assignment of
research personnel, the continuity of research work is assured.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
C. Extension Services
8.        There is no general agrieultural extension service in the Ivory
Coast. Instead, specialized agencies are in charge of promoting the
various crops. SATMACI is responsible for cocoa and rice extension and
is ln the process of establishing a coffee extension service. Oilpalm
and coconut extension is provided by the Societe pour le Developpement et
l'Exploitation du Palmier a Huile (SODEPALM). Cotton production is in the
control of the Compagnie Francaise pour le Developpement des Textiles
(CFDT) and other agencies exist for bananas, pineapples and forest pro-
duction. The extension services for the proposed project are described in
Chapter V of the main report and the attached table shows the staff re-
quirements.






IVORY COAST
COCOA PROJECT
PROJECT STAFF REQUIREMENTS
1971              1972               1973               1974          75  76  77  78  79  80  81  82  83  84
Field Training   Field  Training   FieldFTraining   FieldTraining   .7.............F. ...........
New Planting
Field Workers      39-/    -         49       31         86       -         95-               95  95  95  95  76  71  46  31  12   7
Agric. Assist.      7       -          7       5         12       2         14       -        14  L4  14  14  il  10   7   7   7   7
Rehabilitation
2/
Field Workers      65      30        105      50        150       -        190       _       158 128  70  30  13  13  2U3  13  13  13
Agric. Assist.      9       6         15       6         21       6         27       -        23  20  10   5   2   2   2   2   2   2
1/ Four to be trained in 1970.
2/ All to be trained in 1970.
April 29, 1970






A?T55iX 3
IVORY COAST
COCOA PROJECT
LA 7AT0QUE sTATIOVALE POUR LE D VWLOPP M7,T AGRICOLT
(T3DA)
Constitution
1.       'PMDA, which replaced the former Caisse 'Jationale de Credit
Agricole (CbiCA), was formed in January, 1968, as a statutory corporation
("societe d'etat") under the authority of the Ministry of Finance and
Economic Affairs for its banking functions and under that of the
Ministry of Agriculture for agricultural credit. Its objective is to
finance the development of agriculture in the Ivory Coast. Since,
however, most of the agricultural credit in the country has been
provided by specialized agencies such as SODEPALIM, CFDT, and SATMACI,
B?1A's role so far has been largely limited to providing social credit.
2.        13-JDA's statutes specify its capital, Council of Administration
and Loan Committee. Other regulations govern credit terms and
organization. 3TIDA's capital is CFAF 700 million, of which the
Government subscribed CFAF )>67 million, CSSPPA CFAF 117 million, the
Banque Centrale des 7stats d'Afrique de l'Ouest CFAF 58 million, and
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique CFAF 58 million.  The Council
of Administration consists of representatives of its shareholders and
the private sector.   The Loan Committee is responsible for reviewing
credit applications and ensuring sound financial management.
Management and Organization
3.       3RTDA is managed by a Director General under whom there are two
departments - Credit and Administration, and Accounts. The total staff
is small and in 1969 there were only about 10 in headquarters. Ty 1971,
howjever, the staff is expected to groi to about 60, of whom half would
be in Abidjan and the other half in six regional offices which will be
established.
Operations
h.        Although iB2DA's operations so far have consisted mostly in
providing social credit, the Government envisages that it will play an
increasing part in financing agricultural development. Its main role
will be to provide, or be a channel for, funds for specialized
agencies such as SATNIACI and to lend to individual farmers, private
bodies, cooperatives, and agricultural associations. It is also
envisaged that Bi\TDA will give advice on agricultural finance both to
the Government and private investors.






A1TNEX 3
Page 2
5.       BMPA's functions and responsibilities in providing funds for
specialized agencios will differ greatly from when it is the direct
lender. When, as in the cocoa project, it acts as the intermediary
between the Government and a specialized agency, it will only exercise
overall control and will take no part in administering farm credits.
When BNDA is the direct lender, on the other hand, it will be
responsible for all credit operations.
6.        3XTDA's direct loans will be of three kinds: medium and
long-term loans for investment, seasonal crop credits, and social
credits.
7.     Medium and Long-Term Loans.  BNLA is not permitted to lend for
purchases of land or already established plantations since these will
continue to be financed by commercial banks, or for rural dyellings
which are the responsibility of another agency, SOGEFIHA.1/ Its. loans
are limited to 80% of investment costs up to CFAF 2 million, and 70%
up to between CFAF 2 and 5 million. Interest is 5.5% for medium-term
loans (up to 5 years) and up to 6% for long-term loans (up to 10 years).
8.     Seasonal Crop Credits.  Seasonal loans are made to finance
cultivation and harvesting expenses. Interest is 5.25% for discounted
credits to societies, 6% for other discounted credits and 8% for
non-discounted credits.
9.     Social Credits.   Social credits are confined to farmers
organized in mutual guarantee groups of 6 to 30 persons. They are
for a maximum of six months and are limited to 15% of the average
value of the preceding two harvests and a maximum of CFAF 50,000 a
person.  BNDA charges a commission of 10%, which is used to cover
bad debts.
Participation in the Project
10.       All funds required for farmers' credits will be channelled
through BNDA.  BNDA will pass the funds on to SATMACI, which will be
responsible for disbursement and repayment of credits at group-farmer
level. SATMACI will deposit all credit repayments with DNDA, which
will retain the credit portion originally financed by the Government
and transmit to CAA the portion financed by the Bank.  SATNACI will
be responsible for individual farmers' credit accounts, while BINDA
will keep control accounts for the credit program as a whole.
1/ Societe de Gestion Financiere de l'Habitat






ANNEX 4
SOCIETE D'ASSISTANCE TECHNIQUE POUR LA
MODERNISATION AGRICOLE DE LA COTE D'IVOIRE
(SATMACI)
Constitution
1.        SATMACI was formed in April 1958 as a statutory corporation
(lEsociete d'etat") under the authority of the Ministry of Agriculture. Its
principal objectives are to provide agricultural extension services and to
implement government programs for modernization of agriculture. Although
in theory SATMACI is financially autonomous, it is almost wholly dependent
on government appropriations and functions more or less as a government de-
partment.
2.        SATMACI is governed by a Council of Administration comprising:
-    the Ministers of Agriculture, and Finance and Economic Affairs;
-    two representatives of the National Assembly;
-    two representatives of the agricultural industry (the president
of CSSPPA, who is also president of BNDA, and the president of
the Chamber of Agriculture);
-    a representative of the Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire (the Director
General); and
-    two representatives of the French Government (the chief of the
aid and cooperation mission and the Director of the Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique).
The President of the Council, currently the President of CSSPPA and BNDA,
is elected by a majority of two-thirds of the Council. Six members of
the council make a quorum, decisions are taken on a majority vote and the
President has a casting vote.
Audit
3.        SATMACI's annual accounts are audited by the Government Commis-
sioner of Accounts who reports to the Council of Administration. In addi-
tion the State Controller reports annually to the Minister of Finance on
SAT14ACI's financial position.
Management and Organization
4.        SATMACI is managed by a Director-General who is appointed by a
two-thirds majority of the Council. Re is an Ivorien. There is a total
permanent staff of about 2,500, and between 1,500 and 3,000 seasonal work-
ers. In pursuance of its policy of Africanization, Ivoriens hold positions



ANNEX 4
Page 2
concerned with overall policy direction as well as those technical and ad-
ministrative positions for which competent Ivorîens are available. In
addition, and to the extent possible, Ivorien counterparts work with ex-
patriates for training.
5.        SATMACI has recently been reorganized on lines recommended by
the Compagnie Francaise d'Organisation (COFROR) appointed by SA'IMAC  to
review its organization and accounting procedures. In addition, its -ice
operations, on which it has suffered substantial losses, will shortly be
transferred to a new statutory corporation.  The new organization chart
is attached.
6.        SATMACI is organized both by functions and by regions.  Under the
Director General three functional directors are responsible for technical
services, commercial operation, and administration. The post of technical
director is vacant. Under the technical director, directors are responsible
for cocoa and coffee and livestock. Extension services are organized re-
gionally under six regional officers, who report to the directors. Under
each regional officer are five or six zone chiefs under whom in turn come
assistants (six to each zone chief) and rural councillors (five or six to
each assistant).
Operations
7.        SATMACI carries out programs and activities determined by the
Government and defined in general and special conventions. A general
convention was concluded in 1965 for development and improvement of cocoa -
this lasts in principle for five years but can be extended by tacit agree-
ment - and there have been some 60 special conventions, many of which have
terminated.
8.        These conventions determine SATMACI's operations for a period
usually of one year. They specify the costs of the activity and the means
of implemention including, in the case of cocoa for example, the terms of
credit, control of rehabilitation, provision of demonstration plots. After
notification of each agreement SATMACI should receive an advance of 20% to
30% of the estimated expenses and the remainder as work progresses on sub-
mission of technical and financial reports.  However, considerable delays
have occurred between execution of work, receipt cf advances and reimburse-
ment of expenses. Concluding a convention may take six months or more from
when it is approved in the annual budget on January 1, and in the meantime
SATMACI may have to start work so as to fit in with the agricultural calen-
dar. Furthermore, there is a delay of at least three months between SATMACI
expenditure and Government reimbursement. This delay is accounted for by
the two months usually taken by SATMACI to prepare and submit its accounts,
which have to have full supporting documents, and the one to one and a half
months delay in obtaining reimbursement after the accounts have been checked
and approved.  These delays are partly responsible for SATMACI's present
cash shortage which is discussed further in paragraph 20.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
9.        SATMACI's principal operations since its formation have been:
-    cocoa operation, begun in 1959, consisting of capeid control and
rehabilitation;
coconut modernization program, carried out from 1960-1966 and
subsequently taken over by S0DEPALM;
livestock operation, begun in 1962, consisting of two beef
cattle ranches and a forage production center;
rice operations, begun in 1965, consisting of rice cultivation
extension services and of rice marketing and milling;
banana and pineapple programs, begun in 1966 and 1967 respec-
tively and subsequently taken over by other statutory corpora-
tions; and
-    coffee operation, begun in 1969, providing extension services
to coffee growers.
10.       Cocoa.  The cocoa rehabilitation program, begun in 1959, han
covered some 200,000 ha to date and has been generally successful. The
program consists of extension services to groupe of farmers, the develop-
ment of high yielding planting materials and the establishment of demon-
stration lots. These activities have been carried out in collaboration
with the Institut Francaise du Cafe et Cacao (IFCC) and Bureau pour le
Developpement de la Production Agricole. It also includes the provision
of credit to farmers for materials in kind such as insecticides, fertilizer,
seeds, sprayers, etc. The cocoa credit operations are discussed further
in paragraphs 16 to 18.
11.       Rice.  The rice cultivation program ia aimed at eliminating the
country's rice deficit as from 1971. The program includes irrigated rice
for which the target is 33,000 ha by 1975 and improvement of dry land rice
cultivation for which the target is 86,000 ha by the same year. However,
implementation of this program appears to be considerably behind schedule.
12.       SATMACI's other rice operations consist of marketing and milling
under the title Direction de la Commercialisation et des Rizeries (DCR).
This includes buying from paddy collectors, processing and selling. In
1968 SATMACI managed five rice mille (three of three tons/hour and two of
two tons/hour) and had undertaken the construction of ten new warehouses.
13.       The program envisaged that SATMACI would mill and market some
60,000 tons of paddy but turnover has fallen far short of this - only
16,000 tons in 1966/67, 11,000 tons in 1967/68 and 21,000 tons in 1968/69.
Reasons for the short-falls include the inability of SATMACI to introduce
satisfactory marketing and processing facilities.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
14.       Since 1968, SATMACI has acquired a further four rice mills with
capacities of four tons/hour and has contracted for five more mills of
the same capacity which would raise total milling capacity to 135,000 tons.
However, in view of SATMACI's lack of experience and know-how in commercial
operations, the Government has decided, as noted in para. 5, to transfer
SATMACI's rice operations to a new statutory corporation.
Cocoa Credit
15.       The provision of credit to farmers for cocoa rehabilitation has
been carried out in conjunction with the former Caisse Nationale de Credit
Agricole (CNCA) until 1967, and then with BNDA which replaced it. The
credits were financed originally by a Government loan through CNCA and by
funds provided by BSIE from French aid. These funds together with larger
grants from the national budget were used to purchase materials and to
meet operating costs. Farmers loan repayments were used to establish a
revolving fund for further credits. Since 1967, the revolving fund has
been the only source of credit finance. Only 80% of the fund is available
for credit, however, and the remaining 20% is reserved for bad debts.
16.       Credit is  made available only to groupa of farmers (30-45 in a
group) and SATMACI's extension workers arrange the formation of groups,
assess the creditworthiness of farmers, and have been responsible since
1967 for recovery of loans. Interest has been at 5.5% and repayment is
over two years.
17.       Because of the different accounting periods adopted by CNCA and
SATIIACI for credit records, and because of inconsistencies and inaccuracies
in the records, it is not possible to state with certainty the credit re-
covery record for loans made before 1967. It would appear that the per-
centage reimbursement has been of the order of 68%, but this low rate is
partly caused by late recoveries rather than non-recovery, and the final
recovery may be of the order of 80%. The credit recovery rate for credits
made since 1967 is running at the rate of about 90%.
Financial
18.       Balance sheets as at December 31, 1968 and December 31, 1969
(provisional) are attached. Because of a change in SATMACI's accounting
system in 1968 involving the inclusion of assets and corresponding lia-
bilities not previously brought into SATMACI's books, it would not be
meaningful to show balance sheets for earlier years. The initial capital
of SATMACI was CFAF 20 million. This was increased by CFAF 130 million
in 1968, of which CFAF 100 million was paid in cash and CFAF 30 million
was transferred from reserves. Other permanent funds have been provided
by subventions and allocations totalling CFAF 312 million at December 31,
1969, for rice mills and materials, fertilizer, and headquarters equipment.
Medium-term loans have been provided by CAA and Italian credits to finance
rice mills. Amortization on the CAA loan is being met by BSIE. The total
loans and amortization at December 31, 1969, was CFAF 1,207 million. Other



ANNEX 4
Page 5
funds consist of a small revolving fund to finance rural housing and the
repayment of farmers loans made prior to 1967 by CNCA now retained by
SATMACI.
19.       As explained in paragraph 7, most of SATMACI's activities are
financed under conventions, total expenditure on which was about CFAF 1,975
million in 1968. However, inadequate permanent capital, losses on rice
milling and marketing and delays in receipt of funds to meet expenditures,
have forced SATMACI to borrow heavily from local banks. The total of bank
loans at December 31, 1969, was CFAF 823 million. The excess of current
liabilities over current assets at December 31, 1969 was some CFAF 153
million and net worth was only CFAF 290 million in relation to fixed and
other non-current assets of about CFAF 1,860 million.
20.       To put SATMACI on a sound financial basis, the Government has
allocated additional capital of CFAF 775 million. This increase, together
with transfer of the unprofitable rice operations should remove the need
for excessive short-term borrowing in future. To ensure prompt provision
of funds for the project, a special project fund will be established.






IVORY COAST
COCOA EROC13CT
SOCIETE D'ASS2STANCE TECHNIQUE POFOi A MDDERNISATION AGRICOLE
De LA COTE D'IVOIRE (SÂTHACI)
BALANCE SHlBtS
( CFAF uillioim)
A  at                   lA at                                                                       As at                     As at
Docember 31, 1968       December 31, 1969                                                           Decomber 31, 1968         Deceabor 31. 1969
ASSITS                                                        (provisional)                          LIABILITIS                                                     (provisional)
Fixed  sooets - rti                                                                                      Capital                                           150                       150
Roservos                                           20                         13
Headquartors                                        105                      100                     Subventions and allocatioeu                         94                       312
Riec  buildings and equipunt                         53                   1,026                             TerAL                                       264                        475
TOTAL                                           158                    1,126                         Surplus (Deficit)                              (119)                      184)j/
AsOets on account of the Stateo                                                                                met Worth                                    145                       291
Rice baildinp and «qPipmnt                          423                      414                      ImemiA  éther ?F1de
Otlur epip_nt                                         7
Rico Mn lloIm   - Italy                         -                        766
TOTAL                                            4414                                                 Lane - CO                                      328                        253
otiemtaon o! OA  loea  by BSIE                  86                       180
Other Annotas                                                                                               Participatio                                    -                           8
Bonds, dopomits, etc.                                18                       15                            TOTAL                                       414                      1,207
Karehoume - invetories                              148                      144
- recotymbles                           126                      128                      Fund fur rural duelling                             _                         35
Ot2her                                               20                       32                      Farrs bcan repqsent ftnd                          124                        173
TOTM                                            312                      319
Current Ameta:
bpatmoe                                             384                      1148
Receitbles                                          92                      196
Cash                                                168                      181
Erponditures recgrerable froa the
StBte                          489                      533
TOTAL                                         1,133                    1,058
Leésa   Current Liabilitie :
State adano.e for recoverable
exp.nditxr es                        145                      162
Creditors and povisionm                             272                      226
Bank loai                                           933                      823
TMPAL                                         1,350                     1,211
Net Cuirent Assots                                    (217)                    (153)
TOTAL ASSETS                                     683                    1,706                            TOTAL LIAiLTES:                             683                      1.706
1/ Of whidch:   Rice Marketing            166
Combined Rarvesting       12
Other                       6
April 29, 1970






IVORY COAST - COCOA PROJECT
SATMACI
ORGANIZATION CHART
|    COORDINATING COMMITTEE                                                               AND-_---|CTORAT     N D           TRANPOR -
|DIRECTOR OF AMINISTRATION ||                                               TECHNICAL DIRECTOR                                                 COMMEPCI tLDIRECTOR
| PERSONNL  l l   SUD ET &    | |ACCOUNT NG  |                           OO     OFE|| LIVESTOCK 
|    AMNSRTION                                                                       E 0 FINNCRECTIOR é 
ZONED WOFFERS
BUYING &      TPANSPORT a
WRHOUSE           SUPPLY
IIEID~~~~~                   OPERATION
ISRD - 4760(R)






ANEX 
IVORY COAST
COMOA PRIOJECT
AREAS OF NEW PLANTINOS £ND REHABILITATION
(ilà ha)
1971      1972      1973       1974         Total
A. New Planting-
Statistical Zone
Zone  9                650        890       750      1,030         3,320
Zone 10                600        600       550        650         2,400
Zone Il                300        620     1,000     1,28O          3,200
Zone 12                750        750       700        500         2,700
Zone 13                420        600       440        540         2,000
Zone 14                470        760       910     1,170          3,310
Zone 15                600        600       550       150          1,900
Total                3,790      4,820      4 900     5,320        181830
B. Rehabilitation
Zone  1                800        800     1,000         -          2,600
Zone  2              1,200        6oo     1,000      1,600         4,400
Zone  3              2,000      1,600       600        200         4,400
Zone  4              1,600      1,000     1,400     1,000          5,000
Znne  5              2,000      1,400     1,400     1,600          6,400
Zone  6-8            1,800        800       600        600         3,800
Zone  9                200          -       200          -           400
Zone  10             1,000        400     1,600       400          3,400
Zone  11               800        400       200        800         2,200
Zone  14               200          -         -     1,000          1,200
Zone  15             13400      1,000     1,000       800          4,200
Total               13,000      8,000     9,000     8ooo          38o000
April 29, 1970






ANNEX 6
IVORY COAST
COCOA PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASPECTS
I. BACKGROUND AND GENERAL DESCRIPTION OF COCOA PRODUCTION
His tory
1.        Cocoa cultivation started in the eastern part of the Ivory Coast
in about 1910 as a natural extension of the Ghana cocoa industry. Cocoa
exports from the Ivory Coast are recorded as from 1919. Production gained
momentum during the period 1920-30 in the east, and during the next two
decades spread westwards. The Ivory Coast's cocoa production accounts now
for about 11% of the total world production, making the country the world's
fourth largest producer.
Climate. Soils and Ecoloxy
2.        Cocoa requires a hot humid climate with temperatures between 22 C
and 270C with only a 40 or 50 diurnal range, and rainfall between 1,200
mm and 1,800 mm.  A two-peak rainfall pattern is desirable since it limits
fungal diseases.
3.        Cocoa requires rich free draining soils to permit adequate root
growth. Phosphorus is the essential mineral usually limiting cocoa
growth, though potassium and calcium are also limiting factors on some
soils. The IFCC soils division has undertaken a soil survey of existing
and potential cocoa growing areas, and the resulting data has been used to
evaluate the approximate area available and suitable for cocoa growing.
Based on these findings, the total area suitable for cocoa planting in the
Ivory Coast is estimated at about 1.5 million ha.
Cocoa Varieties
4.        Most cocoa now growing in the Ivory Coast is of the amelonado
type, and stems from the initial plantings made in the early days of the
industry. Farmers usually plant seed collected and without selection.
Improved material is now available and is of two types, Amazon and hybrid.
The Amazon, a so-called polyclonal material, in of comparatively recent
introduction and has been shown to be higher yielding and more vigorous in
its growth than amelonado. The hybrid material now available has a higher
yield potential than Amazon, however, and is produced by crosaing amelonado
selections with Amazon, and un somS cases trinitaria (a third group of
cocoa types) selections. Hybrid seed can be produced only in seed gardens
laid out specifically for seed production purposes. Such seed gardens
have been established in the Ivory Coast by IFCC.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
5.        While the hybrid varieties require rather better husbandry methode
than amelonado, this disadvantage îs more than outweighed by their vigor of
growth in the critical establishment period, and theîr precocity of bear-
ing.  Thus trials have shown that the cumulative yiî2.'_s of I.ybrtd2 zr  tr
first eight yeara have been 70% more than comparative ameLonado, and 40%
greater over the first 17 year perîod.
Traditional Establishment Methoda
6.        Forent land, whîch occurs naturally in areas suited to cocoa
production, is usually chosen for cocoa planting. The forest îs thelnned
to leave some 80 to 90 trees which are needed to give shade to the cocoa.
After felling unwanted trees a light burn is given and food crops are
planted. UsualLy these include p'lantains and cocoyama which in addition
to being food crops are also shade plants. Food crops are grown for two
or three years and in this time the cocoa is planted. Usually the cocoa
ia planted as seed at a very high denaity to allow for subsequent losses.
As long as food crops are being grown the cocoa receives some attention,
but once food cropping stops the cocoa is left to fend for itself. Usually
the cocoa ls left untended for about two years during which, while many
plants die, the remainder grow reasonably successfully. Thereafter the
farmer clears up the farm, cutting back weed growth and reducing the shade.
Followlng thîs treatment the cocoa grows quite vigoroualy and due to it8
close spacing forms a close canopy in the fifth or sixth year after plant-
ing. This canopy is normally dense enough to shade out competitive weed
growth, and a farm successfully established in this way normally requires
no more than two brushings a year to keep it clear of weeds. Nonetheless,
the traditional method of establishment is a "hit or miss" system, and
many farmers fail to achieve a satîsfactory degree of establishment. Tm-
portantly, cocoa trees established in this way grow very slowly, come into
bearing late, and their yield potential i relatlvely low.
}arvestîng
7.        The main crop ls usually harvested between September and December
at three-week to one-month intervals. Normally, harvesting requîres three
pickings but good crops may need four or even five. A "mid crop" which is
w.uch smaller than the main crop is harvested ln June - August.
8.        The ripe pods, as determined by color, are picked, gathered into
heaps, and then broken and the beans contained in them removed. The beans
which at this stage are wet and covered with mucilage are heaped on plan-
tain leaves on well-drained sites, and after being covered with more plan-
tain leaves are allowed to ferment for seven days. After fermentation the
beans are transported in baskets to the farmers village and sun-dried on
raised mats for about ten days.
Pests and Dîseases
9.        The major cocoa pests and diseases of the Ivory Coast in the
order of theîr importance are:



ANNEX 6
Page 3
a)   Capsid pests
b)   Pod diseases
c)   Swollen shoot virus disease
10.       Capsid insects, mainly Salbergella singularîs and Distanthiella
Theobromae, feed on both cocoa pods and young growing tissue. This feeding
results ln lesions which subsequently become infected with a debilltating
fungus (Calonectria). Where feeding punctures are numerous, the branch or
twig dies. This results both in weakenîng the tree and reducing the cocoa
canopy which in turu result8 in sail exposure and the growth of competitive
weeds. The combination of these factors causes lower yields and ln severe
cases, the death of the tree. Capsid damage to young cocoa can be partic-
ularly serious since even a mild attack can completely defoliate the young
trees aud cause their death; many young cocoa plantings are devastated in
this way.
11.       Capsids cen be controlled with a variety of insecticides of which
benzene hexachloride (BHC) - applied by mistblowers or hand sprayers - has
proved to be the cheapest and most effective. Some resistance to BHC has
developed in Ghana, but so far has not been recorded in the Ivory Coast.
Hovever, alternative insecticides are available.
12.       The most serious pod disease is "Black Pod" (Phythophtora Palmivora)
but other fungi, in particular "Meadly Pod" (Trachispheara fructirena) can
also cause heavy crop losses. The intensity of Black Pod disease varies
with the clîmate and in general is more severe in wetter areas. In the
Ivory Coast pod diseases do not cause serious losses and preventative spray-
ing measures are uneconomic at the present time and are not recommended.
The higher production of hybrid and Amazon varieties, and the longer period
of the year over which they produce their crops (thus helping to spread the
disease) could make these varieties more susceptible to pod disease. This
problem ia known to IFCC and SATMACI as are the necessary control measures.
13.       Swollen shoot is a virus disease apread by insecte.  Characteris-
tic of the disease are the swelling which develop on chupons (branches which
grow vertically) and from which the disease obtains its name. The disease
has caused serious devastation in Ghana, where a virulent form has destroyed
tens of thousands of acres.  This virulent form does not occur in the Ivory
Coast. The mild forms of the virus appear to have only a slight affect on
yields. The only effective control measure that has been developed i8 the
complete removal of diseased trees and their contacts.
II. IMPROVED CULTIVATION UNDER THE PROJECT
Seedlina Production
14.       Seedlings needed for the project would be produced in nurseries
established and operated by farmers' groups but closely supervised by
SATMACI. Seed would be supplied by IFCC. Seed would be established in
polylthene bags, one seed per bag, which would be filled with a suitable



ANNEX 6
Page 4
sail mixture. The nurseries would be shaded by palm leaves on bamboo up-
rights and be protected against rodent damage by netting wire. Routine
nursery procedures would include regular watering, and spraying against
fuungal diseases. Most nurseries would be planted in the period August
through October, the seed germinating after ten days, and the resulting
seed'ings would be planted out in the following May.
Land Preparation
15.       Most project plantings would be on land where there is either a
cover of regenerating secondary forest, or where plantains had been speci-
fically planted to provide shade. The latter would be planted at least
six months before the cocoa seedlings are transferred to the field. Lining
for both plantains and cocoa would be carried out immediately after forest
clearing and partial burning. The planting distance approved by IFCC,
and which would be used, is a rectangular spacing of 3m x 2-1/2m, requiring
1,333 seedlings per ha.
Plantation Maintenance
16.       After establishment, the farmer's main task would be weeding along
the tree lînes and spraying against insecte. SATMACI would provide hand
spraying equipment and insecticides on credit. The vigorous growth of
hybrids would probably require some pruning and shaping of the trees to be
done by the end of the second year. Because fertilizer would be used in
the first four years after planting, overhead shade would be relatively
light compared with traditional practices. Where planting through secondary
forest farmers would be advised on which trees to retain for shade and
which trees to eliminate.
Harvesting
17.       The higher yields of hybrid cocoa would result in a wider spread
of crop production and frequent and regular harvesting would be essential
both to ensure maximum exploitation and to control pod diseases.
Anti-capsid Control
18.       The current recommended treatment against capsids is for "Lindane",
a proprietary benzene hexachloride, to be applied at the rate of six liters
to 320 liters water per ha. Application would be by motorized knap-sack
mistblowers. Plantations would be sprayed early in August and again four
weeks later, but if serious infestation should occur, farmers would be
advised to repeat the double treatment in December or January. It would
be essential for spraying to be systematic since sporadic and uneven ap-
plications would result in only partial control. The advantages of benzene
hexachloride are that it has a fumigant effect killing capsids almost im-
mediately. The lack of persistence minimizes risks to humans and animals
and causes no imbalance in population of other insects infecting cocoa
plants.



ANNEX 6
Page 5
Fertilizer
19.       Because of the increased nutritional requirements of high yield-
ing material, and because much of the plantings would be on land cropped
with food crops, fertilizer applications starting in the year of planting
would be recommended. A 12:15;18 compound fertilizer (12 units N, 15 units
P, 18 units K) would be used. The application would be increased annually
starting with 170 kg/ha after planting, £ollowed by 330 kg/ha in year two,
500 kg/ha in year three and finally 670 kg/ha in the fourth year. Fertili-
zer for mature cocoa would be recommended and credit would be available for
farmers to purchase 300 kg per ha of fertilizer. It la estimated that this
would increase yields by about 300 kg/ha in the second year after applica-
tion.
Yields
20.       Under the project cocca plantings would be adequately protected
against insect damage and would be fertilized in their firat few years of
growth. With such treatment, it is estimated that the yields of new plan-
tations would develop as follows:
Year
Units          3          4          5         6          7-20
kg/ha         200        500        700       900         1,000
lbs/ac        180        450       630        810           910
Yields are likely to start declining after 20 years; the extent of such a
fall off cannot be determined but it is likely that yields would fall to
about 250 kg/ha in year 30. Details of annual yield estimates/ha, for both
new planting and rehabilitation are given in Tables 1 and 2.
Labor Reguirements
21.       Labor requirements would be at their peak during the year of plant-
ing when 166 man-days/ha would be needed. Since, in most cases, family labor
would not be sufficient to cover these requirements, about 50 man-days/ha of
hired labor would be required. Labor requirements for plantation maintenance
would decline from 83 days in the second year to 66 days in year four, mainly
due to reduced time spent on weeding. Thereafter, as the shade provided by
the cocoa increased, labor requirements would increase with pod production
reaching about 93 days when the farm is in full bearing.






ANNEX 6
Table 1
IVORI COAST
COOOA PROJECT
ESTIMATED YIELDS OF ANEWNADO COCOA
(in KG per Hectare)
A. Rehabilitated
B. W$thout Rehabilitation
Year                          A                      B
0-7                           O                      °
8                         360                    360
9                          420                   36o
10-20                        600                    360
21                          590                   360
22                          580                   360
23                          570                   360
24                          560                    360
25                          550                   360
26                          500                    360
27                          450                    360
28                          4oo                    360
29                          350                    330
30                          300                    300
31                          275                    275
32                          250                    250
April 29, 1970






ANNEX 6
Table 2
IVORY COAST
OOCOA PROJECT
PIDJECTED YIELDS OF HYBRID COCOA
(in KG per Hectare)
A. With Fertilizer for Years 0-4 only
B. Without Fertilizer
Year                          Â                      B
0                            0                      0
1                            0                      0
2                            0                      0
3                          200                      0
h                          500                    200
5                          700                    400
6                          900                    550
7-20                      1,000                    700
21                          930                    700
22                          860                    700
23                          790                    700
24                          720                    675
25                          650                    650
26                          570                    570
27                          480                    48o
28                          390                    390
29                          300                    300
30                          250                    250
April 29, 1970






ANNEX 7
IVORY COAST
COCOA PROJECT
COCOA DEVELOPMENT STUDY
Draft Outline of Terms of Reference
1.        The Ivory Coast has large forest tracts where soils and climatic
conditions would be suitable, in particular, for cocoa cultivation. Since
good soils in other cocoa producing countries are to a large extent already
planted, strong demande for cocoa can be expected towards the end of the
20th Century. The Ivory Coast i8 in a favorable position to increase fu-
ture supplies by bringing additional land under production and by improv-
ing the productivity of existing and contemplated plantations.
2.        The Ministry of Agriculture in cooperation with SATMACI has pre-
pared a seven-year cocoa planting program, covering the period 1971 to 1977.
The proposed Bank project would meet part of the targets of this program,
and cover the period up to and including 1974. Zones 12 and 13 (see Map),
where in the Toulepleu-Blolequin and Duekoue-Guiglo districts, suitable
lands for cocoa planting have been located, would be very suitable for
carrying out the 1975-1977 phase of the prograu.
3.        These areas are presently under forest, and their timber is
being exploited. Since the development of feeder roads and forest tracks
as a result of forest activity, there has been some spontaneous settlement
by migrant farmers in what hitherto vas an uninhabited region. The prin-
cipal objective of the study would be to provide the necessary basis for
the controlled settlement of the area, and establishment of an agricultural
system based largely on cocoa as a cash crop. In order to carry out the
study, the Ivory Coast govern1ent would employ consultants.
4.        The feasibility study would take into consideration, among others,
the following:
(î) project location and general plan of project illustrated by
maps, scope and magnitude of the project, area to be
developed, major features of proposed development;
(ii)  present agricultural production in the area; farm sizes and
land tenure system; existing roads and water facilities;
social infrastructure of the area (schools, dispensaries,
etc.);
(iii) area topography, climatological data, reconnaissance soil
survey, present area land use;



ANNEX 7
Page 2
(iv) location, preliminary design of additional roads, wells, and
soil infrastructure;
(v) estimated capital costs, breakdown into foreign exchange
and local currency requirements; maintenance and operat-
ing costs;
(vi)  organization to be responsible for settlement aspects;
maintenance of roade, wells and other proposed investments;
(vii)  settlement procedures, land tenure arrangements, and
credit needs and arrangements; and
(viii)  analysis of estimated benefits to settlers, the government,
and the economy.



IVORY COAST
CocoA PROJECT
PROJSCT COST SUMMARY
(CFAF nillion)                                                                      %         CFAF
Foreign    Foreign
NEW PLANTATIONS                                               1970       1971        1972       1973        1974        1975        1976      1977        Total    Exohange   Exohange
On-farm Coats
Nursery material                                                7.6        9.6         9.8        10.6                                                      37.6        9°          33.B
Hand tools                                                                 3.8         8.6       13.5        18.8        15.0        10.2        5.3        75.2       90          67.7
Plastic bags                                                  11.4        14.5        14.7       15.9                                                       56-5       85          48.0
Seeds                                                          5.9         7.5         7.6        8.2                                                       29.2       40          11.7
Fertiliser                                                                18.7        60.3      126.1       217.3       216.4       173.0      103.7      915.5        65         595.0
Insecticide                                                               )4.2         9.5       1)4.9       20.7        16.5        11.2        5.8        82.8        75         62.1
Sprayere r4.7                                                                          6.0        6.1         6.7                                           23.5       75          17.6
Contingenoîes ~ ~ ~  ~      ~    ~     ~ ~ E.             63.0~~    î  116.5     195.i       2T3.       2h7.9       1h11.B    1,220,
Contingencies 10%                           2.5         o6.~~ ~~~~~ ~              ~~~~3 11.7 1.  26.l3  2.194              11.        122.0                     3.
Hired labor inc 15S contingencies                                         65.4        83.1       84.5        91.8                                          324.8
Sub-total                                                   27.4       134.7       211.3      299-3       381.6       272.7       213.8      126.3    1,667.1                   919.5
Administration Costs
General ad-inistration                                         2.7        16.5        23.3        37.6       48.9        43.2        36.3       24.6       233.1        40          93.2
Ertension service                                                         33.7        36.7        55.2       58.5        55.4        55.4       55.4       35o.3                     -
General transport                                               1.1        1.4         1.4         1.5                                                       5.4        40           2.2
Project administ;ration                                                    6.9         6.9         6.9        6.9         6.9         4.5        4.5        43.5        55          23.9
3.t5      56.5        66.3       101.2       114.3      105.5        96.2       84.5       632.3                   119.
Contingencies - 15%                                             0.6        8.8        10.2        15.2       17.1        15.8        14.4       12.7        94.8                    17.9
Sub-total                                                    4.4        67.3        78.5       116.14     131.4       121.3       110.6       97.2       727.1                   137.2
Fixed Assets
Buildings                                                                  1.3         2.2                                                                   3.5        70           2.5
Vehioles                                                                   7.5         0.4         9.0         2.6                    2.6                   22.1        90          19.9
8.8        2.6         9.0         2.6                     2.6                  25.6                    22.14
contingencies - 10%                                                          98 ,        2          20.3                              0.3                    2.6                     2.2
9.7        2.         O9.9         2.9                     2.9                 =28.2        812)6
2  9                                                       ~~~~~~~~~84   2.
Survey and Prospection
Supervision                                                                0.9         0.9         0.9         0.9                                           3.6        66           2.4
Survqr teas                                                                5.8         5.8         5.8         9.2                                          26.6                     -
Materials anc orerheads                                                    1.8         1.8         1.9         2.9                                           8.4        50           4.2
8.5       86.5         6.6        13.0                                          36.66
Contingencies - 15%                                                        1.3         1.3         1.3         1.9                                             8                     1.0
9.8        9.ô         9.9        14.9 
Tra
Personnel                                                                  6.1         6.1         5.5         5.5                                          23.2        63          14.6
Overhead                                                                   o.6         o.6         0.5         0.5                                           2.2        15           0.3
6.7        6.7         6.0         6.0                                          25.4 
Contingencies - 15%                                                        1.0         1.0         0.9         0.9                                           3.8                     2.2
7.7        7.7         6.9         6.9                                          29.2                    17.1
T0TÂL                                                            31.8       229.2      310.1       442.4       537.7       394.0       327.3     223.5    2,496.0         44       1,106.0
March 2, 1970






IVORY G0ST
COCO& PROJECT
PEOT COST SUMM
C(FAF million]
%            CFAF
Foreign       Foreign
RE11IIATION              1971          1972           1973          1974           1975          1976           1977           TOTAL         Exchange       Erchange
On-faru Conts
mand tools                 13.0          21.0           17.0          17.0            8.0                                         76.0          9°             68.4
In.ecticidea               21.8          35.2           28.5          28.5           13.4                                        127.4          75             95.3
Sprayer fuel               10.S          17.6           14.3          14.3            6.7                                         63.8          25             16.0
Sprayer                    15.3           9.4           10.6           9.4                     _44.7                                            75             33.6
61.0          83.9          70.4           69.2           28.1                                        311.9                        213.3
Contingencies 10%           6.1           8.3            7.1           6.9            2.8                                         31.2                          21.3
67.1          91             77-5          76.1           30.9                                        343.1                        234.6
AdMinistration Coste
General Administration     13.6          15.9           19.5          21.6           12.3                                         82.9          40              33.2
Extension service          28.6          46.0           66.2          83.3           68.6                                        292.7           -               -
Projeet Administration     4.6            4.6            4.6           4.6            4.6                                         23.0          55             12.6
46.ë          66.5           90.3         109.5           85.5                                        39ci.6
Contingencies 15%           7.0          10.0           13.5          16.4           12.9                                         59.8                           6
53.m          76.5          103.M         125.9           98.4                                        458.4
Fixed Assets
Buildings                   0.9                                                                                                    0.9          70               0.6
Vehicles                    3-0           1.6            2.0           1.6                                                         8.2          90               7-4
3.9           1.6            2.0           1.6                                                         9.1                        -.O
Contingencmis   %           0.14          0.2            0.2            0.1                                                        0.9                           0.8
4             1.8            2.2           1.7                                                        10.0
Survey and Prospection
Supervision                 1.8           1.8            1.8           1.8                                                         7.2          66               4.8
Survrey teaus               7.3           7.3            7.3            7.3                                                       29.2           -               -
Naterials and cverheads     0.5          ,0.5            0.5            0.5                                                        2.0          50               1.0
9.6           9.6            9.6           9.6                                                        38.4                           5.m
Contingencies 15%           1.4           1.4            1.4           1.5                                                         5.7                           o.6
11.0          11.0           11.0          11.1                                                        44.1                           6.4
Training
Personnel                   9.8           2.5           12.2           9.8                                                        34.3          63              2i.6
Overheads                   1.0           0.2            1.2            1.0                                                        3.4          15               0.5
10.8           2.7           13.4          10.8                                                        37.722.1
Contingencies 15%           1.6           0.4            2.0            1.6                                                        5.6
12.4           3.1           15.4          12.4                                                        43.3
TOTAL                       148.6         183.9          209.9          227.2         129.3                                        898.9          36             327.9
1arch 2, 1970






IVORY COAST
COCQ& PROJECT
PROJECT FINANCING
(CFMU millions)
1970      1971      1972      1973      1974      1975      1976      1977       Total
N1W PLANTATIONS
Farusrut credit repaymnts                                                                       44.1    100.2       83.6        227.9
Farmurs' contribution to project conta       13.1       48.2      53.7      51.6      39.9      (3.9)      o.6       5.9        209.1
Proposed IBRD Loan                                      98.5    137.9    215.8    286.5    225.6    190.5    134.0            1,288.8
Government Fundi                             18.7      82.5      U8.5    175.0    211.3    128.2          36.9                  7l70.2
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS PR ANNEI 8             31.8    229.2    310.1    442.4    537.7    394.o    327.3    223.5              2,496.0
RESIBILITATION
Farnars' credit rspayments                                                  30.8      49.8      31.8                            112.4
Farnmrs' coetribution to project costa                  34.5      52.3      43.0      42.7      19.1                            191.6
Proposed IBRD Loan                                     64.o       85.0      99.4    113.6       78.4                            Uo.4
Governuent funds                                        50.1     46.6       36.7      21.1                                      154.5
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS FER ANNEm  8                    148.6    183.9  _209.9    227.2    129.3                                  898.9
April 29, 1970






IVoeY COAST
COCOA ROJECT
ES.TIM&TED IBRD LOANI DISBURSEIf NTS
(CFAF itillions)
Us$
Equivalent
NEI PL NTÀTIONS                       1970            1971            1972          1973             1974         1975       1976         1977           Total         millions
Diabursemmnts cf 100%
G.I.F. coat f iniported goods
and materials
Fertilizer                                              12.2            39.2          82.0             141.2        140.6      112.4        67.4           595.0         2.15
IDsecticides                                             3.2             7.1          11.2              15.5         12.4        8.4         4.3            62.1         0.22
Sprayers                                                 3.5             4.5           4.6               5.o                                                17.6         o.o6
Vehicles                                                 6.8             0.4           8.1               2.3                     2.3                        19.9         0.07
25.7            51.2         105.9            164.0        153.0   -  123.1         71.7          694.6          2.50
Contingencies 10%                                          2.6             5.1          10.6              16.4         15.3       12.3          7.2           69.5         0.25
28.3            56.3         116.5            180.4         168.3      135.4        78.9           764.1         2.75
Diabursements of leass than 100%
ProJect Adininstration - MO,t                              5.6             5.5           5.5               5.5          5.5        3.6          3.6           34.8         0.12
Extension Services - 80%                                  270°            29.4          4491              46.8         44.3        44.           3           280.2         1.01
e .6            ]4.9          49652.3                       49.M        47.-9       147.          315.0          1.13
Contingencies 15%                                          4.9             5.2            7.4              7.9          7.5        7.2          7.2           47.3         0.17
37.5            40.1          57.0             60.2         57.3        55.1        55.1          362.3          1.30
Hired labor inc. 15% cont.- 50%                           32.7            41.5           42.3             45.9                                               162.4          0.59
Total New Plantations                                   98.5           137.9          215.8            286.5        225.6      190.5        134.0        1.288.8          4.64
REHABILITÂTICe
Disburseent" of 101p %
-.I.. ..o  tiported goods
and materials
Insecticides                                            16.3            26.4          21.3              21.3         10.0                                   95.3          0.34
Spraye rs                                               11.5              7.1           8.0              7.0                                                33.6          0.12
Vehicles                                                 2.7             1.4            1.8              1.5                                                  7.u         0.03
30.5            34.9          31.1             29.5          10.0                                  136.3         0.49
Contirigencies 10%                                         3.0             3.5           3:1             320            1.0                                   13.6          05
33.5            36.4          342               2.            .0                                   149.9         0.5
Diabursements c leass than 100%
Pruject Administratlon - 80,                               3.6             3.7           3.7               3.7          3.7                                   18.4          0.07
Extension Services - 80%                                  22.9             36.8          53.0             6606         54.9                                  25324          0.84
26.5            4o.5          56.7              70.3         55.0                                  2526 :9
Contingencies 15%                                          4.o              6.1           8.5             10.5           8.8                                  37.9           .104
30.5            L6.6          65.2             b). b         67.4                                  290.5         1.05
rota;, Renabuitatior.                                   64.0             85.0          104             113.6         784                                   440.o          1.59
1009 tforeigrlgexchange 0oszr
inc. contingencies                                        2° O                           25.2__  88.9                                                                       0.32
Interest anO corsain-seni   _horg                                                                           6  2.  r _  1   O             _7  _ _              264.7          0.9'
To2AL DISBURSEMEN'T8                         ,             207.9            302.:         39.              4L62.I        383.7       190.5      134.0         2,082.6         7.50
April 29, 1970






ANNEX Il
IVORY COAST
COCOA PROJECT
PROJECT COORDINATING COMMITTEE
The following sumnarizes the mnin provisions for the terms of
reference of the coordinating committee:
(1)  The Committee vill be composed of the following members:
The binister of Agriculture or his designate and
representatives of the following:
Ministry of Finance
Ministry of Planning
SATMACI
CSSPPA
IFCC
BNDA
(2) The Committee will meet when convened by the Chairman and
at least once every three months, and will keep minutes of
each meeting.
(3)  The Chairman will be the Minister of Agriculture or
his designate.
(4) The Committee will coordinate all actions required for
successful project implementation.
(5)  The Committee will also be responsible for facilitating
collection and review of all information required by the
Bank in connection with the project.
(6) The Committee would be particularly responsible for the
timely arrangement of importa necessary for project execution.






Annex 12
IVORY COAST
COOOA PROJECT
S3LLING PRICE CALCULATIONS
New York Ghana Cocoa cents/lb                        27             27
New York, Ivorian Cocoa cents/lb                     26.75          26.75
New York, Ivorian Cocoa $/long ton                  599            599
New York, Ivorian Cocoa $/metric ton                589            589
New York, Ivorian Cocoa CFAF/metric ton         163,570        163,570
Common Market preference 5.h%                                    8,830
Cif price metric ton                            163,570        172,400
Composite selling price                               (CFAF/ton)
25% New York, 75% Europe                                170,192
Insurance & Loss in weight 2.37%                          4,036
Brokerage & other charges 1.66%                            2,825
Freight plus weighing                                      7,541
Composite FOB price                                     155,790
Commitment charge on export duty 0.1%                         35
Exporters delivery charges (See below)                   21,350
Value to Ivory Coast                                    134,405
Guaranteed Farmers Price                                 80,000
Value to Government                                      54,405
Customs Duty 22.38% 1/ FOB Value
-16.73% of Duty Rebated to CSSPPA            29,033
Accruing to CSSPPA                                        25,372
Exporters Delivery Charges
Collecting and transporting to buying center  6,200
Packing and handling                            3,172
Transport                                       3,500
Storage and grading                             3,619
Insurance and general charges                   1,589
Quay handling charges                             907
Lighterage and other charges                    2,109
Port levies                                       254
A Âssuming that the Itmercurialetl price set each year by the Government to
assess the tax will be the same as the actual FOB value.
March 24, 1970






lVORY COA3T
COCOA P80OJNCT
FAR 80 00DGE - 1 ha hE Y PLANTATION
Tear       1          2           3           4           5          6           7           8           9          10          il          12          13       1-21
Production - kg                                                                                                200        500         700         900       1,000       1,000       1,000       1,000       1,000       1,000
Valu, a CFAF 80/kg                                                                                          16,000     40,000      56,000      72,000      80,000      80,000      80,000      80,000      80, 000     80,000
peonditures
1. Nurser-y lltoriala                                         2,000
2. H nd tool                                                             1,000       1,000      1,C0O        1,000      1,000       1,000       1,000       1,000       1,000       1,000       1,0o0       1,00o       1,000
3. Plastic bags                                               3,000
4. Seedo                                                      1,550
5. fertiliser                                                            4,950       9,600    14,550        19,500
6. Insecticlde                                                           1,100       1,100      1,100        1,100      1,680       1,68o       1,680       1,68O       1,680       1,680       1,680       1,680       1,680
7. Sprayer Fuel                                                                                                           840         840         840         840         840         840         840         840         840
8.  Spra"r/tistblow«r                                                    1,250                                           1,180                              1,180                               1,180                     400
6,550     b,300      11,700       16,650     21, O         ,700       3,520      3,520       4,700       3,20        3,520       4,700       3,5r0       3,920
Contingenciet 10%                                            660       830       1,170      1,670        2,160         470        350         350          470        350         350         470         350         390
bired labor including 15% continganciea                             17,250
=7 M0 23              1,0        l0                       T7O          3,870 5,T17            *rT75      B7M          7           570         3,870       6,310
lasa: Oo,onant ubsidjy for be.ds                           1,210
GoUvernt fnbidy for bagà                             2,550
Finmnced by oradit
100% of item  5, 6 ad a in8 . contingencias                  8,030      11,770     17,220       22,660
CFAF 10,000 csh in yar 2 for hirad labor                    10 000
3__ O6 bO0            1,7        17,220      2,6
Farmas eaexpanditurO                                          3,45o      8,350       1,100      1,100        1,100       5,170      3,870       3,870        5,170      3,870       3,870       5,170       3,870        4,310
Cash cradita                                                                         2000       2 000
Income befora oredit rpaqyent                                       '                                       14,900     34,830       52,130     68,130      74,830      76,130      76,130      74,830      76,130      75,690
Faraw'e Credit
Financed by crsit as above                                          18,030      11,770     17,220       22,660
Cab credite in ye s 3 and 4                                                      2 000      2000
Tgtal        credit                        lo,0                                3 ù2 oO
Total cusnlative crdit                                                                                  2
Oredt repaoonta - 8 ryara *t 54                                                                                        11,630      11,630      11 630      11,630      11,630      11,630       11,630     11,630
Inoom  siter credit repaymente                               (3,450)    (8,350)        900        900       14,900      23,200      40,500      56,500      63,200      64,500     64,500       63,200      64,500     75,690
Inc re ater credit repvn nts per nsn-day                                                                       226         446         604         681         680         694         694          680        694        814
Kan-days family labor                                             30        115         83         78           66          52          67          83          93          93          93           93         93         93
Valua g CFAF 250/day * 19% contingencieas                         3     3-37M       23,8606       E         189 0   21,890 2   1 9,260          2           n7E         26,740        ,          26,7470    MM 7'       r  
Net banatits les fsily labor                                 (12,080)  (41,410)   (22,960)   (21,530)        64,080)     8,250      21,240      32,640      36,460      37,760      37,760       36,460     37,760     48,95o
With 25% Rduction in nailds
Value of production                                                                                         12,000      30,000      42,000     54000       60,000      60,000      60,000       60,000     60,0o0     60,000
Ineme bafore credit repamueut                                                                               10,900      24,830      38,130      50,130      54,830      56,130      56,130       54,830     56,130     55,690
Income after credit repayesento                                                                             10,900      13,200      26,500      38,500      43,200      44,500      64,500       43,200     44,500     55,690
Income aiter credit repynts per m-day                                                                          167         281         457         550         554         571         571          554        571        716 4
Man-days almily labor                                                                                           65          47          58          70          78          78          78           78         78         78
_                                  -              -    -                                                    
Value O CFAF 250/day * 15% coetige.ncies                                                                    18,690      13,510      16,680      20,130      22,430      22,430      22,430       22,430     22,430     22,430
Net benefits lesa faily labor                                                                               (7,700)       (310)      9,820      18,370      20,770      22,070      22,070       20,770     22,070     33,260
'4rch 2, 1970






IVYRY COAST
COCOA PROJECT
FARM BUDGET - 1 ha REHABILITATION
(CFAF)
Without
Year            _                           2                 3                4              5 - 13            Rehabilitation
Production - kg/ha  '                               360              4Z0              600               600              600                  360
Value @ CFAF 80/kg                20,80                           33,600           405 4,800
Expenditure
1. Han  1too1s                                    1,000            1,000            1,000             1,000            1,000                1,000
2. Insecticide                                    1,680            1,680            1,680             1,680            1,680                  770
3. Sprayer fuel                                    840               840              840               840              840                  340
4. Mist blower                                   1.180               -                -              1,180               -                    300
4,700            3,520            3,520             4,700            3,520                210
Contingencies - 10/                                470               350              350               470              350                  240
5,170            3,5'70           3,b70             5,170            3,Y70                f7p
LesS:  Financed by credit items 2 & 4
including contingencies X 8Q%
year 1 and 2                                  2,520             1,480
Farrers cash expenditure                          2,650            2,390            3,570             5,170            3.870                2,650
Income before loan repayment                    26,150            31,210           44,130            42.830           44,130               26,150
Farmer's Credit
5C% of items 2 & 1                               2,52G             1,480
Interest at 5.e%                                    140              230
Cumulative credit                               *260               4,370
Credit Repayments                                                                   2,370             2,370
Income after credit repayaent                   26,150            31,210           41,760            40,460           44,130
Income per man day                                  311              372              497               604               659                 475
Man days family labor                                84               84                84               67                67                   55
Value @ CFAF 250/day + 15S contingencies        2Z4,150          224,15G           24,150            19,260           19,26C               15,810
Net benefits less family labor                   2,000             7,060           17,610            21,200           24,870               10,340
March 2, 1970



l



GOv ?0T00T SOUW,':S 8N 1p9T,T9A1l9  OF PUND.3
NIt1 PLANTATT ONS AND 8E1ABILIAT0ON
(39FAF ilîlnna)
N8O P1ANIATIONS                        1970        1971       1972        l713       1974       1i77        1776        1977        117'       1979        1980       1981        1982        1983      1984_90      1991        1992        1993       1994
SOVRCES
Crap Revenues:
1liRveus   /                                                                                   22.1       8 3.       175.       217,        1.412.     606.1       531. 2      566. 7     5L6. 7    3,826.9       9.6.7       336. 7     2 96. 7 
cOp5rt Duties 0 1/                                                                                  19.2'       72.5      17353       261 3      460;7       4246.8      63L 3      477.8       L.77.8    3,344.6      1477.8     31.6        259. 3      à30 
AcintoCSSPPîL-
9aur'rdnrpuYe,r1-L  te Oerernmft                                                                                      48.0      142 .9     142. 9      142.9       142.9       L42.9      134.1i      117.9
- ho BND.L                                                                                         25.6        76. 2      76.2        76.2        76.2       76.2        60.9        62.9
TOTAL SOURCES                                                                                   41.2       155.5      402.3       779.4      992.6    1,130.0    1,214.6    1,263.6    1,199.5    7,352.3    1,024.5           718.3       556.0       289.5
APFLICATICNS
APPLlCATTONS                                 18.7       82.5       118.5      175.0       211.3      128.2        36.0
Post-dev-lopment adrin. costs                                                                          2.4         5.6         8.7       75.9        55.4       52.0        38.9        29.1       19.3       112.7        12.6         8.9        4.5
r n2/                                                                             80.0       180.6      26?.3       269.3       269.3      269.3       269.3       269.3       404.0
Debt  peric            .. prpsd 13RDlon                            
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                    18.7        82.5       118.5      175.0       211.3      13L.6       121.6       189.3      345.2       324.7      321.3       308.2       298.4      288.6       516.7        12.6         8.9        6,.5
Cash Surplus (Deficit)                        (18.7)      (82.5)    (118.5)    (175.0)    (211.3)       (89.4)      33.9       213.0      434.2       667.9      808.7       906.4       945.2       910.9    6 835.6    1,011.9        709,4      551.5       289.5
CTunlacti- ca-h surplus (Deficit)             (18.7)    (101.2)    (219.7)    (394.7)    (606.o)    (695.4)    (661.5)    (448.5)         (14.3)      653.6    1,462.3    2,368.7    3,313.9    4,224.8   11,060.4   12,072.3   12,780.7   13,333.2   13,622.7
8,2i88LITATION                          1970       1971       1972        1973        1974       1975        1976        1977      1978-83     1984        1985        1986        1987
SOUR0Ê0
Crop Revenues:
b:port Duties     1/                                                         22.6       104.5      162.0       223,0       264.8    1,58e.8      264.8       174.2       1l8.5        55.7
Acczoing to CS3PPA-                                                          19.8        91.3      141.6       194.9       231.4    1,388.4       231.4      152.2       103.5        68.7
Farmers' credit repaynt - to Gerrsrrrt                                                                  6.4       30.2        14,3
-  rB.                                                                      2.1        10.1        4.7
TOZ&2 50t1C23                                                           42.4       l95.8      312,1       458.2       515.2    2,a77.2       496.2      326.4       222.0       104.6
APPLITATIONO
Funds1   ,r pr-j ct                                     50,1        46,6        36.7       21.1
Post-develop.p-nt adMin. costs                                                  8.4        13.5        88,2       /î.5        1.91      187.2        2M.7        14.3        6.6
Debt service  -n proposed L31P lo6n-                                                       21.0        28.0        30.0       56.7      477.0        79.5        39.8
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                               50.1        46.6       45.1        55.6      116.2        89.5        94.8      664.2       100.2       54.1         6.6
Cash Surplus (Deficit)                                   (50.1)      (46.6)       (2.7)     140.2       195.9      368.7       420.4    2,313.0       396.o       272.3       215.4      104..4
Curralative cash surplus (DeTîcîî)                        (50.1)     (96.7)      (99.4)      40.8       236.7      605.4    1,025.8    3,338.8    3,734.8    4,007.1    4,222.5    4,326.9
1/ Based on uorld price uf 27 US cectaîl.
j/ Ekludicg intermut capitalized.
kpril 29, 1970






IVORY COAST
COCOA PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATES OF j MRN
(CFAF millions)
NEW PLANTATIONS                1970  1971  1972   1973   197L4  1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984-90    1991   1992   1993   1994
Costs
Project costs                         31.8  229.2  310.0  442.4  537.7  394.0  327.3  223.5
Post-project adinistration costs                                            2.4    5.6    8.7   75.9   55.4   52.0   38.9   29.1  19.3            16.1      12.6    8.9      4.5    -
Post-project fara costs                                                    16.3   37.1   58.2   81.2   81.2   81.2   81.2   81.2  81.2            81.2      64.8   44.0   22.3    -
Fasily labor                          32.7  166.9  292.0  407.9  472.8  385.0  357.4  357.5  390.2  449.6  488.1  503.5  503.5  503.5    503.5    402.2  273.3  142.3    -
64.5 396.1  602.0 850.3 1,010.5  797.7  727.4  647.9  547.3  586.2  621.3  623.6  613.8 604.C    600.8    479.6  326.2  169.1    -
Benefits
Yielà - tons                                                                758  2,859   6,043  10,299  14,218  16,744 18,298  18,830  18,830   18,830    18,830  15,040  10,220    5,320
Value at CFAF 134,405/ton                                                 101.9  384.3  812.2  1,384.2 1,911.0 2,250.5 2,459.3 2,530.8 2,530.8  2,530.8  2,530.8 2,021.5 1,373.6  715.0
Net Benefits                          (64.5)(396.1) (602.0)(850.3)(1,010.5) (695.8) (343.1) 164.3  836.9  1,324.8 1,629.2 1,835.7 1,917.0 1,926.8  1,930.0   2,051.2 1,695.3 1,204.5  715.0
Rate of Return            19.9%
REHABILITATION                 1971     1972      1973      1974     1975      1976      1977     1978-83     1984      1985      1986      1987
Conta
Project Conte                        148.6    183.9    209.9    227.2    129.3
Poat-project aduinistratieù oosts                          8.4     13.5      88.2      59.5      40.1       31.2      20.7      14.3       6.6      -
Post-project farmn conts                                  56.0     90.5    129.3    163.8    163.8         163.8    107.8       73.3      34.5      -
Panily labor                         313.9    507.1    724.5    954.2    915.1    871.0    831.9           531.9    481.5    327.4    154.1         -
462.5    691.0    998.8  1,285.4  1,261.9  1,094.3  1,035.8   1,026.9          610.0    415.0    195.2        -
Lens Conta without projects
Fam costa                         23.5     55.7      79.5    100.7    100.7    100.7    100.7         100.7      66.3      45.0      21.2      -
Fanily labor                     205.4    315.0    474.0    570.0    570.0    570.0    570.0          570.0     395.0    255.0    126.4        -
228.9    370.7    553.5    670.7    670.7    670.7    670.7          670.7     461.3    300.0    147.6        -
Incremental Costs                    233.6    320.3    445.3    614.7    591.2    423.6    365.1          356.2      148.7    115.0       47.6      -
Benefits
Yield from rehabilitation - tons     4,680    7,560    11,580    17,280    19,260   21,360    22,800      22,800    22,800    15,000    10,200     4,800
Yield without project                4,68C    7,560    10,800    13,680   13,680    13,680    13,680      13,680    13,680     9,000    6,120      2,880
Incrementai yield                      -         -         780    3,600     5,580     7,680     9,120      9,120     9,120     6,000     4,080    1,920
Value at CFAF 134,405/ton              -         -       104.8    483.9    750.0  1,032.2  1,225.8   1,225.8   1,225.8    806.4    548.4    258.1
Incremental Net Benefits              (233.6)  (320-3)   (340-5)  (130-8)   158.8    608.6    860.7         869.6   1,077.1    691.h    500.8    258.1
Rate of Return
March 2, 1970






IVCeY COAST
COCOA PROJECT
FINANCIAL RETURNS TO GOVER»NNT
1970     1971     1972      1973    1974    1975      1976     1977    1978    1979       1980    1981    1982    1983   1984-90   1991   1992   1993    .S9h
NEW PLANTATIDNS
Project Costal
Parn subsidies                                14.3      18.1     18.4      20.0
Other coats                                    4.4      94.5     98.8    143.1   156.1   121.3    113.5       97.2
Total                                          7    112.6    117.2    163.1   156.1   121.3    113.5        97.2
Post-project Aduinistration                                                                    2.4      5.6      8.7    75.9    55.4       52.0    38.9   29.1      19.3    16.1      12.6    8.9    4-5
Total costs                 18 .7                                       1 63.1   Ti               129.7 1           10                  !5 9  si T9 U  ~r  ;                      T9 r97  _*9
Bene±ts I
Customs duties and CSSPPA retentions                                                       41.2    155.5   328.7   560.3   773.5    910.9   995.5 1,024.5  1,024.5 1,024.5  1,0214.5 718.3  556.0  289.5
Net Benerits                                            (18.7)  (112.6)  (117.)  (163.1) (156.1)    (8)    3   222.5   )        71.1          9   9. 79M     T'             1,005.24  1,011.9 709.14        289. 
Financial Return                               15.â
1971     1972     1973    1974    1975       1976     1977  1978-814   1984      195    1986    1987
RlMBILITATION
Project Conts                                             81.5     92.4   132.4   151.1    98.4
Post-project Administration                                                   8.4    13.5    88.2      59.5      40.1    31.^2   20.7      114.3    6.6    -
Total                                                -15       9214    Z0.o3    16U6   186.6  5 9.          40.1  31.2    20.7         14.3     6.6   -
Incremental Benefitsi
Customs duties snd CSSPPA retentions                                       42. 4   195.8   303.6    417.9    496.2   496.2   496.2    326.4   222.0  104.4
Net Benefits                                              rl7)   9;2        79  )  -W-   1 17.0   -358.4    456.1   M           475.5    312.1 I             17
rîmaci l Rru                                   52L
V Based on vorld price of 27 US cents/lb.
March 2, 1970






IVORY COAST
COCOA PROJECT
FARM UNIT FINANCIAL RgfURNS (1 Na)
~(OFAP millions)
YEAR    1         2        3         4        5         6         7         a     9-21
NEW PLANTATIONS
Costs
On farm costs less subsidies                     3h50    26380    12870    18320    23760    144310        4310      4310      4310
Famiîy labour                                    8630    33060    23860    22430    18980    21j950    19260    23860    267140
12080    59440    36730    40750    42740    19260    23570    28170    31050
Benefits
Value of production with assumed yields                                               16oo    4oooo    560400    72000    8DO00
Net Benefits                                   (12080)  (59hh14)  (36730)  (h0750)  (267140)   207140    32h30    143830    148950
Rate of Return                                  16.0%
RENABILITATION                            YEAR    1         2         3        4      -            6        7-13
Costa
Farm cost of rehabilitation                      5170      3870      3870     5170      3870      3870      4270
Fanily labour                                   24150    24150    24150    19260    19260    19260    19260
29320    28020    28020    24430    23130    23130    23530
iguL!Ls  Faomosts wtthoue  rohabilitatict         2650      2650    2650       2650     2650      2650      2650
Family labour                            15810    15810    15U10    15810    15810    15810    150O
Incremental co0t                                10860      9560     9560      5970      4670      4670     5070
Benefite
Value of  production uith rehabilitation        28800    33600    48000    48000    48000    48000    48000
without rehabilitation       28800    28800    28800    28800    28800    28800    28800
Incremental benefits                              -        4800    19200    19200    19200    19200    19200
Net  Bene±its                                   (10860)   (4760)    9640    13230    14530    14530    14130
Rate of Return                                  56%
March 2, 1970






II UqTANIA \        j\{                                                                                                 4- 
MOURrTANIA . MALi    N 1 6 E R
SENE6AMB    - ._ 't  )  __PE                r;HAD                                                jIVOR                                  COAST
P 'tjNiGEtetA                                                                                         COCOA  PROJECT
eIERRA LEO~NE    CAT
LIBRi                        '     .FRRP2
51ERRtrLEON f  AFR RE.4              ,r                                             J                     ._._-. Interceriorne! boundortes
M    A    L   1                            ~~~~~~~~~~-  - -Deportmient bounidories
os.           oAeOeAe80 2! ., R DEP- - - -  Sub-prcfe'tcre bounda,ies
AttA^ttC   OCX»A'   <'J/C'DN60  <        (                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      ~        ~      ~~StatisNical on-t 
A IL AIS 7(0  00d4N  *,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/C0MG0        ]                                 pres~~~~~~~e.tetension cf coco. plcntîings
r   z  _   \  _.   ; -           Treditionel cocao growrig caee
>    ANfiOLA                                                           f'1  Projeci Orea (new pIcrtinui       
s  I   I                 n     4               |   j                          :  \ \ j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~InJPro est roce  t rehon lîtotont   ,
'i R.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P j   hb ~-
s 8- >_;i {7~~~~~~'                      <      ;     ) ,.*.;.'                                      Pr/ncipOl ricers {
t _   ,.    |   i  r                     I           "t  -_G                            Mhi. roas
ff~~~~~~~~     UPE VOLTA\aC\;
~~ t  )   s    5                     tedro                                                          O          SO            soo         150~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mbkr
LIB  RI                                                                                                   abcu6'4
0            100          150~~~~~~~~~~~0
4o-
FEIRUARY1970IBRD-2794 I
FEBRUARY 1970                                                                                                                 lBRD-27s4~~~~~~~~~~~Y'



