I r"ZO
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1097 IN
Loan Agreement
(Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT
CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
DATED APRIL 2, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1097 IN
Loan Agreement
(Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT
CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
DATED APRIL 2, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 2, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA
LIMITED (hereinafter called the Borrower), a company established and operating
under the laws of India.
WHEREAS the Borrower has obtained financial assistance for its investment
program in terms of
(i)        the agreements referred to in Section 1.02(j) hereof between
the Bank and the Borrower;
(ii)       the agreement referred to in Section 1.02(k) hereof between the
Development Loan Fund, an agency of the United States of
America, (hereinafter called the Development Loan Fund) and
the Borrower;
(iii)      the agreements referred to in Section 1.02(1) hereof between
Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau, of Frankfurt-Main, Federal
Republic of Germany (hereinafter called the Kreditanstalt) and
the Borrower;
(iv)       the agreements referred to in Section 1.02(m) hereof between
the Government of India and the Borrower;
(v)        the loans made by the Industrial Development Bank of India
(hereinafter called IDBI) evidenced by the debentures referred
to in Section 1.02(n) hereof;
(vi)       the six  Rupee debenture issues of the Borrower, dated
October 27, 1967, November 25, 1969, June 20, 1972,
March 26,   1973, June 11, 1974     and   March 3, 1975,
respectively; and
(vii)      the Swiss Bond Issue of the Borrower, dated October 18, 1973.
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Bank to make a further loan
for said program;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿4
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein, subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule
2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in the Loan Agreement, unless the context
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the
respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the
following meanings:
(a)   "sub-loan" means a loan or credit made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment Enterprise for
an Investment Project.
(b)   "investment" means an investment other than a sub-loan made or
proposed to be made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of the Loan in an
Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project.
(c)   "free-limit sub-loan" or "free-limit investment" means a sub-loan or
an investment, as defined in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, respectively,
which qualifies as a free-limit sub-loan or a free-limit investment pursuant to the
provisions of Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement.
(d)   "Investment Enterprise" means an enterorise to which the Borrower
proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or in which it proposes to make or
has made an investment.
(e)   "Investment Project" means a specific development project to be
carried out by an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a sub-loan or
investment.
(f)   "Rupees" and "Rs" mean the currency of the Guarantor.
(g)   "foreign cu-rency" means any currency other than the currency of
the Guarantor.


﻿5
(h)   "Charter" means the Memorandum of Association and the Articles of
Association of the Borrower dated January 5, 1955, as amended to the date of
this Agreement and as the same may be amended from time to time with the
prior approval of the Bank.
(i)   "subsidiary" means any company which is a subsidiary of the Borrower
within the meaning of the Companies Act, 1956 (or any amendment thereof),
of the Guarantor.
(j)   "Prior Loan Agreements" means the agreements dated March 14,
1955, July 15, 1959, October 28, 1960, February 28, 1962, June 5, 1963,
May 28, 1965, September 19, 1967, June 3, 1970, October 27, 1971 and June 8,
1973, respectively, between the Bank and the Borrower and "Prior Loan" means
any of the loans provided for therein.
(k)   "DLF Agreement" mel-ns the loan agreement dated March 23, 1961,
between the Development Loan Fund and the Borrower, as the same has been
or may be amended from time to time by agreement between the parties thereto.
(1)   "Kreditanstalt Agreements" means the loan agreements dated April 26,
1963, July 29, 1964, November 23, 1964, June 8, 1965, March 23, 1966,
November 3, 1967, June 11, 1968, April 11, 1969, June 2, 1970, June 22, 1971,
September 30, 1972, June 15, 1973 and March 31, 1974, respectively, all between
the Kreditanstalt and the Borrower, as the same have been or may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the parties thereto, or any one or more
of such agreements as so amended as the context may require.
(m)   "Government Agreements" means the agreements providing for loans
or advances to the Borrower dated January 29, 1955, October 26, 1959, July 31,
1965 and July 30, 1966, respectively, all between the Guarantor and the Borrower,
as the same have been or may be amended from time to time by agreement between
the parties thereto and the Bank, and any other agreements providing for borrowings
by the Borrower from the Guarantor.
(n)   "IDBI Agreements" means the debentures dated November 1, 1966,
May 22, 1967, November 27, 1968, June 18, 1969, February 17, 1971,
March 22, 1972 and November 26, 1973, between IDBI and the Borrower, as
the same have been or may be amended from time to time by agreement between
IDBI and the Borrower, or either of such debentures as so amended as the context
may require.


﻿6
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan
Account for amounts expended by the Borrower for an Investment Project or,
if the Bank shall so agree, for expenditures required to be made by the Borrower
for an Investment Project, to finance the reasonable foreign currency cost of goods
and services required for the Investment Project in respect of which the withdrawal
is requested; provided, however, that no withdrawal shall be made in respect of
a sub-loan or investment unless (i) the sub-loan or investment shall have been
approved by the Bank, or (ii) the sub-loan or investment shall be a free-limit
sub-loan or a free-limit investment for which the Bank shall have authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account.
(b)   A free-limit sub-loan and a free-limit investment shall be a sub-loan
or an investment in an amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
which, together with any other amount or amounts financed or proposed to be
financed by the Borrower for the same project or for any other project directly
and materially related thereto, and not repaid, shall not exceed in the aggregate
the equivalent of four million dollars ($4,000,000), the foregoing amount being
subject to change from time to time as determined by the Bank.
(c)   Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures made by an Investment
Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan or investment subject to the Bank's approval,
if such expenditures shall have been made before the date of this Agreement or
more than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received
in respect of such sub-loan or investment the application and information required
by Section 2.03(a) of this Agreement or, under a free-limit sub-loan or a free-limit
investment, more than ninety days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have
received in respect of such free-limit sub-loan or free-limit investment, as the case
may be, the request and information required by Section 2.03(b).
Section 2.03. (a) When submitting a sub-loan or an. investment (other than
a free-limit sub-loan or a free-limit investment) to the Bank for approval, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank,
together with a description of the Investment Enterprise and an appraisal of the


﻿7
Investment Project (including a description of the expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan) and the proposed terms and conditions
of the sub-loan or investment, including the schedule of amortization of the sub-loan
or of repayment to the Bank of the amount of the Loan to be used for the
investment, and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)   Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make withdrawals
from the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit sub-loan or a free-limit investment
shall contain a summary description of the Investment Enterprise and the
Investment Project (including a description of the expenditurms proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan) and the terms and conditions of such
free-limit sub-loan or free-limit investment, including the schedule of amortization
of the free-limit sub-loan or of repayment to the Bank of the amount of the Loan
to be used for the free-limit investment, as the case may be.
(c)   Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, applications
and requests made pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section shall be submitted to the Bank on or before September 30, 1977.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980 or such later
date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower
and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight and one-half
per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule I to this
Agreement as such Schedule shall be amended from time to time by the Bank
to the extent required to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to sub-loans and the schedules of
repayment to the Bank in respect of investments, which have been approved or
authorized for withdrawals from the Loan Account under Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; and (ii) take into account any cancellation pursuant to Article VI of


﻿8
the General Conditions and any repayments made by the Borrower under Section
2.09 of this Agreement; provided that repayments due hereunder shall be made
on May 15 and November 15 in each year. Such amendments of said Schedule
I shall include amendments to the table of premiums on prepayment, if necessary.
(b)  The amortization schedule applicable to each sub-loan and the schedule
of repayment to the Bank in respect of each investment shall provide for an
appropriate period of grace, and, unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise
agree (i) shall not extend beyond fifteen years from the date of approval by the
Bank of such sub-loan or investment, or in the case of a free-limit sub-loan or
a free-limit investment, of authorization by the Bank to make withdrawals from
the Loan Account in respect thereof, and (ii) shall provide for approximately equal
semi-annual, or more frequent, aggregate payments of principal and interest or
approximately equal semi-annual, or more frequent, payments of principal.
Section 2.09. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree:
(a)  If a sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to the Borrower in
advance of maturity or if a sub-loan or an investment or any part thereof shall
be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise disposed of for value by the Borower,
the Borrower shall promptly notify the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the
next following interest payment date, together with the premiums specified in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement or in any amendment thereof under Section 2.08(a)
of this Agreement, the amount withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of
such sub-loan or investment or part thereof and not theretofore repaid to the Bank.
(b)  Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied by the Bank
as follows: (i) in the case of a sub-loan, to the maturity or maturities of the Loan
in amounts corresponding to the outstanding amounts of the maturity or maturities
of the sub-loan so repaid or disposed of, and (ii) in the case of an investment,
pro rata to the maturity or maturities of the Loan reflecting amounts to be repaid
on account of such investment.
(c)  Paragraph (b) of Section 3.05 of the General Conditions shall not apply
to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of this Section.
ARTICLE III
The Project;
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The purpose of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
financing such productive facilities and resources in India as will contribute to


﻿9
the economic and social development of the country. The Project consists in the
financing of specific development projects through loans to and investments in
enterprises in India, in furtherance of the corporate purposes of the Borrower,
as set forth in the Charter.
(b)   The Borrower shall carry out the Project and conduct its operations
and affairs in accordance with sound financial standards and practices, with qualified
management and personnel, and in accordance with the Charter.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, any sub-loan or investment will be made on terms whereby the
Borrower shall obtain, by written contract with the Investment Enterprise or by
other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Bank
and the Borrower, including, in the case of any sub-loan and to the extent that
it shall be appropriate in the case of any investment, the right of the Borrower
to: (i) require the Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the Investment
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical,
financial and managerial standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) require
that (1) the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be purchased at a reasonable price, account being taken also of other relevant
factors such as time of delivery and efficiency and reliability of the goods and
availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case of
services, of their quality and the competence of the parties rendering them, and
(2) such goods and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Investment Project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the
Bank if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and
construction included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any
relevant records and documents; (iv) require that: (1) the Investment Enterprise
shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business practice,
and (2) without any limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover
marine, transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the place of use
or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely
usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such goods; (v) obtain
all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably request relating
to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial condition of
the Investment Enterprise; and (vi) suspend or terminate the right of the Investment
Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Investment
Enterprise to perform its obligations under its contract with the Borrower.


﻿10
(b)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment
Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower,
(ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement, and (iii) achieve the purposes
of the Project.
(c)   The Borrower shall submit to the Bank, for its prior approval, any
substantial changes proposed to be made by the Borrower in respect of the
repayment provisions of any sub-loan.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Loan, the Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, and
the sub-loans and investments.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall duly perform all its obligations under
agreements under which funds have been lent or otherwise put at the disposal
of the Borrower by the Guarantor or its agencies or others for relending, investment
or management. The Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any action which
would have the effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or waiving any
material provision of, any such agreement.
Section 3.05. If the Borrower establishes or acquires any subsidiary, the
Borrower shall cause such subsidiary to observe and perform the obligations of
the Borrower hereunder to the extent to which such obligations shall or can be
applicable thereto, as though such obligations were binding upon such subsidiary.
Section 3.06. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
amend the Charter.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project and of each Investment Project (including the cost thereof)
and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited in accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish


﻿S 011
to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date of this Agreement
no lien exists on any of its assets as security for any debt.
(b)   The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall otherwise
agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets of the Borrower or any subsidiary
as security for any debt, such lien will equally and ratably secure the payment
of the principal of, and interest and other charges on the Loan, and that in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made to that effect at no cost
to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any assets of the
Borrower or of any subsidiary as security for any debt, the Borrower shall grant,
at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfactory to the Bank to secure the
payment of the principal of, and interest and other charges on the Loan; provided,
however, that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely as security
for the payment of the purchase price of such property; or (B) any lien arising
in the ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 4.04. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between the Bank and
the Borrower, the Borrower shall: (i) conduct its operations and affairs in such
manner as to maintain, at all times, its debt/equity ratio within the limit provided
in Section 4.06 of this Agreement; and (ii) if such ratio shall, for reasons beyond
the Borrower's control, be temporarily exceeded, take, within a reasonable time
and in consultation with the Bank, all such action as shall be necessary or advisable
to bring such ratio within such limit.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall not make any repayment in advance of
maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of the Borrower which, in the judgment
of the Bank, would materially affect the Borrower's ability to meet its financial
obligations.
Section 4.06. Except as shall be otherwise agreed between the Bank and
the Borrower, the Borrower shall not incur or permit any subsidiary to incur any
debt if, after the incurring of such debt, the consolidated debt of the Borrower


﻿12
and all its subsidiaries then incurred and outstanding would be greater than nine
times the consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and all its subsidiaries.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a)   "debt" means any debt incurred by the Borrower or any subsidiary
maturing more than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred,
provided, that current repayments of such debt due and payable within one year
shall be excluded therefrom.
(b) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (i) under a loan contract or
agreement (including the Loan Agreement) on the date and to the extent the
amount of the loan is drawn down and outstanding pursuant to such loan or
agreement, and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered into but only to the extent that
the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
(c)   Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary to value
in terms of Rupees debt payable in foreign currency, such valuation shall be made
at the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency is, at
the time of such valuation, obtainable by the Borrower for the purposes of servicing
such debt.
(d)   "consolidated debt of the Borrower and all its subsidiaries" means the
total amount of debt of the Borrower and subsidiaries, excluding: (i) any debt
owed by the Borrower to any subsidiary or by any subsidiary to the Borrower
or to any other subsidiary, and (ii) such proceeds of any debt incurred by the
Borrower or any subsidiary as are kept in liquid assets.
(e)   "consolidated capital and surplus of the Borrower and subsidiaries"
means the aggregate of the unimpaired paid-up capital, surplus and free reserves
of the Borrower and :ubsidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts as shall
represent equity interests of the Borrower in any subsidiary or of any subsidiary
in the Borrower or any other subsidiary.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory to the Bank
as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes
in the rates of exchange between the currencies (including Rupees) used in its
operations.
Section 4.08. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time, at the
request of either party, exchange views through their representatives with regard
to the administration, operations and financial condition of the Borrower and its
subsidiaries, and the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the administration, operations and
financial condition of the Borrower and subsidiaries.


﻿13
Section 4.09. The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to inspect
the records referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement and any relevant
docui, ents.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any part of the principal amount of any loan to the Borrower having
an original maturity of one year or more shall, in accordance with its terms, have
become due and payable in advance of maturity as provided in the relative
contractual instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable;
(b)   a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution or liquidation
of the Borrower;
(c)   the Guarantor shall have taken any action tinder the Companies Act,
1956, as amended, to convert all or any part of advances of loans to the Borrower
into shares in the Borrower at a time when the Borrower is duly performing its
obligations under the Gox _rnment Agreements;
(d)   a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created or acquired
or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation, acquisition or taking over would
adversely affect the conduct of the Borrower's business or the Borrower's financial
situation or the efficiency of the Borrower's management and personnel or the
carrying out of the Project; and
(e)   a default shall occur in the performance by the Borrower or the
Guarantor of any obligation other than payment of principal or interest or any
other payment required under the Prior Loan Agreements, the respective guarantee
agreements or the bonds under the Prior Loan Agreements.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (d) or paragraph (e) of Section 5.01
shall occur and shall continue for a perinod of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrow. and, in the case of the event specified
in paragraph (e), the Guarantor; and


﻿14
(b)   the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) or paragraph (c)
of Section 5.01 shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous
Section 6.01. The date of July 1, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
The Industrial Credit and Investment
Corporation of India Limited
163 Backbay Reclamation
Bombay 400 020, India
Cable address:
CREDCORP
Bombay
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿15
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / M. L. Weiner
Regional Vice President
South Asia
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT
CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
By /s / S. S. Mehta
Authorized Representative


﻿16
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                               (expressed in dollars)*
May 15, 1978                                           700,000
November 15, 1978                                    1,915,000
May 15, 1979                                         3,260,000
November 15, 1979                                    4,600,000
May 15, 1980                                         5,400,000
November 15, 1980                                    5,600,000
May 15, 1981                                         5,755,000
November 15, 1981                                    6,000,000
May 15, 1982                                         6,200,000
November 15, 1982                                    6,410,000
May 15, 1983                                         6,400,000
November 15, 1983                                    6,000,000
May 15, 1984                                         5,600,000
November 15, 1984                                    5,215,000
May 15, 1985                                         5,200,000
November 15, 1985                                    5,025,000
May 15, 1986                                         4,800,000
November 15, 1986                                    3,785,000
May 15, 1987                                         2,615,000
November 15, 1987                                    1,370,000
May 15, 1988                                          1,085,000
November 15, 1988                                    1,055,000
May 15, 1989                                          1,030,000
November 15, 1989                                      985,000
May 15, 1990                                           940,000
November 15, 1990                                      915,000
May 15, 1991                                           870,000
November 15, 1991                                      700,000
May 15, 1992                                           415,000
November 15, 1992                                      155,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿17
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions or to Section 2.09(a)
of the Loan Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                                 Premium
Not more than three years                            1-1/4%
before maturity
More than three years but                            2-1/2%
not more than six
years before maturity
More than six years but not                          4-1/2%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but                           6-3/4%
not more than fourteen
years before maturity
More than fourteen years but                         7-1/2%
not more than sixteen
years before maturity
More than sixteen years                              8-1/2%
before maturity


﻿18
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of the General
Conditions are modified as follows:
(1)  Paragraph 7 of Section 2.01 is amended to read:
"7. The term Guarantor means India, acting by its President."
(2)  The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section 3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time agree upon
arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and the application of such
prepayment in addition to, or in substitution for, those set forth in paragraph
(b) of Section 3.05."
(3)  The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the words "the
Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(4)  Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been
suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period
of thirty days, or (b) by the date specified in paragraph (c) of Section 2.03
of the Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted under paragraph
(a) or paragraph (b) of such Section shall have been received by the Bank
in respect of any portion of the Loan, or having been so received, shall
have been denied, or (c) after the Closing Date an amount of the Loan
shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (d) the Bank shall
have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with
respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may by notice to the Borrower
terminate the right of the Borrower to submit such applications or requests
or to make withdrawals from the Loan Account, as the case may be, with
respect to such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such
notice such amount or portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."


