CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 686 IVC
Loan Agreement
(Cocoa Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JUNE 5, 1970


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 686 IVC
Loan Agreement
(Cocoa Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
S
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED JUNE 5, 1970


﻿AGREEMENT, dated June 5, 1970, between REPUBLIC
OF THE IVORY COAST (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOP-
MENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Loan Agreement ac-
cept all the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated
January 31, 1969, with the same force and. effect as if they
were fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Ap-
plicable to Lnan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank
being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Loan Agreement,
unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions have the respective mean-
ings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
(a) "SATMACI" means the Societe d'Assistance Tech-
nique pour la Modernisation Agricole de la C6te d'Ivoire, a
societe d'Etat of the Borrower established pursuant to
Arrete No. 35 AEF, Plan I, dated April 14, 1958 (Journal
Officiel de la Republique de Cote d'Ivoire, June 21, 1958) ;
(b) "BNDA" means the Banque Nationale pour le
Developpement Agricole, a societe d'Etat of the Borrower
established pursuant to Law No. 6808 dated January 8,
1968; and
(c) "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
The Loan
SECTION 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in this Loan Agreement set
forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiv-
alent to seven million five hundred thousand dollars
($7,500,000).
SECTION 2.02. (a) The Bank shall open a Loan Account
on its books in the name of the Borrower and shall credit
to such Account the amount of the Loan.
(b) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account as provided in, and subject to the rights
of cancellation and suspension set forth in, this Loan
Agreement and in accordance with the allocation of the
proceeds of the Loan set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment, as such allocation shall be modified from time to time
pursuant to the provisions of such Schedule or by further
agreement between the Borrower and the Bank.
SECTION 2.03. (a) The Borrower shall be entitled to
withdraw from the Loan Account in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods or services required for the Project and
to be financed under this Loan Agreement:
(i) such amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, as shall be required to meet
payments to be made) for goods or services in-
cluded in Categories I, III, VI and VIII of the
allocation of the proceeds of the Loan referred to
in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(ii) the equivalent of eighty per cent (80o) of such
amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, as shall be required to meet pay-
ments to be made) for goods or services included
in Categories IV and VII of the allocation of the


﻿5
proceeds of the Loan referred to in Section 2.02 of
this Agreement;
(iii) the equivalent of fifty per cent (50%) of such
amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Bank
shall -so agree, as shall be required to meet pay-
ments to be made) for goods or services included
in Category V of the allocation of the proceeds of
the Loan referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agree-
ment; and
(iv) the equivalent of eighty per cent (80%) of such
amounts as shall have been paid (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, as shall be required to meet pay-
ments to be made) for goods or services included
in Category II of the allocation of the proceeds of
the Loan referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agree-
ment, which percentage represents the estimated
foreign exchange component of the cost of such
goods or services;
provided, however, that if there shall be an increase in the
estimate of such payments for goods or services included
in any of the said Categories II, IV, V or VII the Bank may
by notice to the Borrower adjust the stated percentage
applicable to such Category as required in order that with-
drawals of the amount of the Loan then allocated to such
Category and not withdrawn may continue pro rata with
the payments remaining to be made for goods or services
included in such Category.
(b) The Borrower shall also be entitled to withdraw
from the Loan Account such amounts as shall be required
to meet payments to be made for interest and other charges
on the Loan accrued on or before March 31, 1977 or such
other date as may be agreed between the Borrower and
the Bank.
SECTION 2.04. (a) It is hereby agreed, pursuant to Sec-
tion 5.01 of the General Conditions that withdrawals from


﻿6
the Loan Account may be made on account of payments in
CFAF for: (1) goods produced, or services supplied from,
outside the territories of the Borrower and included in
Categories I, III, VI or VIII of the allocation of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agree-
ment; and (2) goods produced, or services supplied from,
within or outside the territories of the Borrower and in-
cluded in Categories II, IV, V or VII of said allocation of
the proceeds of the Loan.
(b) No withdrawal from the Loan Account shall be
made on account of payments for taxes imposed by the
Borrower or any of its political subdivisions on, or in con-
nection with the importation or supply of, goods or serv-
ices included in Categories I, III, VI or VIII of the allo-
cation of the proceeds of the Loan referred to in Section
2.02 of this Agreement.
SECTION 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per
cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
SECTION 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the
rate of seven per cent (7%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
SECTION 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be pay-
able semi-annually on October 1 and April 1 in each year.
SECTIoN 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Use of Proceeds of the Loan
SECTION 3.01. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of
the Loan to be applied in accordance with the provisions of


﻿7
this Loan Agreement to expenditures on the Project, de-
scribed in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
SECTION 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
(i) the goods and services to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan shall be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with the Guide-
lines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits, published by the Bank in August 1969, and in ac-
cordance with such other procedures supplementary thereto
as are set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and as the
same may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Bank.
SECTION 3.03. Except as the Bank may otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively in
carrying out the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Bonds
SECTION 4.01. If and as the Bank shall from time to time
request, the Borrower shall execute and deliver Bonds rep-
resenting the principal amount of the Loan as provided
in Article VIII of the General Conditions.
SECTION 4.02. The Ministre de t'Economie et des Fi-
nances of the Borrower and such other person or persons
as he shall appoint in writing are designated as authorized
representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of Sec-
tion 8.10 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Particular Covenants
SECTION 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with sound agricultural, engineering, economic, administra-
0


﻿8
tive and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b) Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall estab-
lish or cause to be established a special revolving fund
(hereinafter called the Project Revolving Fund) to be used
exclusively to make payments for the cost of goods and
services required to carry out the Project. The Borrower
shall deposit or cause to be deposited in the Project Revolv-
ing Fund all such amounts as shall be, from time to time,
required to permit the payments heretofore specified to be
made, promptly as needed, out of the Project Revolving
Fund. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to
reflect, in accordance with consistently maintained sound
accounting practices, the operations and financial condition
of the Project Revolving Fund.
(c) Without restriction or limitation upon the provisions
of paragraphs (a) or (b) of this Section, the Borrower
shall make or cause to be made an initial deposit in the
Project Revolving Fund in the amount of CFAF twenty-five
million (CFAF 25,000,000) and thereafter shall on a quar-
terly basis make or cause to be made deposits in the
Project Revolving Fund in such amounts as shall be suffi-
cient to meet payments for the costs of the Project required
on its part to cover the forthcoming three months of such
costs as estimated on the basis of the work schedules relat-
ing thereto.
(d) The Borrower covenants that in the allocation of bi-
clonal hybrid seed the requirements of farmers participat-
ing in the Project will be given priority.
(e) In carrying out Part IV of the Project, the Borrower
shall cause SATMACI to employ qualified and experienced
consultants acceptable to the Bank, upon terms and condi-
tions acceptable to the Bank.


﻿9
(f) The Borrower shall cause the Bank to be furnished,
promptly upon their preparation, with the plans, specifica-
tions and work schedules for the Project and any material
modifications subsequently made therein in such detail as
the Bank shall from time to time request.
SECTION 5.02. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall co-
operate fully to ensure that the purposes of the Loan will
be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall furnish to
the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Loan. On the part
of the Borrower, such information shall include informa-
tion with respect to the administration of SATMACI and
BNDA and of any other agency or agencies of the Bor-
rower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof, with respect to the policies of the Borrower relat-
ing to cocoa prices and with respect to financial and eco-
nomic conditions in the territories of the Borrower and
the international balance of payments position of the Bor-
rower.
(b) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time
exchange views through their representatives with regard
to matters relating to the purposes of the Loan and the
maintenance of the service thereof. The Borrower shall
promptly inform the Bank of any condition which inter-
feres with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Loan, and the maintenance of
the service thereof.
(c) The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity
for accredited representatives of the Bank to visit any part
of the territories of the Borrower for purposes related to
the Loan.
SECTION 5.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause
to be maintained records adequate to identify the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, to disclose the use


﻿10
thereof in the Project, to record the progress of the Project
(including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices its
operations, receipts and expenditures; shall enable the
Bank's representatives to inspect the Project, the goods
and any relevant records and documents; and shall furnish
to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Loan, and the administration, operations, and financial
condition of BNDA and IATMACI.
(b) The Borrower shall cause SATMACI and BNDA to
have their accounts relating to the Project and its operation
to be audited at least once each year by independent audi-
tors acceptable to the Bank. Such accounts and audit report
shall be prepared in a form satisfactory to the Bank, and
shall cause BNDA and SATMACI to furnish to the Bank,
within four months following the close of their respective
fiscal years, signed copies of such auditors' reports and a
copy of their complete annual accounts.
SECTION 5.04. It is the mutual intention of the Borrower
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any
priority over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental
assets. To th t end, the Borrower undertakes that, except
as the Bank ahall otherwise agree, if any lien shall be
created on any assets of the Borrower as security for any
external debt, such lien will ipso facto equally and ratably
secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan and the Bonds, and that in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made
to that effect; provided, however, that the foregoing pro-
visions of this Section shall not apply to: (i) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; or (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after its date; or (iii) any lien on com-


﻿11
mercial goods to secure a debt maturing not more than one
year after the date on which it is originally incurred and
to be paid out of the proceeds of sale of such commercial
goods; or (iv) any lien upon real estate or other property
in the Ivory Coast or revenues or receipts in the currency
of the Borrower, if such lien is given by a political sub-
division or by an agency of a political subdivision of the
Borrower under arrangements or circumstances which
would not result in priority in the allocation or realization
of foreign exchange.
The term "assets of the Borrower" as used in this Sec-
tion includes assets of the Borrower or of any of its political
subdivisions or of any agency of the Borrower or of any
such political subdivision or of any institution which may
be established to perform the functions of a central bank
exclusively for the Borrower, and any participation,
share, right or other financial interest which the Borrower
may have in any institution (other than an agency of the
Borrower) performing such functions for the Borrower.
The term "assets of the Borrower" as used in this Section
shall not include assets of municipalities (communes).
The Borrower further undertakes that, within the limits
of its constitutional powers, it will mace the foregoing
undertaking effective with respect to liens on the assets of
municipalities (communes). If the Borrower, because of
constitutional or other legal provisions, shall be unable to
make the foregoing effective with respect to any lien on
any assets of a municipality (commune), the Borrower, ex-
cept as the Bank shall otherwise agree, shall give to the
Bank an equivalent lien or equivalent priority in the allo-
cation or realization of foreign exchange, as the case may
be, satisfactory to the Bank.
SECTION 5.05. The principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan and the Bonds shall be paid without
deduction for, and free from, any taxes, and free from all
restrictions, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or


﻿12
laws in effect in its territories; provided, however, that
the provisions of this Section shall not apply to taxation of
payments under any Bond to a holder thereof other than
the Bank when such Bond is beneficially owned by an indi-
vidual or corporate resident of the Borrower.
SECTION 5.06. This Agreement and the Bonds shall be
free from any taxes that shall be imposed under the laws
of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on or in
connection with the execution, issue, delivery or registra-
tion thereof, and the Borrower shall pay all such taxes, if
any, imposed under the laws of the country or countries
in whose currency the Loan and the Bonds are payable
or laws in effect in the territories of such country or coun-
tries.
SECTION 5.07. (a) The Borrower shall promptly notify
the Bank of any proposal to amend, supplement or repeal
any provision of its legislation presently in force and
effect and applicable to the structure and operations of
SATMACI or to the statuts of SATMACI and shall afford
the Bank an opportunity to comment thereon prior to any
action on such proposal.
(b) The Borrower shall promptly notify the Bank of any
proposal to amend, supplement or repeal any provision of
its legislation presently in force and effect and applicable to
BNDA or of BNDA's statuts, which might materially and
adversely affect the carrying out and operating of the
Project, and shall afford the Bank an opportunity to com-
ment thereon prior to taking any action on such proposal.
SECTION 5.08. (a) The Borrower shall at all times cause
SATMACI to be staffed with qualified and experienced
senior- personnel and shall inform the Bank of any proposed
change in the position of Directeur du Departement Cacao
et Cafe or in the person filling such position and shall afford
the Bank an opportunity to comment thereon prior to effec-
tuating any such change.


﻿13
(b) The Borrower shall cause SATMACI to appoint, by
not later than December 31, 1970 (or such later date as
shall be agreed to by the Bank), and thereafter employ, an
Adjoint as Directeur du Departement Cacao et Cafe who
shall be responsible exclusively for the execution and opera-
tion of the Project, with qualifications and experience ac-
ceptable to the Bank and with such powers and responsibili-
ties as shall be mutually satisfactory to the Borrower and
Bank.
SECTION 5.09. The Borrower shall establish and main-
tain a Project Coordinating Committee, having terms of
reference and a membership acceptable to the Bank, to co-
ordinate the work of the Borrower's ministries and agen-
cies involved in the carrying out of the Project and to en-
sure the timely implementation of the Project.
SECTION 5.10. The Borrower (i) shall cause SATMACI,
in accordance with Schedule 5 to this Loan Agreement, to
employ such extension staff as shall be necessary to carry
out and operate the Project and shall cause SATMACI to
increase the number of such staff should the Borrower and
the Bank agree that such an increase is required for the
efficient execution and operation of the Project; and (ii)
shall provide or cause to be provided the training facilities
for extension staff necessary for purposes of the Project.
SECTION 5.11. The Borrower shall promptly inform the
Bank of any changes proposed in its policies (including
policies as to producer prices and export duties concerning
the marketing of cocoa produced in its territories) which
might materially and adversely affect the ability of farmers
participating in the Project to repay the credits.
SECTION 5.12. The Borrower undertakes to insure or
cause to be insured with responsible insurers, the goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against marine,
transit and other hazards incident to the acquisition, trans-


﻿14
portation and delivery thereof to the place of use or in-
stallation and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable for the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
SECTION 5.13. The Borrower shall cause SATMACI, by
not later than December 31, 1970, to adopt standard forms
of agreement between SATMACI and the cocoa farmers
participating in the Project, which agreements shall con-
tain terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank and
which shall thereafter not be amended without prior con-
sultation with the Bank.
SECTION 5.14. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the terms and conditions governing the credit program for
cocoa farmers participating in the Project shall be in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
SECTION 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions shall occur and shall continue for
the period, if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent
time during the continuance thereof, the Bank, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the
Loan and of all the Bonds then outstanding to be due and
payable immediately together with the interest and other
charges thereon and upon any such declaration such prin-
cipal, interest and charges shall become due and payable
immediately, anything to the contrary in this Loan Agree-
ment or in the Bonds notwithstanding.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 7.01. The following events are specfied as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of this Loan Agree-


﻿15
ment within the meaning of Section 11.01 (c) of the Gen-
eral Conditions:
(a) the Borrower has established, and made the initial
deposit into, the Pvoject Revolving Fund, as required
under Section 5.01 of this Loan Agreement; and
(b) the Project Coordinating Committee required under
Section 5.08 of this Loan Agreement has been es-
tablished on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank.
SECTION 7.02. The date of September 10, 1970 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 11.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Miscellaneous
SECTION 8.01. The Closing Date shall be September 30,
1977 or such other date as shall be agreed between the
Borrower and the Bank.
SECTION 8.02. The Ministre de l'Economie et des Fi-
nances of the Borrower is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 10.03 of the
General Conditions.
SECTION 8.03. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere de 1 'Economie et des Finances
B.P. 1766
Abidjan
Ivory Coast
Cable address:
Minifin
Abidjan, Ivory Coast


﻿For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Intbafrad
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Loan Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
By   /s/ KONAN BEDr
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿17
SCHEDULE 1
Allocation of Proceeds of Loan
Amounts Expressed
Category                         in Dollar Equivalent
NEW PLANTATIONS
I. Fertilizer procured from foreign
suppliers                             1,080,000
II. Fertilizer procured from local
manufacturers                         1,070,000
III. Insecticides, sprayers and vehicles    350,000
IV. Project staff and extension services   1,130,000
V. Hired labor                             510,000
REHABILITATION
VI. Insecticides, sprayers and vehicles     490,000
VII. Project staff and extension services    910,000
GENERAL
VIII. Study for Stage 2                       320,000
IX. Interest and other charges on the
Loan until March 31, 1977               950,000
X. Unallocated                             690,000
Total:    7,500,000
Reallocation Upon Change in Cost Estimates
1. If the estimate of the cost of items included in any of the
Categories I-IX, shall decrease the amount of the Loan
then allocated to, and no longer required for, such Cate-
gory will be reallocated by the Bank to Category X.
2. If the estimate of the cost of items included in any of
the Categories I-IX shall increase, an amount equal to
the portion, if any, of such increase to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan (or, in the case of Categories
II, IV and VII an amount equal to 80% of such increase,


﻿18
or in the case of Category V an amount equal to 50% of
such increase) will be allocated by the Bank, at the re-
quest of the Borrower, to such Category from Category
X, subject, however, to the requirements for contingen-
cies, as determined by the Bank, in respect of the cost
of the items in the other Categories.
0


﻿19
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                  (expressed in dollars)*
October 1, 1977                       360,000
April 1, 1978                         370,000
October 1, 1978                       385,000
April 1, 1979                         395,000
October 1, 1979                       410,000
April 1, 1980                         425,000
October 1, 1980                       440,000
April 1, 1981                         455,000
October 1, 1981                       470,000
April 1, 1982                         485,000
October 1, 1982                       505,000
April 1, 1983                         520,000
October 1, 1983                       540,000
April 1, 1984                         560,000
October 1, 1984                       580,000
April 1, 1985                         600,000
* To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency
other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in
this column represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of
withdrawal.


﻿20
Premiums on Prepayment and Redemption
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any por-
tion of the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Sec-
tion 3.05 (b) of the General Conditions or on the redemption
of any Bond prior to its maturity pursuant to Section 8.15
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment or Redemption       Premium
Not more than three years before maturity 114%
More than three years but not more than
six years before maturity .............. 2  %
More than six years but not more than
eleven years before maturity ........... .4%
More than eleven years but not more than
thirteen years before maturity ......... 53/4%
More than thirteen years before maturity  7%


﻿21
SCHEDULE 3
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
PART I: The establishment and bringing into production
of about 18,800 ha of cocoa by farmers in the Borrower's
statistical zones 9 through 15 and includes:
(a) Prospecting and a cadastral survey.
(b) A credit program for cocoa farmers.
(c) All necessary supervisory and advisory services.
(d) Necessary training and training facilities for exten-
sion personnel.
PART II: The rehabilitation and bringing into full pro-
duction of about 38,000 ha of cocoa already planted in the
Borrower's statistical zones 1 through 5, 7 through 11 and
14 through 15, and includes:
(a) Prospecting and a cadastral survey.
(b) A credit program for cocoa farmers.
(c) All necessary supervisory and advisory services.
(d) Necessary training and training facilities for exten-
sion personnel.
PART III: The construction of a warehouse to facilitate
input distribution.
PART IV: A study for a second phase cocoa planting pro-
gram.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30,
1977.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
1. All contracts for the procurement of goods and services
under Categories I, II, III and VI of the allocation of the
proceeds of the Loan set forth in Schedule 1 to this Loan
Agreement exceeding U.S.$50,000 equivalent shall be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
and the following procedures shall be followed:
(a) Individual contracts will be of a sie sufficiently large
so as not to discourage potential bidders or to impede an
economical and diligent carrying out of the Project.
(b) Before inviting tenders, the Borrower will submit
to the Bank for its approval the proposed standard bid in-
vitation documents and a description of tendering pro-
cedures.
(c) Unless otherwise agreed with the Bank, with respect
to each contract involving an amount exceeding U.S.$50,000
equivalent, the Borrower will submit to the Bank for its
approval, prior to awarding the contract, the summary
of the bids received, an analysis report and recommenda-
tions and a justification of the proposal for awarding the
contract.
2. With respect to each contract involving an amount of
U.S.$50,000 equivalent or less the Borrower shall submit
to the Bank at the time the award is made a summary of
bids or quotations, an analysis report and recommenda-
tions, a brief justification for making the award and as
soon as the contract has been signed the Borrower shall
send a copy thereof to the Bank together with a copy of
the proc's-verbal of the public opening of the tenders.
3. Firms producing goods in the Ivory Coast shall be in-
vited to participate in the international competitive bid-
ding. Bids shall be compared on the following basis:


﻿23
(i) the bids submitted by foreign manufacturers will first
be compared on the basis of a bid price which will consist
of the c.i.f. (Abidjan) landed price plus the actual rate of
customs duties, and similar taxes paid or to be paid and the
local agents' commissions, if any; the lowest such bid will
be deemed to be the lowest foreign bid; if no bids are sub-
mitted by Ivory Coast manufacturers, the lowest foreign
bid will be considered the lowest evaluated bid if other
terms and conditions are satisfactory;
(ii) the bids submitted by Ivory Coast manufacturers
will be compared on the basis of the ex-factory price, and
the lowest such bid will be deemed to be the lowest Ivory
Coast bid; if no bids are submitted by foreign manufac-
turers, the lowest Ivory Coast bid will be considered the
lowest evaluated bid if other terms and conditions are satis-
factory;
(iii) if foreign manufacturers and Ivory Coast manu-
facturers have submitted bids, the lowest foreign bid will
be compared with the lowest Ivory Coast bid on the basis of
a price for the lowest foreign bid consisting of the c.i.f.
(Abidjan) landed price plus 15o of such price or the rate
of customs duties and similar taxes paid, or to be paid,
whichever is the lower, plus the local agents' commissions,
if any, and on the basis of the ex-factory price of the
lowest Ivory Coast bid; if the price of the lowest Ivory
Coast bid is equal to or lower than the price of the lowest
foreign bid, and other terms and conditions are satisfac-
tory, then the lowest Ivory Coast bid will be considered the
lowest evaluated bid.


﻿24
SCHEDULE 5
Extension Staff
NEW PLANTATIONS
Assistant Zonal Cocoa Officers
1 officer for each zone
Agricultural Assistants
1 agricultural assistant for 7 field workers
Field Workers
1st Year of Planting
1 field worker for each 100 ha of cocoa or 50 farmers
whichever is less
2nd to 8th Year of Planting
1 field worker for each 200 ha of cocoa or 100 farmers
whichever is less
9th to 11th Year of Planting
1 field worker for each 400 ha of cocoa or 200 farmers
whichever is less
After 11th Year of Planting
1 field worker for each 3,000 ha of cocoa.
REHABILITATION
Agricultural Assistants
1 agricultural assistant for 7 field workers
Field Workers
1st and 2nd Years of Rehabilitation
1 field worker for each 200 ha of cocoa or 100 farmers
whichever is less
3rd and 4th Years of Rehabilitation
1 field worker for each 400 ha of cocoa or 200 farmers
whichever is less
After 4th Year of Rehabilitation
1 field work for each 3,000 ha of cocoa.


﻿25
SCHEDULE 6
Credit Program
NEW PLANTATIONS
Equipment and Materials
Farmers shall receive credit for the full cost of fertil-
izer, insecticides and sprayers during the first four years
from cocoa planting. Fertilizer shall be granulated com-
pound 12-15-18 applied at the following rates:
Year 1            170 kg/ha
Year 2            330 kg/ha
Year 3            500 kg/ha
Year 4            670 kg/ha
Cash
Farmers shall receive a total of CFAF 14,000 per ha to
meet the costs of hired labor required in the year of cocoa
planting. This amount shall be made available as follows:
Year of Planting :    ....... CFAF 10,000
First and second years after
planting: ................ CFAF   2,000 in each year
The cash credits to be made available in the first and second
years after planting shall be conditional upon satisfactory
execution of planting and subsequent maintenance by the
farmer.
Terms of Credit
The foregoing credits shall be made available, interest
free, through the first four years from planting. Thereafter,
interest shall be charged at 51/%o per annum on the out-
standing amount of the credit and payment of interest and
principal shall be made by equal annual payments over
eight years from the fifth year after planting.


﻿26
REHABILITATION
Equipment and Materials
Farmers shall receive credit for 80% of the cost of in-
secticides and sprayers during the first two years of cocoa
rehabilitation. Insecticide shall be applied in two treat-
ments a year with two sprayings in each treatment of
benzene hexachloride at the rate of 1.5 liters (comprising
20% concentrate) for 80 liters of water per hectare for each
spraying.
Terms of Credit
Interest at 51/% per annum shall be charged on the fore-
going credit. Interest shall be added to the principal amount
of the credit during the first two years and repayment of
interest and principal shall be made by two equal annual
payments from the third year.


