Docment of
The World Bank
Report No. 14390-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROGRAM
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - BAHIA
JUNE 6, 1995
Natural Resources Management and Rural Poverty Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 12, 1995)'
Currency Unit = Real (R$)
R$0,91 = US$1.00
R$1,00 = US$1.10
R$1 million = US$1.1 million
FISCAL YEAR
(State of Bahia)
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system has been used throughout the report.
Appraisal mission.



GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
APCR                  Apoio as Pequenas Comunidades Rurais
(Program of Support to Small Rural Communities under the
original Northeast Rural Development Program)
CAR                   Companhia de Desenvolvimento e A,co Regional
(Bahia State Regional Development Company)
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CRA                   Centro de Recursos Ambientais
(State Environmental Protection Agency)
EMATER                Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
(Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Agency)
FAO/CP                World Bank/FAO Cooperative Program
FUMAC                 Conselho Municipal de Apoio Comunitario
(Municipal Community Schemes)
FUMAC-P               Fundo Municipal de Apoio Comunitario - Piloto
(Pilot Municipal Community Funds)
GOB                   Governo Federal do Brasil
(Federal Government of Brazil)
ICB                   Licita,co Internacional
(International Competitive Bidding)
IICA                  Instituto Interamericano de Coopera,ao para a Agricultura
(Inter-American Institute for Agricultural Cooperation)
IPEA                  Instituto de Pesquisa Econ6mica Aplicada
(Institute of Applied Economic Research of the Ministry of
Planning of the Presidency of the Republic)
MIS                   Sistema Gerencial de Informai3es
(Management Information System)
NCB                   Licitacao Nacional
(National Competitive Bidding)



NGO                   Organiza,co Nao-Governamental
(Non-Governmental Organization)
NRDP                  Programa de Apoio ao Pequeno Produtor Rural do Nordeste
(Northeast Rural Development Program)
O&M                   Opera,co e Manutenc,o
(Operation and Maintenance)
PAC                   Programa de Apoio Comunitario
(State Community Schemes)
PCU                   Unidade Coordenadora do Projeto
(Project Coordinating Unit)
POA                   Plano Operativo Anual
(Annual Operating Plan)
POLONORDESTE          Programa de Desenvolvimento Integrado do Nordeste
(Northeast Integrated Development Program)
PPR                   Physical Performance Review
SEAIN                 Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
(Secretariat of International Affairs of the Ministry of Planning of
the Presidency of the Republic)
SEPLANTEC             Secretaria do Planejamento, Ciencia e Tecnologia
(Bahia State Secretariat of Planning, Science and Technology)
SOEs                  Presta,co de Contas
(Statements of Expenditure)
SSMP                  Sistema Simplificado do Monitoramento do Projeto
(Simplified Project Monitoring System)
UT                    Unidade Tecnica
(Technical Unit)



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - BAHIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY ............................   i
I.  RURAL POVERTY IN BRAZIL, THE NORTHEAST AND BAHIA.                                         1
The Rural Poor and the Economy.                                                       1
Rural Poverty in the Northeast .1
Experience with Past Bank Lending.                                                    3
The State of Bahia.                                                                   5
Main Lessons Learned fiom the Northeast Rural Development Program.                    6
lI. THE PROJECT                                         ..    9
Origin and Rationale for Bank Involvement .. ..    9
Project  Objectives  .......................................    9
Project Components    ......................................  10
A. Community Subprojects .. .   10
Municipal Community Schemes (FUMAC) ...  10
Pilot Municipal Community Funds (FUMAC-P) .11
State Community Schemes (PAC) .11
B. Institutional Development .12
C. Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation .12
Decentralization and Targeting ................................ 13
Decentralization             ..13
Project  Targeting   ....................................  14
Project Coordination Arrangements            ..14
Project Coordinating Unit    ..14
Project Municipal Councils           ..15
This report incorporates the findings of a Bank mission which visited Brazil in March-April 1995. The
mission consisted of Messrs./Mmes. L. Coirolo (Mission Leader, Portfolio Manager), T. Barbosa (Task
Manager, Economist), R. Caminha (Agriculturalist), J. Barbosa (Agriculturalist), M. Rieth (Economist),
J. van Zyl (Agricultural Economist), L. Sonn (Economist, FAO/CP), J.C. Sallier (Civil Engineer,
Consultant) and V. Valle (Staff Assistant). The report also benefited from contributions from A. Roumani
(Rural Development Specialist) and C. Bryant (Institutional Specialist). The Division Chief is M. Wilson
(LAlNR) and the Department Director, G. T. Nankani (LAIDR). Peer reviewers are J. Tendler
(Professor of Political Economy - MIT) and T. Jones (LA1HR).



TABLE OF CONTENTS
(Continued)
Project Implementation Arrangements  ........................... 16
Community Subproject Cycle  ............................ 16
Project Operational Manual . ............................. 17
Operation and Maintenance (O&M)  .......                  ................. 18
Operational Checks and Balances .............  ..  ...  ..  ..  ...                    . 18
M onitoring   .......................................  18
Project  Costs   ..........................................  18
Financing   Plan   .........................................  19
Procurement ..........................................  21
Disbursements and Special Account ............  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..  ..                 . 23
Accounts and Audits . ..................................... 23
Environmental Aspects   .         ................................... 24
Poverty Category  ........................................ 24
Women's Participation ...................................... 25
Project Benefits  ......................................... 25
Project Risks  ..........................................  26
III.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . 27
ANNEXES:
1.  Socio-Economic Indicators .29
2.      The Reformulated NRDP: Performance and Evaluation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
3.   Targeting Mechanisms and Project Municipalities .52
4.  Institutional Development .58
5. The FUMAC-P Pilot Program .63
6.  Subproject Operation and Maintenance .66
7.   Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation .68
8.      Project Costs, Financing Plan and Disbursement Schedule .76
9.  Project Operational Manual (Outline) .80
10.    Supervision Plan .................................. 82
11.    List of Documents Available in Project Files .           ....................... 84
MAP: IBRD No. 26947



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - BAHIA
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                       State of Bahia
Guarantor:                      Federative Republic of Brazil
Implementing Agency:            State Regional Development Company (CAR), of the
Bahia State Secretariat of Planning, Science and
Technology (SEPLANTEC)
Beneficiaries:                  Poor rural community associations, including a target
population of 1.7 million people (about 340,000 families)
Poverty:                        Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:                         US$105 million equivalent
Terms:                          Repayable over 15 years, including 5 years of grace, at
the Bank's standard variable interest rate
Commitment Fee:                 0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days
after signing, less any waiver
Onlending Terms:                Not applicable
Financing Plan:                 See Annex 8, Table 8.2
Economic Rate of Return:        Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:         Report No. 14390-BR
Map:                            IBRD No. 26947
Project Identification No.:     BR-PA-35717



I



I. RURAL POVERTY IN BRAZIL, THE NORTHEAST AND BAHIA
The Rural Poor and the Economy
1.1          Poverty in Brazil has a strong rural and regional dimension. About 50 percent
of the Brazilian poor live in rural areas, and the incidence of poverty among the rural population
is more than double that in large cities and urban areas. Economic instability over the past two
decades has been a major obstacle to redressing rural poverty. The implicit tax resulting from
inflation has penalized the poor disproportionately. Real economic growth fell from 9%
annually in the 1970s to 2.7% in the 1980s, and for more than a decade there was little
improvement in standards of living. Economic and sectoral policies did not provide support for
sustainable investment, as a consequence savings fell, inflation accelerated, and consumer prices
increased as much as 30% a month. Six separate attempts at adjustment between 1986 and 1994
failed. Austerity programs associated with the different adjustment attempts cut back investment
for rural development, in particular for primary education, targeted health interventions, rural
roads, water supply and small farmer agricultural services. Migration from rural areas in the
1980s and early 1990s--motivated by unemployment, underemployment and lack of social and
other services--created an enormous new burden on urban centers, and underscored the urgency
of addressing rural poverty to stem its conversion into an urban poverty phenomenon.
1.2          Introduction of the Plano Real in July 1994 has achieved some degree of
macroeconomic stabilization, with the annual inflation rate already decreasing to a fraction of
its former level. However, in the short to medium term, stabilization also implies a very strong
fiscal adjustment with tightening of government expenditures, high real interest rates and, hence,
a deepening of the investment pause in the farm and rural sector. The consequences in terms
of rural employment and social services may be quite serious, and clearly call for offsetting
safety net actions. While successful macroeconomic adjustment should promote longer-term
economic growth with benefits extending to rural areas, international experience shows that
targeted programs and policies for the socio-economic development of the poor remain an
essential complement to the adjustment process.
Rural Poverty in the Northeast
1.3          The Northeast has long constituted the single largest area of rural poverty in Latin
America. This Region, covering nine states and part of a tenth2, accounts for 19% of Brazil's
total land area and 30% of its 147 million population. More than half of all Brazilians living
in poverty, and almost two-thirds of the country's rural poor, live in the Northeast. According
to a recent study by the Ministry of Planning and Budget, some 12 million rural inhabitants of
1.    Brazil: A Poverty Assessment, Human Resources Operations Division, March 31, 1995.
2.    The Northeast Region includes the States of Maranhao, Piaui, Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba,
Pernambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe and Bahia and the northern part of the State of Minas Gerais.



- 2 -
the Northeast live in extreme poverty, with annual per capita incomes under US$214 (less than
one-tenth of the national average). Among the underlying causes of rural poverty in the
Northeast are the relatively poor resource base of large parts of the region and variable agro-
climatic conditions which make them vulnerable to drought. Skewed access to land and the
virtual absence of a functioning rural financial system for the poor are additional constraints.
Northeast agriculture is characterized by limited input use and slow rates of technology adoption.
Productivity is low, with output per farm worker less than half that of other regions. Overall
Northeast agricultural GDP growth was negligible during 1991-1994.
1.4          About 40% of the Northeast's rural population lives in the interior semi-arid zone
characterized by poor soils and severe, cyclical and often protracted drought. The "drought
polygon" in the semi-arid region includes most of Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba,
Pernambuco and Bahia, and smaller proportions of all the other Northeastern states except
Maranhao. The remainder of the rural population lives in areas which are generally more humid
and have better soils, the coastal belt and the drought-prone transitional zone between the coast
and the semi-arid area. The rural economy revolves around food crops including fruits and
vegetables, extensive livestock grazing by larger farmers, and, as a consequence of the uncertain
climate and market fluctuations, basic food production and small-scale animal husbandry by
tenants, sharecroppers, landless laborers and small farm  owners.  The rural poor in the
Northeast rely increasingly on a complex of activities--traditional subsistence agriculture, cash
crops (mainly cotton and cashew), casual agricultural and non-agricultural work, and remittances
from family members living in cities.
1.5          Health and social indicators attest to the poor quality of life in the Northeast,
compared to the rest of Brazil. The region has: (i) an infant mortality rate of 75 per 1000 live
births, compared to a national average of 58; (ii) a rate of child malnutrition at 27% (of children
under five), compared to 13% nationwide; (iii) a literacy rate for heads of household of 56%,
compared to 78% nationwide; (iv) 57% of households lacking water supply compared to 28%
nationwide; and (v) 73% of households without access to proper sanitation facilities, compared
to 46% nationwide.3
1.6          The new  Brazilian administration is preoccupied with the level of poverty
nationwide, but particularly in the Northeast and its rural areas, and has declared the Northeast
a priority for public development programs. The cornerstone of the Federal Government's effort
to combat poverty and hunger in Brazil is the recently announced Comunidade Soliddria
program, a broad framework for the coordination of rural and urban poverty programs and
projects, focusing on municipalities where poverty is most severe. Implementation would be
decentralized, stressing community self-help and local empowerment, and concentrating on four
main themes: rural development, income and employment generation, food and nutrition, and
urban services. The proposed Bahia Rural Poverty Alleviation Project is fully consistent with
this strategy, parts of which draw heavily on the Bank-supported NRDP experience in Northeast
Brazil (paras. 1.12-1.16).
3. Brazil: A Poverty Assessment, Human Resources Operations Division, March 31, 1995.



- 3 -
1.7         The proposed project would also be a timely complement to important changes
in the political economy of Brazil, stemming from the new federalism embodied in the
Constitution of 1988.   Fiscal resources, priority setting and program  implementation
responsibilities are increasingly being decentralized from the Federal Government to the states,
municipalities and local populations. This encouraging trend should help avoid many of the
financial and managerial problems which generations of Northeast poverty programs encountered
under centralized coordination and implementation arrangements. Much of the Bank's dialogue
and lending for poverty, including in rural development, health and education, have now shifted
to the states, with the role of the Federal Government being redefined to stress more strategic
functions, such as broad policy and norm setting and financial transfer schemes to improve
equity.
Experience with Past Bank Lending
1.8         The Federal and State Governments have been involved since the early 1970s in
financing schemes to alleviate rural poverty in the Northeast. The World Bank has been
associated for many years with these efforts, through its financing of a series of programs and
projects, including area-specific and state rural development projects, various sectoral operations
and a regional rural development program.
1.9         Historically, rural development programs in the Northeast have coalesced around
two themes: drought relief and the integrated development of selected areas. The first involved
emergency relief programs or projects to increase the productivity of scarce water resources,
including large public irrigation schemes. While the budgetary impact of these projects has been
tremendous, their poverty effects have been limited and often temporary. The second approach,
that of integrated subregional development programs, included initiatives like the Sertanejo
project and the Bank-financed POLONORDESTE projects of the 1970s and early 1980s.
1.10        POLONORDESTE. The POLONORDESTE operations concentrated on specific
microregions within each of the nine Northeast states and northern Minas Gerais. They were
comprehensive, multisectoral projects designed to improve agricultural efficiency, raise rural
incomes and increase employment.  They typically included components for agricultural
modernization (extension, research, credit, marketing, land administration), infrastructure (rural
water supply, roads and irrigation) and social investments (education, health and community
development).    Many  important sectoral initiatives  were  first piloted  under the
POLONORDESTE projects: farm management extension techniques; integrated farm unit
research for small-scale agriculture, rather than crop-based research; a wide range of land
redistribution initiatives and modern land titling technologies; educational curriculum and school
calendar reforms for rural areas; and community-based primary health care schemes.
1.11        Nevertheless, evaluation of POLONORDESTE by the Bank in the early 1980s
showed that, in the aggregate, they had only a limited impact on poverty. The micro-regions
supported by the Bank projects were relatively small areas in the context of the whole Northeast;
poverty targeting mechanisms were weak; and delivery mechanisms relied exclusively on Federal
and state bureaucracies.  The Federal Government frequently failed to provide adequate



- 4 -
counterpart funds and delayed the release of budgeted amounts, with damaging effects on the
projects given Brazil's chronically high inflation. Consequently, less than one-third of project
funds reached intended beneficiaries, as seriously reduced budgets were absorbed by
administration and overheads.
1.12        Sectoral Loans and the Northeast Rural Development Program.   These
considerations prompted the Bank and Federal Government to change strategies in the mid-
1980s.  On the one hand, the lessons learned from  some of the pilot efforts under
POLONORDESTE were promising, but it was felt that these needed to be expanded
geographically and supported by broader sector policy reforms, within the framework of single-
sector operations unencumbered by the coordination and implementation difficulties of multiple
components. A series of sectoral operations, such as Northeast land titling, education, health,
and irrigation, resulted in the next few years.
1.13        With respect to integrated rural development, this was still considered to be a
viable and necessary approach but, again, it was felt that the effort should be expanded statewide
in order to have a broader impact, and that the number of components should be drastically
reduced. As a result, in 1985, the Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP) was
established to alleviate rural poverty and improve the living standards of small farm families in
the Northeast. Under this program, the Bank approved during 1985-87 individual loans for the
ten states in an amount totalling US$826.7 million. But, through 1993, with the exception of
one component supporting small community projects (known as the APCR), implementation of
the NRDP lagged behind schedule and performance in meeting basic objectives was weak. Some
of the main causes were strikingly similar to the causes of poor performance under the earlier
POLONORDESTE projects: chronic fiscal deficits and other macroeconomic distortions led to
almost constant counterpart funding shortages and widespread deterioration of many of the public
institutions responsible for carrying out the NRDP. The Federal Government devolved some
responsibilities to the states, but, by and large, institutional arrangements were still highly
centralized. Decision-making, administration and financing arrangements were generally non-
participatory, and the sense of project "ownership" at both state and local levels was limited.
1.14        On the other hand, the innovative APCR  community-based components
(para. 1.13), which relied on local planning and implementation, stressed community
organization and contracted out needed technical expertise, were noticeably more successful.
They acknowledged the expressed needs of the communities, their poverty alleviation impact was
positive, the cost per family relatively low, and disbursement and commitment rates far exceeded
those of other components.
1.15        Reformulated NRDP.  On the Bank's initiative, in 1993 the NRDP was
reformulated and transformed in its entirety into a community-based development program,
drawing both on the successful experience of the APCR small community projects component
and on lessons learned with similar schemes elsewhere in Latin America, particularly the
Mexican Solidaridad program. Performance has since improved markedly. Rural communities
are participating in the identification, financing and implementation of subprojects that meet their
most pressing needs, increase their sense of project ownership, and have a much sharper focus
on poverty alleviation.  The reformulated NRDP is covering all members of poor rural



communities and not only those with productive assets, extending beyond production and
income, and based on a "matching grant" mechanism linked to beneficiary contribution towards
subproject cost. The State Governments are fully responsible for counterpart funding, and the
corresponding sense of "ownership" of the program has also improved.
1.16        Although only 18 months have passed since the reformulation, based on
implementation so far (as well as the earlier experience of the APCR components), certain facts
are clear. The program has generated unprecedented enthusiasm among beneficiaries and
favorable multiplier effects, and has mobilized additional funds from municipalities and
communities. As much as 95% of disbursements are reaching targeted beneficiaries, and
diversion of funds for non-intended uses has been sharply reduced. The NRDP's participatory
approach has benefitted community organization and empowerment, increased transparency, and
demonstrated that rural communities can influence the allocation and use of resources at the
municipal level to alleviate poverty.  Investments funded by the program  have been of
satisfactory quality and less costly than those executed by public agencies.  While the
reformulated program does not expect to change the basic agricultural patterns in the Northeast,
it has successfully reached a large number of landless families and land reform beneficiaries.
Several field investigations, surveys and studies have assessed the impact of NRDP. The
consensus, from a broad sample of completed and operational subprojects, is that they have had
a positive impact on the quality of life, and in the case of productive subprojects, on employment
and incomes of beneficiaries. They have relieved the effects of a severe drought in 1993.
Implementation of productive subprojects and rural water supply works under the program
enabled those families involved to take fuller advantage of improved climatic conditions in 1994
than was possible for families not participating. A summary evaluation of the reformulated
NRDP is provided in Annex 2.
The State of Bahia
1. 17       With an area of 560,000 kin2, Bahia is the largest state in the Northeast (see Map)
and contains the most extensive semi-arid zone in the region. Nearly 70% of the state area falls
within the Northeast "drought polygon." The Sao Francisco River bisects Bahia, separating the
eastern two-thirds, an area of traditional settlement with varied ecological conditions, from the
western third. The eastern and southern sections of the state, with higher rainfall and fertile
soils, are the main agricultural and livestock areas.
1.18        Certain indicators illustrate the socioeconomic predicament of Bahia' s 11.9 million
inhabitants: (i) 54% of heads of households (74% in rural areas) have a monthly income less
than or equivalent to one minimum wage (about US$80); and (ii) illiteracy affects 35% of the
total population and 56% of the rural population (1991). Two-fifths of Bahia's population lives
in rural areas, where access to basic infrastructure and services is grossly inadequate: there is
only one health post for every 4,000 rural residents (1990); 77% of rural households lack access
to proper sanitation facilities, and 90% have only precarious access to safe water (1991).
1.19        As in the rest of the Northeast, poverty in Bahia is closely correlated with
geography. The rural poor are primarily smallholders, sharecroppers and wage workers, who



- 6 -
depend on a diverse strategy of income-generating activities in which the subsistence production
of maize, beans, manioc and rice, and small livestock predominate. Their well-being fluctuates
with changes in the agro-climatic conditions. In the semi-arid and transition zones, rainfall is
scarce and highly irregular, yielding crops of low quality and income-generating capacity. In
addition to the lack of reliable water supply, these small farmers lack modern production
technology and basic infrastructure to store harvests to take advantage of cyclical price
fluctuations. Consequently, family income is highly variable, and there is little opportunity for
savings.
1.20        State Government Strategy to Alleviate Poverty. The State Government of Bahia
is concerned with the socio-economic conditions of its rural population, particularly in the semi-
arid region. The State's poverty alleviation strategy aims to provide this population with the
physical infrastructure and network of services necessary to improve the quality of life and
generate income and employment opportunities. Development of sustainable income-generating
alternatives to survive periodic droughts and thereby stem intermittently high migration to urban
areas is an important supporting objective. Recognizing its own financial limitations and the
limited capacity of many State institutions, the Government plans to draw upon the rich
community tradition in rural Bahia by encouraging grassroots organizations and NGOs to play
a primary role in needs identification and service delivery. The proposed project would be the
State Government's main tool for implementing this poverty reduction strategy.
1.21        Experience with Previous Bank Rural Development Projects in Bahia. The State
of Bahia has undertaken four rural development projects since 1978 under POLONORDESTE
and the NRDP, three of which were partially financed by the Bank, and a fourth by the Inter-
American Development Bank, as well as various rural water and other anti-poverty investments.
Bahia's performance under Bank-financed projects prior to the 1993 NRDP reformulation was
generally consistent with the integrated rural development and NRDP project experience of other
Northeastern states (paras. 1.8 to 1.16).
1.22        Under the reformulated NRDP, Bahia's performance has improved remarkably.
As of February 1995, US$88 million of the ongoing Loan 2761-BR had been disbursed, leaving
a balance of about US$14 million to be disbursed by the loan closing date of December 31,
1995. Subproject demand has far outstripped other Northeastern states, with 11,500 subproject
proposals submitted to date. The great majority (87%) of these community subprojects are
under PAC, and the remainder (about 1,500) were requests for financing under FUMAC
(para. 2.7). Some 830 subprojects have been completed; 2,260 are under implementation; and
another 8,230 are approved and agreements are being negotiated with community associations.
Main Lessons Learned from the Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP)
1.23        The World Bank has 20 years of experience in supporting rural development and
poverty alleviation in Northeast Brazil starting with the POLONORDESTE Program (1975-84),
a variety of sectoral projects and more recently with the NRDP (1985 to the present). The
NRDP, following its reformulation in 1993, has focused entirely on client-driven subproject
investments implemented by the communities themselves, with decentralized project management



- 7 -
at the state and municipal levels and more transparent decision-making and accountability for
project performance. Implementation has provided important lessons for the proposed project
(see Annex 2 for further details):
(a)    Decentralization of fiscal and investment decision-making from Federal to state
and local government ensures more efficient project administration.
Decentralization of resource allocation and investment decisions to rural
municipalities and communities should be accompanied by a clearly-defined and
well-disseminated system of incentives and penalties to discourage the misuse of
funds;
(b)    Participation in the financing of subprojects generates a sense of ownership and
a willingness to share responsibility for the future operation and maintenance of
project investments.  Beneficiary participation in the selection, execution,
supervision and financing of project investments ensures that investments respond
to true perceived needs, generates cost savings and increases accountability at the
local level;
(c)    Sustainability of project investments has greater potential when the municipalities
and communities contribute to subproject financing in a cost-sharing arrangement
and when there is increased beneficiary participation.   For example, the
participatory process introduced in the pilot Municipal Council component
(FUMAC) of the reformulated NRDP ensured better selection and prioritization
of subprojects by beneficiaries;
(d)    Poverty targeting mechanisms should be simple, explicit and monitorable; be
based on objective criteria; foster transparency and minimize political interference
in project resource allocation; and ensure that project resources do reach the
poorest communities;
(e)    Technical assistance should be accessible to rural communities to enable them to
identify, prepare and implement their own subprojects, thereby augmenting their
capacity to compete for investment funds. Technical assistance should also be
targeted to weaker municipalities to improve their planning, management and
financial capacity;
(f)    Standardization of subproject documents, technical designs and unit costs
simplifies the subproject preparation and evaluation process, facilitates the
procurement of goods and works, prevents overdesign and improves the quality
of subprojects, thereby encouraging greater participation by poorer communities
and reducing bottlenecks in the subproject cycle; and
(g)    A user-friendly monitoring and evaluation system  facilitates the subproject
evaluation process, provides feedback and necessary information to improve
targeting and efficiency, and is an essential management and planning tool.



- 8 -
1.24         The design of the proposed Bahia Rural Poverty Alleviation Project has taken into
account these lessons, which are consistent in many respects with lessons learned elsewhere in
Latin America and other regions with similar community-based development programs. The
project will expand the FUMAC approach and initiate a pilot municipal funds program
(para. 2.7), to promote decentralization of decision-making to municipal and community levels,
to relieve the administrative logjam resulting from state intervention in the minutiae of
subprojects, and to further encourage municipal cost-sharing of subprojects. The project will
employ a poverty targeting methodology based on a series of poverty-related criteria at the
municipal, community and beneficiary levels, and backed by a strong system of operational
checks and balances to thwart mistargeting and misappropriation of resources. As a condition
of loan effectiveness, an improved monitoring and evaluation system will be adopted to reinforce
the targeting mechanism and to strengthen the management of the subproject cycle. In addition,
for simplicity and efficiency in subproject preparation, evaluation and supervision, the Project
Operational Manual will establish standard subproject designs, technical and financial
parameters, and cost indicators for the most frequently requested subprojects. Finally, funds for
technical assistance to rural communities and municipalities will be facilitated, to enable
participation of the poorest areas, foster community capacity and empowerment, and encourage
the active participation of NGOs and local grassroots organizations.



- 9 -
II. THE PROJECT
Ori2in and Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.1         The proposed project is based on the positive results of the reformulated Northeast
Rural Development Program (NRDP). Joint evaluation by the Brazilian Government and the
World Bank has confirmed that the reformulated NRDP, itself the culmination of two decades
of experience, has succeeded in introducing an effective model for rural poverty alleviation in
the Northeast. This model has now been field tested for about one and a half years, and the
Northeast State Governments are developing projects which would expand its coverage. The
proposed project would be one of the first of the follow-on operations. As the principal donor
engaged in a sustained, long-term partnership with the Brazilian Government to address rural
poverty issues in the Northeast, the Bank is particularly well placed to support this next phase
of development initiatives for the Region.
2.2         The new Brazilian administration that came to office in January 1995 is extremely
concerned with the level of poverty in the country, and has declared the Northeast Region a
priority area for public development programs. The proposed project, based on a more
participatory and cost-effective approach than previous programs, would fit well within the
Federal Government's Comunidade Solidaria strategy for poverty alleviation (see also para. 1.6).
2.3         The project is also consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
for Brazil, discussed by the Board on June 29, 1993. A central theme of the CAS is to reduce
poverty and inequity both through resumption of broad-based economic growth based on
structural reforms and appropriate sector-specific policies, and through proper targeting and
delivery of services to the poor. The project would contribute to economic growth through
income and employment-generating investments in the rural areas of Bahia. It would also
support decentralization of decision-making and expenditure responsibility from the Federal to
the subnational government level, in this case, to the State Government of Bahia and its rural
municipalities. The project would expand social expenditures directed to the poorer segments
of the rural population based on community mobilization efforts and active local beneficiary
participation.
Project Obiectives
2.4         The project would assist the State of Bahia to alleviate rural poverty and its
consequences by: (a) providing basic social and economic infrastructure, and employment and
income-generating opportunities for the rural poor; (b) supporting rural communities in planning
and implementing their own subprojects; (c) providing a safety net for the rural poor during a
period of strong fiscal adjustment when the Government's ability to finance essential investments
and services is constrained; and (d) leveraging revenue mobilization at the community and



- 10 -
municipal levels. The project would ensure that funds are targeted and reliably transferred to
the poorest communities, and would promote further decentralization of decision-making to
State, municipal and local levels.
Project Components
2.5         The proposed project would include three main components, as follows:
(a) Community Subprojects (US$159.8 million or 93% of total base cost), which would support
small-scale investments selected and subsequently operated and maintained by the beneficiaries
themselves; (b) Institutional Development (US$6.9 million or 4% of total base cost), which
would provide all implementing entities and communities with technical assistance and training
to increase their capacity and improve implementation of the project; and  (c)  Project
Administration. Monitoring and Evaluation (US$3.5 million or 3 % of total base cost), which
would finance project coordination and activities to provide feedback on project performance and
impact.
A. Community Subproiects
2.6          The project would provide matching grants to rural community associations to
finance small-scale subprojects (up to US$50,000 each) identified by these groups as priority
investments that would improve community well-being. Subprojects would be of many types,
broadly classified as infrastructure (such as rural water supply, electrification, local road
improvements, and small bridges), social (e.g., day care centers for the young and elderly,
school or health post rehabilitation) and productive subprojects (such as small-scale processing
and minor irrigation schemes). There would also be a negative list of subproject types which
would not be eligible for financing. Although demand-driven, the project would set indicative
targets for the main categories of investments (e.g., social, productive, infrastructure) and would
track them through the project's monitoring system (Annex 7). Subproject proposals would
observe standard documentation and technical, economic, environmental and sustainability
criteria established in a Project Operational Manual, which sets forth procedures and guidelines
for implementation. The Operational Manual will build on the manual already in use during the
past year and a half for the reformulated NRDP project, with some fine-tunipg and additions to
reflect the lessons learned. Agreements have been reached on the needed improvements to the
NRDP Operational Manual. During negotiations the Bank reviewed a complete revised draft
of the Operational Manual, and assurances were provided by the Borrower that all project
components and subprojects would be executed in accordance with the Operational Manual
(para. 3.1(a)). Adoption of the Operational Manual would be a condition of loan effectiveness
(para. 3.2(a)).
2.7          Three different delivery mechanisms would be used to screen, approve and
implement community subprojects, as reflected in the three subcomponents described below:
(a)   Municipal Community Schemes (FUMAC). These subprojects would be
identified and prepared by rural communities and presented to project Municipal
Councils for approval. The Municipal Councils, composed of community



- 11 -
members and representatives of local organizations, would promote local
consensus-building on priority needs, screen and approve subprojects for
financing by the State Project Coordinating Unit (PCU). It is expected that at
least some US$86 million equivalent, or 50% of total base costs, would be
invested under this subcomponent.
(b)   Pilot Municipal Community Funds (FUMAC-P). This subcomponent
would be a pilot variant of FUMAC, in which select Municipal Councils would
prioritize and approve subprojects submitted by rural communities and then would
finance them within the context of an annual budget, which the State PCU would
delegate to the Municipal Councils to manage themselves. This annual budget
envelope would be allocated to the Municipal Councils according to a distribution
formula, based on clear and measurable criteria, for implementation of an Annual
Operating Plan (POA) prepared by each Municipal Council and approved by the
PCU (Annex 5). The Municipal Council would transfer funds to beneficiary
associations to finance approved community subprojects. It is expected that at
least US$17 million equivalent, or 10% of total base costs, would be invested
under this subcomponent.
(c)   State Community Schemes (PAC). This subcomponent would provide the
opportunity for rural communities to submit their subproject investment proposals
directly to the State PCU. This would avoid placing at a disadvantage those
communities within municipalities which lack either the capacity or the political
will to adopt the FUMAC or FUMAC-P approach. The continued existence of
the PAC would also serve as an incentive to encourage local mayors to join the
FUMAC, knowing that otherwise their communities could access project funds
directly at State level. The PCU would screen, approve and release funds for
subprojects, interacting directly with the beneficiary communities. It is expected
that up to some US$56.8 million equivalent, or 33% of total base costs, would
be invested under this subcomponent.
2.8         Given the overwhelmingly positive response to FUMAC under the reformulated
NRDP, it is expected that the need for the PAC subcomponent would diminish over the course
of project implementation, with the FUMAC and FUMAC-P subcomponents gradually
expanding. Flexibility would be built into the project to reallocate funds among subcomponents
to accommodate this expansion.
2.9         To be eligible to receive financing under the project, beneficiaries would form
legally-registered associations, in compliance with Brazilian law, and would enter into
agreements (convenios) with the PCU and/or project Municipal Councils. Understandings have
been reached on draft model agreements between the PCU, Municipal Councils and community
associations for the implementation of community subprojects under the FUMAC, FUMAC-P
and PAC subcomponents.  The final model agreements would form part of the Project
Operational Manual. Beneficiary associations would contribute to subproject costs, either in
cash, kind or labor, and would be responsible for the operation and maintenance of the
investments.  The level of contributions of the beneficiaries, municipalities and the State



- 12 -
Government for the different types of subprojects would be specified in the Project Operational
Manual.
B. Institutional Development
2.10         Given the decentralized implementation framework of the project, capacity
building through technical assistance and training for the various participating entities--
beneficiary associations, Municipal Councils, and PCU--will be central to its success. The
Institutional Development component (US$6.9 million or 4% of base costs) will finance
appropriate technical assistance and training in order that each group acquire the capabilities
needed to effectively carry out project implementation.  For example, the beneficiary
associations will need accessible support for community organization and subproject preparation
and execution, as well as training in operation and maintenance techniques, to derive optimal
benefit from subproject investments. The project Municipal Councils will require assistance to
orient their decision-making on resource allocation among community investments and, in the
FUMAC-P pilot program, to create capacity for investment planning and financial
administration. In addition to providing or making available from other sources a wide range
of technical and managerial advice to the project Municipal Councils and beneficiary
associations, the PCU will need training to enhance its own project coordination and supervision
skills. To this effect, the component would finance consultant services, training materials and
courses, seminars, workshops, and related operational costs.
2.11         The technical assistance and training would be packaged into four categories:
(a) a basic introductory capacity-building program for Municipal Councils. Organized by the
PCU, the program would include intensive training on the project purpose, subproject cycle, role
of the Municipal Councils, guidelines of the Operational Manual, and related topics for each
Municipal Council under the project; (b) specialized skills training for the PCU and Municipal
Councils. Based on needs, each group would contract "on-the-job training" from local experts
in areas such as environmental assessment, monitoring techniques, and financial administration;
(c) technical assistance and training for participating communities, organized and contracted by
the PCU and the Municipal Councils, on such topics as community mobilization and
organization, subproject preparation, operation and maintenance of investments, and expert
advice (e.g., for water use); and (d) workshops and seminars for the Municipal Councils and
beneficiary associations, to exchange experience under the project.
2.12         Potential service providers include NGOs, private extensionists, local consultants
and universities. The Municipal Councils, provided with model Terms of Reference prepared
by the PCU, would contract technical assistance based on programs agreed with the PCU, which
would then release funds for that purpose.
C. Project Administration. Monitoring and Evaluation
2.13         This component (US$5 million, or 3% of total base costs) would support overall
project coordination and supervision and would help to strengthen the effectiveness and quality
of project operations. It would finance the incremental operating costs of the PCU and its field
offices in the project area, mainly for supervision of subprojects, and a statewide information



- 13 -
campaign to disseminate information about the project and its guidelines to increase awareness,
transparency and participation. For this campaign, the project would finance: (a) local technical
assistance in the design and development of the campaign; and (b) the implementation costs,
including posters, leaflets, radio spots, and videos.
2.14         This component would also finance the establishment of a monitoring system,
including the maintenance and use of a management information system (MIS). To function as
an efficient management tool, the project MIS (Annex 7), originally designed under the NRDP,
would be improved and made more user-friendly. It would contain key technical, financial and
socio-economic information on subprojects, as well as cost and other physical indicators. MIS-
generated project reports, including monthly disbursement reports and semi-annual progress
reports, would facilitate subproject tracking and generate appropriate feedback on project
performance. In addition to financing operating costs for monitoring activities, the project
would finance experts in information technology and project management: (i) to improve the
MIS; and (ii) to collect and analyze data on cost indicators and physical parameters from the
most frequently approved types of subprojects, so as to calculate a range of values for these
indicators and to adjust subproject eligibility criteria accordingly. These adjustments would then
form part of the Project Operational Manual.
2.15         Finally, the project would finance consultant services to develop and implement
studies to evaluate the impact of the subprojects and provide feedback to improve project
operations: (a) annual physical performance reviews, to assess the quality and sustainability of
common types of subprojects financed by the project, including reviews of community-based
procurement; (b) a Mid-Term evaluation of project performance, carried out in the third year
of implementation; and (c) a comprehensive impact evaluation, which would include a baseline
evaluation to establish indicators of socio-economic impact, a mid-term and a final evaluation
of the project using these indicators. Annex 7 contains a detailed description of the studies to
be financed under the project.
2.16         During negotiations, assurances were provided by the Borrower that: a project
information and monitoring system, with reports and format agreed with the Bank, would be
maintained throughout the project period. The Bank would receive monthly information on
disbursements of project funds and semi-annual reports on subproject activities and performance
of project investments on July 31 and January 31 of each year (para. 3.1(c)); a baseline
evaluation study would be completed within one year of loan effectiveness, and a Mid-Term
Review of the project would be carried out during the third year of the project (para. 3. 1(d)).
The establishment, by the State, of effective project monitoring and evaluation arrangements
would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 3.2(c)).
Decentralization and Targeting
2.17         Decentralization. Decentralization of decision-making and the transfer of project
implementation responsibilities from the Federal Government to the State and from the State to
the local (municipal and community) levels, started under the reformulated NRDP with the
introduction of the community-based PAC and FUMAC programs, and will be further advanced
in the proposed project. First, FUMAC coverage will expand significantly. Second, the pilot



- 14 -
FUMAC-P program will promote a transfer of financial management responsibilities to selected
Municipal Councils.
2.18         Project Targeting.   Beneficiary  targeting  would  occur at four levels:
(a) geographically by poverty level and other characteristics of the municipality;
(b) geographically within municipalities to target rural settlements and communities;
(c) community-based selection of poor beneficiaries and particularly vulnerable groups by the
project Municipal Councils; and (d) project-based selection through the incentive structure and
cost-sharing matrix established for different major types of subprojects. Targeting at the first
and second levels defines the project area. Project municipalities are selected based on poverty-
related criteria such as rate of indigence, availability of municipal resources and other socio-
economic indicators (Annex 1), which are linked with the poor natural resource base, harsh
agro-climatic conditions, risk of drought and concentration of small-farm families. Within
municipalities, the second level of targeting reduces the potential beneficiary population to only
those communities located in settlements of less than 7,500 people, resulting in a target
population of 4.2 million.4 The third and principal level of targeting is community-based. The
project assumes that local representatives can best judge which communities are poorest and
what the investment priorities are in each area. The fact that 80% of the members of the
Municipal Councils would be representatives from rural communities and local civil society, as
well as the clear and transparent rules and procedures for the Councils' functioning, are also
important for targeting poor beneficiaries at the lowest level. Finally, the cost-sharing matrix
favors subprojects with greater poverty alleviation potential and discourages those thought to
have somewhat lesser development impact. The effectiveness of the targeting methodology in
directing project benefits to the poor would be assessed through the project monitoring system
and through annual performance reviews and the Mid-Term Review (Annex 7). Details on
targeting mechanisms are included in Annex 3. Agreements have been reached with the State
of Bahia on these targeting mechanisms and on the municipalities to be included under the
project; these understandings would be reflected in the final Project Operational Manual.
Project Coordination Arrangements
2.19         Project Coordinating Unit. The Companhia de Desenvolvimento e A'co Regional
(CAR), a decentralized entity of the Bahia State Secretariat of Planning, Science and Technology
(SEPLANTEC), would have overall responsibility for project coordination. CAR is now one
of the most effective entities of the Bahia State Government, and would continue as the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU). CAR has had more than a decade of experience with rural
development. It was created to implement the NRDP and other predecessor projects, and has
received substantial technical assistance and strengthening under Bank loans. While CAR's
monitoring and supervision functions would be increased by virtue of the fact that the new
project will cover an expanded area, its executive role would be reduced as many decision-
making and implementation responsibilities are transferred to project Municipal Councils, under
the FUMAC and FUMAC-P subcomponents. To facilitate decentralization of CAR's activities
4.    Including inhabitants of small urban centers.



- 15 -
(which will include, but are not limited to the new project), a new organizational structure is
being put in place. Under the new structure, an Executive Director and three Department
Directors (in charge of Regional Development, Financial and Administrative matters), would be
supported by 11 section chiefs and about 100-120 professional staff and related support staff.
This structure also foresees, inter alia, the setting up of I I new regional units, increasing their
total number to 13, of which nine will be located in the project area. Field coordination and
supervision will be further enhanced through six existing local units, of which at least half have
been providing training to beneficiary communities and conducting supervision of NRDP
subprojects.
2.20        Specific project functions of CAR as PCU would be to: (a) prepare project
Annual Operating Plans (POAs); (b) work closely with the State Secretariats of Planning and
Finance to ensure timely and adequate availability of loan and state counterpart funds for the
project; (c) promote the project and encourage participation of potential beneficiary communities,
NGOs and private sector entities; (d) review and appraise subproject proposals submitted by
PAC communities; (e) review POAs submitted by FUMAC-P Municipal Councils and allocate
the corresponding approved budgets; (f) release funds to the community associations whose
proposals have been approved, and to the participating FUMAC-P Municipal Councils; (g)
supervise implementation of the approved subprojects and monitor compliance with project
guidelines; (h) provide technical assistance to the FUMAC and FUMAC-P Municipal Councils;
(i) prepare statements of expenditure (SOEs) and applications for reimbursement; and (j) ensure
that procurement, disbursement and auditing procedures applicable to the Bank loan are
followed. A condition of loan effectiveness would be the signing of a satisfactory agreement
between the State of Bahia and CAR for implementation of the project (para. 3.2(b)).
2.21        Assurances were provided by the State of Bahia at negotiations that POAs and
budgets would be made available to the Bank for review and comments by October 31 of each
year; that the Bank would receive a copy of the final plan and budget as soon as they are
approved; and that adequate counterpart funding would be made available for the project in a
timely manner by the State (para. 3.1(b)). Approval of targets for any given year will be
contingent upon performance in the previous year, including a thorough analysis of the actual
demand from communities, of subproject costs actually observed, and of the number of
uncompleted subprojects. The use of standardized technical designs and cost indicators would
substantially facilitate the evaluation process by the PCU.
2.22        Project Municipal Councils. The FUMAC and FUMAC-P Municipal Councils
would have expanded responsibilities in decision-making and project implementation, compared
with current practice under the NRDP. The Councils would comprise representatives from: (a)
rural communities, civil groups and organizations such as NGOs, religious organizations and
rural labor unions; and (b) publicly-elected representatives and municipal government officials.
The Mayor (prefeito) would chair the Municipal Council. While the composition of these
Councils may vary from one municipality to another, representatives from rural communities
and the civil society would make up at least 80% of the Councils' membership. The PCU would
participate in the Councils in an advisory capacity. Decisions would be made at open public
meetings, previously announced, and would be taken by majority of votes. Detailed criteria,



- 16 -
rules and procedures for the Municipal Councils' structure and operations are included in the
Project Operational Manual.
2.23        The  Municipal  Councils  would  be  entrusted  with  the  following
tasks/responsibilities: (a) publicizing and promoting the project in their areas; (b) providing
technical assistance to the communities for subproject preparation and execution; (c) prioritizing,
through local consensus-building, community subproject proposals and reviewing them for
approval or rejection; and (d) monitoring and supervising the implementation of approved
subprojects. Under FUMAC, the Municipal Councils will present subprojects which they have
approved to the PCU for financing; under FUMAC-P, they will themselves be responsible for
managing the funds allocated to them for their community subprojects (Annex 5).
Project Implementation Arrangements
2.24        Comnmunity Subproject Cycle.  Beneficiaries submit proposals for subproject
investments based on priority needs of their communities. These proposals are discussed and
screened within the Municipal Council under both FUMAC and FUMAC-P, and by the Project
Coordinating Unit under PAC.  Beneficiary associations participate in the financing of
subprojects according to cost-sharing arrangements defined for the different types of investments
in the Project Operational Manual.  They also take on the responsibility for subproject
preparation, implementation, operation and maintenance. Standard documentation for subproject
proposals, developed by the PCU, would be distributed to the beneficiary associations to
facilitate the subproject preparation and screening process.  To ensure the quality of the
investments financed and to provide guidance to the beneficiaries when preparing subprojects,
the Project Operational Manual would contain standardized technical designs, including
environmental assessments and cost parameters (e.g., cost per physical unit or per beneficiary)
for the most frequent types of investments. Beneficiary associations may solicit technical
assistance for more sophisticated or less common subproject types.
2.25        Various standard designs already exist, and others would be developed under the
project. In some cases, specialists would be contracted to prepare the designs, based on terms
of reference agreed with the Bank. In others, the PCU would gather and adapt existing designs
(e.g., for pipes or box culverts, retaining walls, fords, and decks of bridges) and make them
available to the Municipal Councils and associations.  Standard designs will include the
following considerations, where appropriate: (a) engineering aspects; (b) technical, financial and
economic feasibility; (c) operation and maintenance; (d) recommendations on environmental
impact; and (e) social demand. This process will be facilitated by the fact that other Northeast
States will be developing similar projects and, hence, there will be considerable scope for
dissemination and exchange of designs among the professionals of CAR and the other State
PCUs.
2.26        The appraisal of community subprojects would be carried out by the Municipal
Councils (under FUMAC and FUMAC-P) or the PCU (under PAC). The appraisal procedures
would take into account: (a) compliance with the project's guidelines and eligibility criteria,
including those related to the technical, environmental and cost specifications contained in the



- 17 -
Project Operational Manual; (b) the beneficiary association's commitment to provide the required
contribution and to take full responsibility for the execution, operation and maintenance of the
investments to be funded; and (c) in the case of an association which has already benefited from
other subprojects, assessment of past performance.  Using standardized cost indicators,
reasonable costing for subproject implementation would be ensured. Departures from standard
designs would have to be fully justified, as would proposed investments which fall outside the
range of standardized costs.
2.27        In order to disburse funds for subproject implementation, agreements (convenios)
would be signed: (a) under FUMAC, between the PCU, the Municipal Council and the
beneficiary association for subproject funding and implementation; (b) under FUMAC-P,
between the Municipal Council and the association, for subproject funding and implementation,
and between the PCU and the Municipal Council for release of project funds; and (c) under
PAC, between the PCU and the beneficiary association for subproject funding and
implementation. Such agreements would spell out the terms and conditions for the funding,
execution, ownership, operation and maintenance of the approved subprojects. Model convenios
would form part of the Project Operational Manual.
2.28        To supervise subproject implementation at the community level, a special
committee, composed of at least three members of the beneficiary association not belonging to
its administration and freely elected by all members, would be responsible for overseeing the
execution of the subproject, including contracting. The PCU and the Municipal Councils would
visit the subproject sites regularly during subproject execution to monitor physical and financial
progress. The PCU would have overall responsibility for subproject supervision through the
project MIS, which would track subproject progress from initial submission to completion
(Annex 7), and through accounting and auditing arrangements. A Project Implementation Plan
was developed and agreed at appraisal (Annex 7, para. 12 and Table 7.1). It includes project
performance indicators, responsible institutions and annual targets, by component. The key
elements of this Plan are included in the Loan Agreement. The Bank's Recife Office would
supervise subproject progress on a sample basis in the field and through review of monthly
disbursement summaries (see Annex 10 for Bank project Supervision Plan).
2.29        Project Operational Manual. The NRDP Operational Manual would be improved
and expanded to reflect the need for fine-tuning and additions based on experience to date.
Agreements were reached with the State during appraisal on the following points to update
and/or include in the Manual: (a) indicative quantitative and qualitative targets to be tracked
with the Project MIS; (b) the project area and the criteria used to select the municipalities
included in the project area; (c) the initial distribution of municipalities among the three
components (FUMAC, FUMAC-P and PAC) and the criteria for future redistribution;
(d) guidelines for the pilot component (FUMAC-P); (e) arrangements for institutional
strengthening and project administration, monitoring and evaluation; (f) the PCU's new structure
at headquarters and additional local and regional offices; (g) FUMAC and FUMAC-P Municipal
Council composition, responsibilities and modus operandi, notably in relation to FUMAC-P;
(h) clear identification and description of responsibilities of beneficiaries and municipalities in
the implementation of the subprojects; (i) model agreements to be signed between the PCU, the
Municipal Councils and beneficiary associations; (j) new standard agreements between the PCU



- 18 -
and the FUMAC-P Municipal Councils and between the FUMAC-P Municipal Councils and the
beneficiary associations; (k) standard forms for proposals to be submitted by potential
beneficiaries; (1) the cost-sharing matrix for the various types of subprojects; (m) the fund
release mechanism to beneficiaries for FUMAC-P; (n) a scheme of incentives and penalties;
(o) monitoring arrangements, including a new classification of the various categories of
subprojects; (p) standard project designs and their role in the appraisal of proposals submitted
by beneficiaries; and (q) a revised standard form of acceptance of completed works (ata de
recebimento).
2.30        Operation and Maintenance (O&M). Community associations would bear the
responsibility for O&M for all investments, as specified in the convenio for release of project
funds. These associations may request technical assistance to develop O&M programs and
techniques. Operation and Maintenance arrangements for community subprojects are described
in Annex 6. Experience to date under the NRDP has been very positive with respect to O&M
of investments when local communities have a strong sense of ownership.
2.31        Operational Checks and Balances. A system of operational checks and balances,
included in the Project Operational Manual, would promote transparency and accountability in
the use of project funds.  Increased decentralization of resources and decision-making to
beneficiary associations and Municipal Councils, with only ex-post control by the State through
audit of accounts and supervision and monitoring by the PCU, is central to the project strategy.
However, this advancement requires disincentives against departures from project guidelines,
based mainly on education/joint problem solving and, as a last resort, penalties for
misappropriation, mistargeting, lack of participation or improper O&M.
2.32        Monitoring. Analysis of implementation will depend on a database of subproject
information from the project Management Information System (MIS). Inputs to the database
would be made from a standard data sheet at key stages of the subproject cycle (e.g.
identification, appraisal, procurement and disbursement.  See also Annex 7).  Periodic
processing of the database information will permit the monitoring of the characteristics and
evolution of project implementation. Project performance indicators to be monitored over the
course of project implementation are included in Annex 7.  Monitoring and reporting
arrangements are discussed in paras. 2.14-2.16 above.
Project Costs
2.33        The total project cost, calculated in April 1995 prices and including contingencies,
is estimated at US$175 million. Foreign exchange costs are estimated to be US$46.3 million,
equivalent to about 26% of total project cost. The baseline cost is estimated at US$171.7
million, and contingencies at US$3.3 million. Contingencies are low because they apply only
to the two components of institutional development and project administration, monitoring and
evaluation. For these activities, physical contingencies of 10% and 5% have been included, as
well as annual price increases for local and foreign costs (both expressed in US dollars). No
contingency provisions have been applied to the community subprojects component. Since the
number of community investments is not defined ex ante, it was considered preferable that any



- 19 -
change in physical or price attributes of subproject investments would be accommodated by a
change in the number of subprojects approved and implemented.
2.34        Investments in subprojects are expected to represent some 93% of the total base
cost (50% for FUMAC, 10% for FUMAC-P and 33% for PAC). The distribution among
different categories of subprojects, as well as the phasing of expenditures over the five-year
implementation period, are indicative only, and there would be flexibility to reallocate funds
from the PAC to the FUMAC or FUMAC-P subcomponents as Municipal Councils gain
experience.
Financing Plan
2.35        The Borrower would be the State of Bahia, which has been assessed as being
creditworthy for borrowing from the Bank. The financial situation of the State has significantly
improved since 1991, and its annual borrowing capacity has been estimated, on the basis of 1993
performance and Federal guidelines, to be about US$450 million. The loan would be guaranteed
by the Federative Republic of Brazil.
2.36        The Bank loan would be repayable over 15 years, including a five-year grace
period, and would bear interest at the Bank's standard variable rate. The loan of US$105
million equivalent would finance about 60% of the total project cost, and would disburse against
100% of expenditures for technical assistance, training and evaluation studies, 59% of
expenditures for community subprojects, and 20% of incremental project administrative costs
(except salaries) and monitoring. The State Government would be responsible for the remaining
40% of total project cost, with beneficiaries contributing to these counterpart funds. The State
Government of Bahia is expected to meet its counterpart funding obligations without difficulty.
The State has consistently met all of its counterpart funding obligations under the reformulated
NRDP. The level of annual funding required under the new project would be similar, and
would be equivalent to only about 0.4 percent of the State's total budget. Beneficiaries would
provide a minimum of 10% of the total costs of community-managed investments, in cash, labor
or kind, amounting to US$16 million (paras. 2.37 and 2.44). Detailed project costs and the
financing plan are presented in the table below:



- 20 -
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
% of Total
Local  Foreign    Total    Base Costs   % Foreign
-------- (US$ Million) -------
Estimated Costs
A. Community Subprojects
1. FUMAC                    64.9     21.1        86.0      50.0        25.0
2. FUMAC-P                  12.8      4.2        17.0       10.0       25.0
3. PAC                      42.9     13.9        56.8       33.0       25.0
Subtotal                   120.6     39.2       159.8       93.0       25.0
B. Institutional Development    2.8      4.1         6.9       4.0        59.0
C. Project Administration,      3.6      1.4         5.0        3.0       28.0
Monitoring and Evaluation
Total Baseline Costs          127.0     44.7       171.7      100.0       26.0
- Physical contingencies        0.5      0.5         1.0       --         --
- Price contingencies           1.2      1.1         2.3       --          --
Total Proiect Costs           128.7     46.3       175.0
Financing Plan
State Government of Bahia      54.0     --          54.0-'
Beneficiaries                  16.0     --          16.0
IBRD                           58.7     46.3       105.0
Total                         128.7     46.3       175.0       --          --
a/ Including US$7.2 million in local taxes.
2.37          Cost Sharing and Sustainability.  The cost estimates and average size of
community-managed subproject investments have been determined from the experience gained
under the reformulated NRDP and the operation of its PAC and FUMAC components. On this
basis, the project is expected to finance some 8,500 community-managed subprojects over five
years. The amount of the beneficiary communities' contribution to subproject costs would
depend on the type of subproject and the financial resources available to the community, the
final determination being made by the PCU. It is expected to be a minimum of 10% for social
investments, 15 % for infrastructure investments and 20% for productive investments. As in the
existing NRDP, ownership of project facilities by the beneficiaries should enhance the
sustainability of community investments. A key element would be the establishment of sound
arrangements under the project for the provision of operating, maintenance and capital
replacement expenditures, the requirements for which would vary significantly among types of



- 21 -
subprojects and the availability of which would vary by municipality and community association.
The Project Operational Manual and the convenios would contain specific guidelines concerning
the funding of these costs.
Procurement
2.38        Procurement for community subprojects costing the equivalent of US$50,000 or
less and procured by local communities, would be carried out mainly through direct contracting.
This procurement procedure is appropriate because most subprojects: (a) would be small and/or
implemented in scattered or remote areas and therefore it will be difficult to obtain competitive
proposals; (b) can be managed directly by rural communities which will contribute to the work
through the donation of unskilled labor and local materials; (c) will be selected on the basis of
willingness of the beneficiary communities to contribute to and physically supervise their
execution; and (d) would provide a vehicle for communities to play an active role in the local
development process. There may be cases when the community lacks the capacity to make the
necessary purchases of materials. For such subprojects, the municipalities or the PCU would
make purchases on behalf of the communities, packaging the procurement for several subprojects
whenever possible. Procurement by the municipalities or the PCU would follow: (i) National
Shopping procedures for goods, and procedures acceptable to the Bank for procurement of small
works under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of price quotations (under
US$100,000 and up to an aggregate amount of US$16.5 million for goods and US$27.5 million
for small works); or (ii) National Competitive Bidding -- NCB (over US$100,000). For NCB
the standard bidding documents agreed between the Bank and the Federal Government of Brazil
will be used. ICB is not anticipated for any goods or works under the project. Although the
costs of individual subprojects may not exceed US$50,000, the average sizes of the subprojects
are expected to be less than US$25,000.  Approximately 1,700 subprojects would be
implemented yearly using these procurement methods.
2.39        Prior review of procurement documentation by the Bank would be made for all
NCB contracts. Although the level of Bank prior review of procurement would be low, it would
be compensated in several ways. First, a study of procurement by community contracting would
be carried out during the first year of the project, under terms of reference agreed during
negotiations. Second, cost comparisons of similar subprojects would be conducted using the
project information and monitoring system (para. 2.14) in order to detect possible procurement
problems.  Third, the project physical performance evaluation (Annex 7) would analyze
procurement issues; and finally, during Bank supervision, random reviews would be conducted
of subprojects, including field visits and review of subproject documentation.
2.40        Consultant services to provide technical assistance and training to the beneficiary
communities, the Municipal Councils and the PCU would be procured in accordance with Bank
guidelines for the use of consultants.  Contracts, short lists, and selection procedures for
technical assistance and training would receive prior review by the Bank when the value of the
contract is US$100,000 or more for consulting firms or US$50,000 or more for individual
consultants. All consultant terms of reference would be subject to Bank prior review. During
negotiations, assurances were provided by the State of Bahia that: (a) the above procurement



- 22 -
arrangements would be followed (para. 3.1 (g)); and (b) the study of procurement by community
contracting referred to in para. 2.39 would be carried out during the first year of the project and
any agreed recommendations adopted expeditiously (para. 3.1(h)). Procurement arrangements
are summarized in the following table:
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million)
Procurement Method
Category                                             Total
NCB          Other         Cost
Community Subprojects
* Minor Works                         --           58.0        58.0
(under US$50,000)                               (34.3)       (34.3)
* Goods and Materials                --            45.81'       45.8
(under US$50,000)                               (27.0)       (27.0)
* Minor Works                        12.0           --          12.0
(over US$50,000)                   (7.1)         --           (7.1)
* Minor Works                        --            27.52'       27.5
(under US$100,000)                 --           (16.2)       (16.2)
* Goods and Materials                --            16.52'       16.5
(over US$50,000)                                 (9.7)        (9.7)
Consulting Services                     --            9.4          9.4
(9.4)       (9.4)
Project Administration                  --            5.8          5.8
(1.3)       (1.3)
TOTAL                                  12.0         163.0        175.0
(7.1)       (97.9)      (105.0)
Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by the Bank.
1/    Direct contracting.
2/    Shopping.



- 23 -
Disbursements and Special Account
2.41        The proposed Bank loan would be disbursed over a period of five years. The
project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000, and the project's Closing Date is
December 31, 2000. The disbursement period shown in the projected Disbursement Schedule
(Annex 8, Table 8.4) is shorter than the Bank's standard disbursement profile for rural
development projects in Brazil, but is in line with the recent experience under the reformulated
NRDP and with other Bank-financed social fund projects in Latin America. The allocation of
loan proceeds by disbursement category is shown in Annex 8, Table 8.3.
2.42        During negotiations, assurances were provided by the State of Bahia that it would
open and maintain a Special Account in US Dollars in a commercial bank for Bank
disbursements (para. 3.1(e)). The authorized allocation would be US$7 million, adequate to
cover the expected average four-month flow of disbursements under the project. Disbursements
for all expenditures would be made on the basis of statements of expenditure (SOEs), except for
goods and works exceeding US$100,000 equivalent; contracts with consulting firms above
US$100,000 equivalent; and with individuals above US$50,000.
2.43        The information required for the compilation of SOEs would be maintained by
the Project Coordinating Unit in the MIS data base. All SOEs would be transmitted by the PCU
to the Bank in Washington. Simultaneously, the PCU would send to the Bank's Recife Office
a copy of SOEs and reimbursement applications submitted to the Bank in Washington, as well
as updated information on the status of all subprojects, enabling a rapid review of subproject
eligibility. This procedure would allow the Bank and PCU management to maintain a
cumulative account of the progress of project implementation.
2.44        The communities' contributions to subproject investments would be defined in the
agreement (convenio) between the PCU and the community association (PAC), between the
PCU, the Municipal Council and the association (FUMAC) or between the Municipal Council
and the community association (FUMAC-P). It would be computed as part of counterpart
finance of the project. Simple, standard records, whose format would be included in the
Operational Manual, would be completed by a designated community representative. They
would be used to record cash contributions, materials and labor inputs, and would be subject to
project audit procedures. Disbursements to the beneficiary associations for subproject execution
would be contingent on physical evidence of work progress (i.e., the flow of funds to the
community would be results-driven; records of counterpart contributions would be maintained
as back-up information).
Accounts and Audits
2.45        The PCU would maintain separate accounts for project expenditures, which would
be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. The accounts of the
Municipal Councils (for the FUMAC-P subcomponent) and of the community associations would
also be subject to review by the independent auditors on a sample basis. Finally, independent
auditors would also audit the Special Account (para. 2.42). Copies of the audit reports would



- 24 -
be provided to the Bank within six months of the end of each fiscal year. The audit reports
would convey the auditor's opinion and comment as necessary on the methodology employed
in the compilation of the statements of expenditure, their accuracy, the relevance of supporting
documents, eligibility for financing in terms of the project's legal agreements and standards of
record keeping and internal controls related to the foregoing. The State of Bahia provided
assurances during negotiations that: (a) the Special Account and the project accounts would be
established, maintained and audited annually in accordance with appropriate auditing principles,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (b) with respect to withdrawals on the basis of
SOEs, that such audits would contain a separate opinion as to whether the SOEs, together with
the procedures involved in their preparation, support the related withdrawals; and (c) certified
copies of the audited accounts and of the auditors' reports would be submitted to the Bank within
six months of the close of each project fiscal year (para. 3.1(f)).
Environmental Aspects
2.46        The proposed project has been assigned a "B" classification. Because of their
relatively small size, most PAC, FUMAC, and FUMAC-P subprojects would not have a
significant effect on the environment. The project would, however, ensure proper environmental
screening and enforcement measures, to prevent certain types of productive or infrastructure
subprojects from producing negative effects on the environment. The Operational Manual would
specify key environmental criteria and screening and enforcement procedures to be followed.
2.47        Based on specific criteria for different subproject types, each subproject proposal
presented by the community associations would include a simple environmental assessment in
the formn  of a "checklist", following a standard format.  For standard subproject types,
environmental screening at the subproject approval stage would be the responsibility of the PCU
and Municipal Councils. For exceptional subproject types, for which technical standards have
not been developed, the PCU would screen the subproject proposals in detail for environmental
impact, contracting technical assistance when necessary, and this assessment and any subsequent
recommendations would be incorporated into the subproject proposal. For the FUMAC-P
subprojects, the Municipal Councils would conduct the environmental screening together with
either the PCU or with contracted technical assistance, such as NGOs.  Enforcement of
environmental criteria would be ensured via subproject supervision by the PCU and Municipal
Councils (paras. 2.20 and 2.23).
Poverty Category
2.48        The proposed project is part of the Bank's Program of Targeted Interventions.
The Northeast Region has the greatest incidence of poverty in Brazil; almost 25% of the
Region's poor are located in Bahia. The project employs a targeting methodology at the
beneficiary, community and municipal levels, which takes into account poverty-related criteria
and other key parameters (Annex 3) to ensure that project resources reach those communities
which contain a higher concentration of rural poor than in the rest of the state.



- 25 -
Women's Participation
2.49         The full participation of women is critical to the poverty objectives of the project.
Bank-supported operations and studies in the Northeast of Brazil show the strong correlation
between the problems and needs of rural women and those of producers and family units in
general. Interestingly enough, they also show that community leaders in the Northeast favor
women's participation due to their willingness to provide assistance and services, receptiveness
to change, and greater likelihood of repaying debt.5 Responding to lessons concerning women's
participation, this project will seek to ensure that women's activities (both traditional and
innovative) are included; to support subprojects which foster maternal/child health and day care
facilities (the latter have proven invaluable under the ongoing PAC/FUMAC operations in
freeing rural women for income generating activities); to target groups and activities in which
female participation has proven constructive; to provide technical assistance for women's
subproject proposals and implementation; and to monitor women's participation in the project
and its benefits.
Project Benefits
2.50         The proposed project would result in an improved quality of life for some 1.7
million people (40% of the target population), by providing better access to water supply and
other basic social and economic infrastructure and services, and by contributing to an increase
in production, incomes and employment. Project-financed rural water supply and minor
irrigation works will be particularly important in reducing vulnerability to drought. Productive
subprojects will provide a vehicle for financing improvements in input use, technology and
value-adding activities, thus raising productivity and incomes. Female community members will
benefit especially from subprojects such as water supply and some productive activities and
social investments (e.g.. day care centers) which enable rural women to seek paying jobs and
contribute to increased family cash incomes. Annex 2 provides an assessment of the kind of
benefits which have been achieved to date for the most common types of subprojects under the
reformulated NRDP. These are illustrative of the kinds of benefits to the target population
which are expected, albeit on a larger scale, from the proposed project.
2.51         Another important project benefit will be the strengthening of the capacity of poor
municipalities and their communities to define and address priority needs, and to plan and
execute their own development projects. It is also expected that the new project will have a
similar impact on the mobilization of additional community and municipal resources, as has the
reformulated NRDP thus far (close to 15 % of resources invested by the program), and this will
improve the longer-term sustainability of investments. Finally, the proposed project will provide
a safety net for some of the poorest segments of Bahia's rural population who will likely be
affected by decreased public investments and services during a period of strong fiscal
adjustment.
5.    A Study of Popular Participation in the Brazil Northeast Rural Development Pronram (NRDP-PAPP),
Conrad Kottak, February 7, 1994.



- 26 -
Project Risks
2.52         Bank experience in Latin America and elsewhere suggests that the main sources
of risk for this type of program arise from: (a) irregular funding, which can erode community
interest and participation; (b) technical weaknesses and inadequate supervision of large numbers
of widely dispersed subprojects; (c) mistargeting of program resources; and (d) over-
centralization of decision-making, which often has the corollary effect of depressing local
initiative and community involvement. The funding risk will be mitigated by the fact that the
Bank loan will be taken directly by the State, thereby eliminating those disbursement delays
previously encountered at the Federal level. Secondly, counterpart funding responsibilities
would be shared to a larger extent by the communities, decreasing the relative proportion of the
State's own participation. Third, and perhaps most important, the strong sense of ownership by
the State, municipalities and communities should help to protect project counterpart funding
needs during the process of allocating scarce budget resources. The risks of overdesign and
weak supervision at the subproject level should be substantially reduced with the establishment
of technical standards and cost criteria for the most common types of subprojects, and a
reinforced institutional strengthening component.  Problems of mistargeting and lack of
community participation have been reduced under the reformulated NRDP. However, to further
minimize such problems, the project design has introduced a system of strong operational checks
and balances against such behavior. For instance, a community or municipality would receive
fewer funds the following year, or be cut off entirely from the program, in cases of
misappropriation, mistargeting or insufficient participation.



- 27 -
III. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
3.1         During negotiations, the Bank reviewed the complete revised draft of the
Operational Manual (para. 2.6). The State of Bahia provided assurances that:
(a)   all project components and subprojects would be executed in accordance with the
Project Operational Manual (para. 2.6);
(b)   Annual Operating Plans (POAs) and budgets for each project year would be made
available to the Bank for review and comments by October 31 of each year, and
that the Bank will receive a copy of the final plan and budget as soon as they are
approved, and that adequate counterpart funding would be made available for the
project in a timely manner by the State (para. 2.21);
(c)   a project information and monitoring system, with reports and formats agreed
with the Bank, would be maintained throughout the project. The Bank would
receive monthly information on disbursements of project funds and semi-annual
reports (on July 31 and January 31 of each year) on subproject activities and
performance of project investments (para. 2.16);
(d)   a baseline evaluation study would be completed within one year of loan
effectiveness, and a Mid-Term Review of the project will be carried out during
the third year of project implementation (para. 2.16);
(e)   a Special Account would be opened and maintained in US Dollars in a
commercial bank for Bank disbursements (para. 2.42);
(f)   (i) the Special Account and the project accounts would be maintained and audited
annually according to standards and procedures satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) terms
of reference for the auditors would include, inter alia, detailed procedures for the
examination and verification of the statements of expenditure for the project
accounts; and (iii) copies of the audit reports would be submitted to the Bank
within six months of the close of each fiscal year (para. 2.45);
(g)   procurement procedures would be as specified in paras. 2.38-2.40; and
(h)   a study on procurement by community contracting would be carried out during
the first year of the project and any agreed recommendation adopted expeditiously
(para. 2.40).



- 28 -
3.2          Conditions of Loan Effectiveness would include:
(a)   adoption of the Project Operational Manual (para. 2.6);
(b)   signing of a satisfactory agreement between the State of Bahia and CAR for
implementation of the project (para. 2.20); and
(c)   establishment, by the State, of effective project monitoring and evaluation
arrangements (para. 2.16).
3.3          Subject to the above agreements and conditions, the proposed project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$105 million equivalent at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate with a maturity of 15 years, including five years of grace.
June 6, 1995



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - BAHIA
Socio-Economic Indicators
BRAZIL                                NORTHEAST!'                                    BAIHA
Total            Rural                   Total              Rural                   Total             Rural
Population (mn)             146.8              35.8                    42.5               16.7                    11.9               4.9
Rate of IndigenceZ'         22%                43%                     41%               56%                     38%                50%
Illiteracy3'                20%                41%                     38%               57%                     35%                56%
Heads of household          33%                60%                     56%                 --                    54%                74%
earning 1 minimum
wage or less
Heads of household          24%                49%                     46%                 --                    45%               70%
with less than 1 year
of schooling
% of households             74%               33%                     46%                 --                     47%               10%
with running water
% of households             15%               47%                     38%                 --                     40%               77%
with no sanitary
installations
1/     Except Minas Gerais.                                                                                                                          ,
2/     Rate of indigence equals the number of families below the official poverty line established by IPEA divided by the total number of families in the  _
municipality. Source: 0 Mapa da Fome, IPEA, March 1993.
3/     Population 15 years and over.
Sources: Censo Demogr6fico 1991 - Brasil, IBGE
Censo Demogrdfico 1991 - Bahia, IBGE



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - BAHIA
Socio-Economic Indicators
Total                                     Rural Pop.       Rate of        ICS           Federal         Pop. per
Pop.        Rural Pop.       Area          Density       Indigence      Index3'    Dependency Ratio    Physician
(N)!'         mi)'          (km')         (N'/km')        (%)2                           Mil4           (NO)5'
State                        11,867,991          40.9         560,506            8.7           42.5         0.47
Project Area                  6,349,421          55.1        437,561             8.0           49.8         0.57            74.2           2,681
Project Area by Region:
Baixo Medio Sao Francisco      342,550           45.5          56,274            2.8           50.1         0.48            73.4           4,127
Chapada Diamantina             479,479           72.7         41,994             8.3           55.4         0.57            78.2           5,156
Irece                          361,131           53.1         24,613             7.8           45.8         0.55            71.9           3,925
Litoral Norte                   102,802          57.4           3,647           16.2           57.8         0.64            79.2           3,316
Medio Sao Francisco            311,722           63.8         46,958             4.2           52.6         0.58            80.9           5,375
Nordeste                      1,098,935          66.4         55.705            13.1           52.8         0.64            74.3           4,327
Oeste                          271,711           43.5         71,012             1.7           56.9         0.58            77.0           5,907
Paraguacu                     1,154,189          45.3         33,530            15.6           44.8         0.53            73.3           2,215
Piemonte Diamantina            623,761           58.1          33,275           10.9           49.4         0.57            72.6           2,736
Reconcavo Sul                  266,251           51.5           5,311           25.8           51.0         0.63            71.3           1,471
Serra Geral                    524,793           62.9         32,540            10.1           52.2         0.52            73.1           3,619
Sudoeste                       812,097           42.5         32,702            10.6           45.3         0.53            70.6           1,277
1/      Censo Demo-erdfico 1991, IBGE.
2/      0 Mapa da Fome, IPEA, 1993.
3/      The ICS (Indice de Condi,co de Sobrevivencia) is a composite index calculated, for all municipalities, by UNICEF and IBGE to measure the adequacy  x
of conditions pertinent to the survival of children under 6, based on characteristics of their families--household heads having incomes below the minimum  _
wage, heads of household having less than one year of schooling or households without running water. These conditions are precarious for an ICS of
0.50 to 1.00, intermediate for an ICS of 0.30 to 0.49 and good for an ICS of 0 to 0.29. State and Project Area figures calculated as weighted averages.
Source: Municipios Brasileiros - Criancas e suas Condicoes de Sobrevivencia, UNICEF/IBGE, 1994.
4/      Federal Dependency Ratio (1991): Total transfers from the Federal Fundo de Participacdo Municipal as percent of municipal budget, averaged across all
project municipalities. Source: CAR, 1995.
5/      1990-1994. Source: CEI - Centro de Estatisticas e Informa,ces.



- 31 -                        Annex 2
Page 1 of 13
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - BAHIA
The Reformulated NRDP: Performance and Evaluation
A. Introduction
1.        The Federal and State Governments have been involved since the early 1970s in
financing programs to alleviate rural poverty in the Northeast.  The Federal Government
established the Northeast Rural Development Program (NRDP) in 1985 to reduce rural poverty
and improve the living standards of small farm families in the Northeast. Through 1993, with
the exception of one component supporting small community projects, implementation of the
NRDP lagged behind schedule, and performance in meeting basic project objectives was weak.
The innovative community-based components (Apoio as Pequenas Comunidades Rurais, APCR),
which relied on community planning and implementation, stressed community organization and
contracted out needed technical expertise, were more successful. They acknowledged the
expressed needs of the communities, their poverty alleviation impact was positive, the cost per
family relatively low, and disbursement and commitment rates far exceeded those of other
components. The NRDP was reformulated and transformed in its entirety into a community-
based development program--effective September 28, 1993--drawing both on the successful
experience of the small community projects components and on lessons learned with similar
schemes elsewhere in Latin America.
2.        Under the reformulated NRDP, the project provides matching grants to rural
community associations to finance small-scale subprojects identified by these groups as priority
investments to improve community well-being. Choosing among eligible subprojects, the
beneficiaries solicit investments which respond to their most critical needs. There are two
different delivery mechanisms for screening, approving and implementing community
subprojects:
(a)  State Community Schemes (PAC) in which rural communities submit their
subproject investment proposals directly to the State. The State screens, approves
and releases funds for subprojects, interacting directly with the beneficiaries; and
(b)  Pilot Municipal Community Schemes (FUMAC), in which subprojects identified and
prepared by rural communities are presented to project Municipal Councils for
approval. The Councils, composed of community members and representatives of
the civil society, promote local-level consensus-building on priority needs, and
screen and submit subprojects for subsequent financing by the State.



-32 -                               Annex 2
Page 2 of 13
3.          This Annex presents the results of a performance and impact analysis of the
reformulated NRDP, as described above. The analysis is based on information and findings of
several studies and is presented as follows: (i) the information base and methodology on which
the analysis and conclusions are based; (ii) an analysis of the performance to date; (iii) project
evaluation, particularly an impact analysis; (iv) a sumnmary of the major findings and results of
other studies; (v) lessons for follow-up project design and implementation; and (vi) conclusions.
4.          Lessons learned since reformulation show that after several years of experience with
rural development efforts in the Northeast, a large measure of success has finally been achieved
in effectively reaching the rural poor with targeted interventions. While the analyses have shown
certain aspects that need improvement in a minority of subprojects, these can be easily adjusted
by modifications to the project design. The design of the proposed Rural Poverty Alleviation
Project has explicitly taken into account these lessons, which are consistent in many respects
with lessons learned elsewhere in Latin America and other regions with similar community-based
development programs.
B. Information Base
5.          The analysis presented in this Annex draws upon the following sources:
(a)   Data supplied by the Northeast States to the Simplified Project Monitoring System
(SSMP) of the Bank's Recife Office. The SSMP is the major data base for the
reformulated NRDP, from which the performance of the project is monitored. The
SSMP stores key information on each subproject and is updated on a monthly basis;
(b)   Sample surveys by the Unidades Tecnicas (UTs)' of participating states.  These
surveys, the major source of information on the NRDP's impact since
reformulation, evaluate the impact of a group of 52 PAC/FUMAC projects (8
different types), obtained by using the random sampling methodology proposed by
the Bank.2 The eight major types of projects analyzed are: water supply; rural
electrification; manioc flour mills (casas de farinha); tractors; house improvement
for community health purposes; rice mills; clothes-making; and child day care
1.    The Project Coordinating Units (PCUs) under the proposed project.
2.    This methodology builds on statistical random sampling procedures from a universe of all subprojects
under implementation and/or completed, as obtained from the SSMP. Due to the wide variation in
project characteristics, the maximum acceptable difference between sample estimated value and the true
population value was set at 20% -- the total number subprojects selected for data collection following this
procedure was 177. The Bank's Recife Office identified specific subprojects randomly by employing a
random number generator. The distribution of the sample for a given type of subproject among the states
was based on the distribution frequency of such projects. A questionnaire was designed for each type of
project, focussing on: (a) subproject identification; (b) nature of the subproject (investments funded); (c)
results/impact of the subproject; and (d) special information. (For additional and detailed information on
the procedure, see "A Methodological Note on the NRDP Survey on Impact," Recife Office, World
Bank).



- 33 -                        Annex 2
Page 3 of 13
centers. These eight project types account for more than 50%  of all projects
completed or under implementation in the ten States.
(c)  A desk review of the following studies: (i) special evaluation studies of FUMAC,
also conducted by UTs for each of the ten States, based on their implementation
experience and specific case studies; (ii) the University of Michigan's "Baseline and
Popular Participation Study", initiated in 1993 by Kottak and Costa, and followed
by field surveys in July-October 1994, covering 38 communities in 23 municipalities
of 9 states (Minas Gerais was not included); (iii) a series of studies under the
"ARIDAS Project on Regional/Municipal Development in Semi-arid Areas of the
Northeast"; (iv) an evaluation of NRDP, commissioned in 1994 by the Federal
Secretariat of International Affairs (SEAIN); and (v) reports from several World
Bank and FAO missions reviewing the experience of the reformulated NRDP.
C. Performance to Date
6.        Statistical information from the SSMP on the performance of all 10 participating
states in the reformulated NRDP is presented in Tables 2.1 to 2.6. Depending on the state, the
refonnulated NRDP became operational between October 1993 and January 1994. The general
performance of the program as of February 1995 is reviewed below.
Disbursements
7.        Table 2.1 presents disbursement progress (including funds already committed) since
reformulation for each participating state, as of February 15, 1995. In just over a year, a total
of US$108.5 million has been disbursed or committed under the program, consisting of US$71.6
million actually disbursed and another US$36.9 million already committed by the States. The
program's current disbursement rate, overall, is significantly higher than its historical equivalent
before reformulation. During the eight years of implementation of the original NRDP (1985-
1993), US$342 million, or less than US$43 million per year, was disbursed.
8.        Individual disbursement profiles have also been analyzed. In the second half of 1994,
disbursements increased markedly for six of the states (Bahia, Minas Gerais, Sergipe, Maranhao,
Piaui and Paraiba), but remained lower for the others (Pernambuco, Alagoas, Ceara and Rio
Grande do Norte). Bottlenecks in the flow of loan funds from the Federal Treasury to the states
were responsible for most of the lower disbursement rates.
Subprojects and Beneficiaries
9.        As of February 25, 1995, more than 21,000 PAC and FUMAC subproject proposals
have been submitted by communities in the ten participating states. Of the total, more than
15,000 subprojects have already been approved, of which 5,931 are completed and/or under
implementation and another 379 awaiting the final transfer of funds to the beneficiary



- 34 -                         Annex 2
Page 4 of 13
associations. Negotiations with beneficiary associations on the terms of agreement and other
issues were in process on the other 8,925 approved subprojects (Table 2.2).
10.       Some 120 different types of subprojects have been implemented and/or completed.
Of these, 55% are infrastructure subprojects, 42% productive subprojects and 3% social
subprojects.  Subprojects related to water supply constitute the largest single category of
submissions (19.3%), followed by rural electrification (17.6%), tractors (9.7%), manioc flour
mills (8.0%) and a variety of others (Table 2.3).
11.       Of the approved subprojects under implementation and/or completed, some 13 % are
under FUMAC. Although the costs of PAC and FUMAC subprojects are similar (Table 2.4),
FUMAC subprojects involve, on average, 40% more beneficiaries, resulting in a significantly
lower implementation cost per beneficiary.
12.       The average cost per subproject (around US$21,000) varies greatly among project
types, ranging from US$10,000 for tubewells to US$36,500 for tractors, but never exceeding
US$40,000 (Table 2.5). Costs for the same type of subprojects often differ substantially
between states.
13.       Subprojects were being implemented (or completed) in 898 municipalities (Table
2.6), or 71% of the total eligible municipalities (1,258). About 11% of these are FUMAC
municipalities. On average, 5.9 subprojects have been approved for different communities
within each municipality under FUMAC, compared with 4.7 under PAC.
D. Evaluation
Socio-economic Impact Evaluation
14.       A full impact evaluation of community investments financed under the reformulated
NRDP is difficult, as the program has been operational for a little more than one year and
definitive conclusions can be drawn only from those subprojects which have been completed and
are fully operational (Table 2.2). However, by taking a sample and using data obtained from
field surveys of the subprojects and their beneficiaries by the different UTs, a socio-economic
impact evaluation was conducted in November-December 1994 for eight main project types,
which account for more than half of all subprojects under implementation and/or completed and
of total subproject costs (para. 5(b) contains a description of the procedure followed). The
analysis of sample cases surveyed by the UTs indicates that PAC and FUMAC have generally
made a positive impact on the quality of life and, in the case of productive subprojects, on
employment and incomes of beneficiary communities or associations. In addition, the analysis
shows that the social internal rates of return for productive subprojects are extremely high
(>50%), with the cost-effectiveness results also impressive--in terms of both employment
creation and social benefit/cost ratio.  The prospects for financial sustainability of these
subprojects are also more than satisfactory.



- 35 -                          Annex 2
Page 5 of 13
15.        Data were obtained for 52 sample subprojects in the various states, of which 30
were under PAC and 22 under FUMAC. First, quantitative benefits per project type were
assessed based on weighted averages obtained from the subprojects surveyed in that category,
and results (appropriate to each subproject type) derived per beneficiary. Second, these results
were extrapolated to all the subprojects under implementation or completed in each subproject
category, with analysis of sustainability of the communal investments, in terms of operation and
maintenance as well as capital replacements, for some of the productive subproject types. The
analysis, made in financial terms, covered the ten states as a whole. Given the sampling nature
of the exercise and the variations that exist between individual states in terms of subproject costs
and performance, results which have been quantified in the overall evaluation (Tables 2.7 and
2.8) should be taken as illustrative only:
(a)   Rural water supply (19%  of subprojects submitted). Since drought is a frequent
occurrence and one of the major threats to life in the Northeast, communities
expressed great demand for this type of subproject. Due to variation in physical
conditions among the different areas, works implemented differ according to the
source of water (surface or groundwater) and the type of infrastructure required
(new or rehabilitated well, reservoir, fountain, etc.). The average cost is about
US$16,000 per subproject3 in the sample or US$142 per beneficiary. Rural water
supply projects provide a precious resource which previously was obtainable only
through long hours of walk or had to be supplied by the municipality (by carro pipa
or water bowser), usually at great cost. The subproject results are savings in time,
effort and cost, as well as improved health through better sanitation. However,
these gains are difficult to quantify. It is estimated that approximately 140,000
families will benefit from the 976 subprojects under implementation and/or
completed in this category.
(b)  Rural electrification (18% of subprojects submitted). This project type on average
costs US$20,000 or about US$7,800 per km of network, and on average benefits
48 families. Providing electricity to roads, households, shops and small-scale
processing units, the subproject contributes not only to the obvious improvement in
quality of life of the local inhabitants (including access to radio, television and the
use of domestic appliances), but also generates additional employment and incomes
from the increased operation of local businesses and industries.  In total, it is
estimated that more than 36,000 families will benefit from the 758 rural
electrification subprojects under implementation and/or completed, with more than
24,000 houses connected to electricity.
3.   The variation between average costs per project type given in this section and those of Table 2.5 is
explained by the smaller number and characteristics of the sample subprojects when compared with the
total under the progran.



- 36 -                         Annex 2
Page 6 of 13
(c)  Manioc mills (8%  of subprojects submitted).  Casas de farinha are a familiar
structure in rural areas in the Northeast. They are popular with a population for
whom manioc continues to be a major food crop, particularly in the form of flour.
These subprojects cost around US$20,000 and, on average, involve 108 producers
of whom 68 are members of the association which owns the mill and the rest are
farmers who come to the mill for processing. The principal benefit from this type
of project is a reduction in processing costs (plus, in some cases, savings in
transport to other mills located outside the project area), leading to increased
production (both of manioc flour and subproducts) either for sale or family
consumption, and therefore higher incomes (in some cases, the quality of the
product is also improved through particular care of the association members).
Because faster processing allows the producers more time for planting and
harvesting, the installation of manioc mills is associated with an increase in the crop
areas, at least where access to land is not a problem. At the same time, the
subprojects generate additional jobs for both men and women working in the mills,
whose mechanization generally results in better working conditions. It is estimated
that the 380 subprojects which were under implementation and/or completed will
benefit around 30,000 families, produce annual incremental income of about
US$377 per family, and generate more than 11,000 jobs (including additional farm
employment). The comparison between receipts and operating and maintenance
costs associated with manioc mills indicates that this type of investment is
financially sustainable, leaving the association with enough funds to amortize the
mill and its equipment in 5 years as compared to its average useful economic life
of 12 years.
(d)  Tractors for communal use (10% of subprojects submitted). This subproject type,
which costs roughly US$33,300 or US$440 per beneficiary, benefits on average
some 76 farmers. Not surprisingly, tractor use has facilitated increases in the area
under cultivation for a number of crops (manioc, maize, beans, cashew, horticulture
crops and, to a lesser extent, sugarcane and dry season rice) and in their yields and
productivity, resulting in a significant gain in the incomes of the corresponding
association members. Also, as elsewhere in the world, tractors are labor-using
when used primarily in pre-harvest production activities. In total, the 198 tractor
subprojects under implementation and/or completed will benefit 15,000 producers
and create 9,900 jobs (including the equivalent of additional person-days from crop
cultivation). The net income of the association owning the tractor, after deduction
of all operation and maintenance expenditures, is sufficient to cover the initial
investment after a period of 5 years, which is much less than its average useful
economic life of 10 years.
(e)  Rice mills (less than 2 % of subprojects submitted). The benefits from rice mills are
similar to those of manioc mills--i.e., reduced processing costs, savings in time and
effort, increased areas, production (including for subproducts for animal feed),
incomes and employment. In addition, rice mills allow association members to
produce and sell milled rice rather than unhusked rice at a much lower cost than



- 37 -                         Annex 2
Page 7 of 13
prior to the project. At an average cost of US$11,000 or US$234 per beneficiary
(on average 47 association members, plus an additional 7 producers who process
their rice at the project mill), this type of subproject brings an annual incremental
income of US$330 per beneficiary, resulting from savings in processing costs and
increased production of rice and its subproducts.  The 62 subprojects under
implementation and/or completed in this category will benefit more than 2,900
producers and create some 400 jobs.  Milling revenues net of operation and
maintenance costs allow the rice mill association to fully amortize its plant after 5
years, compared to an average useful economic life of 12 years normally assumed
for this type of investment.
(f)   Clothes making (2% of subprojects submitted). The most popular type of non-
agricultural productive projects, clothes-making subprojects cost US$9,100 or
US$109 per beneficiary, with each association comprising an average of 84
members. The clothes produced are sold on the local market (substituting for
imports, which in some cases were the only kind found before installation of the
subproject) or at weekly fairs in the area. They generate an additional annual
income of about US$190 per beneficiary.  The 88 such subprojects under
implementation and/or completed will benefit a total of 7,400 people, create some
1,600 jobs, mostly for women, and generate a gross value of production of about
US$5 million per annum.
(g)  House improvement (less than 4%  of subprojects submitted). The dwellings of
many rural families in the Northeast are in poor condition and often associated with
lack of hygiene which can lead to very serious health problems (e.g., the often fatal
disease, chagas, which is spread by an insect favoring materials like the thatched
roofs of traditional rural houses in the interior). The average cost of making the
necessary reforms is about US$33,000 per project--US$460 per beneficiary family
(71 per subproject) and US$90/m2, which is low. In specific areas, when the
subproject involves strictly rehabilitation and employs local materials and
beneficiaries' own labor, the cost can even be as low as US$33/in2. It is estimated
that the 116 house improvement subprojects under implementation and/or completed
will benefit some 8,200 families in total, and indications are that consequent
improvements in the living conditions of these families have an important positive
impact on their health.
(h)  Day care centers (less than 1 % of subprojects submitted). Another social subproject
in relatively high demand is the establishment of nurseries or kindergartens. The
29 subprojects already under construction and/or completed, at an average cost of
US$26,000 or US$290 per family (91 beneficiary families per subproject), will
benefit some 2,600 families. By freeing the mothers from child care responsibilities
during the day, these subprojects increase the capacity of mothers to work and earn
additional income, estimated at about US$230 per beneficiary per year and totalling
some US$605,000. Other benefits include an increase in their time for leisure,
educational activities and food preparation.



- 38 -                           Annex 2
Page 8 of 13
16.        Cost-effectiveness was determined by estimating, where appropriate, the total
investment cost per additional job created by the subprojects, as well as social benefit-cost ratios.
Benefit-cost ratios are high ( > 3.0) for all subprojects analyzed, and the initial investment per
additional job created was low for all productive subprojects (more than 10 times lower than in
the industry and service sectors). Social internal rates of return were also estimated for the four
types of productive subprojects--they all exceed 50%. Both analyses were made assuming
constant benefits over an eight-year subproject life cycle (Table 2.7). In addition to these positive
impacts, benefits are largely concentrated in the subprojects' beneficiary communities.
17.        Sustainability. The financial sustainability analysis of productive subprojects shows
that while beneficiary associations receive a one-time investment grant from the program, this
investment is financially sustainable because cost recovery through user fees by the average
beneficiary association is adequate to cover both O&M and replacement of the original
investment long before the end of its useful economic life (Table 2.8).
Technical Evaluation
18.        In most PAC and FUMAC subprojects, works are generally of good quality,
particularly when implemented by private contractors (75 % of subprojects). With the remaining
25% of subprojects (20% executed by municipalities, with unskilled labor often provided by
beneficiaries, and 5% implemented by the communities themselves), the quality varies but
remains generally fair to good.  Only for a very small proportion (less than 5%  of all
subprojects) is construction quality rated as poor.
19.        Nevertheless, some shortcomings were detected in a number of subprojects, namely
the overdesign of works due to lack of technical criteria and/or competent technical assistance,
and leading to discrepancies in investment size and costs per beneficiary for the same type of
projects. In addition, technical assistance provided by UTs or other entities to communities in
planning and executing projects, has sometimes been found to be inadequate. Despite the
availability of funds under NRDP to hire professional assistance with planning or
implementation, such assistance is hard to secure in rural areas--in part because under the
reformulated NRDP technical assistance funds were tied to the subproject and could not be
released to remunerate contracted professionals if the association's proposal was rejected.
20.        Because of their relatively small size, PAC/FUMAC subprojects generally do not
produce significant effects on the environment. However, certain types of projects, by their
very nature, produce environmentally undesirable by-products (e.g. from the processing of
manioc) or lead to increased use of products that may have a negative environmental impact
(fertilizers and pesticides associated with the use of tractors, wood for fuel in cassava and rice
mills, etc.). Additional consideration would be given to these aspects under the proposed new
project.



- 39 -                        Annex 2
Page 9 of 13
Institutional Assessment
21.       Institutional analysis of the reformulated NRDP and of the role played by the various
actors in the program yields a generally favorable picture:
(a)  Once initiated, community associations generally function well, apart from some
isolated cases of apathy or of takeover by individuals trying to monopolize benefits.
Appointment of office-holders, payment of dues or user fees and accounting all
seem to be taken seriously by the members. However, associations do have
difficulty with paperwork and the cost of legal registration. They also find it hard
to comply with the level of detail required to submit proposals under PAC or
FUMAC, although the more than 21,000 subprojects submitted would seem to belie
this claim;
(b)  Development and performance of the FUMAC Municipal Councils are affected by
the attitude of the local political power base, especially that of the mayor (prefeito).
However, in most cases mayors are supportive and the disparate interests
represented in the FUMAC councils have found a modus vivendi;
(c)  NGOs have played a mixed role. In many cases, churches, rural labor unions and
some more technical NGOs are playing a useful part in subproject implementation
in certain states--stimulating and helping with the initial formation of community
associations or providing assistance with submission or execution of community
proposals. NGOs in these categories see the NRDP as a source of additional funds
to support their work. On the other hand, some of those contacted via initial
publicity campaigns were unsuited or unwilling to become involved in the
reformulated NRDP. Others would only participate if project funds were channelled
through them;
(d) Many rural municipalities have limited annual budgets and very little revenue of
their own.   Since their funds barely cover operating costs, most project
municipalities view the reformulated NRDP as a welcome source of additional
resources for investment.  For the most part, mayors, municipal legislature
members (vereadores) and municipal administrations have supported and participated
in NRDP, although at times mayors or legislators have attempted to subvert the
program to their own ends.  Only in a few cases has the weakening of the
traditional clientelismo implied by the FUMAC approach aroused open opposition
or boycott. In such cases, PAC still operated satisfactorily and allowed beneficiary
associations to bypass the municipal authorities and submit proposals directly to the
state UTs; and
(e)  The technical units (UTs) are located within the Planning Secretariat of each state.
Most have established several field offices, each with one or more technicians. In
some cases UTs also handle other development programs in the state, but usually
these are programs of minor importance. That the UTs have generally been



- 40 -                         Annex 2
Page 10 of 13
successful in promoting NRDP is obvious from the overwhelming community
response. However, despite their size (generally 40-60 technicians), UTs find it
hard to process the large number of subproject proposals and to provide technical
assistance for the preparation and implementation of subprojects4. To provide
sufficient technical support to communities the UTs have in some cases forged
successful alliances with NGOs (e.g. the Associa(ao de Apoio as Comunidades do
Campo (AACC) in Rio Grande do Norte). Support has also been provided by
different state extension services (EMATER), but their response has generally been
poor. In some states, while there is no official alliance between the UT and
EMATER, individual extensionists may still support NRDP ad personam. UTs
themselves receive project technical assistance, mostly contracted from international
agencies, such as the Instituto Interamericano de CooperaCao para a Agricultura
(IICA) and FAO.
Advantages of FUMAC over PAC
22.       The data on subprojects implemented under the program show that FUMAC has
outperformed PAC in a number of ways. First, although only 12% of total subproject proposals
submitted by communities are under FUMAC (the pilot nature of this component necessarily
limited its area of intervention), 13% of all subprojects under implementation and/or completed,
and only 4% of those rejected, belong to this component and account for 16% of all
beneficiaries under the program. Second, although the average cost per subproject is similar for
PAC and FUMAC (Table 2.4), the number of beneficiaries per subproject is on average 40%
higher in FUMAC than in PAC, resulting in a cost per beneficiary which is considerably less
for FUMAC subprojects.
23.       Although socio-economic benefits produced by the two components are similar in
many respects, there is enough evidence to assert that greater community participation and
transparency have been achieved through FUMAC and that FUMAC-generated projects, most
likely through better selection and prioritization by the beneficiaries, are able to meet the
program's criteria better than PAC subprojects. In addition, FUMAC has contributed to
increased community organization and capacity to identify, plan and implement their own
projects.
E. Summary of Results and Findings from Other Studies/Reports
24.       Other studies of the reformulated NRDP provide qualitative analyses which, focusing
on FUMAC, primarily address institutional issues such as decentralization, municipalization,
community organization and participation, transparency in decision-making, and the role of the
State in the provision of training and technical assistance to municipalities. The following
4.   Subproject proposal processing has not been a major limiting factor, considering that more than 15,000
subprojects have been approved in little more than a year.



- 41 -                         Annex 2
Page 11 of 13
positive findings are cited in the various studies as the reformulated NRDP's main achievements:
improvement in the living conditions and nutritional situation of the rural poor; positive
multiplier effects of successful subprojects; support to rural communities and associations, and
recognition of their potential; incentives and other positive contributions to community
organization and participation; increases in value added of rural activities, production, incomes,
and employment generation; and containment of rural/urban migration. On the other hand, some
aspects which need improvement are: bureaucratic procedures and excessive documentation
requirements; delays in subproject approval and fund disbursements; lack of technical assistance
on the part of UTs; funding limitations and subproject cost ceilings; unavailability of local
technical staff to assist communities in preparing and implementing subprojects; lack of
municipal participation and funds to contribute to subproject costs; weak participation of
communities in prioritization of subprojects; and insufficient knowledge of the program by
communities.
25.        Reports of World Bank and FAO missions all stress that the program's overall
impact on the rural poor is generally positive and that available evidence would indicate that
FUMAC subprojects meet the program's stated objectives better than PAC subprojects. While
there is consensus that the reformulated NRDP as a whole and its constituent elements PAC and
FUMAC are successful, there are also some areas that need improvement, mostly under PAC,
which are similar to those already listed, specifically: the need for improved targeting and
greater transparency; design problems, particularly with regard to insufficient technical criteria,
excessive bureaucracy, and lack of adequate community participation in subproject selection and
execution; unsustainability of project investments and of beneficiary associations; lack of
counterpart funds; and, lack of subproject supervision and follow-up. However, the reports also
concur that these problems have not affected the majority of subprojects and can be corrected
or circumvented with improved design criteria aimed specifically at these issues.
F. Lessons for Proiect Design and Implementation
26.        The World Bank has 20 years of experience in supporting rural development and
poverty alleviation in Northeast Brazil, starting with the POLONORDESTE Program (1975-84)
and more recently under the NRDP (Northeast Rural Development Program, 1985-93). The
NRDP, following a reformulation in 1993, focused on small, client-driven subproject
investments implemented by the communities themselves, with decentralized project management
at the state and local levels and more transparent decision-making and accountability for project
performance. Implementation since 1993 has provided important lessons for the proposed
project:
*(a)  Decentralization of fiscal and investment decision-making from federal to state and
local governments tends to result in more efficient project administration.
Decentralization of resource allocation and investment decisions to rural
municipalities and communities should be accompanied by a clearly-defined and
well-disseminated system of checks and balances to discourage the misuse of funds;



- 42 -                         Annex 2
Page 12 of 13
(b)  Participation in the financing of subprojects generates a sense of ownership and a
willingness to share responsibility for the future operation and maintenance of
project investments.   Beneficiary participation in the selection, execution,
supervision and financing of project investments ensures that investments respond
to a true need, generate cost savings and increase accountability at the local level;
(c)  Sustainability of project investments has greater potential when the municipalities
and communities contribute to the subproject financing in a cost-sharing
arrangement and when there is increased beneficiary participation. For example,
the participatory process introduced in the FUMAC component of the reformulated
NRDP ensured better selection and prioritization of subprojects by beneficiaries;
(d)  Poverty targeting mechanisms should be simple, explicit and monitorable; be based
on objective criteria; foster greater transparency and minimize political interference
in project resource allocation; and ensure that project resources reach the poorest
communities;
(e)  Technical assistance should be facilitated to rural communities to enable them to
identify, prepare and implement their own subprojects, thereby augmenting their
capacity to compete for investment funds. Technical assistance should also be
targeted to project Municipal Councils to improve their planning, management and
financial capacity;
(f)   Standardization of subproject documents, technical designs and unit costs simplifies
the subproject preparation and evaluation process, facilitates the procurement of
goods and works, prevents overdesign and improves the quality of subprojects,
encouraging greater participation by poorer communities and reducing bottlenecks
in the subproject cycle; and
(g)  A  user-friendly monitoring and evaluation system  facilitates the subproject
evaluation process, provides feedback and necessary information to improve
targeting and efficiency, and serves as an effective management and planning tool.
G. Conclusions
27.        The lessons learned from the NRDP, especially since reformulation, show that after
several years of experience with rural development efforts in the Northeast, a large measule of
success has been achieved in effectively reaching the rural poor with targeted interventions.
While the analyses have also shown some deficiencies in a minority of specific subprojects, these
can be easily rectified by modifications to the project design. The design of the proposed Rural
Poverty Alleviation Project has explicitly taken into account all of these lessons, which are
consistent in many respects with lessons learned elsewhere in Latin America and other regions
with similar community-based development programs:



- 43 -                         Annex 2
Page 13 of 13
(a)  The project will expand FUMAC and initiate a pilot municipal funds program, to
promote further decentralization of decision-making to municipal and community
levels, to relieve the administrative logjam resulting from state intervention in the
minutiae of subprojects, and to further encourage municipal cost-sharing of
subprojects;
(b)  The project will employ a poverty targeting methodology based on a series of
poverty-related criteria at the municipal, community and beneficiary levels, backed
by a strong system of operational checks and balances to thwart mistargeting and
misappropriation of resources;
(c)  As a condition of loan effectiveness, the project will enhance its monitoring and
evaluation system to reinforce the targeting mechanism and to facilitate better
control and project management throughout the subproject cycle by the State Project
Coordinating Units;
(d)  For simplicity and efficiency in subproject preparation, evaluation and supervision,
as well as for minimizing design deficiencies, the Project Operational Manual will
establish standard engineering designs, technical and financial parameters, and cost
indicators for the most frequently requested subprojects.  Also, environmental
assessment criteria will be part of the Operational Manual;
(e)  Funds for technical assistance and training will be facilitated to rural communities
and Municipal Councils to enable participation of the poorest areas, foster
community capacity and empowerment, and encourage the active participation of
able and competent NGOs and local development agencies;
(f)  In addition to the measures above, participation and transparency will be further
enhanced by setting clear rules for the composition and modus operandi of project
Municipal Councils, with more than 80% of members coming from community
representatives and the local civil society; and
(g)  A  system  of operational checks and balances will be included to promote
transparency.   Disincentives and penalties against departures from  project
guidelines--misappropriation, mistargeting, faulty project design, lack of
participation or lack of proper O&M--will accompany the increased decentralization
of resources and decision-making responsibilities to beneficiaries and project
Municipal Councils, with ex post control by the State through auditing of accounts,
and supervision and monitoring.



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - BAHIA
Disbursement Performance of the NRDP by State, US$ million
(as of February 15, 1995)
State          Original Loan    Disbursement at    Cancellations 2)       Actual            Already          Outstanding
Amount        Reformulation 1)                      Disbursement      Committed after       Balance 4)
after        Reformulation 3
Reformulation
Sergipe                        61.3              39.9                1.0                7.4                6.7                6.3
Rio Grande do Norte            61.4              36.1               10.0                2.7                3.9                8.7
Pemambuco                      92.0              51.8               20.0                4.1                1.6               14.5
Bahia                         171.0              59.4               60.0               28.2                9.5               13.9
Ceari                          78.0              34.0               25.0                7.4                1.9                9.7
Piaui                         122.0              45.1               30.0                5.8                4.3               36.8
Parauba                        60.0              24.0                0.0                5.1                2.7               28.2
Minas Gerais                   55.0              14.1                0.0                2.4                2.7               35.8
Maranhao                       84.0              25.0                0.0                7.0                2.3               49.7
Alagoas                        42.0              12.6                0.0                1.5                1.3               26.6
Total                         826.7             342.0              146.0               71.6               36.9              230.2          i
Notes: " Reformulation became effective on September 28, 1993.
2) Cancellation became effective on December 21, 1994.
3) Figures do not include a large number of community subprojects for which the first installment has been made but which are awaiting transfer of
more loan funds, nor subprojects already approved but which have yet to be implemented.
4) As of February 15, 1995.



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - BAHIA
PAC/FUMAC Subprojects by State, at Various Stages of Processing
(as of February 25, 1995)
State             Number of Subprojects                           Subproject distribution according to stage of processing 1'
Total       PAC       FUMAC                0           1          2           3          4           5           6
Sergipe                 430         370          60                 0          9          88          3           1         173        156
Rio Grande do Norte   1,152       1,035          117                0        607           0         62         156        327           0
Pernambuco            1,894       1,682         212             1,094        184         172          12          0        250         182
Bahia                11,575      10,099        1,476                0          0       8,231        237          22       2,259        826
Piaui                 1,385       1,329          56             1,001          0           0          0         140         49         195
Ceara                 1,243       1,106          137              231        144         315         52           0        367         134
Paraiba                 721         607          114              477           1          2          0          13         150         78
Minas Gerais            580         442          138              302          0           1           8         46         194         29
Maranhao              1,703       1,497         206               742        302         116         61           1        363         118
Alagoas                 403         389           14              295         26           0           1          0         76           5
Total                21,086      18,556        2,530            4,142       1,273      8,925        436         379      4,208       1,723
Note:  1/ Processing stages:
0 = proposals received by UT waiting for appraisal
1 = proposals being appraised by UT
2 = proposals approved, negotiating with beneficiary associations/communities on terms of agreements to be signed                           t
3 = rejected proposals
4 = proposals approved, agreements prepared, awaiting for loan funds
5 = proposals approved, funds released to associations, projects being implemented
6 = completed projects
Total demand = 0+1+2+3+4+5+6



- 46 -                                Annex 2
Table 2.3
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - BAHIA
Community Demand -- Distribution of Subprojects Submitted by Type, NRDP
(as of February 25, 1995)
Total NRDP    NRDP
Type of Project      (All states)   Bahia
(%)          (%)
Infrastructure              55.2         60.3
Productive                  41.9         39.3
Social                       2.9          0.4
Total                      100.0        100.0
Water supply                19.3         25.0
Rural electrification       17.6         18.3
Farm tractor                 9.7          5.8
Manioc flour mill            8.0         12.6
House improvement            3.5          1.7
Irrigation                   2.6           1.4
Sanitation                   2.3          0.3
Clothes making               2.2           1.1
Bridges                      2.1          3.6
Brick making                 2.1          2.2
Rice processing              1.5          0.3
Localized road               2.7          0.1
rehabilitation
Maize processing             1.2          2.5
Child day care centers       0.5          0.1
Cashew processing            0.5          0.3
Other                       24.2         24.7
Total                      100.0        100.0



- 47 -                                 Annex 2
Table 2.4
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - BAHIA
Average Cost of Subprojects under Implementation and/or Completed
(US$)
State                      Number of Subprojects                      Average Cost2'
(Stages 5 & 6)')                           (US$)
PAC    FUMAC    Total                        PAC         FUMAC
Sergipe                               278           51          329              27,328        24,157
Rio Grande do Norte                   266           28          294              24,706        23,537
Pernambuco                             147          21          168              34,517        36,064
Bahia                                1,484         119        1,603              16,103        16,390
Piaui                                 237            7          244              14,647        12,312
Ceara                                 423           78          501              27,465        28,488
Paraiba                                157          71          228              11,711        12,588
Minas Gerais                           175          48          223              30,529        24,729
Maranhao                              386           95          481              19,731        20,487
Alagoas                                49            6           55              21,302        21,717
Total                               3,602          524        4,126              21,714        21,838
Notes:                         ') Projects under implementation and/or completed
2) Includes beneficiary contributions



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - BAHIA
Average Cost of PAC/FUMAC Subprojects, by Type and by State
Average Cost by Type l)2)
STATE                                                                    (US$)
Manioc    Farm      Water      Rural      Small    Tube      Rice       House    Small-scale          Clothes
Type of Project: flour mill  tractor    supply  electrification   dam  well   process.  improvement  irrigation   Bridge   making
Sergipe               11,688    33,038   19,800        25,387       ---      ---      ---      25,542         ---  28,332       ---
Rio Grande do Norte    20,489    35,752   15,991       19,605   25,145       ---      ---          ---    29,371       ---  19,841        
Pernambuco            26,488    38,939   21,369        32,758   30,595       ---      ---      37,633    35,352        ---      ---
Bahia                 10,705        ---   17,286       22,995   12,012   10,697   12,377       20,509    19,837   18,888   20,537
Piaui                  3,927    27,312   10,317        21,940   16,745    6,782    9,285       22,198     14,168   28,301    4,207
Ceara                 14,796    38,576   20,760        32,412   28,321   12,946   29,043           ---    30,504       ---  28,278
Parai'ba              11,190    39,648   10,307        16,584      ---   2,932    2,147            ---    14,033      ---   7,843
Minas Gerais          29,570    35,862       ---       30,947    7,326    4,619       ---          ---    16,892   37,110       ---
Maranhao              10,277    35,925   17,824        30,145   24,142   21,042   11,004       39,083    22,113   15,265   15,633
Alagoas               16,176    27,751       ---       33,608      ---       ---      ---       16,439        ---      ---      ---
Total                 12,123    36,520   18,274        25,279   13,943   10,049   11,925       30,023    21,963   22,350   19,835
PAC                   11,847    36,340   19,078        25,716   13,927   10,123   11,910       31,994    22,606   22,168   19,855
FUMAC                 14,956    37,194   15,078        22,878   14,208    7,622   11,978        17,488    18,227   23,613   19,671
Notes:                  ") Costs include beneficiary contributions
2) Nature and technical specification for the same type of project vary within and among states



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - BAHIA
Number of Municipalities Reached by NRDP
(as of February 25, 1995)
Number of Municipalities '
State                                                                           Implemented/completed projects per
State     In the State   In the    With implemented/completed projects                   municipality
Project                                                         mncplt
Area        Total       PAC        FUTMAC             Total        PAC       FUMAC
Sergipe                  75           74          68          61            7                 4.8         4.6         7.3
Rio Grande do Norte      159         158          56          50            6                 5.3         5.3         4.7
Pernambuco               174         167          99          87           12                 4.4         4.2         5.5
Bahia                    415         264         252         234           18                12.2        11.6        21.1
Piaui                    143         124          77          75            2                 3.2         3.2         3.5
Ceari                    178         120         100          89           11                 5.0         4.8         7.1
Paraiba                  171         109          71          61           10                 3.2         2.6         7.1
Minas Gerais              50          50          54          40           14                 4.1         4.4         3.4
Maranhao                 136         135          98          88           10                 4.9         4.4         9.5
Alagoas                   97          57          23           18           5                 3.5         3.9         2.0
Total                  1,598       1,258         898         803           95                4.8          4.7         5.9
Note:                  " The sum of the PAC and FUMAC municipalities may exceed the total number of municipalities in the project area
because some original PAC municipalities later became FUMAC
CD 



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - BAHIA
Socio-economic Benefits of PAC/FUMAC Subprojects by Main Subproject Type
Project Type     Total No. of    Total No. of    Cost per      Total No.      Total Net         Net            Total          Social                 Cost
Subprojects    Beneficiaries    Beneficiary    of Jobs     Incremental    Incremental    Incrementd        Internal             Effectiveness
being                         (US$)        Created       Income per    Income per       Crop Area        Rate of
Implemented                                                    Year         Benefciary         (ha)         Return           Total           Social
and/or                                                    (US$ '000)      per Year                         (          Investnent per     Benefit-
Completed                                                                    (US$)                                       Job Created         Cost
(US$)          Ratio "
InfrastructureO
Rural water
supply                976         138,592           142           ------                  .       _
Rural
lectrification       758          36.384          400            -------                                        --
Productive
Manioc mills          380          39,520           297        11,460          14,890            377           7,900          > 50             1,273            >3.0
Tractors for
comnumnal use         198          15,048          438          9,900          11.587            770          36,080          > 50               816            >3.0
Rice nills             62           2,932          234            398             968            330           1,220          > 50             2,895            >3.0
Clothes
making                 88           7,360           109         1,583           1,400            190             ----         > 50               925            >3.0
Social
House
improvenent           116           8,236          461            ----            ----           ----           -..-..         -
Child Care
centers                29           2,639           290           ----            605            229             ----         > 50               ----           >3.0
Note:    "Real discount rate is 10%.



- 51 -                               Annex 2
Table 2.8
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - BAHIA
Financial Sustainability Analysis of Productive Subprojects
Item/Project                          Manboc Mill            Rice Mill            Farm Tractor
Number of associations                    380                   62                     198
Average net income per                   3,737                 2,131                  6,631
association (US$)')
Average cost of subproject (USS)        20,000                 11,000                33,300
Average number of years:
Of useful economic life (years)           12                    12                     10
To build replacement fund (years)2)        5                     5                      5
Notes: " Total income from association fees and cost recovery net of all O&M and other recurrent costs.
2) Number of years after which the association has accumulated enough funds to replace the original
investment, which is considerably less than the useful economic life of the investment. The real interest
rate is assumed to be 10%.



- 52 -                           Annex 3
Page 1 of 6
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - BAHIA
Targeting Mechanisms and Project Municipalities
1.         Targeting of the rural poor is of critical importance in the project particularly as
justification for the use of grants for subproject financing. Under the project, it is proposed that
targeting occur at four levels:
(a)   geographically by poverty level and other characteristics of the municipalities;
(b)   geographically within municipalities to target rural settlements and communities;
(c)   community-based selection of poor beneficiaries and particularly vulnerable groups
by the project Municipal Councils; and
(d)   project-based selection through the incentive structure and the cost-sharing matrix.
2.         Municipalities. Targeting at the first and second levels defines the project area.
Selection of project municipalities takes into consideration that rural poverty in Bahia is closely
correlated with the poor natural resource base and the harsh agro-climatic conditions. The 282
project municipalities are concentrated primarily in the semi-arid region of the state and also in
the eastern transitional zone between the northern coast and the semi-arid region, and in the
western transition zone between the semi-arid zone and the cerrado. As a whole, the project
area comprises municipalities classified as "drought-risk areas" by CEI (1991)1 and SUDENE
(1993).2  Other criteria used to target project municipalities include rate of indigence3,
availability of municipal resources, a significant concentration of small farm families and other
socio-economic indicators (Annex 1). According to IPEA (1993), all project municipalities
suffer a rate of indigence greater than 40%, and 59% of project municipalities harbor an
indigence rate greater than 50%. The project area includes the 264 municipalities assisted by
the reformulated NRDP, characterized as small farm areas, and forms a contiguous tract to
1.         Riscos de Seca na Bahia, CEI-SEPLANTEC, Salvador, 1991.
2.         Municipios da Regido Semi-Arida, preliminary list, SUDENE/DPG/PSU/SRE, 1993.
3.         Rate of indigence equals the number of families below the official poverty line established by
IPEA divided by the total number of families in the municipality. See 0 Mapa da Fome, IPEA,
March 1993.



- 53 -                          Annex 3
Page 2 of 6
facilitate project administration and intensive supervision. A list of the project municipalities
is included in this Annex.
3.         Within the project municipalities, the selection of PAC and FUMAC municipalities
will be based on criteria such as past performance under the reformulated NRDP, estimation of
the organizational capacity of communities within the municipality, and "progressiveness" of the
mayor and municipal administration, among other criteria.  The criteria for selection of
FUMAC-P municipalities are included in Annex 5.
4.         Rural Settlements and Communities. The second level of targeting, that within
municipalities, focuses on rural settlements and communities.  Beneficiary settlements or
communities are limited to those with a population under 7,500 people.
5.         Communitv-based Selection.   The third and principal level of targeting is
community-based selection. The project assumes that local communities can best judge which
community groups are poor and what investment priorities are in each municipality. The role
of consensus-building at the local level by project Municipal Councils aims to ensure that only
poor communities benefit from the project. During the open meetings to set priorities, criteria
such as the socio-economic situation of the participating communities, including existing
infrastructure and availability of services, would be discussed as part of the ranking of
subprojects within the municipality. The composition of the Municipal Councils, in which 80%
are representatives from rural communities and the local civil society, as well as the clear and
transparent rules and procedures for the Councils' functioning, are important elements which
facilitate targeting poor beneficiaries. Finally, indicative targets set for social projects and
projects which benefit women in particular, should be considered by the Municipal Councils as
criteria for subproject selection, insofar as the principles of need and perceived benefits guide
ranking decisions.
6.         Project-based Selection. A fourth level of targeting relates to the incentive structure
which favors certain types of projects, and to standard project designs which would permit
Municipal Councils and the PCU (in the case of PAC) to readily appraise and approve
subprojects. A cost-sharing matrix would be employed which would distinguish between four
different types of subprojects:  social, infrastructure, productive and leisure subprojects.
Adjusting the incentive structure to require different amounts from communities will favor some
types of subprojects. The following cost-sharing matrix is proposed:



-54 -                            Annex 3
Page 3 of 6
Project Type       Beneficiaries/  Municipality        State           Bank
I  Community   l                    Government
Social infrastructure             > 10%                    > 30%           < 60%
Economic                          > 15%                    > 25%           < 60%
infrastructure
Productive projects       > 20%            > 0%            < 20%           < 60%
Leisure projects,                 > 15%                    < 25%           < 60%
e.g., community halls
7.         The effectiveness of the targeting methodology would be assessed through the project
monitoring system and through ex-post evaluation studies. For example, annual physical
performance reviews (Annex 7) would monitor the targeting of project benefits. Also, the Mid-
Term Review (Annex 7) would measure the ability of the project to target and reach the poor.
Adjustments and fine-tuning of the targeting methodology would be based on these ex-post
reviews, in agreement with the Bank.
List of Municipalities in Project Area
Baixo Medio Sao Francisco Region              13. Ibitiara
1. Campo Alegre de Lourdes                    14. Ipupiara
2. Casa Nova                                  15. Iramaia
3. Cura,c                                     16. Iraquara
4. Juazeiro                                   17. Jussiape
5. Pilao Arcado                               18. Len,6is
6. Remanso                                    19. Macaubas
7. Sento Se                                   20. Mucuge
8. Sobradinho                                 21. Nova Reden,ao
22. Novo Horizonte
Chapada Diamantina Region                     23. Oliveira dos Brejinhos
1. Abaira                                     24. Palmeiras
2. Andarai                                    25. Paramirim
3. Barra da Estiva                            26. Piata
4. Boninal                                    27. Rio de Contas
5. Bonito                                     28. Rio do Pires
6. Boquira                                    29. Seabra
7. Botupora                                   30. Souto Soares
8. Brotas de Macauibas                        31. Tanque Novo
9. Caturama                                   32. Utinga
10. Erico Cardoso                              33. Wagner
11. Ibicoara
12. Ibipitanga



-55-                           Annex 3
Page 4 of 6
Irece Region                                   Nordeste Region
1. Am6rica Dourada                             1. Abar6
2. Barra do Mendes                             2. Adustina
3. Barro Alto                                  3. Agua Fria
4. Cafarnaum                                   4. Antas
5. Canarana                                    5. Araci
6. Central                                     6. Banzae
7. Gentio do Ouro                              7. Biritinga
8. Ibipeba                                     8. Cansangio
9. Ibitita                                     9. Canudos
10. Irece                                      10. Chorrocho
11. Itaguagu da Bahia                          11. Cicero Dantas
12. Joao Dourado                               12. Cip6
13. Jussara                                    13. Conceicao Coite
14. Lapao                                      14. Coronel Joao SA
15. Mulungu do Morro                           15. Cris6polis
16. Presidente Dutra                           16. Euclides da Cunha
17. Sao Gabriel                                17. Fatima
18. Uibai                                      18. G16ria
19. Xique-Xique                                19. Heli6polis
20. Itapicuru
Litoral Norte Region                          21. Jeremoabo
1. Acajutiba                                  22. Lamarao
2. Apora                                      23. Macurure
3. Inhambupe                                  24. Monte Santo
4. Ouricangas                                 25. Nordestina
5. Rio Real                                   26. Nova Soure
6. Satiro Dias                                27. Novo Triunfo
28. Olindina
Medio Sao Francisco Region                    29. Paripiranga
1. Barra                                      30. Paulo Afonso
2. Bom Jesus da Lapa                          31. Pedro Alexandre
3. Brejolandia                                32. Queimadas
4. Buritirama                                 33. Quijingue
5. Carinhanha                                 34. Retirolandia
6. Feira da Mata                              35. Ribeira do Amparo
7. Ibotirama                                  36. Ribeira do Pombal
8. Iuiu                                       37. Rodelas
9. Malhada                                    38. Santa Brigida
10. Matina                                     39. Santaluz
11. Morpara                                    40. Sao Domingos
12. Muquem de Sao Francisco                    41. Serrinha
13. Paratinga                                  42. Sitio do Quinto
14. Riacho de Santana                          43. Teofilandia
15. Serra do Ramalho                           44. Tucano
16. Sitio do Mato                              45. Uaua



- 56 -                          Annex 3
Page 5 of 6
46. Valente                                    26. Pintadas
27. Piritiba
Oeste Region                                  28. Rafael Jambeiro
1. Angical                                    29. Riachao do Jacuipe
2. Baian6polis                                30. Ruy Barbosa
3. Canapolis                                  31. Santa Barbara
4. Catolandia                                 32. Santan6polis
5. Cocos                                      33. Santo Estevao
6. Coribe                                     34. Sao Gon,alo dos Campos
7. Correntina                                 35. Serra Preta
8. Crist6polis                                36. Tanquinho
9. Jaborandi                                  37. Tapiramuta
10. Santa Maria da Vit6ria                     38. Teodoro Sampaio
11. Santa Rita de Cassia                       39. Terra Nova
12. Santana                                    40. Varzea da Roca
13. Sao Desiderio
14. Sao Felix do Coribe                         Piemonte Diamantina Region
15. Serra Dourada                               1. Andorinhas
16. Tabocas do Brejo Velho                      2. Antonio Gon,alves
3. Caem
ParaLuagu Region                               4. Caldeirao Grande
1. Amnlia Rodrigues                            5. Campo Formoso
2. Anguera                                     6. Capim Grosso
3. Antonio Cardoso                             7. Filadelfia
4. Baixa Grande                                8. Itiuiba
5. Boa Vista do Tupim                          9. Jacobina
6. Candeal                                    10. Jaguarari
7. Capela do Alto Alegre                      11. Miguel Calmon
8. Cora,co de Maria                           12. Mirangaba
9. Feira de Santana                           13. Morro do Chapeu
10. Gaviao                                     14. Ourolandia
11. Ia,u                                       15. Pindobagu
12. Ibiquera                                   16. Ponto Novo
13. Ichu                                       17. Quixabeira
14. Ipecaeta                                   18. Sao Jos6 do Jacuipe
15. Ipira                                      19. Saude
16. Irara                                      20. Senhor do Bonfim
17. Itaberaba                                  21. Serrolandia
18. Itaete                                     22. Umburanas
19. Lajedinho                                  23. Varzea do Pogo
20. Macajuba                                   24. Varzea Nova
21. Mairi
22. Marcionilio Souza                           Rec6ncavo Sul Region
23. Mundo Novo                                  1. Amargosa
24. Nova Fatima                                 2. Brej6es
25. Pe de Serra                                 3. Cabaceiras do Paragua,u



-57-                           Annex 3
Page 6 of 6
4. Castro Alves                                26. Rio do Antonio
5. Elisio Medrado                              27. Sebastiao Laranjeiras
6. Governador Mangabeira                       28. Tanha,u
7. Itatim                                      29. Urandi
8. Milagres
9. Muritiba                                     Sudoeste
10. Nova Itarana                                 1. Anage
11. Santa Teresinha                              2. Barra do Choga
12. Santo Amaro                                  3. Belo Campo
13. Sapea,u                                      4. Boa Nova
14. Ubaira                                       5. Bom Jesus da Serra
15. Varzedo                                      6. Caatiba
7. Caetanos
Serra Geral Region                              8. Candido Sales
1. Aracatu                                      9. Carafbas
2. Brumado                                     10. Cravolandia
3. Cacule                                      11. Encruzilhada
4. Caetite                                     12. Irajuba
5. Candiba                                     13. Itaquara
6. Condeuba                                    14. Itirugu
7. Contendas do Sincora                        15. Itoror6
8. Cordeiros                                   16. Jaguaquara
9. Dom Basilio                                 17. Jequi6
10. Guageru                                     18. Lafaiete Coutinho
11. Guanambi                                    19. Lajedo do Tabocal
12. Ibiassuce                                  20. Maiquinique
13. Igapora                                    21. Manoel Vitorino
14. Itua,u                                      21. Maracas
15. Jacaraci                                    23. Mirante
16. Lagoa Real                                  24. Planaltino
17. Licinio de Almeida                         25. Planalto
18. Livramento do Brumado                       26. Po,oes
19. Maetinga                                    27. Ribeirao do Largo
20. Malhada de Pedras                           28. Santa Ines
21. Mortugaba                                   29. Tremedal
22. Palmas de Monte Alto                        30. Vit6ria da Conquista
23. Pindai
24. Piripa
25. Presidente Janio Quadros



- 58 -                        Annex 4
Page 1 of 4
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - BAHIA
Institutional Development
Project Coordinating Unit
1.        The State Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), responsible for project coordination
and administration, is the Companhia de Desenvolvimento e ACao Regional (CAR). A
decentralized agency of the Secretariat of Planning, Science and Technology (SEPLANTEC),
CAR has more than two decades of experience with rural development, having prepared
several of the integrated rural development projects financed under POLONORDESTE and
served as the Project Coordinating Unit for the NRDP since its inception in 1985. CAR
boasts a cadre of rural development professionals with significant field experience
accumulated throughout its long trajectory as an implementing agency for these Bank-
financed projects. CAR, as PCU, will have primary responsibility for project coordination
and administration, and will be the liaison with the Bank on disbursement matters. CAR will
prepare the project annual operating plans (POAs), having reviewed and consolidated the
POAs submitted by project Municipal Councils under the FUMAC-P pilot program (Annex
5), and will ensure timely and adequate availability of loan and state counterpart funds for
project implementation. CAR will appraise and approve all PAC subproject proposals,
review the technical proposals of FUMAC subprojects, and administer and release subproject
funds to beneficiary associations (for PAC and FUMAC) and annual budget envelopes to
FUMAC-P Municipal Councils. The expansion of the FUMAC and FUMAC-P
subcomponents will shift CAR's primary role to one of project monitoring and supervision,
and provision of technical advice and training to project Municipal Councils.
2.        The proposed project, building on the experience of the reformulated NRDP,
calls for increasingly decentralized action on the part of CAR, in order to efficiently and
effectively supervise the 282 municipalities included in the project and provide assistance and
training to project Municipal Councils and beneficiary associations across the state. As a
response to the demands of this project and others, CAR has created a new organizational
structure which devolves subproject appraisal and supervision functions to regional and local
offices, reporting directly to CAR's Executive Director. CAR is opening 11 new regional
offices, increasing their total number to 13, of which nine will be located in the project area.
Each regional office will include a project unit staffed with the following professionals:
office director, civil engineer or architect, agronomist, social sector specialist, and
administrative assistant. In addition, CAR has six local offices in the project area, each
staffed with project personnel including an office director, civil engineer or architect, and
construction technician. The consequent skill mix will permit the regional and local offices
to carry out various PCU responsibilities, once mostly centralized in the Salvador office, thus



-59-                         Annex 4
Page 2 of 4
streamlining the subproject cycle, facilitating trouble-shooting and monitoring of project
activities, and improving overall project coordination and implementation.
3.        While CAR has historically acted primarily in the rural sector, since 1991 it has
also assumed the responsibility for execution of State programs in other areas. In addition,
starting in 1995, CAR has become responsible for providing technical assistance to
municipalities, a role previously performed by a now-defunct State company, CEMUR.
CAR is currently preparing a municipal development project, the Bahia Municipal
Management (PRODUR) project, for World Bank financing. CAR's new organizational
structure creates a manageable framework which will enable the institution to perform its
wide-ranging activities. CAR will be divided into an Administrative Department, a Finance
Department and three operational Departments: (i) Regional Action (for rural development
programs); (ii) Municipal Action; and (iii) Urban Development. The proposed project falls
under the purview of the Regional Action department, while the Urban Development and
Municipal Action departments would implement PRODUR. This separation of technical
functions is maintained in CAR's regional and local offices as well, where distinct project
units will be in charge of rural and urban-oriented programs.
Municipal Councils
4.        Under FUMAC and FUMAC-P, project Municipal Councils will be responsible
for subproject approval and for technical and organizational assistance to beneficiary
associations in their respective communities. The project Councils comprise representatives
from the rural communities, civil groups and local organizations such as NGOs, churches,
and labor unions, and publicly-elected representatives and municipal government officials.
While the composition of the project Councils may vary from one municipality to another,
representatives from rural communities and the civil society must make up at least 80% of
the Councils' members. CAR will be represented in these Councils, but only in an advisory
capacity. The Municipal Councils receive subproject proposals from the communities and
through open public meetings, previously announced, build consensus at the local level on
priority investments to be financed under the project. Council decisions for the approval of
subprojects are subsequently made by majority of votes during the open meetings. The
project Councils then monitor and supervise the implementation of the approved subprojects.
Detailed criteria and guidelines for the structure and operation of the project Municipal
Councils are included in the Project Operational Manual, and assurances were provided by
the State Government at negotiations that these criteria and guidelines would be fully
observed during project implementation.
5.        The composition and decision-making procedures of the Municipal Councils will
be the same both under the FUMAC subcomponent and the FUMAC-P pilot subcomponent.
Nevertheless, in addition to the regular functions of project Councils, the FUMAC-P
Municipal Councils will also be responsible for administering subproject funds and releasing
them to the beneficiary associations. On the basis of POAs which they prepare for review
and approval by the PCU, the FUMAC-P Councils will receive an annual budget envelope



- 60 -                         Annex 4
Page 3 of 4
from which to finance subprojects. They would program and monitor the use of the funds
from this annual budget, and their consensus-building and priority-setting tasks therefore take
on the added dimension of allocation and rationalization of a fixed amount of resources.
Institutional Capacity Building
6.         Within a decentralized framework, the implementation capacity of the various
participating institutions -- beneficiary associations, Municipal Councils and CAR -- is central
to the success of the project. The Institutional Development component will finance
appropriate technical assistance and training in order that each group acquire the capabilities
needed to effectively perform their functions under the project. For example, beneficiary
associations will need accessible expertise on community organization and subproject
preparation and execution, as well as training in operation and maintenance techniques to
derive optimal benefit from subproject investments. Project Municipal Councils will require
assistance to orient their decision-making on resource allocation among community
investments and, in the FUMAC-P pilot program, to have adequate capacity for investment
planning and financial administration. In addition to providing or making available from
other sources a wide range of skilled technical and managerial advice to the project
Municipal Councils and beneficiary associations, CAR will need training to enhance its own
project management and supervision skills, particularly those of its regional and local offices.
7.         The instruments for achieving this capacity building would include a combination
of workshops, technical exchanges, on-site training, and more traditional technical assistance,
drawing upon local expertise within the state: technical and management consultants,
universities, NGOs, and other successful local service providers. As not all entities need the
same specific skills, CAR will develop a Capacity Building Program in a menu format which
lists potential areas of technical skills and other training and potential service providers for
each. The menu would package technical assistance and training into four categories: (a) a
basic introductory capacity-building program for project Municipal Councils, including
intensive training on the project philosophy, subproject cycle, role of the Municipal Councils,
and Operational Manual guidelines, among other themes; (b) specialized skills training for
CAR and the project Councils on a demand basis, including "on-the-job training" in areas
such as environmental assessment, monitoring techniques, and financial administration;
(c) assistance to communities and associations in identification of needs, subproject
preparation, implementation, and operation and maintenance; and (d) workshops and
seminars to exchange experience and disseminate project results.
8.         From this menu, CAR would develop and cost an annual training and assistance
program for its own staff, for project Municipal Councils and, under PAC, for beneficiary
associations. Also on an annual basis, the project Municipal Councils would plan specific
skills training and beneficiary training, using the menu as a guide but supplementing it with
particular needs when necessary, and submit this plan to CAR for costing and approval. For
each item in the program, CAR would help the project Councils to develop appropriate terms
of reference and program outlines, and in the identification and contracting of service



- 61 -                         Annex 4
Page 4 of 4
providers. In those instances in which a large number of beneficiary associations or
Municipal Councils need similar skills -- for example, budgeting and financial record keeping
for FUMAC-P Councils, or operation of irrigation subprojects for several beneficiary
associations -- CAR would organize intensive short training workshops at the state or
regional level on that subject or hire technical experts on a retainer contract to assist in a
series of training events across the state.
9.        The funds for institutional development will be administered by CAR. CAR will
contract all technical assistance and training for the PAC program and in cases of packaging
or upon request by the Municipal Councils within the FUMAC program. FUMAC and
FUMAC-P Municipal Councils may contract technical assistance and training for themselves
or beneficiary associations, with the assistance of CAR and on the basis of approved terms of
reference. CAR would monitor the use of institutional development funds by the project
Municipal Councils through review of statements of expenditure (SOEs) and periodic
supervision.



NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - BAHIA
Project Organizational Chart
pState Governor|
|           | ~~~Secretary of Planning|
l              S~~~~cience and Technology
(SEPLANTEC)
| ~CAR 
|Executive Director
|Executive Director|
| Legal Counsel |
Administrative    Finance       Urban Development                Regional Action             Municipal Action
Department       Department       Department                       Department                  Department
|Special   |   Regional  ||Special|
Programs       Projects       Projects
Division       Division       Division
REGIONAL
OFFICES (9)*
LOCAL
OFFICES (6)**
* REGIONAL OFFICES:             Brumado            Euclides Da Cunha           Irece
(9 in the Project Area)      Juazeiro           Feira de Santana             Jequie
Macauibas          Barreiras                   Jacobina                                  X
i  LOCAL OFFICES (6):           Tremendal          Serrinha                    Seabra
Cip6               Itaberaba                   Santa Ma. da Victoria



- 63 -                        Annex 5
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - BAHIA
The FIJMAC-P Pilot Program
Background
1.        Decentralization of decision-making and the transfer of project implementation
responsibilities from the State to the local (municipal and community) levels, started under the
reformulated NRDP, with the introduction of the community-based PAC and FUMAC programs,
will be further advanced in the proposed project. First, FUMAC coverage will expand
significantly under the project. Second, a further step towards decentralization will be taken
through a pilot program, FUMAC-P, which will promote the transfer of financial management
responsibilities to several FUMAC Municipal Councils.
2.        Generally, municipalities which have participated in FUMAC to date tend to be
those in which the environment for participatory decision-making is more favorable, which
distinguishes them from more traditionally-run municipalities with a strong "clientelistic"
approach. This environment has been the result of a conjunction of cultural/political factors,
such as the emergence of a movement for the development of civil society (usually induced by
religious organizations, NGOs and more recently by some political parties) and of a new
generation of more open-minded political leaders.
3.        Several important lessons have emerged from the FUMAC experience under the
reformulated NRDP. First, it has proved to be an efficient, transparent approach for identifying
and prioritizing, through local-level consensus building, multiple demands for investments by
needy communities. Second, it has provided the opportunity to experiment not only with
increased transfer of decision-making, including approval of subprojects, from the State-level
Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) to Municipal Councils representing communities, but also with
the management of community subproject funds by these very Councils. This experience is
reflected in the proposed project in the design of FUMAC and, in particular, FUMAC-P, where
the feasibility of financial management at the grassroots level will be tested.
FUMAC-P: Main Features
4.        The FUMAC-P pilot would account for about US$17 million -- or 10% of the total
base cost of the project -- over the five-year implementation period. If the approach proves
successful with the communities and meets its objectives of local-level investment selection,
execution and financial management, FUMAC-P would be expanded during project



- 64 -                        Annex 5
Page 2 of 3
implementation with funds initially earmarked for the FUMAC and PAC subcomponents (see
para. 10).
5.        Initially, the PCU would select FUMAC-P municipalities/communities from among
the best FUMAC performers under the ongoing NRDP, i.e. those with the best record in
administering and executing community subprojects. Additionally, other municipalities which
have a favorable environment for participatory work (extensive community organization,
municipal officials open to participative decision-making, etc.), and are interested and can
commit themselves to following project guidelines, could be included. There should also be
some indication that local capacity exists to manage financial resources, for instance in
communities or existing associations already managing small-scale businesses (on an individual
or group basis) and whose members could potentially form part of FUMAC-P Municipal
Councils. As the proposed project gets underway, and the FUMAC-P approach proves
successful, other well-performing FUMAC municipalities could gradually be upgraded into
FUMAC-P municipalities.
6.        Once the municipalities are selected, allocation of funds would be done based on a
number of criteria to which different weights will be assigned:
(a)  size of the municipality, in terms of both population and area;
(b)  ratio of rural to total population;
(c)  rate of indigence;
(d)  number and degree of dispersion of poor rural communities;
(e)  availability of public resources per capita;
(f)  number of subprojects approved under the reformulated NRDP (small discriminatory
factor);
(g)  performance in the previous year; and
(h)  willingness of the mayor (prefeito) to participate.
7.        FUMAC-P Municipal Councils would have the same composition and modes of
operation as FUMAC Municipal Councils (Annex 4). They would be responsible for:
(a)  assisting rural communities in identifying priority needs and translating them into
investment proposals;
(b)  screening and reviewing these proposals, and ensuring that they meet eligibility
criteria as contained in the Project Operational Manual;



- 65 -                       Annex 5
Page 3 of 3
(c)  monitoring and supervising, together with the PCU, the implementation of approved
subprojects;
(d)  providing, directly or through contracting, technical assistance and training to
beneficiary associations in the design and operation and maintenance of project-
financed investments;
(e)  managing subproject funds and transferring funds to beneficiary associations with
approved subprojects; and
(f)  preparing indicative annual operating plans (POAs) for review and approval by the
PCU. The POA would contain a list of community investment priorities, indicative
targets to be met, a tentative timetable, the indicative budget and the technical
assistance required to implement the proposed program. The PCU would review
and approve the POA at the end of the year preceding implementation.
8.        An agreement (convenio) between the PCU and the Municipal Council would
establish the terms and conditions as well as rights and obligations of each party with respect
to the release and use of the approved funds. These (both loan and state counterpart funds)
would be deposited into an account in a commercial bank, and would be withdrawn solely upon
formal order by the Municipal Council. The Council would screen community subproject
proposals on the basis of the approved POA and the funds made available by the PCU. An
agreement (convenio) between the Municipal Council and the beneficiary association would be
required.
9.        Supervision of the operations of the Municipal Councils would be the responsibility
of the PCU.
10.       A Mid-Term evaluation of the FUMAC-P program would be carried out by
independent evaluators. The basic purpose of this evaluation will be to assess performance
under the pilot program and, if necessary, to adjust its design and mechanisms in order to
improve its procedures and impact on beneficiaries. If the pilot program is found successful and
its expansion is justified, part of the PAC and FUMAC funds under the project could be
transferred to the FUMAC-P program.



- 66 -                         Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - BAHIA
Subproject Operation and Maintenance
1.        Although the reformulated NRDP has financed many of the same types of
community investments (e.g., manioc mills or small-scale rural water supply projects) that have
been supported under past programs or projects in the Northeast, one of its innovative features
has been to ensure that these investments are operated and maintained by the beneficiaries
themselves, thereby enhancing their sense of ownership and the prospects for sustainability of
the investments. Under the proposed project, this feature will be maintained and strengthened.
2.        Community associations will bear the primary responsibility for O&M for most
project-funded investments, and this provision will be included in the agreements (convenios)
with the associations. The relative responsibilities of the associations for O&M would vary
according to the type of investment. As a general rule, beneficiaries would be fully responsible
for operating and maintaining their own productive subprojects and some social subprojects, such
as day care centers or home improvements for health purposes (e.g. for chagas control). In the
case of schools or health posts rehabilitated under the project, and most infrastructure
subprojects, the responsibility for O&M would normally be shared between the communities and
the relevant State or municipal institution.  In exceptional cases of relatively complex
subprojects, beneficiary associations might contract private firms or NGOs to assist them in
O&M tasks.
3.        Based on experience under the reformulated NRDP, several types of arrangements
would be implemented in order to ensure the financial sustainability of project investments, as
follows:
(a)       Productive Subprojects (e.g., manioc and rice mills, clothes making, small-scale
irrigation schemes, farm machinery, etc.)
4.        Once a subproject has been approved for financing, the beneficiary association elects
a committee to be in charge of subproject implementation and management. This committee has
the task, among others, of determining the different dues and user fees to be charged to
association members (as well as to non-association members using project facilities), based on
estimated requirements for O&M and capital replacement or eventual expansion. User fees have
to be approved by all association members, and may be paid in cash, labor or kind, depending
on the particular situation. The committee is responsible for collecting the fees, placing them
in a "reserve fund", managing the reserve fund, and making payments for recurrent expenditures
such as electricity consumption, fuel, inputs, repairs, and employees' salaries.



- 67 -                         Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
(b)       Social Subprojects (e.g., day care centers, housing improvement, school or
health post rehabilitation)
5.        The degree of community involvement in the O&M of social subprojects depends
on the type of investment. In the case of subprojects related to public services, such as health
posts or schools, the municipality or relevant public/private entity could undertake O&M
following an agreement with the community. For other types of subprojects such as day care
centers or house improvement, the community will be responsible for O&M, each of the
community members contributing either financially or in the form of labor.
(c)       Infrastructure Subprojects (e.g., small bridges, water supply systems, fords,
road repairs)
6.        Different arrangements are to be followed for O&M of infrastructure subprojects.
In the case of services (e.g., water supply) connected to individual households, beneficiaries
could transfer the corresponding assets to the relevant state or municipal utility company, which
then undertakes O&M and recovers costs through user fees. Simplified water supply systems
(without connection to households) will be operated and maintained by the community itself,
which makes arrangements for collection of dues or fees from individual community members
to pay for O&M expenses. These arrangements are commonly found in the rural water supply
subprojects financed under the reformulated NRDP. For infrastructure subprojects such as
roads, bridges, and street paving, which serve a larger public, responsibility for O&M would
normally be shared with the municipality under agreement with the beneficiary association.



- 68 -                         Annex 7
Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - BAHIA
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation
Monitoring
1.        The establishment of an efficient project monitoring system will be instrumental in
following the progression of the investment program and ascertaining its consistency with project
objectives. Project implementation relies heavily on a decentralized system of decision-making
and management, and is driven by demand from rural community associations which is filtered
through a selection process based on established criteria. This process involves a large number
of small, diverse subprojects over an extensive geographic area. Hence, since the ex ante
determination of the pattern of project investment and other key parameters is not possible,
effective supervision depends on the existence of a capable monitoring system.
2.         The objectives of the project monitoring system are to:
(a)  provide information regarding the progress of the project and the status of the
subproject cycle in its different stages (e.g., subproject approval, procurement,
implementation and disbursement); and,
(b)  verify that project activities are consistent with the guidelines, targeting
methodology and selection criteria included in the Project Operational Manual.
3.        The project monitoring system would depend on a Management Information System
(MIS), created under the reformulated NRDP and to be refined under the project. The project
MIS is a data base which contains pertinent physical and financial information for each
subproject, organized in the following format: by program (PAC, FUMAC, and FUMAC-P);
by type (Infrastructure, Productive and Social subprojects); by Category (e.g., water supply,
transportation, energy, etc.); by sub-category, in particular for water supply subprojects (e.g.,
dams, wells, tanks, etc.); and by location (municipality, community and beneficiary association).
Information for the MIS is inputted from data sheets for each subproject, separated into three
modules which correspond to key steps of the subproject cycle: Module No. 1 would include
information for the subproject regarding its location, identification, and technical, social and
financial characteristics, as well as a set of indicators such as cost/capita, cost/m2, and other
relevant parameters. Module No. 1 data sheets would be partially completed at the time of
presentation of the subproject proposal and finalized after its appraisal. Module No. 2 data
sheets would include information regarding procurement procedures and contracting, and would
be completed after signature of the contract/convenio with the beneficiary association. Module



- 69 -                        Annex 7
Page 2 of 5
No. 3 data sheets would present disbursement data and would be updated at the time of each
payment installment to beneficiary associations and completed at the time of final installment at
the conclusion of subproject execution. The Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) would be
responsible for operating and maintaining the MIS and for providing the input corresponding to
PAC subprojects. The project Municipal Councils would be responsible for completing the data
sheets for FUMAC and FUMAC-P subprojects and, upon completion of each module, would
present them to the PCU which would subsequently update the MIS.
4.        Given the estimated number of subprojects to be financed during the five years of
project implementation, the MIS is an essential tool for directing the course of project
investment. Information from the MIS is also fundamental to measure compliance with and the
effectiveness of the project's targeting methodology. By monitoring the direction of project
benefits and types of subprojects being financed, the PCU and the Municipal Councils can
reorient investment incentives or make appropriate changes to the cost-sharing matrix, in
agreement with the Bank. Progress in meeting indicative investment targets set for certain types
of subprojects, such as subprojects with special environmental features, social subprojects and
subprojects which benefit women, will be tracked regularly with the MIS and the information
subsequently used to program technical assistance or promotion to corresponding groups. Cases
of mistargeting or misappropriation of funds--resources channeled outside the project area or for
ineligible investments--will be verified using the MIS in order for appropriate remedies to be
applied.
5.         Within the framework of the project monitoring system, the PCU and the project
Municipal Councils (under FUMAC and FUMAC-P) are responsible for supervising the
application of the guidelines from the Operational Manual in the development and
implementation of all subprojects. Using the information from the MIS, combined with field
visits and inputs from project-contracted studies and audits, the PCU and the Municipal Councils
would monitor project characteristics and trends, identify implementation problems and
accomplishments and undertake or promote appropriate actions to improve project
implementation. The MIS will also serve as a basis from which to derive Annual Operating
Plans (POAs), regulate implementation, and make necessary adjustments to the POAs and
corresponding budgets during the course of each fiscal year. The delineation of monitoring
responsibilities between the PCU and the Municipal Councils would be clearly reflected in the
Project Operational Manual.
Reporting
6.        The PCU is responsible for reporting on project progress to the Bank. Four types
of reports would be generated by the PCU and presented to the Bank:
(a)  a copy of the content of the MIS data base on diskette would be provided on a
monthly basis to the Bank's Field Office in Recife. The information from the MIS
will facilitate Bank supervision efforts and monitoring of the investment program;



- 70 -                        Annex 7
Page 3 of 5
(b)  an MIS-generated report which would include the updated status of project
implementation (USPI) and an updated list of subprojects with their physical,
procurement and disbursement status would be provided to the Bank's Field Office
in Recife at the same time that the statements of expenditure (SOEs) are sent to
Bank Headquarters. The USPI and subproject list will permit the Recife Office to
review the eligibility of subprojects presented for reimbursement;
(c)  a Semi-annual Project Progress Report, using standard formats agreed with the
Bank, would be presented by July 31 of each year of project implementation; and,
(d)  an Annual Report, would be presented by January 31 of each year of project
implementation. The Annual Report would use the standard formats from the semi-
annual report but would also include a comprehensive review of: (i) the status of
the project performance indicators and the specific activities of the institutional
development program; (ii) subproject appraisal indicators, the application of the
targeting methodology and subproject investment eligibility criteria, and other
implementation guidelines included in the Operation Manual;  and (iii) other
relevant analyses and recommendations from project-contracted studies and audits
which may be applied to improve project implementation.
Evaluation Studies
7.        The project would develop and implement a range of evaluation studies to measure
the impact of the subproject investments and to provide appropriate feedback to improve project
methodology and implementation. The PCU would be responsible for drafting Terms of
Reference (TORs), which would form part of the Project Operational Manual, and contracting
local and other consulting services, both steps in agreement with the Bank, for the following
studies:  (a) annual physical performance reviews; (b) a Mid-Term  Review; and (c) a
comprehensive impact evaluation. These studies are described below. During the course of
project implementation, the PCU may also identify other needed evaluation studies which can
be financed under the project in agreement with the Bank.
8.        Annual Physical Performance Reviews. The objective of the Physical Performance
Review (PPR) is to evaluate the success of investments financed by the project, in terms of their
achievement of specific subproject objectives, and the quality, efficiency, and sustainability of
the investments. For each subproject included in the sample, the study would focus on the
following points:  (a) the adequacy of the physical design in relation to the subproject's
objective; (b) the quality and cost of subproject execution; (c) the efficiency of procurement
procedures used; and (e) the targeting of project benefits. The PPR would provide indication
of the effectiveness of community-based procurement; compliance with and/or needed
adjustments to cost indicators and other physical/financial appraisal indicators and to the
Standard Designs included in the Operational Manual; and the quality of project investments and
the profile of distribution of project benefits. The PPR will also be an important input to the
project's Mid-Term Review and to project Annual Reports.



- 71 -                       Annex 7
Page 4 of 5
9.        The PPR will be conducted on the basis of TORs agreed with the Bank and included
in the Operational Manual. The first PPR will be conducted in 1997 for a sample of subprojects
representative of the 1996 investment program (PAC, FUMAC, and FUMAC-P). To conduct
the PPR, the PCU would: (i) establish, with Bank agreement, the sample of subprojects to be
reviewed; (ii) supply counterparts to the independent consultants contracted by the PCU to
implement the study; (iii) participate in the diagnosis and generation of appropriate
recommendations; and (iv) incorporate the recommendations into the implementation of the
project. Subsequent PPRs would be conducted in 1998, 1999 and 2000 for the exercises
corresponding to 1997, 1998 and 1999, respectively, and would review physical performance
issues identified during the first PPR and monitor improvements. TORs for the remaining PPRs
would be agreed with the Bank by no later than December 31 of each previous corresponding
year.
10.       Mid-Term Review. The purpose of the Mid-Term Review is to assist the State
Government, the PCU and the Bank in the identification of positive experiences and
implementation problems and bottlenecks, in order to recommend needed modifications to
project methodology and procedures for incorporation during the second half of the project
implementation period. Among the various aspects of project implementation to be reviewed,
the Mid-Term Review would evaluate the efficiency and impact of the different subcomponents
(PAC, FUMAC and FUMAC-P), the effectiveness of institutional development activities, the
level of community participation, and the ability of the project to target and reach the poor. The
Mid-Term Review would be carried out in 1998 by independent consultants, under TORs and
contracting procedures agreed with the Bank. Inputs to the Mid-Term Review would include:
the semi-annual and annual reports, MIS-generated analyses and reports, results of the PPRs,
recommendations from project external and internal audit reports, and additional reviews or
studies contracted by the PCU.
11.       Project ImWact Evaluation. In addition to the previously mentioned two studies,
which focus primarily on issues of subproject implementation, the project would finance a series
of three (baseline, mid-term and final) evaluations which measure the socio-economic impact of
the subproject investments. This comprehensive evaluation, based on a random sample survey
of representative subproject types, would select important socio-economic indicators, such as
employment, income, health, and education, and measure the impact of subproject investments
on these indicators and consequently the impact of the project on the quality of life of the
beneficiary population. The evaluation would also relate impact back to specific aspects of the
project in order to identify those conditions or activities which have resulted in positive impacts.
The indicators would be identified and measured during the baseline evaluation in the first year
of project implementation, and monitored thereafter in the Mid-Term impact evaluation (during
the third year of implementation) and in the final evaluation at the conclusion of implementation.
The impact evaluation would be carried out by independent consultants and contracted under
TORs and procedures acceptable to the Bank. If under the new project the same patterns
continue, as under the reformulated NRDP (Annex 2), the productive subprojects could result
in the creation of about 75,000 new jobs and could generate net incremental income per
beneficiary family of about US$280 per year. About 300,000 families would have increased
access to safe water. These projections are, however, only illustrative and are not targets, since



- 72 -                         Annex 7
Page 5 of 5
the project will be entirely demand-driven, and therefore community preferences could vary
significantly.
Implementation Plan and Project Performance Indicators
12.       The implementation plan and project performance indicators for each project
component over the five-year implementation period are shown in Table 7.1 at the end of this
annex. Given the demand-driven nature and flexibility of the project, these indicators are mostly
indicative targets. They can be expected to be achieved at least in the initial year of the project,
but may well develop somewhat differently in subsequent years, particularly in terms of the
proportion that each main category of subprojects (infrastructure, social or productive) would
represent out of the total investments financed by the project.



NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - BAHIA
Project Performance Indicators and Implementation Plany
Project Components and Activities         Responsible Institution         Unit          PYO       PYl       PY2       PY3      PY4       PY5      Total
A. Community Subproiects
Subprojects Implemented'                       Beneficiary Associations        No.                     1710      1710      1710   1710      1710      8550
-Infrastructure                                      '                     No.                     1180      1180      1180   1180     1180       5900
-Social                                                                    No.                      100       100       100    100      100        500
-Productive                                                                No.                      430       430       430    430      430      2150
Beneficiaries
-Total3'                                                                 Families                 68        68        68        68       68        340
('000)
-Total                                                                   People                  340       340       340       340      340       1700
('000)
-women as % of productive                                                   %                     30        30        30        30       30         30
subproject beneficiaries
Community Association.'                             Beneficiary
Associations           No. (cum.)               1540      2350      2820      2820    2820       2820
Municipalities Assisted                                PCU                  No. (cum.)                154      235       282       282      282        282
Municipal Councils
-FUMAC                                                                 No. (cum.)                 45       105       152       152      152        152
-FUMAC-P                                                               No. (cum.)                 10        31        31        31       31        31
B. Institutional DeveloDment
Preparation of annual program of technical        PCU, Municipal
assistance and training                               Councils
(i) PCU                                                                     No.                      I         I         I         I        1         5
(ii) Municipal Councils                                                      No.                    55       136       183       183      183       740
No. of workshops/seminars for
- Beneficiaries 5'                                                         No.                   154        81        47         --      --       282
- Project Municipal Councils '                                             No.                    11        16        10        --       --        37
(FUMAC and FUMAC-P)
- FUMAC-P Municipal Councils only                                          No.                     2        16         --       --       --         18



Project Components and Activities        Responsible Institution         Unit          PYO      PYl       PY2       PY3      PY4       PY5    Total
No. of courses 2' offered to:
- Beneficiary associations 8'                                             No.                   154       235       282      282      282       1235
- Project Municipal Councils                                              No.                    55       136       183      183      183       740
(FUMAC and FUMAC-P) 2'
- FUMAC-P Municipal Councils only 2'                                      No.                    10        31        31       31       31        134
- PCU staff                                                               No.                     2         2         2        2        2         10
C. Proiect Administration,
Monitoring and
Evaluation
Special Account                                        PCU                                   x
Publicity Campaign                                     PCU
-Presentation to Bank                                                                   x
-Campaign Launched                                                                                x                  x
Operational Manual                                     PCU                    No.
-Preparation                                                                            x
-Review and Adjustments (with Bank                                                                x        x         x         x
approval)
Standard Designs
-Preparation                                      PCU                     No.           15       25        --        --       --       --        40
-Review and Updating                                                                                       x         x         x
Annual Operating Plans (POAs)
-Preparation of POA for FUMAC-P                 FUMAC-P
Councils                                        10        31       31        31    31          134
-Consolidation and Preparation                    PCU                                             I         1         1        1    1             5
of Project POA
Monitoring Reports (sent to Bank)
-Monthly Disbursement                             PCU                     No.                    12        12        12       12.      12        60
Summaries and updating of
MIS database
-Annual/Semi-annual Reports                       PCU                     No.                     2         2        2         2        2        10
-External Audits                                  PCU                     No.                     I         I         I        I        1         5
_ -



Project Components and Activities         Responsible Institution         Unit          PYO      PYl        PY2      PY3       PY4       PY5    Total
Evaluation Studies
-Physical Performance Reviews                      PCU                     No.                                1         1        1         1         4
-Mid-Term Review                                   PCU                     No.                                          1                            1
-Impact Evaluation                                 PCU                     No.
(i) Baseline                                                                                    1                                                 1
(ii) Mid-Term                                                                                                     1                               I
(iii) Final                                                                                                                              1         1
1.  Because of the demand-driven nature and flexibility of the project, these targets are indicative and will be re-assessed during the Mid-Term Review.
2.  Based on average costs of approved subprojects in each category in Bahia.
3.  Estimated on the basis of 40 beneficiary families per subproject.
4.  About 10 associations per project municipality (based on NRDP-Bahia experience)
5.  At least I initial workshop for all communities within each project municipality.
6.  1 workshop for 5 new Municipal Councils.
7.  Specializes skills training.
8.  I basic training course initially and at least I specialized skills training course per year subsequently for groups of 10 associations.
9. 1 basic training course initially and at least I specialized skills training course per year subsequently for each Municipal Council.
-J



BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - BAHIA
Annual Phasing of Project Costs by Component
(US$ million)
Project Component                                       Totals Including Contingencies
1996       1997       1998       1999       2000       Total
A. Community Subprojects
1. FUMAC                                              17.2        17.2       17.2       17.2       17.2        86.0
2. FUMAC-P                                              3.4        3.4        3.4        3.4        3.4        17.0
3. PAC                                                 11.3       11.3       11.4       11.4        11.4       56.8
Subtotal                                                  31.9       31.9        32.0       32.0       32.0      159.8
B. Institutional Development                               1.4        1.4         1.4        1.4        1.3        6.9
(Technical Assistance and Training)
C. Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation       1.0        1.0         1.0        1.0        1.0        5.0
TOTAL BASELINE COST                                       34.3       34.3        34.4       34.4       34.3      171.7
Physical Contingencies                                 0.2         0.2        0.2        0.2        0.2         1.0
Price Contingencies                                    0.0         0.1        0.2        0.6         1.4        2.3             00 x
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                        34.5       34.6        34.8       35.2       35.9      175.0



- 77 -                              Annex 8
Table 8.2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - BAHIA
Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Project Component                            Amounts to be Financed by
State
Government/
Total Cost   IBRD       Municipalities    BeneficiariesO'
A. Community Subprojects
1. FUMAC
Subprojects                            86.0        50.5          26.9              8.6
Technical Assistance and Training       2.2          2.2          0.0              0.0
Subtotal                                  88.2        52.7          26.9              8.6
2. FUMAC-P
Subprojects                             17.0        10.0          5.3              1.7
Technical Assistance and Training        1.0         1.0          0.0              0.0
.............................................................................................................................................
Subtotal                                  18.0        11.0           5.3              1.7
3. PAC
Subprojects                            56.8        33.3          17.8              5.7
Technical Assistance and Training        1 .3        1 .3          0.0             0.0
Subtotal                                  58.1        34.6          17.8              5.7
B. Institutional Development                   2.4         2.4           0.0              0.0
(Technical Assistance and Training)
C. Project Administration, Monitoring          5.0         1.8           3.2             0.0
and Evaluation
TOTAL BASELINE COST                          171.7       102.5          53.2             16.0
Physical Contingencies                     1.0         0.8           0.2              0.0
Price Contingencies                        2.3         1.7           0.6              0.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTt'                         175.0       105.0          54.0             16.0
a/ Minimum contribution.
b/ Including about US$7.2 million of taxes and duties not financed by IBRD.



- 78 -                              Annex 8
Table 8.3
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - BAHIA
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Category                        Item and % of Expenditures                         Total Amount
(US$ Million)
I.        Community Subproiects
(59% of expenditures)
A. FUMAC                                                                45.4
B. FUMAC-P                                                               9.0
C. PAC                                                                  30.0
II.        Institutional Development, including Technical Assistance and             8.8
Training and Evaluation Studies
(100% of expenditures)
III.       Project Administration and Monitoring System                              1.4
(20% of expenditures)
IV.         Unallocated                                                             10.4
TOTAL                                                                  105.0



- 79 -                             Annex 8
Table 8.4
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - BAHIA
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
(US$ million)
Bank           Quarter             Disbursement       Cumulative Disbursement    Balance
Fiscal         Ending                 During                                         of
Year                                 Quarter            Amount    % of Total       Loan
1996       March 31, 1996                ---            ---          ---          105.0
June 30, 1996                 16.0a'         16.0         15.2         89.0
1997       Sept. 30, 1996                 5.0           21.0         20.0         84.0
Dec. 31, 1996                  5.0           26.0         24.8         79.0
March 31, 1997                 5.0           31.0         29.5         74.0
June 30, 1997                  5.0           36.0         34.3         69.0
1998       Sept. 30, 1997                 5.0           41.0         39.0         64.0
Dec. 31, 1997                  5.0           46.0         43.8         59.0
March 31, 1998                 5.0           51.0         48.6         54.0
June 30, 1998                  6.0           57.0         54.3         48.0
1999       Sept. 30, 1998                 7.0           64.0         61.0         41.0
Dec. 31, 1998                  5.0           69.0         65.7         36.0
March 31, 1999                 5.0           74.0         70.5         31.0
June 30, 1999                  5.0           79.0         75.2         26.0
2000       Sept. 30, 1999                 5.0           84.0         80.0          21.0
Dec. 31, 1999                  5.0           89.0         84.8         16.0
March 31, 2000                 5.0           94.0         89.5         11.0
June 30, 2000                  6.0          100.0         95.2          5.0
2001       Sept. 30, 2000                 2.5          102.5         97.6           2.5
Dec. 31, 2000                  2.5          105.0        100.0          0.0
a! Including the authorized allocation of US$7.0 million into Special Account.



- 80 -                           Annex 9
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - BAHIA
Project Operational Manual (Outline)
The Operational Manual would have the following table of contents:
1.    Introductory Remarks
II.    The Organization of the Manual
III.   The Project
A.    Objectives
B.    Strategy
C.    Targets
D.    Project Area
E.    Components
F.    Eligibility criteria
1.    Compliance with poverty targeting methodology
2.     Consistency with standard technical designs
3.    Consistency with financial/cost parameters
4.     Socio-economic evaluation
5.     Environmental assessment
G.    Operational guidelines
1.    Project coordination
2.     FUMAC
3.    FUMAC-P
4.    PAC
5.    The subproject cycle: identification, preparation, submission,
evaluation, implementation, conclusion, technical assistance, operation
and maintenance
6.    Procurement
7.    Cost-sharing matrix
8.     Fund release and statements of expenditure
9.    Operational Checks and Balances
10.   Monitoring and evaluation



- 81-                            Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
Annexes:
A.    Standard subproject designs
B.    Standard agreements
C.    Standard forms (for proposal submittal, ata de recebimento, etc.)
D.    Guidelines for FUMAC and FUMAC-P Municipal Councils
E.    Management Information System (MIS) and reporting
F.    Flow of funds and statements of expenditure
G.    Project administration
H.    Technical assistance, training and studies



- 82 -                         Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - BAHIA
Supervision Plan
1.        The principal responsibility for supervision of the Rural Poverty Alleviation Project
will rest with the State Government through the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU), and with the
Bank through its Recife Office in conjunction with staff from Headquarters. The Municipal
Councils will also supervise the execution of community subprojects within their respective
municipalities. International agencies, such as IICA or FAO, are expected to play an important
role in performing supervision activities which require specific expertise. Selected NGOs may
also be contracted by the State or the FUMAC-P Municipal Councils to assist with supervision
activities and evaluation of the status of community organization and mobilization.
2.         Supervision will be performed at two levels: at the project level, where the PCU
will monitor global trends across all project municipalities; and, at the subproject level, where
the PCU field staff and the project Municipal Councils will monitor the performance of
individual subprojects. The PCU will set up a team to supervise subproject progress on a
continuous basis. This team will consist of staff from the PCU Headquarters, the 9 Regional
Offices and 6 Local Offices located in the Project Area. At the project level, the State's
responsibilities for project supervision are: (i) to focus on global project implementation and
administration; and (ii) to review activities of the FUMAC and FUMAC-P Municipal Councils.
Supervision of project Municipal Councils by the PCU  will focus on:  the Councils'
composition, to ensure satisfactory beneficiary representation; the frequency and openness of
Councils' meetings; and their effectiveness in providing assistance to the beneficiary
communities. In addition to these points, the PCU's supervision of the FUMAC-P Municipal
Councils, in particular, will focus on the criteria applied to screen and prioritize subproject
proposals and the administrative and financial arrangements made by the Councils to effectively
control and release project funds to the community associations.
3.        At the subproject level, the field staff of the PCU, together with the corresponding
Municipal Councils, will carry out the following subproject supervision tasks: (i) verification
of the status and quality of subproject implementation (PAC by the PCU and FUMAC and
FUMAC-P by corresponding Municipal Councils); (ii) assessment of community participation
in the identification, preparation and execution of subprojects; (iii) evaluation of the extent to
which communities are organized to undertake the operation and maintenance of the investments;
and (iv) determination of whether communities satisfy the targeting criteria.  Information
collected during supervision, including indicators of subproject implementation performance and



- 83 -                        Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
identification of principal bottlenecks or problems, will be incorporated into the standard data
sheets completed by the PCU and Municipal Councils for each subproject (Annex 7).
4.        Based on the information collected at the project and subproject levels, the PCU will
prepare and submit to the Bank semi-annual and annual reports on the overall financial and
physical status of project implementation and performance. The PCU will also provide the
Bank's Recife Office with copies of all SOEs and reimbursement applications when these are
submitted to Bank Headquarters (Annex 7).  In addition, the PCU will present the Annual
Operating Plan (POA) and corresponding budget for each subsequent fiscal year of
implementation to the Bank for its review and comment.
5.        The Bank will carry out at least two regular supervision missions per year. Regular
supervision will entail: (i) a discussion of project implementation problems identified by the
PCU; (ii) field visits to a random sample of community subprojects; and (iii) a review of the
performance of all project components, and particularly an intensive assessment of the FUMAC-
P pilot program, to address problems and make appropriate recommendations. In addition,
based on frequent communication with the PCU, the Recife Office will conduct short supervision
missions to address problems which require prompt attention. Also, in view of the diversity of
community subprojects, consultants of different expertise would be contracted to provide
occasional input and advice to Bank missions. Two full supervision reports will be issued
annually, as well as Back-to-Office Reports for each short supervision mission. It is estimated
that about 75 staff-weeks will be required for project supervision, or about 15 staff-weeks
annually during the five years of project implementation.
6.        The schedule of project supervision is as follows:
(a)  by July 31 and January 31 of each year, presentation of semi-annual and annual
reports from the PCU to the Bank;
(b)  by May and November of each year, full Bank supervision missions completed;
(c)  by October 30 of each year, presentation of the POA for the subsequent year to the
Bank for review and comment by November 15.



- 84 -                        Annex 11
Page 1 of 1
BRAZIL
NORTHEAST RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT - BAHIA
List of Documents Available in Project Files
1.   Boletim Conjuntural--Nordeste do Brasil: 1994, Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento
do Nordeste (SUDENE)/ Funda,co Joaquim Nabuco (FUNDAJ), 1994.
2.   Brazil: NRDP and a Possible Follow-Up Program, draft, FAO/CP, February 1995.
3.   Censo Demografico 1991: Resultados do Universo Relativos as Caracteristicas da
Popula,co e dos Domicilios--Bahia, Numero 17, IBGE, 1991.
4.   Censo Demografico 1991: Resultados do Universo Relativos as Caracteristicas da
Populac,io e dos Domicilios--Brasil, Numero 1, IBGE, 1991.
5.   0 Mapa da Fome, IPEA, three volumes, 1993.
6.   Municipios Brasileiros--Criancas e suas Condi,ces de Sobrevivencia, UNICEF/IBGE,
1994.
7.   Projeto de Desenvolvimento Municipal Sustentavel, ARIDAS, October 1994.
8.   Safety Nets and Social Funds to Alleviate Poverty: Performance Problems and Policy
Options, Issues Note, UNCTAD, October 29, 1993.
9.   A Study of Popular Participation in the Brazil Northeast Rural Development Program
(NRDP-PAPP), Conrad Kottak, February 7, 1994 (Draft).



-BRD 269A7
46'                            4                               42-                             00                              JR
BRAZIL                        A U i/                                                                                            Pon, rAPIAUALAGOAS
lo             ~ ~~~~B R A Z I L                                   !3                                                              .    ,Sobraodnho           -,o 
RURAL POVERTY
ALLEVIATION PROJECT
BAHIA
Z      j\  2  \       \ <I                  e             f9/          _    qlKCm                  M    0\   I   t          TK>WO  N    \iE  SERGIPE
U,~~~~~~~~~~2
PROJECT AREA ROUNDARY                        0
*      REGIONAL OFFICES               1-
*      LOCAL OFFICES
I 2'   -.        ~~AVERAGE ANNUAL RAINFALL IN MILLIMETERS             (n,o
CLIMATIC ZONES
HUMID
SEMI-ARID
o      SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                           _ 1ALVADOR
MAIN ROADS                                                                                         B.J.
  STATE CAPITAL                                     l                                                   .LP
'TATE BOUNDARIES                                                                                V.16-
I4'                                                                     0                                                                                                                                                       1A4
0t vij4Li 4,, A T L /A ,T'
COLO11A \    *    I       1          At(InEiC OCean,
\ ~ ~~~          ~~~~ 4  / r- s'  _                                                                                                                   /      ~         >                 Canaa,.ars
J   AMAZONAS    /   PARA                                                                              M  I N  A S    G  E R A  I S                                                                                           16'
< AChEi -  A 7  P,<IrCl                                                                                          Olont                ,  ,J           X}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,,T
t-t    --l    \   B R A  Z I1 L -  -      S                                                                                                                                               olossr
PERU       "*9 _   )   MATO    '-1       A0  0                                       sE       R    1I50    200
(St DOIIVIAI\-5 ~(   'L )                                    KILOMETERS
BOLIVIA
-1      SASO >      G                         Eloondar.,, nolan,, d.nnoirn, and any oher 6Ianoa.on . .  --y
~-510  /-Oz                             *h... a- hn, nap do -a-pin, Iy anp. panti IA. waHd -AM GnaUp
\,-r1~~~~~~~~. ~~~~~                             an~~~y iadga.., -n h. Ipa lm  ayMnl,y nayenasmn
CHII;) E J  ~        8;^NAEJ                                       or          15cep . f .i-h ba-nd.,-es
L        ;,QgnA  A,IatI-fNn O-ea
ARENI   !1a                                                                                                                                                                                                     18  l  l
fl  ARGENtINA   /-ZO0S  -                    -L THEAST REGION
-                    I<  r   -            BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                  ESP;RITO
_   ONnREfS A2 42'                                                                                                               SANTO  ,o lo v,- ,8,
IUNE I 95









IMAGING
Report No:        143?O BR
Type: SAR



