Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23395
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-39 170)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$105.0 MILLION
TO THE
STATE OF BAHIA
FOR A
RURAL POVERTY ALLEVIATION PROJECT
December 21, 2001
ESSD Sector Management Unit
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2001)
Currency Unit = Real
R$1.00 = US$ 0.44
US$ 1.00 = R$2.23
FISCAL YEAR
(State of Bahia)
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APCR               Program of Support to Small Rural Communities (original NRDP)
CAR                Bahia State Regional Development Company (TU)
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CDD                Community-driven Development
CERB               Bahia State Water Company
COELBA             Bahia State Electricity Company
EMATER             Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Agency
FAO/CP             World Bank/FAO Cooperative Program
FUMAC              Municipal Community Schemes
FUMAC-P            Pilot Municipal Comnmunity Funds
IICA               Inter.-American Institute for Cooperation in Agriculture
IRR                Internal Rate of Return
MIS                Management Information System
NGO                Non-Governmental Organization
NRDP               Northeast Rural Development Program/Project
O&M                Operation and Maintenance
PAC                State Community Schemes
POA                Annual Operating Plan
R-NRDP             Reformulated Northeast Rural Development Program/Project
SEPLANTEC          State Secretariat for Planning, Science and Technology
SOE                Statements of Expenditure (Prestaqdo de Contas)
TU                 Technical Unit
Vice President:   David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   Vinod Thomas
Sector Manager/Director:   John Redwood
Task Team Leader.   Luis 0. Coirolo



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
Rural Poverty Alleviation - Bahia
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    13
6. Sustainability                                                                        14
7. Bank and Borrower Perfornance                                                         15
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       18
9. Partner Comments                                                                      21
10. Additional Information                                                               22
Annex 1. Key Performnance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    23
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                     35
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                        36
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                    37
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P0357 17                                        Project Name: Rural Poverty Alleviation - Bahia
Team Leader: Luis 0. Coirolo                                TL Unit. LCSER
ICR Type: Core ICR                                          Report Date. December 21, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Rural Poverty Alleviation - Bahia                L/C/TF Number.- CPL-39170
Country/Department: BRAZIL                                                 Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector. AY - Other Agriculture
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  03/09/1995                                Efftctive:                     04/17/1996
Appraisal:  04115/1995                                 MTR: 09/30/1998             03/15/1999
Approval:  06/29/1995                                Closing:  12/31/2000          06/30/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency:  State of Bahia/Bahia State Regional Development Company (CAR) of the State
Secretariat of Planning
Other Partners:  Municipal Councils and Community Associations
STAFF                 Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:       David de Ferranti                          Javed Burki
Country Manager:      Vinod Thomas                                Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager:       Mark Cackler                                Constance Bernard
Team Leader at ICR:   Luis 0. Coirolo                             Luis 0. Coirolo
ICR Primary Author:   Anna F. Roumani; supported by
project Task Manager; Raimundo
Caminha (LCSRE) and Brazil
Northeast Team
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUJN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)         ICR
Quality at Entry:                          S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of the Rural Poverty Alleviation Project (RPAP), as stated in the Loan Agreement
were to "assist the Borrower's efforts to alleviate rural poverty in the Municipalities by: (a)
providing basic social and economic infrastructure and employment- and income-generating
opportunities; (b) supporting rural communities in planning and implementing their own
subprojects; (c) providing a safety net for the rural poor; and (d) leveraging revenue mobilization
at the community and municipal levels." The project was part of the Bank's Program of Targeted
Interventions. Accurate poverty targeting and the direct, reliable transfer of funds to the poorest
communities, combined with promoting decentralized decision-making to State, municipal and
local levels were important complementary objectives.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The project had three main components: (a) Community Subprojects (US$159.8 million or 93%
of total base cost), supporting small scale investments of up to US$50,000, selected,
implemented, operated and maintained by the beneficiaries themselves; (b) Institutional
Development (US$6.9 million, 4% of total base cost), providing implementing entities and
communities with technical assistance and training to increase their capacity and improve
implementation of the project; and (c) Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation
(US$3.5 million, 3% of total base cost), financing project coordination and activities to generate
feedback on project performnance and impact. These components represented an appropriate set
of actions to achieve project objectives and to benefit directly 1.7 million poor rural people. Table
1 shows project components with cost at appraisal and actual expenditure at Closing. Project
cost was lower than estimated at appraisal due mainly to the effects of the increase in Bank-cost
sharing from 60% to 75% (see 3.4) and progressive devaluation of the Brazilian Real/US Dollar
exchange rate starting from 1999.
Table 1. Comparison of Cost at Appraisal and Actual Expenditures
Rating         Component         Total Cost Est. at   Expenditures at
Appraisal          Closing
(US$mill.)       (US$mill.)
S        A. Community Subprojects    159.8 of which:  145.8 of which:
S           FUMAC                      86.0               73.1
S           FUMAC-P                     17.0              10.3
S           PAC                        56.8               62.4
S        B. Institutional Development   6.9               5.6
S        C. Project Administration,     5.0               3.3
Monitoring and Evaluation
Physical and price             3.3               3.3
contingencies:
175.0            158.0
-2 -



3.4 Revised Components:
Project components were not revised. However, there were several amendments to the Loan
Agreement, as follows: (i) Loan Agreement amended to include funds for technical assistance to
identify and implement a state reform program in line with similar provisions in other RPAP
projects approved after Bahia (April 1997); (ii) Project area modified to include newly-established
municipalities (March 1998); (iii) Bank share increased, at the request of the State Government,
from 60% to 75%, in line with financing provisions of other participating RPAP states (effective
March 12,1999); (iv) at the same time, US$9.4 million were reallocated from Category 4
(Unallocated) to Category 1 (c) PAC Grants; and (v) Closing Date extended from December 31,
2000 to June 30, 2001.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Appraisal of this project pre-dated the QAG. Quality at entry is rated Satisfactory by this ICR.
In both conceptual and design terms, the project was the culmination of several decades of rural
development efforts in Northeast Brazil, the LAC region more generally and elsewhere. The
Brazilian experience is by now well-documented (see list, Annex 7). The project featured
participatory, demand-driven mechanisms for the development of poor rural communities,
successfully piloted under the preceding reformulated Northeast Rural Development Program
(R-NRDP, 1993-1997).
Project objectives were appropriate in view of: (i) the severity of poverty and deprivation
affecting some 2.8 million rural people in Bahia, the largest state in the Northeast with 70% of the
its area falling within the "drought polygon", where agriculture is dominated by subsistence
farming of low productivity, and where some 34% of rural families earn one minimum wage or
less per month (about US$70); (ii) the State Govermment's declared strategy to combat rural
poverty by providing the physical infrastructure and network of services needed to improve
quality of life, generate sustainable employment to survive periodic drought and stem migration to
urban centers; (iii) the success, observed and measured, of the community-based mechanisms,
tested at full-scale under the R-NRDP, in improving the well-being and social capital of the rural
poor in Bahia and other Northeast states; (iv) their consistency with the Brazil CAS (1993), which
called, inter alia, for proper targeting and delivery of basic services to the poor, to reduce poverty
and inequity; and (v) demonstrated commitment of the State and exceptionally strong demand for
project investments from rural communities.
The approach represented a marked shift from several decades of rural development programs in
the Northeast which, while piloting important sectoral initiatives, had only limited impact on rural
poverty. Delivery mechanisms relied exclusively on Federal and state bureaucracies, counterpart
funding was erratic and barely one-third of project funds reached intended beneficiaries. The new
approach - piloted as a small component of the Northeast Rural Development Project (NRDP)
and converted, by reformulation of the NRDP in 1993, to the template for poverty projects with
greater impact, cost-effectiveness and sustainability -- has five guiding principles: (i) place money
for implementing approved subprojects directly into the hands of the beneficiary communities; (ii)
decentralize decision-making and involve local authorities as participants;(iii) maintain transparent
- 3 -



decision-making at all levels; (iv) stress community participation in planning, financing, executing,
operating and maintaining the investments; and (v) use simple, explicit and monitorable poverty
targeting mechanisms. The approach is administratively simple, dispensing with intermediary
agencies and the bureaucratic/coordination stresses of its predecessors, thus ensuring that about
93% of project funds are used for direct subproject investment, with the remainder focused
mainly on providing technical assistance for those same communities.
The methodology employs three mechanisms of increasing decentralization to screen, approve and
implement community requests for financing - PAC, FUMAC and FUMAC-P. Under PAC
(State Community Schemes), rural communities submit investment proposals directly to the State
Technical Unit (TU), which screens and approves them, releasing funds to the beneficiary
associations; with FUMAC (Municipal Community Schemes) decision-making on investment
proposals is delegated by the State to project Municipal Councils, representative bodies
comprising 80% community members and local civil society and 20% municipal authorities.
Councils discuss and establish priorities and approve community proposals. Reviewed by the TU
for consistency with the Operational Manual, proposals are then funded, with disbursement
directly to the community association bank account. Councils monitor and supervise subproject
execution. FUMAC-P (Pilot Municipal Community Funds) is a more decentralized variant of
FUMAC piloted under the RPAP. With an annual budget envelope established by the TU on the
basis of clear criteria (rural population, poverty levels, previous year's performance), Councils
submit an Annual Operating Plan (POA) for TU review. Approval releases budget to the Council
which is responsible for managing its distribution to beneficiary associations and assisting with
subproject implementation. The State Technical Unit (CAR) concentrates on monitoring,
technical assistance and supervision.
Design of the Bahia project adhered to lessons from the predecessor R-NRDP, expanded
successfully-piloted features and introduced further innovations and improvements. The project
mainstreamed the FUMAC Municipal Councils (a pilot under the R-NDRP), and introduced the
pilot municipal funds component (FUMAC-P) giving greater control over budget resources to
selected, high-performing FUMAC Councils; systematized beneficiary targeting and transparency
with incentives/penalties based on performance; introduced an improved MIS (with data sent
regularly to the Bank via internet) to support proper targeting, monitoring and evaluation, and
project management; introduced an Operational Manual with technical and financial parameters;
and funded technical assistance to support mobilization and organization, build capacity and
encourage participation of NGOs and other local entities. This was fiurther reinforced by intensive
supervision, standardized subproject design and cost parameters, publicity/information campaigns,
cost-sharing requirements for the state government and beneficiaries and best practice exchanges
with other states and between participating entities (FUMAC Councils, community associations).
Experience in Brazil and elsewhere showed that the main sources of risk for rural poverty projects
were irregular funding, technical weaknesses/over-design and inadequate supervision,
mis-targeting of resources and overly centralized decision-making. The Bahia project reflected
prudent measures to avoid or reduce those risks, which have proven effective in practice.
- 4-



4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Rated Satisfactory.
Objective - Providing basic social and economic infrastructure, and employment and
income-generating opportunities:
The project met this objective, financing 6,562 small-scale investments in basic rural
infrastructure, productive and social facilities, improving the lives of some 420,000 beneficiary
families -- or some 2.2 million rural poor -- and the local economy throughout rural Bahia.
Investments have responded to beneficiaries' needs, provided basic social services, and established
the conditions for improving livelihoods through income-generating activities, and better health
and productivity. Infrastructure investments are the great majority (73%) of completed
subprojects in Bahia, with subprojects providing access to water about 25% of total. As in other
participating states, this reflects communities' wish to obtain the "basics" before turning to
productive and social investments. Besides the clear benefits of access to water in a
drought-prone region, water supply investments facilitate women's work at home, benefit family
health by reducing the incidence of water-borne diseases and reduce the healthcare burden on
municipalities. Strong evidence suggests that water investments, when combined with
complementary investments (electricity for pumped irrigation) create productive jobs and increase
incomes. Rural electrification investments are providing power to streets, houses, schools, village
shops and other businesses including agro-processing. Shops and health posts can extend their
activities into the evening, and the availability of night school has seen increased enrolment of
youth and adults. Concrete bridges and public telephones, quite common investments in Bahia,
have also enhanced living conditions and improved communications.
Productive investments in Bahia, such as manioc mills and communal tractors, have had more
direct effects on income. Manioc mills have reduced manioc processing costs, leading to
increased area cultivated, higher production for sale and home consumption, increased time
available for planting and harvesting, and more opportunities for rural labor. Communal tractors
also significantly expand area cultivated by small farmers, ensure timely preparation of land to
exploit scarce rainfall, improve quality of soil preparation and facilitate cultivation and
post-harvest activities, all contributing to better incomes. In these ways, the project has changed
the economic horizon of many communities, generating permanent jobs, increased area cultivated
and additional, sustainable annual income or savings. Evaluation has confirmed the employment
and income opportunities/benefits of these investments (see 4.3, Annex 3 and documents listed
Annex 7) and the accuracy of the targeting mechanisms built into the project. The vast majority
of project beneficiaries belonged to the intended profile, that is, the poorest cohort of the rural
population.*
*Recent analysis of the Northeast region shows that some 84% of the RPAP's beneficiary population are small farmers and rural laborers living in
remote, low density areas with acute deficiencies in basic infrastructure and services. A significant additional population resides in rural areas directly
adjacent to the urban periphery of municipal centers, where headcount poverty measures are lowest.
- 5-



Objective - Supporting rural community groups in planning and implementing their own
subprojects:
The institutional development component financed technical assistance and training - either from
CAR technical staff, or contracted by CAR or the Municipal Councils -- to enable community
associations to plan and implement their own subprojects, and to operate and maintain them.
Mobilization and organization activities brought communities into the project, positioning them to
access its benefits. CAR has effectively trained the FUMAC and FUMAC-P Councils, and their
membership, in selecting and setting priorities for community needs and translating them into
viable investment proposals. Field observation demonstrated that the training methodology was
both participatory and client-driven. CAR and the Municipal Councils visited subproject sites at
critical points to monitor physical and financial progress. Community associations with approved
subprojects formed three-person supervision comnmittees as required by the Operational Manual to
ensure proper execution, including contracting. Beneficiary associations were provided, where
appropriate, with standard documentation for subproj ect proposals, as well as standardized
subproject designs with cost and environmental parameters, for more frequently-requested and
representative types of investments. This had many benefits for the communities: promoted the
participation of poorer communities by simplifying the preparation and evaluation of subprojects,
fostered greater competition and better quality in execution of works, reduced subproject cost and
communities' dependence on private firms, and facilitated procurement. The Bahia Mid-term
Review (MTR, see 7.2) found that design and construction quality was good or excellent in 97%
of sampled subprojects. Finally, of equal importance, the mobilization, organization, training and
technical assistance associated with the subproject investment cycle fostered the gradual,
substantial and measurable accumulation of social capital in poor rural communities.
Objective - Providing a safety net for the rural poor:
Project investments have provided a safety net to reduce the effects on the poor of repeated
government fiscal adjustment programs. Many RPAP subprojects complement traditional public
investments in rural infrastructure which had difficulties reaching the poorest. Unit costs were
compared for five types of subprojects (small dam, concrete bridge, rural electrification, manioc
mill and sewing workshop). Using secondary cost data as a benchmark for comparison, unit costs
for more than 50% of the components for these types of subprojects were found to be lower,
notably so in the case of the manioc mill and sewing workshop, where significant labor cost
savings were realized. The RPAP projects, targeting the poorest and providing productive,
infrastructure and social investment funds through grants to targeted communities - and given the
projects' decentralized and participatory methodology and operation - represent a successful
safety net program. These projects, under the R-NRDP and subsequent RPAP, became the single
most important source of funding for protection of the poor in rural areas of the Northeast.
Objective - Leveraging revenue mobilization at the community and municipal levels:
The RPAP has been one of the few programs in Brazil able to leverage revenue mobilization at
the community and municipal levels. Beneficiary cost-sharing (family labor, cash andlor
materials) under the Bahia project's matching grant feature totaled US$24.3 million by
end-Project, or just under 17% of the costs of all subprojects financed through Closing, and about
15% of total project cost. Financial contributions by municipalities, not required under the Loan
- 6 -



Agreement but encouraged by CAR, were modest. More significant was the variety of ways in
which municipal authorities provided logistical support - meeting rooms, equipment,
transportation and even food for Council members participating in meetings. In a number of
cases, Mayors provided the resources/means for the completion of subprojects - especially
electrification and water supply - where the amount financed subsequently proved insufficient to
benefit an entire community. CAR estimates that this type of complementary contribution totaled
between 3-5% of total subproject costs.
4.2 Outputs by components:
A. Community Subprojects (US$159.8 million, 93 percent of total base cost)
Rated Satisfactory
This component financed small-scale investments selected, implemented, operated and maintained
by the beneficiaries. Investments of up to US$50,000 each were financed through matching grants
(public grants "matched" with community contribution), with legally-constituted community
associations identifying their priorities and committing to their operation and maintenance through
their labor or user fees. The project was expected to finance 8,550 community-managed
subprojects over a 5-year period including basic infrastructure, productive and social investments,
and benefit some 340,000 families organized into 2,820 associations in 282 municipalities.* An
estimated 152 FUMAC and 40 FUMAC-P Councils** were to be established. These targets were
largely indicative due to the demand-driven, flexible nature of the project and the ongoing political
and administrative subdivision of municipalities in Bahia.
*Municipal subdivision resulted in the addition (amendment to the Loan Agreement) of 63 new municipalities to the list of those eligible.
** Initial target was 31 but was increased at the time of the MTR to 40.
In 5.5 years of implementation, the Bahia RPAP achieved the following: (i) implemented 6,562
subprojects (77% of indicative target)*; (ii) financed at least one subproject for 420,000
beneficiary families (124% of target and about 60% of all poor rural families in Bahia) organized
into about 3,560 community associations (126%) in 374 municipalities (108%); (iii) established
331 FUMAC and 38 FUMAC-P Councils (218% and 72%** respectively). Up to half of all
associations were repeat participants, having implemented two or more subprojects. (CAR has
promoted as a guideline, a limit of three subprojects per association).
* Demand for water supply-related subprojects from drought-averse rural communities predominated, at somewhat higher average cost than other
types but with a greater number of beneficiaries.
** Of revised MTR target, but exceeding initial target of31.
The physical implementation review conducted by CAR for its own project MTR, and sample
subprojects assessed in the field by the Bank MTR mission and during regular supervision, found
the great majority of investments satisfactory from the technical and quality standpoint of
materials, scale and operation. At Closing, about 20% had been implemented by the beneficiaries
themselves, another 68% by private firms contracted by the communities and about 12%
implemented by state and local authorities (chiefly water supply investments built by the Bahia
State Water Company, CERB, in the first couple of years before this practice was halted in favor
of direct contracting by the communities). Contrary to appraisal forecasts (which were
acknowledged to be indicative in a demand-led process), some 73% of investments were basic
infrastructure, 26% were productive and 1 % social. Community demand reflected the need for
- 7 -



the "basics" before embarking on productive and other investments. These categories of
infrastructure tend to have a higher cost but broader beneficiary base. The result is fewer
investments but greater numbers of beneficiaries, than estimated at appraisal. Field observation
showed that access to operating subprojects was generally inclusive - covering residents outside
the commrunity limits and non-members of associations as well as formal members of both.
The FUMAC and FUMAC-P strategy worked successfully in Bahia after an initial focus by CAR
on exhausting funds allocated for PAC.* CAR intensified efforts to create FUMAC Councils and
used a supportive and successful strategy stressing local initiative, mobilization and training,
restructuring non-performing councils where needed, boosting representation while limiting
numbers of members with voting rights (to prevent councils from becoming unwieldy), and
including the mayor in Council proceedings. Bahia initially did not use the indicative annual
budget envelope for FUMAC Councils - proven in other states to improve subproject
prioritization --but initiated the practice of transparently allocating such budgets on the basis of
municipal demographic and socio-economic indicators and a Council's annual operating plan
(POA), following agreements reached during the MTR. Similarly, agreements during the MTR
resulted in accelerating the formation of FUMAC-P Councils, which functioned effectively as
local fora for discussing the broader municipal development agenda, not only the project, and
appeared capable of integrating information on other programs (e.g., health, education and
credit), even acting as facilitators for members' access to them.**
PAC was initially favored by CAR due to more rapid processing and hence capacity to jump-start the project.
$* This idea has been developed under the new Rural Poverty Reduction Project (Loan 4623-BR).
Average subproject cost at Closing was US$21,000, well below the US$50,000 ceiling
established at appraisal. At mid-term, the average was US$25,300, having increased from about
US$24,000 in 1996, to US$26,500 in 1998. Increasing average costs through 1998 reflected
community preference for small dams as insurance against drought, the dominant subproject type
in Bahia and typically higher cost than other alternatives. Average cost per beneficiary family was
about US$187 at Closing, having fluctuated between US$140 and US$190 over time.
Importantly, direct implementation by community associations tended to lower cost by 10-40%
(depending on type) over similar subprojects implemented by third party providers, while the
quality and speed of implementation were found to be equal or better.
Targeting under the Bahia project worked well - beneficiaries belonged to the intended profile.
After the MTR, a concerted effort was made to expand and intensify coverage of more remote,
disorganized comrnmunities which had yet to participate. FUMAC Councils became the agents for
studying and determining poverty ranking, and hence priority for mobilization, organization and
investment. Participation of women was high, directly as beneficiaries of specific types of
investments (sewing workshops, creches, laundries) and more generally (water supply,
electricity). Experience with the FUMAC Councils demonstrates that communities themselves are
the best-equipped/informed to target effectively. Field observations in Bahia (and other NE
states) showed that Councils were already encouraging communities which had several
investments and had improved their relative socio-economic standing, to seek alternative financing
for other priorities. Councils were reducing priority ranking of such communities and/or
excluding their requests from consideration. *
*The new Rural Poverty Reduction Project in Bahia (and other states) contains a more defined graduation strategy.
- 8 -



B. Institutional Development (US$6.9 million, 4 percent of total base cost)
Rated Satisfactory
The project funded technical assistance (TA) and training for CAR, the Councils and cornmunity
associations to increase the capacity and improve project implementation. TA/training included:
(i) introductory seminars on the Operational Manual, roles of the FUMAC and FUMAC-P
Councils; (ii) specialized skills training for CAR and the FUMAC Councils including
environmental assessment, monitoring and financial administration; (iii) TA and training for
participating communities in mobilization, organization, subproject preparation, operation and
maintenance of investments, as well as specialized advice; and (iv) workshops and seminars for
FUMAC Councils and associations to exchange experiences and provide guidance.
CAR planned and delivered a large number of diverse training events in some 40 categories for
community associations and Councils covering managerial, administrative, financial and
operational issues. As a result of MTR recommendations, training re-focused on environmental
mitigation and awareness-building; operation of water subprojects; exchange of FUMAC and
FUMAC-P experiences; and workshops for the Mayors. Bahia successfully introduced the
"Technical Advisor" role, an individual with appropriate expertise and knowledge of the
municipality, retained by the FUMAC Council (with screening and training handled by CAR) to
help communities to obtain technical assistance, mobilize, organize and leverage access to needed
services and other programs. This position is being introduced in all states and is a design feature
of the new RPRP projects. Also, the Bank agreed with CAR that 2% of the indicative budget for
each FUMAC Councils (or actual budget for FUMAC-P) would be available for TA and training.
The project successfully financed technical assistance activities for reform of the state, following
amendment of the Loan Agreement in April 1997 to bring Bahia into line with other states with a
similar sub-component. The principal outcome of this effort - known as the "Northeast Initiative
Project" -- was the definition, through contracted studies, of so-called "clusters", i.e. priority
areas for economic development based on the State's comparative advantage vis a vis other
states and internationally. Clusters defined were tourism, irrigated fruit production, grains and
information technology. Seminars, workshops and meetings were held involving producers,
technical assistance providers, input suppliers, financial services agents, cooperatives,
transportation interests, public agencies and business development entities/entrepreneurs
associated with the various clusters. Partnerships and working groups were established to discuss
the methodology for each cluster, training/work plans were defined, state-level committees set up
for each sector and the Bank of the Northeast involved. The initiative was widely disseminated
through the media.
C. Project Administration, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$5.0 million, 3% of total base cost)
Rated Satisfactory
This component performed as expected, supporting project coordination and activities to
assess/measure project performance and impact; incremental operating costs (excluding salaries)
of CAR to enhance supervision and strengthen project operations; the project MIS, evaluation
-9-



studies and the state's initial and follow-up project publicity programs to raise awareness of
project rules and methodology.
Finally, the Bahia project was an important source of "best practice" experiences which were
disseminated to the RPAP projects which followed in other states. Technicians from the Paraiba
and Maranhao TUs visited Bahia to study the design of the MIS, methodology for creating and
strengthening FUMAC Councils, O&M of water supply systems and of small-scale commnunity
dams, including instituting user regulations by associations as a way of protecting water quality
and preventing water losses. The Bank and CAR organized a successful workshop on water
supply subprojects for representatives of other state TUs, mayors and community leaders.
4.3 Net Present Valtue/Economic rate of return:
The SAR did not include an economic or financial rate of return for the project. Rather, an
analysis was provided for illustrative purposes, of the kinds of benefits achieved under the
R-NRDP for the most common types of investments. Similar benefits were expected on a larger
scale, from the RPAP including Bahia. Subprojects financed by the RPAP did not differ
significantly in type from the R-NRDP. A similar analysis has therefore been done of the
program-wide investments under the RPAP for cost effectiveness and sustainability, and the
financial viability of productive subprojects. An assessment is also provided of the fiscal impact of
the project in Bahia. See below and Annex 3.
Cost Effectiveness and Sustainability
The CDD approach to rural infrastructure and service delivery to the poorest can work
cost-effectively in the Northeast, supported by several basic design features: (i) demand-driven
subproject priority-setting and selection within a democratic forum, the Councils; (ii) standard
technical designs and cost parameters, ensuring the use of least-cost models and providing
established patterns of initiating and completing subprojects; and (iii) delegating subproject
implementation directly to community associations, which generates cost savings relative to
similar works implemented by public agencies. The contracting procedures set down in the
Operational Manual require direct contracting through competitive processes on all subprojects;
associations solicit three price quotations and chooses the least cost bid. Analysis of a random
sample of subprojects including ten categories representing about 80% of types financed, found
RPAP costs to be from 30-50% cheaper than subprojects of similar quality, implemented by the
state. In the six states survey, including Bahia, the majority of subprojects were rated technically
satisfactory and of good quality. Operation and maintenance has been generally good, with most
associations charging appropriate user fees. A general evaluation in 2000 found that 89% of a
sample of 8,123 R-NRDP (1995) and RPAP (1997/98) subprojects, had remained fully
operational. There was no substantial difference in sustainability across infrastructure, productive
of social investments.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Internal Economic Rates of Return (IRRs) were estimated for the most common types of
productive subprojects. These all exceed 30%, giving an indication of the overall profitability of
the productive subprojects normally financed under the RPAP. In addition to these positive
- 10 -



impacts, benefits are largely concentrated in the beneficiary communities. Analyses were done
assuming constant benefits over a ten-year project life.
Financial Viability of Productive Subprojects
Benefit cost ratios are high (greater than 2.0) and investments are financially sustainable, based on
analysis of 12 selected, typical productive subprojects. While beneficiaries receive a one-time
investment matching grant from the RPAP, it is financially sustainable because cost recovery
through user fees is generally adequate to cover O&M and replacement of the original investment
long before the end of its useful economic life. All subprojects show satisfactory internal rates of
return, some of them being high. Less than six years are needed to recover the investment in all
cases and less than 3.5 years in half the cases. IRRs compare favorably with the real cost of
borrowing to the Brazilian Government, which is about 11-12%.
Testing financial robustness of the subprojects, a sensitivity analysis was carried out on the
illustrative models which determined that some subprojects, generally those highly dependent on
purchased inputs (fish farm, dairy plant, bakery), are more sensitive than others to changing
market conditions. In all cases, the worst scenario is one where prices decrease.
Fiscal Impact
Evaluations indicate that subproject investments make a significant fiscal contribution through
cost savings to state and municipal governments. In Bahia, the RPAP project is estimated to have
saved over R$ 1.0 million per year by eliminating, through investments in water supply, the need
for water trucks to supply communities in time of drought. Meanwhile, provision of better
quality, more reliable water reduced the public health costs to municipal governments. Cost
savings also derive from the community-driven design of the project; subprojects implemented by
communities, directly or contracted, were 30-50% lower than prices paid by public authorities for
works of similar type and quality. Finally, in terms of revenue generation, the RPAP Bahia and
other states showed that there was a large increase in the purchase and use of domestic appliances
when electricity became available, significantly increasing the ICMS revenue to municipalities.*
The MTR estimated incremental ICMS revenue in Bahia from increased production and electrical
equipment/appliances to date had been about R$1.0 million.
* ICMS is collected by the state and all municipalities receive 25% of collections regardless of where it is collected.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
As a participatory, demand-oriented mechanism, the Bahia project, like its peers in other states,
involved many actors and stakeholders. Evaluations, including a community participation study in
Bahia and five other RPAP states which analyzed social capital formation, have assessed
institutional impact on the community associations, Municipal Councils and Technical Units
including CAR, concluding as follows:
Community Associations: Community associations created under the program have generally
performed well. Members have typically met their collective responsibilities and the associations
have benefited from the efforts of mayors, the technical units and civil society entities to
-11 -



disseminate information about the program and create the conditions under which communities
could benefit from it. Membership of associations has proven to be inclusive with women
increasingly and successfully assuming leadership roles. Importantly, the benefits of subproj ects
have tended to reach non-members as well as members. Studies show that technical assistance is
critical for the success and sustainability of associations at their formation/organizational stage,
throughout the investment cycle and longer-term.
Municipal Councils: As forums for democratic discussion, the project Municipal Councils have
increased transparency, reduced political interference, improved targeting, and contributed to
social capital formation in rural communities. There is little doubt remaining that the Councils are
much more effective than PAC in inducing social and cultural change. FUMAC-P Councils
performed even better than FUMAC Councils, validating the benefits of deeper decentralization
of program delivery. Having an annual budget envelope fosters even more realistic
priority-setting, and this in turn increases communities' capacity within the Council, to identify,
plan and implement subprojects. The Municipal Councils are becoming an integral part of local
government planning, steadily overcoming the risk of being short-lived parallel structures by their
evolving fusion with local government. They are increasingly recognized by local populations and
their elected officials as valid representatives of communities and civil society, and as partners of
local administrations in fostering and sustaining municipal development. * Progress of this kind has
been rapid in Bahia (and several other RPAP states).
* Across the six states evaluated/studied, some 30% of Councils were making decisions on priorities for municipal resources, not only project-related
allocations.
Technical Unit: In each of the participating states, a TU administers the project, acts as vehicle
for communication with the Bank and State Government, and as principal liaison with the
FUMAC and FUMAC-P Councils and in PAC municipalities, with the community associations.
In Bahia, CAR has benefited from the commitment and budgetary support of the State
Govemment, steadily built on its already solid technical, administrative and financial management
capacity and showed excellent performance in executing training activities for the associations and
Councils.
Social Capital: Fostering social capital in rural municipalities and communities has been a
watershed achievement of the RPAP projects, including Bahia. As participatory, transparent and
representative forums for setting priorities and making decisions, the municipal councils have
reduced political interference and clientelism; created partnerships between communities,
municipal councils and municipal governments; given communities a voice in public resource
allocation; fostered citizenship through greater awareness of social responsibilities; and
strengthened communities' and municipal governments' capacity to select, set priorities for and
implement, investment decisions. Social capital has expanded through the evolution of successive
rural poverty programs and through the increasing decentralization of the mechanisms themselves
- from PAC to FUMAC and FUMAC-P. Gains in social capital at the municipal and community
level are evidenced by the significant number of municipal councils which have moved beyond
subproject decision-making to be participatory venues for municipal planning and the allocation of
non-project resources; and community associations which are leveraging social capital acquired
under the program to obtain other, previously unavailable, investment resources.
- 12 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The main factor outside the control of government or the executing agency was the severe
drought of 1996-98 which caused widespread productivity losses and adversely affected certain
productive subprojects, e.g., manioc mills fruit processing plants idled due to lack of raw material,
and tractors unusable due to overall planting and harvesting conditions. However, the impact of
large numbers of project-financed small-scale community dams and wells in alleviating the effects
of drought was dramatic, the result of a State strategy agreed with the Bank to use the project to
best advantage in this period. Beneficiaries were able to save thousands of head of livestock and
small animals, and the cost to the state and municipalities of water trucks was greatly reduced.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The only factor of significance was intervention by the State Water Company (CERB) in
construction of water supply subprojects in the first two years, resulting in elevated subproject
cost and completion delays, the latter due to CERB's inability to service the huge
drought-induced surge in demand for water supply from the communities. Strong representation
by the Bank resulted in the State Government permitting community associations to contract
directly for these works through open, competitive procedures, at significantly better cost and
efficiency, while maintaining state participation in quality control.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The few significant factors within CAR's control, are described in 7.2.
*The design of the RPAP and its successor the RPRP, ensures that no single bottleneck, short of counterpart funding deficits, which have not generally
been a factor, and possibly leadership/managerial turnover in TUs, is likely to cause serious dasnage/disruption to implementation and impact, and as
large numbers of communities and municipalities develop economically and socially through subproject investments satisfying critical needs, the TUs
become increasingly less important.
5.4 Costs and financing:
Total project cost was US$158.0 million compared to the estimated US$175 million due
principally to the increase in the Bank's financing share from 60% to 75%, and progressive
devaluation of the Real/US Dollar exchange rate from1999 to Closing. An amount of US$9.4
million was reallocated to PAC Grants in March 1999. Costs varied from appraisal estimates, with
FUMAC-P US$2.4 million lower, FUMAC on target and PAC exceeding estimates by US$4.4
million; Institutional Development and Project Administration were about US$3.2 million and
US$0.6 million below estimate, respectively. Total disbursements were US$103.3 million, leaving
a balance of about US$1.7 million for cancellation.
Procurement:
The Project methodology for procurement in a CDD context is innovative and worked well.
Acquisition of mainly goods and works under the community subproject component were handled
directly by community associations in all cases. Costs have generally been lower under direct
- 13-



community acquisition. Procurement was subject to at least three price quotations. CAR handled
procurement of consulting services to provide technical assistance to the communities, and to
support its own responsibilities, with satisfactory performance and results. The use of standard
designs and unit costs, required by the Operational Manual, and providing associations with the
procedures for acquisition of goods, works and services, has simplified procurement, reduced the
incidence of over-sized subprojects and made supervision and monitoring easier. A Bank
procurement audit of the Bahia project in 1999 stated that all sampled subprojects closely
followed established procurement procedures and that community associations generally kept
detailed records of transactions. This performance was attributed to CAR providing associations
with instructional brochures (including for procurement) and closely supervising their execution.
The audit team cited as Best Practice the project requirement that even very poor rural
communities contribute a minimum 10% of funds for their subproject, which was found to
correlate directly with their seeking competitive prices through three quotations, resulting in
economy and efficiency. The audit team recommended that this example be followed in other
Bank projects.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated Likely
Institutional: Analysis shows that by assigning greater responsibility and influence to local level
organizations and municipal entities, the Bahia RPAP successfully supported decentralized
allocation of resources and social capital formation in rural areas. The potential for linking the
FUMAC and FUMAC-P Councils to municipal planning and budgeting processes and programs,
as well as alternative credit and financial services is promising, and has in fact already started.
The likely outcome of this process is the graduation of certain conmmunities which have
accumulated sufficient assets (from Bank-supported and other programs) and organizational
capacity to obtain mainstream financing and other services, under a strategy which includes
facilitation assistance from various sources including the Bank.*
*Such a strategy is built into the design of the new Bahia Rural Poverty Reduction Project,
Physical: The involvement of beneficiaries in all stages of the investment cycle, combined with
cost-sharing requirements (up to 25%) was shown to build ownership and contributed to ensuring
proper operation and maintenance of subprojects. In addition, the democratic processes
characteristic of FUMAC and FUMAC-P resulted in prudent priority-setting and selection of
subprojects by beneficiaries, increasing long-term sustainability. Only subproject proposals with
realistic, community-funded O&M plans, a project requirement set down in the Operational
Manual and for which there are performance incentives, were approved and financed. CAR and
the FUMAC Councils monitored performance during project execution. Finally, a high
proportion of subprojects were infrastructure, which have a good sustainability record, and in the
productive category, manioc mills, which have demonstrated long-term sustainability.
Financial: The financial sustainability of investment subprojects was confirmed by analysis and
field assessment. Studies done of investments completed in 1995 (under R-NRDP) and 1997/98
- 14 -



(under RPAP) of 8,000 subprojects across all participating states, and during the Bahia MTR
(1999), found that just under 90% remained fully operational to date. Analysis of productive
subprojects has repeatedly shown that cost recovery through user fees paid by beneficiary
associations adequately covers both operation and maintenance, and replacement of the original
investment long before the end of its useful economic life.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
There are no special transition arrangements to regular operations. Subprojects are executed,
released to the community association (which technically and legally owns the investment) and
become operational under pre-established rules/guidelines and procedures for this stage. Further,
a new Rural Poverty Reduction Project for Bahia was approved by the Board on June 26, 2001
and is awaiting effectiveness. The project introduces further improvements and innovations based
on the successes and lessons of the RPRP.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during identification, preparation and appraisal is rated fully Satisfactory.
The Bank recognized that the R-NRDP represented a successful shift away from the traditional
rural development model, and that it merited follow-up, based on the lessons learned. The new
model generated unprecedented enthusiasm among beneficiaries and positive multiplier effects,
and had the capacity to mobilize/leverage additional funds from the communities. Well over 90%
of disbursements were reaching targeted beneficiaries, with the remainder being used mainly in the
training of the beneficiaries themselves. The participatory approach increased community
organization and empowerment, increased transparency and demonstrated that poor rural
communities could influence the allocation and use of resources to alleviate poverty. Investments
were generally cost-effective, of satisfactory quality, and had positive impact on family well-being,
income and employment.
The new project was based on joint evaluation of the R-NRDP by the Brazilian Government and
the Bank. Design was calibrated to the lessons of the R-NRDP and the results of initial
preparation missions, which sought to further improve design through deeper decentralization,
refined targeting, stronger monitoring and information system (MIS) and better
reporting/evaluation, systematic cost-sharing, introduction of standardized subproject designs and
cost parameters and an improved Operational Manual. The preparation process was marked by
openness to further innovation, which has become a hallmark of the program.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision is rated Satisfactory. About 126 staff-weeks were expended on supervision
rather than the 75 estimated at appraisal, with a high input in the first year. Project execution
benefited from stable Bank task management for the duration (with similar stability in CAR) and
regular supervision missions. The advantages of the Bank's Recife Office in terms of proximity,
experienced Task Managers and administrative personnel, long-standing relationships with the
State Government and CAR and knowledge of the CDD mechanisms and their evolution in the
- 15-



Northeast, are clear. And by delegating supervision activities to this local office (including
procurement reviews and field visits) Bank support is calibrated to the decentralized structure of
the Northeast program. The Bank defined and addressed implementation problems as they arose,
in close cooperation with CAR, and based on time-bound action plans when indicated.
Supervision missions were preceded by a detailed advisory document showing updated
performance indicators from the MIS, highlighting any apparent issues and including a suggested
random sample of municipalities/communities for field visits. PSRs were prepared at
Headquarters on the basis of Aide Memoires, MIS data and complementary information,
essentially freeing the Recife-based Task Manager to focus on the project. The project was
correctly rated Satisfactory for Development Objectives and Implementation Progress throughout.
The main issues identified by supervision missions and resolved in collaboration with CAR
included:
*     Initially lower than desirable beneficiary involvement in contracting and executing
subprojects, particularly in rural water supply. CAR and the Bank devised and successfully
executed a strategy to stimulate greater involvement through: (a) direct contracting by community
associations of public and private service providers; (b) establishing of competitive contracting
processes, inclusion of O&M arrangements in the initial subproject proposal, transfer of funds
directly to the association account, and definition of rates to be charged for services provided by
CERB; and (c) installation of individual household water connections when possible to promote
beneficiary acceptance of payment for service and maintenance;
*     (:CERB's inability to service surging drought-driven demand from hundreds of dispersed
communities. CAR agreed with the Bank to transfer project resources to the associations to
permit their direct contracting of providers (including CERB) for installation, a proven
methodology functioning well in other states and now standard practice;
*     State suspension of rural electrification subproj ects due to operational adjustments
stemming from the privatization of the Bahia State Electricity Company (COELBA). Once again,
direct contracting by community associations was the agreed solution;
*     Strong emphasis on PAC in the first two years of project execution (some 86% of all
subprojects). Project expansion to additional (often new) municipalities prompted the use of PAC
funds which can be disbursed rapidly and are directly appraised and approved by CAR. While this
was entirely permissible under project rules, it ran counter to the intended use of the FUMAC
program to finance the majority of subprojects. However, the creation and mobilization of
FUMAC Councils proved more intensive and time consuming than envisaged, prompting the
accelerated use of PAC funds in the interim. This changed in early 1998 and by Closing, 60% of
subprojects had been funded from either FUMAC or FUMAC-P.
MVid-terrn Review: An experienced and diverse Bank/FAO mission conducted the project
Mid-term Review (MTR) in March 1999, analyzing the project based on: the State's own project
mid-term evaluation (required under the Loan Agreement) comprising a Physical Implementation
- 16 -



Review and an Impact Evaluation, complemented by CAR's periodic progress reports; a
community participation assessment by a Bank/FAO consultant familiar with the project's target
population and delivery mechanisms since the R-NRDP; the mission's own meetings with CAR
managers and technicians and interviews with numerous beneficiaries and local leaders during
extensive field visits; and data from the project MIS. The mission noted quantum gains in quality
and quantity, with significant and visible benefits to communities. Performance was satisfactory
overall, adherence to the project Operational Manual was good, the Project Implementation Plan
(PIP) had been substantially achieved and disbursements were ahead of schedule. The most
striking achievement was the number of FUMAC Councils created and their transparent and
democratic operations. CAR's methodology of negotiating with municipal authorities, up-front
training of participants in Project norms and content, and ensuring adherence to the 80% rule (of
beneficiaries' voting power in the Councils), was very successful.
As a result of agreements reached with and executed by CAR, project implementation was further
improved as follows: (i) a new loan sub-category was created for intensified supervision of
community subprojects (requested by CAR); (ii) all water supply investments began to include
user regulations and organized payment of user fees, based on type of usage (human
consumption, animal, irrigation), and CAR developed standard water subproject designs,
specifying operational costs and recommended user fees; (iii) measures were taken to ensure that
FUMAC Councils avoided the too-frequent rotation of members which could affect continuity,
quality and institutional memory, and that Councils not be hastily established; (iv) CAR
significantly boosted numbers of FUMAC-P Councils, which had lagged; (v) care was taken not
to favor communities able and willing to pay more than the required 10% minimum, lest
participation of poorer communities be prejudiced; and (vi) funds not exceeding 2% of the
indicative budget of each FUMAC Council (or actual budget in case of FUMAC-P), were
provided by CAR for training and TA activities in environmental mitigation, operation of water
subprojects, exchange of experiences FUMAC/FUMAC-P, and workshops for mayors of
participating municipalities.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Rated Satisfactory
The Rural Poverty Alleviation Program of eight projects received a LAC Region Performance
Award and a Social Development Award for Excellence in Project Quality in 2000, while
community cost-sharing requirements of the Bahia project were cited as best practice by a Bank
procurement audit team for fostering cost-effective and efficient procurement.*
*Cost-shanng requirements are standard across all RPAP projects.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during preparation is rated Satisfactory. Project preparation was
straightforward and productive owing to the support of the State authorities -- especially the
Secretariat of Planning, Science and Technology (SEPLANTEC) -- the experience, capacity and
commitmnent of CAR, and broad recognition that the R-NRDP had successfully changed the way
rural development was done, with positive results in terms of cost-effectiveness, timeliness and
poverty impact on the ground.
- 17-



7.5 Government implementation performance:
The State Government did not have a direct, day to day role in project implementation, except
through its counterpart funding/cost sharing responsibilities, which were satisfactory throughout,
and indirectly through the role of CAR, an autonomous subsidiary of SEPLANTEC. The direct
involvement of the State Secretary of Planning and of the State Governor whenever needed, to
ensure good project implementation, were also key factors in the successful performance of the
project.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Quality performance and significant achievements under the project correlated closely with CAR's
political, administrative and financial autonomy, skilled technical staff, experience and wide
latitude for action. The unit has stable, effective leadership and a strong network of infrastructure
and human resources both at headquarters and regionally, consistent with its diverse
responsibilities which extend beyond the Bank's rural poverty projects. CAR's staff benefited
from extensive training in areas directly relevant to project administration. CAR showed strength
and efficiency in the pace and effectiveness of project implementation and in its willingness to take
action when indicated to further improve various aspects of project performance.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Rated Satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The lessons of this project reinforce and validate those from its predecessor, the R-NRDP, and
have influenced design of the new RPRP (Loan 4623-BR). Main lessons are:
CDD projects, by assigning greater responsibility to local organizations and mumcipal
governments, can successfully support decentralized resource allocation and create social capital
in poor rural areas.
The equitable graduation of communities who have accumulated sufficient assets and
organizational capacity to access mainstream financing and other services, is expected to be (and
already is) an important product of this more integrated approach to FUMAC Council
roles/activities.
Decentralization of fiscal and investment decision-making and implementation to the state and
local levels including community organizations, ensures administrative efficiency and superior
results. Community-driven approaches can reduce bureaucracy and administrative obstacles, and
reinforce accountability for project performance by eliminating the "distance" between
decision-makers and beneficiaries, who have at many points in the subproject cycle, become
synonymous.
Participation by beneficiaries in the selection, financing, execution, and O&M of subprojects
ensures that investments meet genuine community needs, leads to cost savings, and increases
community "ownership" and sustainability of investments.
- 18 -



Poverty targeting mechanisms that are simple, verifiable and based on objective cnitenia foster
transparency, minimize political interference in project resource allocation and ensure that project
resources reach the poorest.
Supervision, pluralistic and involving local entities closest to the communities, remains an
indispensable determinant of success and sustainability. FUMAC Councils have the capacity to
assume greater responsibility for supervision, with appropriate training, TA and information
technology. The Bank's Recife Office remains vital for project coordination, supervision,
procurement reviews and field visits, with task managers dedicated exclusively to the Northeast
region. In this manner, Bank support meshes with the decentralized structure of the Northeast
program.
Systematic monitoring and evaluation supports project analysis, generates feedback including to
improve targeting and efficiency, and is an essential management and planning tool. The
RPAP-Bahia showed that a revised and strengthened MIS was needed, introducing real time
monitoring of the full project cycle and a more comprehensive impact evaluation component to
measure evolving income, welfare and social capital gains.
Dissemination of "best practices" can speed learning and reward innovation. Expanded
exchanges between states, municipalities and communities, and by more frequent training
seminars and workshops, support this process.
Standardized subproject documents, technical designs and unit costs, periodically reviewed,
updated and expanded, are valuable tools for simplifying subproject preparation and evaluation,
improving subproject quality, facilitating procurement and reducing cost, preventing over-design
and promoting the participation of poorer communities.
Environmental protection checklists are an important beneficial practice even though the small
scale of investments virtually eliminates significant environmental effects in most. Standard
subproject designs have special importance where environmental concerns are relevant, while
environmental TA and training to FUMAC Councils and community groups, delivered by
in-house environmental expertise, fosters broad awareness.
Technical assistance - of diverse type and delivery -- is an essential ingredient for projects of this
type but especially for productive subprojects to maximize impact. The appointment of "technical
advisors" recruited by each FUMAC Council and trained by the TU to manage and coordinate
local technical and training needs, as initiated by CAR under the RPAP, has tangible benefits.
More meaningful involvement of civil society (NGOs and other groups) in providing TA, is also
important.
Checks and balances, clearly-defined and well-disseminated, are essential to ensure proper
targeting and use of resources and to boost and institutionalize transparency. This project
confirmed the practical utility of rules and procedures -- including guidelines for performance
incentives and penalties, periodically reviewed and updated - set down in a Project Operational
Manual.
- 19 -



PAC should be minimized, particularly since the FUMAC and FUMAC-P sub-components have
proven advantages with respect to targeting, sustainability and social capital formation in poor
rural commurities.
Productive subprojects should be subjected to rigorous selection, preparation, technical
assistance and supervision criteria and linked to a graduation strategy which facilitates beneficiary
comununities' access to formal credit. Rural communities need a better understanding of the
nature and potential of productive subprojects.
Mfunicipal Councils can play a broader role in local planning, by promoting integration
betveen local governments and project NMunicipal Councils, and providing information to
Councils on other programs and alternative sources of grant and credit financing. There is great
potential for linking FUMAC and FUMAC-P Councils to local municipal planning and budgeting
processes and programs as well as alternative credit and financial services. Carefully nurtured
with the right mix of technical assistance, information and funding support, and bolstered by clear
and transparent rules of operation, this democratic forum could become one of the most valuable
and durable institutionis for rural development in the Northeast.
- 20 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implemnenting agency:
The Borrower provided the following comnmrents on the Bank's draft ICR:
i&dQ, 17 d- dqa.fZ1bn  d* ZCCt
4L,, S(.
VR- 61A)MUNDO NOMdATO CARMIJNA
M - :. mAtqtn de Plr;)clas da E5stitt6 rti fLantr turfd,
Rosilk - PE
Prr;ajso Kam.wndf (:arrmnt
AD  Cpo arm  q.  e  cuAmo    a ee-b.n4ve,ra  peov  amo:tiro. *a  nrar.ta d;>  .   J3:
c:'am.f1lo ad  PCPa 9ar PSiah 3-      FPutir -. CCnt;allr1* n' I I t   ajR a
V ra a nosua cowcardincu  e apro      lanc, nri a ta vrn.a coMa dU itQ WRCWC0
A agor, i   cia r1  . a   to dd. e nc   ltniaes que tINO-s opcdrea.         dr fia   rv *
0.Me RRC; rIn a4 im =M9,0-4" A IC;.r C               . e            A i *p a   tra  l ea
rr'vta Ora nt$ aWeueta2ada
PO  er t a,l*o. ro,Wyt4*na   rlrd. s e etbeI ev   ffl  V Sa pa-a a t"aro ab --c
Aten1~,  annt~efL       2
-21 -



(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
N/A
- 22 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
No Log Frame Matrix was prepared for this project.
Project Components and Activities                Unit         Appraisal Est.      Actual
A. Community Subprojects
Subprojects implemented                             No.                     8550            6562
- Infrastructure                                    No.                     5900            4796
- Social                                            No.                     500              62
- Productive                                        No.                     2150            1704
Beneficiaries
- Total                                             Families '000           340              420
- Total                                             People '000             1700            2200
Women as % of productive subproject beneficiaries   %                        30              30
Community associations                              No. (cum)               2820            3558
Municipalities assisted                             No. (cum)               282              374
Municipal Councils
- FUMAC                                            No. (cum)                152              331
- FUMAC-P                                          No. (cum)                 31              38
B. Institutional Development
Preparation of annual program of TA and training
- Technical Unit                                   No.                       5                5
- Municipal Councils                               No.                      740              320
No. workshops/seminars for:
- Beneficiaries                                    No.                      282              250
- Project Municipal Councils (FUMAC/FUMAC-P)       No.                       37              40
- FUMAC-P Councils only                            No.                      18               12
No. courses offered to:
- Beneficiary associations                         No.                      1235             891
- Munic. Councils (FUMAC/FUMAC-P)                  No.                      740              750
- FUMAC-P Municipal Councils only                   No.                      134             128
- PCU staff                                         No.                      10               15
C. Project Admin., Monitoring, Evaluation
Standard designs                                    No.                      40              47
Annual operating plans (POA)
- FUMAC-P                                          No.                       134              50
- PCU (project POA)                               No.                        5                5
Monitoring Reports (to Bank):
Monthly disbursement, MIS updates                 No.                       60              60
- Annual, semi-annual reports                       No.                      10               10
- Extemal audits (project accounts)                 No.                      5                5
Evaluation studies
- Physical performance reviews                      No.                      4                4
- Mid-term Review                                  No.                        I               I
- Impact evaluation                               No.
(i) Baseline                                                                  I               I
(ii) Mid-term                                                                 I               I
(iii) Final                                                                   I               I
- 23 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (US$ million equivale t)
Project Component    |  Appraisal Estimate    ActuaULatest Estimate      Percentage of
USSmillion             US$million             Appraisal
Community subprojects:     159.8 of which:        145.8 of which:            91.3
- FUMAC                        86.0                    73.1                   87.5
- FUMAC-P                      17.0                    10.3                   66.5
- PAC                          56.8                    62.4                  112.0
Institutional                   6.9                    5.6                    16.0
Development          t
Project Administration,         5.0                    3.3                    66,0
Monitoring, Evaluation
Phys. Price                     3 3                    3.3                   100.0
Contingencies    __l
Total:   __ __                   5.0                  158.0                   90.0
Project Cost by Procurement Arrangement (USS million equivalent)
Category                     Estimate at Appraisal          Actual at Closing
NCB       Other  Total       NCB       Other   Total
l   _  _   _  _  _  _   _  _  _           Cost                          Cost
Community Subprojects  l
Minor Works                         58.0      58.0               120.8    120.8
i(under US$50,000)                 (34.3)    (34.3)              (78.5)   (78.5)
Goods and Materials (Underf   -     45.8      45.8                25.0     25.0
US$50,000)       ___                (27.0)    (27.0)             (17.2)   (17.2)
Minor Works                12.0       -_      12.0
(Over US$50,000)           (7.1)              (7.1)
Minor Works                         27.5      27.5
(Under US$100,000)                  (16.2)    (16.2)
Goods and Materials                  16.5     16.5
(Over US$50,000)                    (9.7)     (9.7)
Consulting Services                  9.4       9.4                7.0       7.0
_____________________    ________   (9.4)     (9.4)              (7.0)     (7.0)
Project Administration             5.8 (1.3)    5.8             5.2 (1.0) 5.2 (1.0)
l___ __ __ _ __ __ _   _(1.3)
l TOTAL                     12.0    163.0    175.0                158.0    158.0
____________________   l(7.1)    (97.9)   (105.0)             (103.7)  (103.7)
- 24 -



Project Financing by Com onent and Source (US$ million equivale t)
Estimate at Appraisal                 Actual at Closing
Total  Bank State Govt/ Benefic  Total Bank   State Govt/  Benefic.
Component         Cost         Municipal.           Cost           Municipal.
A. Community            159.8  93.8       50.0      16.0   145.8  95.7        25.8     24.3
Subproject
1. FUMAC
Subprojects              86.0   50.5  26.9          8.6    73.1   50.4        10.6      12.1
Tech Assistance/ Training    2.2    2.2  0.0         0.0     2.2    2.2        --         --
Subtotal                 88.2   52.7  26.9          8.6    75.3   52.6        10.6       12.1
2. FUMAC-P
Subprojects              17.0   10.0      5.3        1.7    10.3    7.6       0.7        2.0
Tech Assistance/Training  1.0    1.0      0.0        0.0     1.0    1.0        --         --
Subtotal                 18.0   11.0      5.3        1.7    11.3   8.6        0.7         2.0
3. PAC
Subprojects              56.8   33.3      17.8      5.7    62.4   37.7        14.5      10.2
Tech Assistance/Training  1.3    1.3      0.0       0.0      1.3    1.3        --         --
Subtotal                 58.1   34.6      17.8      5.7    63.7   39.0        14.5       10.2
B.    Institutional Devt 2.4     2.4      0.0       0.0    1.1    1.1          --         --
Tech Assistance/Training
C. Project Administration, 5.0   1.8      3.2       0.0    3.3    0.8         2.5        --
Monitoring, Evaluation
TOTAL BASELINE COST   171.7  102.5    53.2          16.0   154.7  102.1       28.3       24.3
Physical Contingencies    1.0    0.8      0.2       0.0      1.0    0.6       0.4        --
Price Contingencies       2.3    1.7      0.6       0.0    2.3    1.0         1.3        --
TOTAL PROJECT COST    175.0  105.0    54.0          16.0   158.0  103.7       30.0       24.3
- 25 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
The SAR did not include an economic or financial rate of return for the project. Rather, an
analysis was provided for illustrative purposes, of the kinds of benefits achieved under the
R-NRDP for the most common types of investments. Similar benefits were expected, on a larger
scale, from the RPAP, including Bahia. Subprojects financed by the RPAP did not differ
significantly in type from the R-NRDP. A similar analysis has therefore been done of the
program-wide investments (Bahia and all seven other states of Northeast Brazil that were part of
the RPAP program) for cost effectiveness and sustainability, and the financial viability of
productive subprojects. An assessment is also provided on the fiscal impact of the project in
Bahia.
Cost Effectiveness and Sustainability of Infrastructure and Social Subprojects
About 77% of subproject investments program-wide under the RPAP were for infrastructure,
while social subprojects comprised less than 3 percent. Most infrastructure subprojects fell under
the rubric of core public services (water, sanitation, electrification, social investments) which,
numerous studies demonstrate, provide benefits that justify their universal provision.* The
experience of the R-NRDP and RPAP projects has shown that the CDD approach to rural
infrastructure and service delivery targeted to the poorest can work in a cost effective manner in
the Brazilian Northeast. Several aspects of project design help to ensure delivery of the
least-cost, best alternative:
(i)    Standard technical designs (projetos padrao) for the most common types of infrastructure
and social subprojects (including corresponding cost parameters) ensure that community
associations use least-cost models for subproject implementation; and they decrease search and
information costs for community associations by providing established patterns of initiating and
completing a subproject. Field analysis of these RPAP investments demonstrates that their
technical quality is good;
(ii)    Delegation of subproject implementation directly to the community associations generates
cost savings, relative to comparable quality works implemented by public sector agencies.
Contracting procedures prescribed in the Project Operational Manual require direct, competitive
contracting for all subprojects: the community association solicits three bids for the subproject
and chooses the least-cost bid.
*World Bank: Public Expenditures for Poverty Alleviation in Northeast Brazil: Promoting Growth and Improving Services, Report No. 18700-BR.
December 1998.
These characteristics have enhanced subproject cost-effectiveness. Analysis of a random sample of
subprojects (including ten categories which collectively represent some 80% of subproject types
financed) found that costs for RPAP infrastructure and social investments were 30-50% cheaper
than projects of similar quality, financed by the state. Evaluation of the RPAP in Bahia, Ceara,
Pernambuco, Piaui, Rio Grande do Norte and Sergipe examined the quality of the materials used,
overall finish and of operation of the investments. In all states surveyed, the majority of
subprojects were found to be technically satisfactory and of good quality. Beneficiaries expressed
their satisfaction with subproject quality and regarded more than 90% of all investments as being
satisfactory overall.
- 26 -



Experience also shows that the operation and maintenance of infrastructure and social subprojects
has been good, with community associations charging user fees sufficient to operate and maintain
the investments. A general evaluation study of the Northeast RPAP program, carried out in 2000,
reviewed a sample of 8,123 subprojects funded by the R-NRDP in 1995 and RPAPs in 1997/98,
finding that 7,240 of them, or 89%, were fully operational in March 2000. Furthermore, the same
study found no substantial difference in sustainability across infrastructure, productive and social
subprojects. Of 6,064 infrastructure, 1,820 productive and 239 social community subprojects,
89%, 87% and 88%, respectively, were fully operational at the time of the study. Bank missions
to other Northeast states confirmed this finding.
Financial Viability of Productive Subprojects
Benefit-cost ratios are high (greater than 2.0) for the main types of productive subprojects
analyzed (Table A). Analysis of selected productive subprojects also suggests that the investments
are financially sustainable (Table B). Although beneficiary associations have received a one-time
investment grant from the RPAP, this investment is financially sustainable because cost recovery
through user fees by the average beneficiary association is generally adequate to cover both O&M
and replacement of the original investment long before the end of its useful economic life.
For illustrative purposes, 12 productive subprojects representing some of the most typical
productive investments carried out under the RPAPs, were selected for financial analysis.
Activity models were constructed for them, based on field interviews with subproject managers
conducted during evaluation, supervision and project preparation missions, and consultation of
standard project designs (projetos padrdo) prepared by the State Technical Units. The subprojects
analyzed are as follows:
Manioc Mill: Middle-size construction equipped with mill, press, oven and other equipment
required to process cassava into flour. Investments include a pack animal to transport produce to
and from the plant. The mill serves a local community of some 30 to 40 farming families. The
plant operates around 100 days per year processing some 120 tons of cassava into approximately
30 tons offarinha and 4.8 tons of starch employing one person to operate the plant during those
days. Farmers are charged a users' fee of 15 percent of output. Association members normally
pay a smaller fee than non-members.
Communal Tractor.- Tractor of 75 HP, plus trailer, grain sheller, grader and other equipment,
including a garage. The tractor benefits an association of some 65 fanning families. The tractor
works for members and non-members providing land preparation, grain shelling and transport
services. It works approximately 1,700 hour per year serving some 300 ha. User fees for members
are smaller than prices charged by private tractor owners and fees charged to non-members. The
subproject employs a full-time driver/operator hired by the association.
Small Irrigation 1. Purchase of 18 localized irrigation kits for 38 families to pump water to
irrigate a total of some 29 ha (0.8 ha per family). The irrigation is accompanied by the
introduction of a new technical package and two new cash crops, chuchu and quiabo (two
high-priced Brazilian vegetables with good local markets), which replace the existing traditional
- 27 -



cultivation of corn, beans and bananas, providing a very good return.
Small Irrigation 2: Sprinkler irrigation system to irrigate 10 ha of previously uncultivated land
with water pumped from a permanent water source, benefiting 10 farming families. Most of the
irrigated land is used for traditional subsistence crops (corn and beans), although a cash crop
(watermelon) is planted on one-third of the new area. Two crops are obtained per year.
Goat Production. Production of goats by a group of about 30 farmers, with an investment
consisting of 120 breeding females and 4 breeding males. A pen, a fence and other facilities are
constructed and 85 ha of improved pastures are installed. Income is derived from the sale (or
self-consumption) of incremental animals and the sale (or self-consumption) of milk.
Animal Feed Production Equipment: Grinding machine and complementary equipment to
produce animal feed from crop residuals, together with a small structure to shelter the machine.
Farmers pay a small amount (R$ 1.50) per hour to use the machine. From these payments,
electricity and maintenance costs are covered and a small fund is formed. The machine works
approximately six months per year. Raw materials and labor to operate the machine are supplied
by users. The organization and supervision of machine use is freely supplied by association
leaders.
Honey Production. Purchase of 340 beehives plus 2 decanters, 2 centrifuges and other apiculture
and honey processing equipment to benefit an association of some 23 members with no previous
apiculture experience. Training is provided along with the equipment. The beehives, located in 8
sites, are maintained by association members. They yield an annual output of some 8,200 kg of
honey which is sold wholesale.
Local Bakery. Middle-size construction (120 sq. m) equipped with a gas oven and other baking
facilities to produce various types of bread, with an average output of 130 kg of bread per day.
Employs a master baker and two full-time workers. Bread is sold locally in the surrounding
communities.
Fish Farm: Five fish ponds of 2,200 m2 each, with a capacity for 8,500 Tilapia fish each. Ponds
are rotated, with 4 ponds being continuously used at a time. Two harvests are collected per pond
in a year, with a total output of 24,000 kg. of fish. Output is sold locally to middle-men. One
person is employed half-time to feed the fish and another is employed half-time as watchman.
Part-time labor is used to harvest the fish.
Cashew Processing Plant: Middle-size plant plus equipment to process cashew nuts. Some 200
tons of cashew nuts are processed annually into 46 tons of roasted and packed cashew almonds,
which are then sold wholesale. Plant operates for ten months of the year, employing around 6
operators. Cashew nuts are bought from surrounding farmers serving some 150 farmners with 1 to
5 ha of cashew trees each.
Jam Production Plant: Plant to process various local fruits into different types of jams and other
confectionery products, producing an average of 175 kg per day of these products. Fruit and
- 28 -



other inputs are bought by the plant. Products are sold retail locally and also wholesale to
retailers. Employs a plant manager and three permanent workers.
Small Dairy Plant: Middle-size plant (155 sq. m) equipped with a pasteurization kit, cooling
chamber and other facilities to pasteurize milk, with a capacity of 1,200 liters per day. The plant is
supplied by around 400 cows with an average daily output of 3 liters per cow belonging to some
60 dairy farmers within a radius of 6 km. Employs a plant manager and 4 permnanent workers.
The results of the financial analysis are summarized in Table A.
Table A: Results of the Financial Analysis of Selected Subprojects
Type of Activity     Investment  IRR       NPV        Net      Years to
(R$)      (%)   (at 10%)  Annual   Recover
Income      the
(RS)     Capita]
Invested
Manioc Mill                  18,450     15.8    5,377     3,970        5.6
Communal Tractor              39,752     37.6   35,141    18,075       2.4
Small Irrigation 1            44,054     >50   327,366    90,781       0,9
Small Irrigation 2            28,311     28.1   23,573    15,238       3.3
Goat Production               43,346     16.5   16,925    12,180       5.8
Feed Production Equipment     6,730      15.4    1,831     1,149       5.9
Honey Production              26,102     16.8    9,112     7,252       5.5
Local Bakery                  43,352     35.0   56,868    29,575       2.8
Fish Farm                     46,104     15.6   13,739    13,162       5.6
Cashew Processing Plant       64,964     >50   288,790    72,195        1.1
Jam Production Plant          41,123     41.7   69,062    35,008       2.4
Small Dairy Plant             62,583     19.7   30,223    34,591        4.7
The investment cost of the subprojects ranges from around R$7,000 to R$65,000, which is typical
for RPAP productive investments. All subprojects show satisfactory-internal rates of return, some
of them being very high. Less than six years are needed to recover the investment in all cases and
less than 3.5 in half of the cases. The net incremental annual income or value-added generated by
the subprojects (at full development) ranges from R$1,149 for the feed preparation equipment to
R$90,781 in the case of one of the irrigation subprojects, with an average value of around
R$28,000 for an average investment of around R$ 39,000.* The IRRs of the subprojects
compare favorably with the real cost of borrowing to the Brazilian Government, which is of the
order of 11 to 12 percent.** The IRRs also compare favorably with the interest rates that would
have to be paid in concessional rural credit programs, like those of the Banco do Nordeste and
Banco do Brasil. Only two subprojects --the cashew processing plant and one of the irrigation
subprojects -- would be able to pay the high interest rates charged by cormmercial banks for term
lending.
* Simple averages
Measured by the difference between the SELJC rate and inflation rate.
- 29 -



Three categories of projects can be identified in the above illustrative sample:
(a) Communal processing equipment or livestock activities which are simple to operate and
well-known to farmers, meet community-wide needs, and directly benefit a majority of families in
the community. The manioc mill, communal tractor, feed production equipment and goat
production subprojects fall into this category. The results summarized in Table A illustrate that
these types of investments can be profitable. Their financial returns, however, are not high
because benefits are passed on to farmers in the form of moderate user fees or because the activity
in question is intrinsically not very profitable as in the case of small-scale goat rearing. These
subprojects have the advantage of building on activities familiar to farmers, and have therefore
little training requirements and simple management needs. They also have low marketing
requirements since the community itself is the market for the service, and the outputs produced
with the help of the service normally have regular marketing channels or are self-consumed;
(b) Subprojects promoting off- or on-farm productive activities which generate full time
employment and considerable income for a particular group of farmers in the community. The
small irrigation subprojects and the honey production, jam production, fish farm and bakery
subprojects belong in this category. New activities producing a final consumption good to be sold
in markets outside the community, exemplified by the honey production, fish farming and jam
production subprojects, can be profitable and offer a source of income and employment to some
members of the community; however, these subprojects tend to be demanding in terms of
marketing and managerial skills.* These subprojects are normnally part of industries where the
entry cost is low and competition high, leaving small operating margins. The lack of working
capital and the difficulty to establish a brand name to differentiate the product and place it in the
best-paying markets are two common constraints;
* Other popular subprojects in this category are clothes-making and the production of various artisanal goods such as embroideries.
Local bakeries, which are popular subprojects in some states, have few training and marketing
requirements, and are similar to cassava mills or communal tractors to the extent that they cater to
local need and therefore have a local market, although in this case the market is for a final good
rather than a productive service, but they only offer employment and income to a reduced number
of community members. The irrigation subprojects illustrate well that, whenever possible,
irrigation together with the introduction of cash crops and an improved technical package is a
profitable and cost-effective way of increasing income and employment in the semi-arid areas of
the Brazilian Northeast, and can be successfully operated by local farmers on a very small scale.
The contrast between the very high returns to investment of the first subproject, where new cash
crops and technology were introduced alongside irrigation, and the moderately high ones of the
second subproject, highlights the impact of profiting from the availability of irrigation water by
introducing wider changes in the cropping system;
(iii) Processing plants requiring comparatively higher capital investment, which operate on a scale
bigger than the communal equipment included in the first category, benefiting also farmers outside
the local community and hence with impact at a more regional level. The dairy and cashew
processing plants exemplify this type of subproject.
- 30 -



To examine the financial robustness of the subprojects, a sensitivity analysis was carried out of the
illustrative activity models. Three scenarios were considered. In the first, production was
assumed to be 20% below the base case, because of, say, marketing problems. A 20% percent
decrease in output caused a 20% decrease in revenue, but this was, to some extent, matched by a
reduction in the use of inputs and hence in variable costs. In the second scenario, the price
decreased 20% and revenue also decreased by the same proportion without any compensating
element. Finally, in the third scenario, an increase of 20% in the price of variable costs was
assumed. The results of the sensitivity analysis are shown in Table B.
Table B: Results of the Sensitivity Analysis
Type of Subproject             Base Case      Scenario 1     Scenario 2     Scenario 3
- 20% output   - 20% price    + 20% costs
Manioc Mill
IRR (%)                          15.8           11.5             10.1          14.4
NPV (R$)                         5,377          1,385            132          4,124
Communal Tractor
IRR (%)                          37.6           17.2             < 0           16.8
NPV (RS)                        35,141         10,836          -23,602        10,221
Small Irrigation I
IRR (%)                          >50            >50              39.4          >50
NPV (R$)                        327,366        163,375          77,015        154,646
Small Irrigation 2
IRR (%)                          28.1            7.4             4.6           13.0
NPV (R$)                        23,573         -2,965           -6,057        3,546
Goat Production
IRR (%)                          16.5           12.8             11.5          15.2
NPV (R$)                        16,925          7,097           3,847         13,395
Feed Production Equipment
IRR (%/.)                        15.4           11.2             10.2          14.4
NPV (R$)                         1,831           397              62           1,496
Honey Production
IRR (%)                          16.8           10.0             7.2           11.6
NPV (R$)                         9.112           42             -3,635        2,162
Local Bakery
IRR (%)                          35.0           20.1             < 0           15.8
NPV (R$)                        56,868         22,451          -21,559        12,859
Fish Farm
IRR (%)                          15.6            9.3             < 0           < 0
NPV (R$)                        13,739         -1,732          -39,886       -26,024
Cashew Processing Plant
IRR (%)                          >50            > 50             48.3          >50
NPV (R$)                        288,790        210,642         132,561        201,015
Jam Production Plant
IRR (%)                          41.7           24.0             < 0           12.7
NPV (R$)                        69,062         29,690           -33,720        5,652
Small Dairy Plant
IRR (%/.)                        19.7            2.0           n.d. (*)       nd. (*)
NPV (R$)                        30,223         -23,493         -138,697       -84,981
(*) IRR not defined; net benefits are negative all years.
Some subprojects are more sensitive than others to changing market conditions. In general,
subprojects which are highly dependent on purchased inputs, like the communal tractor, the
- 31 -



bakery, the fish farm, the jam production plant and the dairy plant, are more sensitive to
deteriorating market conditions than those with minor dependence on purchased inputs, e.g., the
manioc mill, goat production, feed preparation equipment and honey production subprojects. In
all cases, the worst scenario is that of a decrease in prices (scenario 2). The second worst scenario
depends on the type of subproject; for subprojects highly dependent on purchased inputs, it is the
increase in variable production costs (scenario 3), while for those with little dependence on
purchased inputs, it is the fall in output (scenario 1).
To complete the financial analysis of productive subproj ects, a weighted average of the IRRs of
the activity models included in the sample was calculated. The shares of each of the twelve types
of illustrative models (which were taken to represent other, similar ones) in the total amount
invested in community subprojects in the RPAP program until the end of April 2001 were used as
weights.* The resulting average IRR is 30.2%. This figure gives an indication of the overall
profitability of the productive subprojects normally financed under the RPAP.
* IRR of the "Small Irrigation I " and "Cashew Processing Plant" subprojects, which is higher than 50%, was taken to be equal to 50% in the
computation of the weighted average.
Aggregate Impact of the RPAP Program on Employment, Income and Cultivated Area
The July 2000 impact evaluation study carried out of the RPAPs in eight Northeastern States
including Bahia, provided an estimate of the aggregate impact on employment, income and
cultivated area of the infrastructure, productive and social subprojects included in the program.
The study, based on a sample from the most representative types of subprojects in each of the
States, with an error of less than 20%, provides summary figures for incremental jobs created,
incremental income generated and incremental number of hectares cultivated per unit invested in
productive subprojects.
Total investment in community subprojects:                        US$362.0 million
Incremental employment created:                                           40,000 jobs
Incremental net annual income/savings generated:                      US$80.0 million
Incremental cropped area:                                             40,000 hectares
These estimates are subject to several caveats, including that the sample's level of significance is
not large, and that the estimates reflect both direct impact of the investments on employment,
income and cultivated land as well as some indirect impacts, e.g., expansion of cultivated area,
employment and income derived from the introduction of a tractor or a casa defarinha in a
certain community. The above figures should thus be viewed as indicative of the magnitude of
benefits involved: Finally Table D shows a variety of socio-economic benefits for main subproject
types implemented under the RPAP.
- 32 -



Table C: Socio-Economic Benefits of Subprojects by Main Subproject Type.
Project Type       Total No.  No. of    Cost per   Net No.    Net    Incremen Economic
of     Benefic.   Subproj.   of Jobs   Annual    . Crop    Internal
Complete  Families    (US$)    Created  Increment.   Area         Rate of
Subproj.    per                    per    Income/    Cultiv.   Return
*     Subprojec              Subproj.  savings       per        (%)
t                    **        per      Subproj.
Subprojec  (hectares
(US$)       ***
Infrastructure:
Rural water supply         4,025        71       30,149                12,369       1,4
Rural electrification      4,080        49       22,400                 1,942       1.6
Small bridges               538        139       26,350                1,040       2.3
Community telephones        435         140      22,944                 422         0
Productive:
Manioc mills                412         68       18,451      10.8      17,148      16.3       >30
Community Tractors          573         95       30,870      29.3      28,137      22.6       >30
Small-scale livestock       110         40       16,354      2.5       6,214       2.8        >30
Small-scale irrigation      146         36       25,158      25.4      23,800      37.9       >30
Social:
Road paving/rehab.          675         82       31,930        -        242         1.7         -
Sanitation systems          171         72       29,727                  0          0
Cost Effectiveness
Project Type           Total        Total      Economic
Investment  Investment   Benefit-
per        per Job    Cost Ratio
Beneficiary    Created      * * * *
Family       (US$)
(US$)
Infrastructure:
Rural water supply            425
Rural electrification         457
Small bridges                 190
Community telephones          164           -
Productive:
Manioc mills                  271         1,708        >2.0
Community Tractors            325         1,054        >2.0
Small-scale livestock        409          6,542        >2.0
Small-scale irrigation        699          990         >2.0
Social:
Road pavinglrehab.            389           -            -
Sanitation systems           413
* As of March 2000. By January 2001, some 19,000 subprojects had been completed under the RPAP. Subproject distribution did not vary greatly.
Many jobs created by the infrastructure and social subprojects come from additional economic activities made possible by the investments, butnot
directly involved with theproject after its construction/establishment.
* The incremental crop areas associated with infrastructure and social subprojects come from the cultivation of additional areas, made possible by
the projects.
** ** Obtained by using a real rate of 10% for the opportunity cost of capital.
- 33 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
02/95                        2   Economist
2   Agricultural Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
04/95                        3   Economist
2   Agricultural Economist
I   Civil Engineer
2   Agricultural Specialist
I   MIS Specialist
Supervision
06/95                   Update                                       HS             HS
06/96                   Update                                        S             S
11/96                        1   Agricultural Specialist              S             S
09/97                         1   Agricultural Specialist             S             S
04/98                         1   Agricultural Specialist             S             S
11/98                        1   Agricultural Specialist              S             S
03/99                         3   Agricultural Economist              S             S
I   Sociologist
3   Agricultural Specialist
09/99                         1   Agricultural Specialist             S              S
03/00                         1   Agricultural Specialist             S             S
10/00                        I   Agricultural Specialist              S             S
05/01                   Update  --                                    S             S
ICR
08/01                        1    Agricultural Specialist             S             S
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle  |                 Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               115.9                        311.8
Appraisal/Negotiation                     29.9                         74.0
Supervision                              125.7                        304.9
ICR                                        3.0                          6.0
Total                                    274.5                        796.7
- 34 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA-Not Applicable)
Rating
LZ Macro policies                        O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
L Sector Policies                        O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
II Physical                              *H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Financial                              O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Institutional Development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
L Poverty Reduction                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
OI Gender                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
LI Other (Please specify)          OH  *SUOM  O N  O NA
LI Private sector development            0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management               0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
LI Other (Please specify)                O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 35 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                  Rating
O Lending                                             OHS Os Ou OHU
O Supervision                                         O HS * S  OU  OHU
F Overall                                             OHS OS  O u  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                              Rating
O Preparation                                         OHS Os   O u  O HU
O Government implementation performance               O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
* Implementation agency performance                   OHS OS   O u  O HU
O Overall                                             OHS OS 0 U O HU
- 36 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
State of Bahia MTR Evaluation (Physical Implementation Review and Impact Evaluation).
Decentralized Rural Development, Enhanced Community Participation and Local Government
Performance: Evidence from Northeast Brazil, (Draft), van Zyl, Sonn and Costa, July 2000.
Assessment of Community Participation, A. Costa, Bank/FAO, 1999.
Mid-term Review of RPAP in Bahia, 1999.
Bank Supervision Reports.
Project Audit Reports.
Periodic progress reports.
*Including electronic files
- 37 -



- 38 -



