Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 19143
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 12.5 MILLION (US$17.5 MIILLION EQUIVALENT)
AND A GEF GRANT
IN AN AMOUNT OF US$4.7 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO TE
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
FOR AN
ENERGY AND WATER SECTOR REFORM AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 15, 1999
Energy Unit
Country Department 14
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit      =      Cape Verde Escudo (CVE)
US$1 I                    98 CVE (as of April 1, 1998)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CNAG               Conselho Nacional de Aguas (National Council of Water)
CVT                Cabo Verde Telecom
DANIDA             Danish Development Agency
ELECTRA            Empresa Publica de Electricidade e Agua (Public Company for Electricity and Water)
EMAP               Empresa Mlunicipal de Agua da Praia (Municipal Company for Water Distribution in Praia)
ENACOL             Empresa Nacional de Combustiveis e Lubricantes (National Company for Fuels and Lubricants)
ERSO               Economic Reforns Support Operation
EU                 European Union
GARSEE             Gabinete de Apoio ai Reestrutura,cao do Sector Empresarial do Estado (Support Group for the
Restructuring of Public Enterprises)
GEF                Global Environment Facility
GOCV               Government of Cape Verde
IDA                Intemational Development Association
INGRH              Instituto Nacional de Gestdo dos Recursos Hidricos (National Institute for Water Resource Management)
MAAA               Minist&rio da Agricultura, Alinentacao e Ambiente (Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Environment)
MIH               MlAinisterio das Infraestructuras e Habita,do (Ministry of Infrastructure and Housing)
MCIE               Ministerio do Come'rcio, Induistria e Energia (Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy)
NDP                National Development Plan
OPEC (Fund)        Oil Producing and Exporting Countries Fund
PEAS               Projecto Energia, Agua e Saneamento (Energy and Water Reform and Development Project)
PMU                Project Management Unit
SEPA               Secretariado Executivo Para o Ainbiente (Executive Secretary for Environment)
VPM                Vice Prime Minister (Office of the)
Vice-President           Jean-Louis Sarbib, AFR
Country Director         Mahmood A. Ayub, AFC14
Sector Manager           Mark Tomlinson, AFTG I
Task Team Leader         Philippe Durand, AFTGI



TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
A. Project Development Objectives
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators .......... .                                              2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related CAS  goal supported by the project  .....  .                                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy  .....  .                                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices  ....  .                                   .  .  .   .   5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components  .......  .                        .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project  .....  .                                     .  .  .  .   .   8
3.  Benefits and target population  ......  .                        .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .   .  .  .   .    8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection .1. . . . ..  . . . . .. 10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies. .                                            I 1
3.  Lessons learned and reflected  in proposed project design   ..  . . ...  . . . . . .                                    12
4.  Indications of Borrower commitment and ownership . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ........ .                                   . .... .. . . . .  12
E. Summary Project Analyses
1. Economic . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   13
2.  Financial  . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                 13
3. Technical .......   ............................... .  15
4. Institutional  .........                .        ..  ..  .    ..  .   ..  .   ..  .   ..  .   ..  .   ..  .   ..  .    .  1 5
5. Social .... . . . . . .. .. . . . . . . . ...                                                                            15
6. Environmental assessment ............. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1 6
7. Participatory approach .. . ... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . . . . .. 1 7
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability .......... . . . . . . . .. . . . . . .. .                                                                17
2. Critical risks . .......... ......................... .  19
3. Possible controversial aspects    .......   .                         .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .   .    20
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Negotiation conditions   .......  .                        .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .   .    20
2.  Board conditions             .          .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   21
3. Effectiveness conditions. .                                     .      ...............   21
4. Other . . . . . ..  . . .  . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                  21
H. Readiness for Implementation.. .....................    22
1. Compliance with Bank Policies.. .....................    22



Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Summary                                             23
Annex 2.1. Detailed Project Description                                      26
Annex 2.2. Statement of Sector Development Policy                            42
Annex 3.  Estimated Project Costs and Financing Plan                         49
Annex 4.  Economic Analysis Summary                                          58
Annex 5.  Financial Analysis Summary                                         78
Annex 6.  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                          86
Table A       Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B       Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C- I    Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Table C-2     Allocation of Grant proceeds
Annex 7.  Environmental Management Program
94
Annex 8.  Project Processing Budget and Schedule
103
Annex 9.  Documents in the Project File
104
Annex 10. Statement of Loans and Credits
106
Annex 11. Country at a Glance
108
Map              IBRD No. 30064
110



Cape Verde
Energy and Water Sector Reform and Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Region
Date: April 15, 1999                             Task Team Leader: Philippe Durand
Country Director: Mahmood A. Ayub                Sector Manager: Mark Tomlinsoni
Project ID: 40990/42054    Sector: Energy/Water    Program Objective Category: ES
Lendiiig lInstrumeiit: SIL                       Program of Targeted Initervention:    []Yes [ x ] No
Project Financing Data                 [  Loan    [x] Credit   [] Guarantee   [] Other [Specify]
Project cost (US$m): 48.0    Credit amount (US$m/SDRm): 17.5/12.5  GEF Grant amount (US$m):  4.7
Proposed terms:              []   Multicurrency         [x]   Single currency (US dollars)
Grace Period (years): 10 years   []   Standard variable  []   Fixed             []   LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40 years
Commitment fee: 0 %
Service charge: 0.75 %
Financing plan (US$ million):
Source                               Local           Foreign        Total
Government                                                     3.5                            3.5
European Union                                                 1.3              6.2           7.5
OPEC Funid                                                     0.9              3.6           4.5
Austria                                                                         0.8           0.8
Electra privatized                                             1.5              6.2           7.7
Private PV concessionaires                                     0.2              1.6           1.8
IDA                                                            3.1             14.4           17.5
GEF                                                            0.6              4.1           4.7
Total       11.1            36.9           48.0
Borrower: Government of the Republic of Cape Verde
Guarantor: n/a
Responsible agencies: Office of the Vice Prime Minister, Ministry of Infrastructure and Housing, ELECTRA (after
privatization)
Estimated IDA disbursements (US$M/FY):      2000        2001        2002        2003        2004
Annual 3.8         6.5         5.4         1.8
Cumulative 3.8         10.3        15.7        17.5
Estimated GEF disbursements (US$M/FY):    2000          2001        2002        2003        2004
Annual 0.5          1.8        1.8         0.6
Cumulative 0.5         2.3         4.1         4.7
Project implementation period: 1/1/00-12/31/03   Expected effectiveness date: 8/1/99  Expected closing date: 6/30/04



2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performnance indicators (see Annex 1):
The proposed project is embedded in the objectives of the National Development Plan for 1997-2000
(NDP) and will support the Government strategy to increase private sector participation in the
infrastructure sectors. The development objectives of the project are: (i) to improve the supply of power,
water and sanitation systems; (ii) to increase operational and end-use efficiency in the power and water
sectors; (iii) to lessen the barriers to the development of renewable energy sources; (iv) to foster the
sound management of water resources. Specific objectives of the project include: (a) privatization of
ELECTRA; (b) increased private participation in and financial autonomy of water sector operations; (c)
expansion and rehabilitation of power, water and sanitation systems in major urban centers; (d)
development of windpower capacity withi private financing; (e) promotion of solarphotovoltaic and wind
energy systems for decentralized use; (f) development of a regulatory and legal framework in the power
and water sectors; (g) strengtheninig the capacity of sector entities to monitor and regulate energy and
water sector activities and promote end-use efficiency in these sectors.
The project's performance indicators are shiowni in detail in Annex 1.
B: Strategic Context
1.1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1).
The project is fully consistent withi IDA's CAS for Cape Verde, whicih was discussed by the Executive
Directors on December 23, 1997 (Report No. 17206-CV, dated December 1, 1997). The CAS focuses
oln: (a) achieving a viable and stable macroeconomic framework; (b) consolidating policy reforms in
support of private sector development; and (c) accelerating poverty reduction and social sector
development.
The project will support the broad goal of private sector development through the reduction of energy and
water costs and by promoting the participation of private investors in the power and water sectors
(privatization of ELECTRA, private development of renewable energy and private participation in and/or
privatization of water supply). The project will also support poverty reduction by improving the quality
and coverage of power, water and sanitation systems and reducing the costs of these services for lower
income hIouselholds.
1.2. GEF Operational Strategy/Pro graon Ohbective addressed by the project
The global environment objective is to reduce carbon emissions resulting from power generation in Cape
Verde. The project supports the GEF climate chiange Operational Program #6 aimed at promoting the
adoption of renewable energy by removing barriers and reducing implementation costs. By making it
possible for ELECTRA's strategic private partner to develop commercial wind farms, it will remove the
barriers and bring down the costs of future wind energy projects being implemented on a fully
commercial basis. By helping the local private sector to enter the market for the supply, installation and
maintenance of household-level photovoltaic (PV) systems, a sustainable, economic PV activity will
develop. Cape Verde ratified the Framework Convention on Climate Change on March 29, 1995.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
2.1. Energy and water/sanitation sector background and issues.
2.1.1 Energy The country has no primary energy resources except for firewood which meet 57% of
hiousehold energy needs (of whicih 92% rural); wood resources are scarce though and have low



3
regeneration capacity. Power generation installed capacity is 50 MW, which relies mostly on imported
fuel oil and some windpower. Due to the geographical bearings of the islands, development of power
generation was led by installing small capacity units and there are 11o major transmission networks. Many
families own self generation units which capacity ranges from I kW to 5 kW. The total electric energy
coverage is about 37%, mostly concentrated in the major urban centers. In the secondary centers, which
hold about 63% of the country's population, only 24% of the families are being supplied with electricity.
ELECTRA, the public utility for power and water supply created in 1982, faces serious difficulties to
meet growing electricity demand in Santiago, Sao Vicente, Sal and Boa Vista, the main islands where
urban growth is rapid. ELECTRA increased power supply by 94% over the period 1990 to 1996 and the
installed capacity of power plants owned by ELECTRA increased from 13.5 MW to 31 MW. Praia and
Sal's power capacities currently face serious shortages; electricity demand in Praia alone is increasing at
the rate of 15% per annum. Over the period 1990 to 1996, electricity demand increased by 92.5%. In
1996, ELECTRA supplied 30.8% of generated power to domestic consumers; 16.8% to commerce and
services; 15.8% to desalinated water production; 12.1% to industry; 3.2% to public agencies; 2.3% for
noni-billable public lighting; 5% in self consumption and 14% was lost in the distribution network. With
the help of IDA's Infrastructure and Technical Assistance Project (Cr.1954-CV), ELECTRA's global
distribution losses were reduced to 15% in 1992 from 22% in 1987. Due to inadequate fuel oil hanidlinlg
and storage facilities, as well as operational problems, some of the generation units initially desigiled to
be operated with fuel oil are currently run with gas oil, resulting in highi operation costs. There is no
standard medium voltage level for distribution network and range between 6.3 kV, 13.8 kV and 15 kV.
The standard 20 kV level has been retained and is being implemented.
ELECTRA is facing financial difficulties and has consistently made losses since its creation (before
accounting for Government operation subsidies). One of the maini causes is the number of accounts
receivables that reached $4.3 million in 1994, more than 60% of which was over a year past due by
public agencies. Other factors are low sale price for desalinated water, losses in the distribution networks
of both power and water and unsatisfactory accoulitiIg procedures.
In areas not covered by ELECTRA, municipalities or private consumers independently own and
operate electricity production and distribution facilities, but ELECTRA provides technical support to
some municipalities.  These small, often old power systems have high operating costs, which are
compounded by insufficiently trained staff and ulisatisfactory management, commercial and accounting
procedures. Distribution losses are estinated at 33% for low tension rural networks that are long, old and
ill designed.
At the macro level, energy development is posing two serious challenges. First, the dependence on
imported petroleum fuels is high, since these fuels represented about 74% of overall energy demand, 60%
of exports and 6% of imports in 1997. Secondly, despite the good penetration of LPG as a household
cooking fuel, the demand for woodfuels still exceeds the regeneration capacity of existing forest stands.
2.1.2 Water Water is scarce in Cape Verde due to limited average rainfall (227 mm/year in average) and
mountainous slope of most islands, resulting in little recharge of ground water (13% of rainfall). The
exploitation of 181 million m3/annum of surface water (20% of rainfall) is limited by torrential run-off
and heavy sediment, and catchmenit and storage of surface water is very rare. Of the estimated 124
million m3/annum of ground water recharge, only half can be exploited, further declining to one third in
case of dry periods. At present, the current rate of exploitation is 25 million m3/annum. About 94% of
the exploitation of ground water is for irrigation purposes of which about 50% is lost. Salt intrusion from



4
the sea is taking place due to overpumping. Water supply quality is unreliable with the exception of
desalinized water available in urban centers.
ELECTRA supplies desalinated drinking water to the cities of Praia, Mindelo and the islands of Sal
and Boa Vista. Ground water is exploited by municipalities and private consumers, whereas EMAP,
under the jurisdiction of the Municipality of Praia, is responsible for water production and distribution in
Praia. Water supply coverage is very low in the main and secondary urban centers. As for example, in
the city of Praia, only 30% of the population has access to safe piped water. The average per capita
consumption is about 40 liters per day (l/d), with a large disproportion between connected consumers (50
I/d) and non connected populations (only 16 I/d). Half the water production (2650 m3/d) comes from
ground water exploitation and the remaining 50% is provided by a desalination plant (2 unIits of 1250
m3/d each). Water supply through public network increased only 1% per year since 1990, while the
population annual growth was 4% in the same period. In Mindelo, even though coverage has increased to
65%, the average per capita consumption is only 35 I/d. Water supply is intermittent in both cities (I to 2
hours daily distribution), with negative consequenices on the water quality. The majority of the population
in Praia and Mindelo get their water from cistern trucks and through water fountains also supplied by
trucks. Their per capita consumption remains oII average 15 I/d. Water supply and distribution systems
enitail significant contamination risks, which probably explains the recrudescence of water-related
diseases in Praia and Mindelo (e.g. the recent cholera outbreak). The urban water distribution is mostly
made by old asbestos-cement pipes, resulting in over 25% of losses, which is unacceptable for a system
based on expensive desalinated water.
2.1.3 Renewable Energies The country has excellent wind energy potential at average velocity of 7.5
m/s. Wind power is a suitable and technically viable option for Cape Verde for substitutinig diesel
generation. The Governmenit has taken steps to promote wind power. The first phase of the Danish/Cape
Verde joint project was completed in December 1994, installing 2.4 MW of wind power capacity in Praia,
Miiidelo and Sal, which has been operating without major problem since that date and has contributed to a
significant 10.1% of the energy supplied by ELECTRA to the grids in 1996. A feasibility study has been
unidertakeni which suggests that a further 7.8 MW could added without operational problems (linked to grid
stability and diesel plant operational constraints).
Solar energy potential is good and relatively constant along the year, with an estimated average of 5
kWh/m2/day.  Photovoltaic systems are expected to play an increasingly important role in the
decentralized supply of electricity in the rural areas of the country. There are about12,000 households
that are not expected to be coniected to a grid, even in the long term and a further 20,000 who are not
connected now and will have to wait for a considerable period.. Promoting renewable energy with the
help of the private sector would enable the Government to save foreign exchange on fuel oil and improve
social conditions.
2.1.4 Sanitation Only 8% of the population of Praia (i.e. 6000 inhabitants or 1300 connections) is served
by the sewer system. About 24% of the population has septic tanks and the remaining households do not
have any means of sanitation facilities. To achieve objectives of the sanitation master plan, the number of
sewage connections should be raised up to 5000 in year 2000 and to 11000 in year 2005 with an
important extension of the secondary and tertiary network. The sewage system of Mindelo also covers
only a small part of the city. None of the secondary urban centers have effluent disposal systems. Septic
ditch is the sole existing sanitation system with low coverage levels, which raises serious risk to human
health by polluting underground water. The lack of adequate basic sanitation infrastructure in most urban
centers of Cape Verde, are contributing to environmental degradation and recrudescence of water related
diseases.



5
2.1.5 Institutional and regulatory framework ELECTRA operates without a sound policy and regulatory
framework. There is neither an electricity law nor a regulatory entity for power sector activities, which
hinders significantly the possibility to involve the private sector in the provision of services.
Municipality-managed secondary urban centers suffer from the same generic institutional weaknesses.
The recently restructured Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy is responsible for energy policy
formulation and sector coordination, but it would require strengthening to comply this ftiction
efficiently.
In the water sector, it is necessary to achieve better economic rationale in supply and allocation of
water resources and to reduce the excessive fragmentation of responsibilities in the sector. While water
sector operations are being decentralized at municipal level, greater autonomy, capacity strengthening
and private participation are needed to increase the efficiency of municipal services in charge of these
operations. The Water Code should be revised to reflect these new orientations. The National Institute
for Water Resource Management (INGRH) and the National Water Council (CNAG) should be
strengthened for efficiently playing their role in defining water resource management policy, regulating
the use of groundwater and monitoring water quality.
Both power and water tariff structures lack transparency and do not reflect economic costs by type of
use. These distortions together with non-explicit Government subsidies, in particular for desalinized
water and fuel prices, result in the wrong incentives for producers and consumers.
Regarding sanitation, lack of clarity in sharing of responsibilities between the state, municipalities
and water operators is a major institutional hurdle. It is necessary to adopt a new tariff policy to ensure
cost recovery for operating charges to allow adequate extension of sanitation infrastructure.
2.2 Sector Policies
The NDP central policy is aimed at achieving sustainable economic growth and social development and at
reducing poverty. The strategy to reach these objectives centers on the efficient use of resources and
building public-private partnerships. Increased access to energy and water and a reliable supply are
crucial for ensuring the reaching of these objectives. In addition, the development of safe and reliable
water supply and provision of sanitation systems is vital to raise health standards in the country. To
achieve its goals, the NDP emphasizes the need to improve the corresponding institutional frameworks,
make optimum use of available resources, increase productivity and improve infrastructure. Given the
scarcity of public funds for infrastructure development, the NDP places special importance to the need to
develop energy, water and sanitation systems with substantial private sector participation.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Implementation of a stable business environment for attracting private investors in the power and
water/sanitation sectors will require considerable institutional development to: (i) build up policy and
planning capability at the government level, (ii) issue new or adapt existing legislation, (iii) create,
establish and train regulatory authorities and prepare detailed regulations, (iv) implement corporate
restructuring and financial rehabilitation, if needed, of existing government owned public utilities, (v)
redefine relationships and competencies between the municipalities and the national institutions, and (vi)
prepare concession contracts, and privatize national utilities.
ELECTRA will be privatized as a vertically integrated company by means of a bidding process to
select a private strategic partner. Other shareholders would include individual nationals (living in Cape



6
Verde and abroad), ELECTRA's workers, the municipalities and the State (likely under golden share
arrangements). The GOCV has recruited a Privatization Adviser to: (i) prepare the required institutional,
legal and regulatory framework; (ii) carry out a technical and financial assessment of the situation and
prospects of ELECTRA's activities; (iii) support the definition of the privatization strategy, the
preparation of the concession contract and the execution of the bidding process. Specific aspects to be
reviewed by the Adviser include: boundaries between power and water production and distribution
(particularly respective responsibilities of ELECTRA and the municipalities); corporate restructuring and
financial rehabilitation of ELECTRA; enacting of a revised legal and regulatory framework for the power
and water sector; strengthening of government policy making capability; power/water tariff reform and
review mechanisms; and introduction of competition in power generation and bulk desalinated water.
In order to achieve economies of scale and to improve service, the GOCV has decided that electricity,
water and waste water activities should be the responsibility of the privatized Electra in the major cities
(Praia, Mindelo, Sal and Boa Vista). Existing assets for water distribution and waste water collection
would be transferred by the GOCV to the privatized Electra through a concession agreement. The
privatized Electra would maintain separation of accounting for the three sectors.
An electricity law will define the legal and regulatory framework for developing, owninig and
operating electricity facilities and the rights and obligations of concessioniaires and consumers. The law
should define the position and functions of the regulatory authority and the principles for setting tariffs.
The GOCV has decided to create a multi-sector agency for regulating utilities and transport. The
regulatory functions for the electricity sector would be integrated to this agency.
The legal and regulatory framework for water and sanitation management will be strengthenied, as
well as local capacity for water resource management. To that effect, INGRH's statutes and organization
will be reviewed to reflect its revised mandates and the project will support INGRH in its activities,
including for: water sector regulation, resource inventory, water quality monitoring, water resource
planning and management. INGRH will progressively transfer to municipal companies its activities of
ground water production. INGRH activities might be financed through a fee charged to the operators of
groundwater wells.
Water tariff reform is a prerequisite, since prices currently do not reflect costs and the tariff structure
is not equitable, while the willingness-to-pay of households without access to water seem sufficient to
cover costs of supply (their current expenditure to obtain lower quality water is much higher per unit than
that of households with piped water).
Barriers to renewable energy applications to be addressed by the GEF component
Regarding renewable energy, particularly wind and photovoltaic power, the challenge is to remove
the barriers to their development and create the right incentives to ensure that they will be used to their
economically optimal extent over the long run. Further deployments of renewable energy for both on-
grid and off-grid applications face substantial market barriers, that should be addressed in the reform of
the electricity sector. The project will address the restructuring /reform barrier by supporting the
transitionl from public to private operation of the existing wind farms and putting in place incentives for
the privatized ELECTRA to develop wind resources. The GEF-supported renewable energy components
will address the market barriers to the two target technologies as outlined below and further developed in
Annexes 4.a and 4.b on incremental costs.



7
In the case of grid-connected wind energy, the main barriers are: (a) the high up-front capital cost of
the first large-scale commercial grid connected systems in Cape Verde; (b) the perceived limits to grid
pen^tration for the technology, due to concems about potential voltage and frequency fluctuations as
wind capacity approaches or exceeds 30% of generating capacity on each grid (one of the highest in the
world); and (c) lack of technical capacity to manage the grid at this high level of penetration. The GEF
will fund the incremental costs of removing the capital cost, system control and technical capacity
barriers to  proving that wind  generation  is technically-feasible  and economic at a high  level of
penetration. The penetration to be achieved will be one of the highest in the world and will have a
powerful demonstration impact. By demonstrating the feasibility of adding wind farm capacity in
relatively large blocks and increasing the scale of wind capacity on the grid, the project will facilitate
future commercial additions to the Cape Verde systems and to otlher similar systems around the world,
which will benefit from the economies of scale that will result from system growth and further reductions
in system supply costs.
In the case of PV technology, the barriers are: (a) lack of consumer information on and confidence in
the technology; (b) lack of a supply, installation and service mechanism; (c) lack of adequate technical
capacity to provide these services; and (d) the high up-front cost of supply when the initial PV market is
virtually non-existent. These barriers will be removed by financing the incremental start-up costs of
suppliers, who will compete for supply concessions and bring in international expertise, experience and
financing; by subsidizing, on a declining scale over four years, the cost of the first few thousand systems
that are installed; and by creating the necessary information, regulatory and oversight capacity in
government. The removal of these barriers will stimulate the entry of private sector firms,NGOs and
cooperatives into the market for meeting currently-suppressed demand for off-grid solar and wind
electrification at the individual lhousehold level and for public services such as school lighting, health
dispensaries and water pumping.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost breakdown).
Component                 Category       Indicative   % of      Bank-      % of Bank-     GEF-       % of GEF-
Costs (US$M)   Total    t'mancing   financing    financing    financing
(US$M)                   (US$M)
l. Refortml and development of the power  Institutional  10.2     21.2       6.7         38.1
sector                             building, policy.
Including Support for the privatization of   physical
Electra. the financial restructuring of  & other
Electra. the implementation of a sound
regulatory and legal framework, the
promotion of demand-side management
and energy efficient equipment, the
contribution to the sector investment
program (miarginally economic grid
extension and mitigation of environment
liabilities), together with the related
studies, technical assistance and training.
2. Renewable energy promotion &    Physical &          14.5       30.2       1.0          5.7          4.7          100
development                        Institutional
Including the extension of 7.8 MW of  building
grid-connected wind farms in Praia,
Mindelo and Sal, the development of
decentralized wind or solar photovoltaic
public and individual systems, together
with the related studies. technical
assistance and training.                                                              _



8
Component                   Catego          Indicative    %of        Bank-       % of Bank-      GEF-        % of GEF-
Costs (USSM)   Total    financing      financing     financing     financing
._________ __________ ______ _   (USSM)  _             (USSM)
3. Reform and development of the water    Physical, policy  14.4       30.0        6.0           34.1
sector                                and institutional
Including support for the implementation   building
of a sound regulatory and legal
framework, the creation of autonomous
municipal water companies in Assomada
and other municipalities, the extension
and rehabilitation of the primary and
secondary water distribution network and
water production systems in Praia,
Mindelo, Assomada and Tarrafal, together
with the related studies, technical
assistance and training.
4. Sanitation development                                   6.4        13.3         1.6          9.1
Including the extension of sanitation  Physical
systems in Praia, the improvement of  & institutional
sanitation systems in Assomada, and the    building
construction of wastewater reuse systems
for Praia. together with the related studies,
technical assistance and training.
5. Project coordination and monitoring  Project             2.5         5.2        2.3           13.0
Including support to the Project      management &
Management Unit (staff, equipment) and   Institutional
for the implementation of the         building
Environmenital management program
(studies. TA & training)
Total      48.0        100         17.5          100           4.7           100
2. Key policy and institutional reforms to be sought.
Policy and institutional reforms that the Government has decided to undertake in the power and water
sectors are summarized in the above section B.3 and presented  in detail in the Statement of Sector
Development Policy (attached in Annex 2.2). The Statement will be finalized and signed by the GOCV
during negotiations.
3. Benefits and target population.
Expected benefits of the project include: (i) improved quality of life and health for targeted population (both
in urban and rural areas), through increased access to electricity, safe water and sanitation systems; (ii)
enhianced private sector development through supply of least-cost, reliable energy and water by private
companies; (iii) increased private sector investment, with consequent alleviation of pressure on public
resources directed to the power and water sectors; (iv) modernization of the power and water sectors; (v)
foreign exchange savings by reducing the imports of fuel for power generation; (vi) development of efficient
entities for the monitoring and regulation of power &  water sectors; (vii) reduction of greenhouse gas
emissions with associated global environment benefit.
The project is targeting the population and enterprises of major and secondary urban centers, including
those that currently benefit from unsatisfactory power and water services and those in periphery urban areas
that do not have access to these services and currently use inferior, less safe and much more expensive
means of supply. The project is also targeting part of those isolated households that are likely to be excluded
from modem supply of electricity in the medium term (about 12,000 households). Cape Verde enterprises
will benefit directly from the project by participating in the new companies created in the power and water
sectors and also by entering the market to supply install and maintain decentralized renewable energy
systems.



9
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
Program oversight: the Office of the Vice Prime Minister will guide, coordinate and monitor the process
of reform of the power and water sectors and privatization of ELECTRA, and supervise overall execution
of the project.
Executing agencies:
The Project management Unit (PMU), established within the Office of the Vice Prime Minister, would
coordinate and monitor overall project execution, including project accounting and procurement. The
GOCV will establish an advisorv commilittee consisting of representatives of public agencies, the private
sector, water and energy consumiiers, and other project stakeholders, to advise the PMU on cross-sectoral
issues.
Responsibility for IDA-finaniced project components will be as follows:
*  the PMU will carry out the power/water sector reform component (in collaboration with the MCIE
for the energy sector monitoring component), the water resource management sub-component (in
collaboration_with INGRH). the installation of photovoltaic/winld public systems, public information
actions and the environment mallagemiienit program sub-componenit (in collaboration with SEPA);
*  the MIH will implement the extension/rehabilitation of water and sanitation systems in Praia and
Assomada (in collaboration wvith the Municipality ofAssomada) and the design and construction of
waste water reuse systems.
Responsibility for GEF-financed project sub-components will be as follows:
-  The PMU will carry out the selection of photovoltaic/winid concessionaires and the support to
selected concessionaires;
*  The PMU will prepare the imiplementation of windfarms extension
After Electra is privatized, the agreements will be amended, and ELECTRA would be responsible for
contracting and implementinig investmenits for the GEF-financed extension of windfarms and for the
installationl of IDA-financed extensioni of power distribution systems inperiurban areas (using equipment
procured by the PMU).
Project imiplementationi arrangements are detailed in the Project Implementation Manual, that was
finalized by the GOCV prior to negotiations.
Accountinig, financial reporting and auditing arrangements: An accounting and financial management
system based on an internationally accepted accounting principles would be established and operational
in the PMU before credit effectiveness. Project accounting and procurement will be centralized within
the PMU. The possible application of the Loani Administration Change Initiative (LACI) to effect
disbursements from the Credit will be assessed during the project launch workshop and, if found
applicable, it will be implemented over a period of two years. Project accounts, SOEs and Special
Account will be audited yearly. The audit reports would include separate opinions on SOEs and the SA,
as well as a management letter identifying major weaknesses in financial management and proposing
practical recommendations, and they would submitted to IDA within six months after the end of the
Government fiscal year.
Procurement (see Annex 6): ELECTRA's strategic investor will be selected by international bidding and
will then procure the goods and works required for the execution of project components under its
responsibility (extension of wind farms, extension of power distribution) using its own procedures. The



10
PV private concessionaires will also be selected by international bidding. Classical Bank procedures will
apply to other IDA-financed project components.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered aInd reasons for rejection:
The alternative to the power/water sector reforn  envisaged by the Government (increased private
participation, including the privatization of ELECTRA) would be to restructure ELECTRA to increase its
efficiency or to put it under a management or ieasing contract with a private operator. Experiences in
other countries of the region and worldwide indicate that the most appropriate form  of private
involvemenit to indeed achieve significant productivity gains would be through management control given
by ownershilp, with full responsibility for investments for asset maintenance and development and
establishmenit of an appropriate regulatory framework to protect the consumers' interests.
There are several options for ELECTRA's privatization strategy, which have been reviewed by the
VPM's Office in August-September 1997 with support from a group of experienced consultants financed
linder the Japanese Grant, and were discussed during a workshiop on October 14-15, 1997 with the
participationi of project stakeholders and donors. The workshop evidenced a strong consensus for the
privatization of Electra and defined several of its aspects, including: maintaining the responsibility of
water desalinationi with the privatized Electra, allowing competition in power generation, and bringing
most of mullicipal systems in the assets of Electra before its privatization.
The alterniative of addressing only power sector issues through the project was not retained because
of the strong linkage between tile power and water sectors in techinical, institutional and financial terms.
Not including wastewater treatment and reutilization would not be adequate either because of the scarcity
of water and environment/healtil risks.
The expansionl of power generation capacity through diesel plants instead of wind farms would be
less economilic when taking into account global environment externalities. The option of transferring the
existing wind farms to a private IPP that would finance and implement wind farm capacity expansion
would entail more financial and implementationl risks than the retained option of entrusting these
activities to the private investor that will take over ELECTRA.
Regarding the decentralized renewable energy component, the option of market development for
houselhold systems only (without the public sector component) was found inferior to the option of
includinig a public sector componenit (photovoltaic systems for schools, health centers, public lighting and
water pUMpinig) that will increase the scope of the markets to be developed by local private enterprises
and thus place them in better conditions for achieving sustainable commercial activities.



I1
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sectorissue                           Project                Latest Supervision Ratings
l___________________________  I ______(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementa-    Development
l~                                tion Progress    Objective
(IP)           (DO)
Bank-financed
Support development of infrastructure in  Cape Verde Infrastructure           S         S
transport and power and strengthening of    Rehabilitation and Technical
sector entities                         Assistance Project (Cr. 1954,
completed)
Institutional strengthening of municipalities  Cape Verde Public Sector Reform  S       S
and government entities                 and Capacity Building (Cr.2566,
ongoing)
Support the withdrawal of the State from  Cape Verde Privatization TA         S         S
economic activities                     project (Cr.2377, ongoing)
Support macroeconomic reforms           Cape Verde Economic Reform           HS         HS
Support Operation (ongoing)
Support the withdrawal of the State from  Cape Verde Privatization and
economic activities                     Regulatory Capacity Building
project (proposed)
Increase private participation in power  Guinea Power 11 Project              U         U
sector                                  (Cr.2416-GUI, ongoing)
Senegal Power Sector Adjustment
Credit (proposed)
Indonesia Solar Home Systems          S         S
Project (ongoing)
India Renewable Energy
development Project (completed)
Argentina Decentralized Energy
Project (proposed.)
Other development agencies
Development of water supply and sanitation  European Union/Cape Verde:
systems and strengthening of EMAP       Praia Water Supply project
Development of power generation and     EIB/Cape Verde: Power/water
water desaiination capacity             project
Support to capacity building of         Austria/Cape Verde
municipalities
Photovoltaic systems for household/rural  UNDP/GEF PV project in
electrification                         Zimbabwe
EU CILSS project for Cape
Verde
Installation of wind farms and support to  DANIDA/Cape Verde: Wind
ELECTRA                                 farm project
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory). S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposedproject design:
The project design reflects worldwide and regional experience that institutional development by way of
privatization ensures efficiency gains in a short period of time and that sustainable development requires
improved institutional framework, optimum use of available resources and improved productivity of
human capital by targeting poverty issues. These lessons are reflected in the GOCV's policies, which
emphasize the promotion of private sector participation in the provision of energy, water and sanitation
services.
The project's schedule and expected outputs take into account the complexity of and time required for
successfully reforming the power and water sectors, as experienced in other countries worldwide.
Successftilly attracting competent private investors requires careful preparation of bidding process, financial
restructurinig and prior definition of legal/regulatory aspects.
With regard to renewable energy development, the DANIDA-financed wind fann project has
established the technical viability of this techinology, and built technical capability in ELECTRA for system
operation and monitoring. The project has demonstrated that there is considerable additional potential for
cost reductioll in wind generation and scope for substantially increased penetration on the network.
Concerning decentralized photovoltaic systems, experience indicates that: (a) for household use,
systems hiave a high investment cost which the project must assist in overcoming; full cost recovery is,
however, essential, which is geenerally achieved by ensuring that adequate consumer financing
meclhaniisiims are in place. Success is generally higlher when projects focus on the household level rather
tlhan onl collective systems where respoonsibility for payment is shared; (b) at the market level, it is
necessary to establish responsive and sustainable PV sales and distribution delivery mechanisms by local
private enterprises, providing quality products and ensuring that adequate managerial and technical skills
are available. Past PV projects in Cape Verde have not systematically met the conditions for sustainable
developmenit, either by design or in their implementation; (c) international private sector operators will
enter the market in partnership with locals when the conditions become favorable; and (d) sales of energy
or services comparable with those in use for conventional grid electricity tend to be preferred by
consumers over the sale of equipment.
4. Indications of borrower conunitment and ownership:
As evidenced in the NDP and voiced by the VPM's Office, there is a strong commitment of the
Government to reducing the role of the State in the economy (progress on this front is clear in the successful
Bank-supported Privatization project) and to the reform of the power and water sectors, in particular through
the privatization of ELECTRA which is a stated objective in the Bank-supported proposed Economic
Reform Support Operation (ERSO). Sufficient progress on ELECTRA's privatization is linked to ERSO's
tranche disbursement.
The Government organized a participatory workshop in 1996 to discuss issues and options in tic power
and water sectors, and to air out stakeholders' concems and expectations. A stakeholder/donor workshop
was conducted in October 1997 to discuss the reform's selected options and proposed schedule, to achieve
donor coordination and to firm up the project financing plan.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank support would act as a catalyst to strengthen Govemments partnership with other donors and
mobilize financing. Injection of foreign funds are needed to pursue vigorously and successfully
government's objectives to promote sustainable economic development. IDA's experience in other countries



13
offers comparative advantage and allows sound policy advice to the Government in (a) building public and
private partnerships to promote private sector growth, (b) address long term human resources issues, (c)
remove infrastructure bottlenecks, (d) help the country integrate into regional and world economy, and (e)
increase the efficiency of public resource management (including better coordination of foreign aid). The
Bank's support to the Government in developing a legal and regulatory framework and improving the
institutional framework will foster increased participation of the private sector which is one of the
important direction which the Government would like to take in the infrastructure sector. The Bank
brings together the experience of other countries in privatization and in this way could result in increasing
confidence of potential private investors in Government commitment and sustained policy. The Bank's
support to the privatization of ELECTRA should also increase the transparency and quality of the
process.
GEF's support will allow the development of renewable energy resources by private enterprises through
sustainable marketing/implementation mechanisms. The market for wind power and solar photovoltaic
systems will not develop by itself and GEF financinig is required to remove existing barriers.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4)
The water supply and sanitation components of the project reflect least-cost investments
necessary for increasing service coverage. The water supply component yield economic benefits with an
estimated NPV of 797 million CVE at 12% discount rate, using willingness to pay of about 300 CVE/m3.
However, at the current average tariff of about 200 CVE/m3, the NPV is about CVE -326 millions. This
points both to the high. cost of desalinated water and to the inadequacy of tariffs. For the sanitation
component, the average incremental cost per cubic meter of effluent for both Praia and Mindelo is 30.23
CVE. The wastewater reuse in Praia has an NPV of about 96 CVE million and a rate of return of 27%.
The power sector reform component of the proposed project is expected to have economic and
fiscal impacts. On the economic side, it would improve the efficiency, quantity and quality of electricity
supply. The introduction of private operators in the electricity market is expected to provide a more
efficient supply at a lower cost to the benefit of consumers. The improvement of the distribution systems
would help reduce losses and improve the reliability of supply. On the fiscal side, the reform component
would increase revenues for the government through the sale of existing facilities and the reduction of
expenditures, as the government shifts most of its sector financial obligations to the private sector.
The GEF-financed renewable energy component has been designed based on the incremental cost
and global environment benefit approach. Detailed financial and economic calculations are given in
Annex 4A. The three proposed windfarms do not represent the least cost option (diesel power plants are)
and have EIRRs of between 2 and 10% in a cost benefit analysis which does not include global
environment externalities. To bring the EIRRs to 12%, which is the estimated opportunity cost of capital
in Cape Verde, and to provide for TA to support the work, a total GEF grant of $3.73 million is required.
The off-grid photovoltaic electrification sub-component has a positive net present value at a discount rate
of 12% but requires GEF support in form of a grant of $950,000 to provide a demonstration effect and
build a market and delivery mechanisms.
2. Financial (supported by Annex 5)
Electra's past and current financial performance and tariffs. Electra's electricity and water sales and
revenues have been steadily increasing during the past 5 years ; however, its profitability has been very
low due to the low level of tariffs. Electra's profitability is still overstated since the company has never



14
been able to spend enough money on maintenance due to continual cash shortages. Electra's capital
structure is weak but not disastrous, as most of existing fixed assets were financed by grants or long term
loans with soft conditions. The main issues lie in the high level of inventories and the large outstanding
balance of accounts receivable and account payable. This reflects recurrent problems with collection
regarding both private and public customers. Due to the consequent cash shortages, the company has not
been able to honor much of its debt service for several years, and debt toward suppliers exceeds 6-
months' equivalent of the costs of its purchases. Electra intends to improve its billing and collection
performance with the recent implementation of a new commercial information system, but a sound capital
structure can only be regained if there is a comprehensive financial restructuring including a cancellation
of unlrecovefable old receivable and a substantial contribution from the Government in order to reimburse
the arrears on the debt service and pay suppliers. However, such a restructuring would just compensate
for past tariffs inadequacy. A perennial adjustment of tariffs is necessary, which will allow Electra to
meet its investment requirements while being financially balanced and maintaining a sound capital
structure.
Electra's financial projectiGns. Even assuming comprehensive improvements in operation and a
doubling of average water tariffs, Electra financial performance would remain unbalanced for several
years : the operating income would fall in 1998 and become positive in 2003. The net income, which has
always been negative in the past, would only become positive in 2006. Electra's operational activity will
still result in positive net cash flows over the whole period. However, this results from the forecast
reduction in inventories and accounts receivable in 1998 and 1999, and the cash flows are absorbed in the
reimbursement of cumulated arrears on the debt service (423 M CVE at the end of 1997). Cash shortage
would keep increasing until 2004, when it would reach about 900 M CVE. In order to maintain Electra's
viability, the Government should increase its contribution to Electra by such an amount, which closely
matches the costs of the financial restructuring of the company (see Annex 5). Finally, a tariff adjustment
is required as indicated above. An increase in the price of desalinated water sold by Electra was
approved by the GOCV in September 1998; its impact on Electra's financial projections will be assessed
by the adviser recruited to support Electra's privatization.
EMAP's past and current financial performance and tariffs EMAP's operating income has been
negative for several years and is still very poor, which confirms the inadequacy of current tariff levels
compared to the actual cost of the water. Moreover, EMAP's losses are clearly underestimated as EMAP
purclhases desalinated water from Electra at a price per m3 less than half the actual cost of producing it.
If the current tariff policy is maintained, and desalinated water is properly valued, EMAP's activity will
continue requiring increasing operating subsidies, which will rise from 100 M CVE in 1999 to
171 M CVE in 2005. A 73% rise in tariffs would be necessary for EMAP to reach a financial equilibrium.
The price of water would then increase from 115 CVE / m3 in 1998 to 160 CVE / m3 in 1999 and to
200 CVE / mn3 in 2000. In addition, a least 37 M CVE of operating subsidy would still be required in
1999.
Emap's Financial Projections Emap's financial projections show that without financial support from
the Government, the company will in financial disequilibrium for the foreseeable future: operating
income show a serious deterioration in 1999, after the price of the water bought from Electra is adjusted
to reflect its real cost. It is forecast that after 1999 operating income continue to deteriorate. revenues
from water sales only cover 62% of operating expenses in 1999 and 58% in 2005. The average price of
the water sold by Emap is about 124 ECV/m3, but increasing volumes come from desalination plants.
The cost to Emap of desalinated water was 216 ECV/m3 in 1996. If actual tariffs are maintained, the
Government will be forced to finance EMAP deficits by giving the utility substantial operating subsidies
that are forecast to grow from 100 M ECV/m3 in 1999 to 171 M ECV/m3 in 2005.



15
Privatization of Electra and Emap The privatization of Electra (after merging with Emap's assets) is
designed and implemented with support from an experienced adviser that was recruited in August 1998.
This work takes into account the above noted constraints and issues in Electra's and Emap's financial
situation and prospects. It will define the necessary adjustments in electricity, water and waste water
tariffs, as well as Electra's financial restructuring arrangements (in particular regarding medium/long
tern debt, which the GOCV intends to carry in large part), that will ensure cost-recovery of power sector
activities and provide incentives for private investment required for sector development. Some of the
costs of. Electra's financial restructuring are estimated in Annex 6 (regarding proposed reductions in
stocks, suppliers' debt and accounts receivable, as well as capitalization of overdue interest on debt). The
proposed reduction of suppliers' debt to two nionths (estimated at US$1.6 million by end-1997) has been
included as GOCV contribution to project costs.
Photovoltaic concessionaires A financial analysis of the likely outturn for thephotovoltaic enterprises
has been carried out to assist with designing thie concession arrangements to make it sufficiently attractive
to interinationial investors (see Aninex 5).
3. Technical
The strategy for the privatization of Electra was established with advice from a group of specialists in
these matters, based on relevant privatization experiences for small power/water systems, and was fully
discussed with stakeholders during a well-attended workshop. It resulted in the preparation of a strategy
paper for the reform of the power/water sector and terms of reference for the recruitment of Electra's
privatization adviser.
The design of the water and sanitation components of the project is technically sound, as based on
several techinical/economic/environimental studies financed under the PPF, as well as on studies
conlducted for the preparation of the EU-financed component in Praia.
The design of the project institutional strengthening components is consistent with other related,
Banik-finianced operations to support divestiture of public enterprises and the establishment of an
adequate framework and capacity for the regulation of the power and water sectors. Regarding the
interconinected windfarms, the issue of power network stability and diesel unit operational constraints
(due to increased share of windpower in total power production) was fully reviewed through a GEF-
finaniced specific study.
4. Institutional
Institutionial and implementation arrangements are presented in C.4 and Annex 6.
The creation of municipality-owned, autonomous water distribution companies (inAssomada, Tarrafal
and other municipalities) will be supported and implemcnted under the project. Performance indicators
and agreed actions in relation to these companies would be spelled out in specific agreements.
Because of economies of scale, the GOCV decided to implement a single regulatory agency for the so-
called public services (telecommunications, power, water, sanitation, and transport). Power and water
regulation will be supported under this project, whereas regulation of other services will be supported
through the proposed Privatization and Regulatory Capacity Building project.
5. Social
Social impact of the project is assessed as highly positive in the medium and long term. However, in
the short term part of the population is expected to see an increase in their electricity and water bills,



16
although this increase should be compensated by a better service. The tariff schedules for the concession
contract of Electra, which are under preparation, will include some degree of price-shock protection for
low-income consumers. They are also expected to include strong resource saving signals such as
increasing marginal prices for consumption brackets over the minimum consumption.
6. Environmental (See Environnmental Data Sheet and Annex 7) Environmental Category: A
The proposed project would contribute to improving the environment, primarily through
expansion and improved management of water and sanitation systems, as well as substitution of clean
renewable energy for polluting thermal-based energy. The project does not include groundwater resource
development and has no componenit with major environmental impact. The project implementation will
not result in involuntary resettlement and will only require limited land acquisition (wind farms).
The final EA was completed in August 1998 and was released in November 1998. The EA
defines a program of environmental impact mitigating measures for water, sanitation and energy. The
strict application of standard operating and maintenance procedures for power plant facilities and the
implementation of adequate traininig programs will minimize the potential accidental spills of fuel and
waste oil products. The increase of stacks heights and use of fuel with lower content of sulfur, ash and
trace metal will minimize the negative impacts of gas emissions in thermal power plants. Rehabilitation
and installation of supplementary noise reduction measures will provide an adequate noise control in the
existing thermal power plants. The Municipalities of Sal and Mindelo will transfer to Electra their land
righits for the wind farm sites and in the case of the wind farm site in Praia, the Municipality will acquire
land rights from private individuals that currently own part of this land. The detailed design and the
implementation of the water and sanitation components will include a specific Environmental
Managemenlt and Monitoring Plan to be developed and monitored by the GOCV and the water sector
reguLlatory entity.
The project includes financing for implementing the Environment Management and Monitoring
Plan, as well as environment mitigation  measures for Electra and municipal power facilities (as identified
thirougih an detailed environmental audit to be finalized in Marchi 1999), for a total amount of US$1.1
milion. The EIA has also defined environment quality standards to be complied with by the privatized
Electra in its future operations, which will be included in the bidding documents for the privatization of
Electra.



17
7. Participatory approach (key stakeholders, how involved, and what they have influenced):
Participatory Approach                Preparation  Implementation  Operation
Private sector: Private sector views were obtained during    IS/CON   IS/COL        IS/COL
the November 97 workshop and will continue to be
solicited during project activities. specially regarding
Electra's privatization and participation in water sector.
Water/Power Customers: A beneficiary assessment was    IS/CON/      CON/COL    CON/COL
conducted. NGOs and other concerned parties were        COL
consulted durinig the E1A.
Electra's workers and other poteL'tial local shareholders:   IS/CON   IS/CON         COL
Electra's management has kept its staff fully inforned.
Broader communiicationi actions are being conducted by
Electra and the GOCV, and will intenlsify during the last
phase of Electra's privatization.
(O/ter donors: Various donors supportinig the project  IS/CON/    IS/CON/COL          IS
participated in preparation missions. A donors          COL
coordinationi meeting was organized by the VPM's Office
in 1 1/97                                        _____
Note: IS = Information sharing; CON = consultation; and COL = collaboration
F: Sustainability and Risks
1 . *S'ustainablilitv:
Project sustainiability will depend first upon the satisfactory completion of sector reform, i.e. the success
of ELECTRA's privatization to a competent private investor selected through competitive bidding,
toaethler with the soundness of regulatory and monitoring dispositions (particularly the concession and
tariff agreemnents), the continued commitment of the Government to sector modernization, and the
compliance with contractual agreements by all parties. The timely setting up of an efficient, independent
regulatory entity will be another condition of project sustainability. GOCV's role, limited to policy,
coordination and monitoring funictionis, will also ensure sustainability of the corresponding project
componenit.  The municipalities commitment to provide sufficient autonomy to and allow private
participation  in municipal water companies is a key condition for satisfactory operation and development
of municipal water and sanitationi systems.
J'Vi/1d Ft1Bar11s
Future developments of wind farms will be sustainable as a result of the combined effects of economies
of scale in wind farm development and predicted decreases in the unit costs of equipment. In 1995, the
first year of operation of the DANIDA-funded wind farms, aggregate energy supplied from wind
accounted for 10% of the total from 2.4 MW installed. The proposed wind farm extension will, in the
first year of their operation, account for around 28% of the total energy supplied from 10.2 MW installed
(an increment of 7.8 MW). Increased experience and confidence in being able to operate the system at
highi penetrations of wind should permit higher penetrations in the future, forecast on the chart above as
35% of energy supplied. Such a penetration would require an incremental capacity addition of 16.1 MW
to be installed in 2005.



18
There are also strong indications that wind farms capacity unit costs are decreasing and will continue to
do so. The table below compares the cost of installed wind in Cape Verde with best practice in 1994 and
1998 and projections for 2004 (the years in which capacity in Cape Verde was or would be ordered). For
wind acting as a fuel saver in Cape Verde, the installed cost shown is that which it must be for a wind
farm to be cost-effective. The range is $815-900/kW, depending oni assumptions about fuel cost.
Source                 1994               1998                 2004
($/kW)             ($/kW)           ($/kW forecast)
Cape Verde                  2000-2300             1325               815-900
UK (NFFO based data)       1244 - 1800          930-1150             775-880
US EPRI TAG, 19931             900                745                  620
Substation and interconnection not included. With those componicnts cost generally approaches those from the UK
Future cost reductions in Cape Verde will come from two sources:
(i) Continued reduction in installed costs world wide. The reductions stem from overall equipment cost
reductions, the use of larger machiines and reduction in fixed costs per unit of capacity installed. In all
these are predicted to amount to 15-20% of current costs over the coming six years. This consideration
also takes into account the scale economies that will occur with developing wind farms that will be over
twice the size of the existing ones;
(ii) Convergenice between international and Cape Verde costs. The proposed 1998 Cape Verde wind
farms currently show a $175-395/kW  premium  over international ones (down from  a near 100%
premium). The premium can be expected to reduce to a range of $0-100/kW, partly as a result of
Electra's privatization and partly througlh experience of both suppliers and buyers in international
mi arkets;
The forecast therefore indicates that the costs are likely to come down to where the fuel savings alone
will justify the installation of wind farms, provided the barriers to penetration are removed. Eveni under
more pessimistic scenarios, the implementation cost of future wind farms will have been very
significanitly reduced, as required in GEF's OP#6.
Photo volteic markets
Decreasing prices and increasing demand for household photovolvaic systems will result in increased
sales and a sustainable market for photovoltaic systems distributed by local private enterprises without
furtlher GEF financial support. The entrance of the concessionaires who will be in a position to make
bulk purchases, as opposed to one-off sales as at present, will have an initial downward effect on prices.
Typically the price of a 5OWp system is around $810 on a one-off purchase basis and it is expected that
with a concessionaire being able to make bulk purchases the delivered cost will reduce to around $670. It
is expected that further downward pressure will continue throughout the lifetime of the concession under
the limited competition that would exist. At the end of the concession period, increased competition
would continue to hold prices in check. At the end of the project, when the GEF subsidy is phased out,
there should be sufficient prospects for continued market growth for the concessionaires to remain active
for the remainder of their term of 10 years.



19
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumnptions in the fourth column ofAAnnex 1):
Risk                           Rating  Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell 'from Outputs to Objective"
1. Government commitment for agreed-upon            N       Pass irreversible step of reform before
privatization strategy stops.                               Board presentation.
2. No or delayed consensus of Government,           S       Implement transparent and frequent
stakeholders and donors on ELECTRA's                        consultation mechanisms with
privatization strategy and during its                       stakeliolders.
implemenitation.
3. There are- not enough bids of competent firms for  M     Satisfactory bidding/transaction
ELECTRA.                                                    conditions (designed by experienced
privatization adviser). Adequate road
slhows.
4. UJnsatisfactory concession agreement and         N       Recruit experienced consulting firm
inefficient work of regulatory entity.                      for advice/support.
5. Penetrationi of electricity systems by wind is   N       Follow recommendations of techinical
tecihnically and economically limited.                      studies. Design adequate incentives
(GEF).
6. Local enterprises are not adequately             S       Adequate TA and GEF incentives.
trainied/supported and there is no competitive              Concession system for several
dissemination of photovoltaic systems                       enterprises.
7. The target population hias insufficienit incentives  N   Apply proven, high-impact Demand
for rational use of power and water.                        Side Management measures.
8. Targeted hOouselholds not able/willing to pay for  M     Apply findings of beneficiary
power, water and sanitation services that do not            assessment for reform of power/water
meet their expectationis.                                   tariffs.
9. Project implemeniting entities are neitiher properly  M  Agreement on
staffed, nor adequately supported or with                   structure/staffing/budget before Board
iinsuffic ient budget.                                      presentation.
A4nne.X 1 cell 'from Con7ponen7ts to Outputs"
i. Recomimlenidationls of the financial/privatizationi  M   Adequate support to the privatization
adviser are not timely implemented.                         task force and to the project
preparation unit.
2 Bidding for privatization of ELECTRA is           M       Sufficient time for bid preparation and
delayed.                                                    prior regulatory/legal/restructuring
work
3. Counterpart funds are not available in a timely  M       Reasonable amounts and verification
manlner.                                                    of inclusion in yearly budgets
4. Incentives are insufficient for development of   M       Adequate design of GEF support
reniewable energy by private operators.
5. Procurement/disbursement decisions are delayed.  M       Adequate procurement plan and
training
Overall Risk Rating    S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



20
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The possible sources of controversy are the perception of Electra privatization and the impact of
necessary water tariff increases. The privatization of Electra might be perceived as job-threatening by
Electra non-managerial staff, or could be viewed by the Cape Verde population at large as the
Government relinquishing its control over strategic national assets. This possible source of controversy
seems limited however, in view of the consensus about the justification and benefits of privatization that
emerged during the workshop held in Praia in November 1997 and due the fact that Electra's
management is fully supportive of privatization and claims that its staff has also perceived the possible
benefits of privatization (including better incentives in terms of training, salaries, public image, and
shareholding options, together with acceptable packages for separated staff paid from  privatization
proceeds). Also, adequate commullication actions are to be developed by the GOCV prior to the sale of
Electra, with support from the privatization advisor.
The significant increase in the average retail tariff of water (about a doubling, with further
increases as the share of desalinated water in water supply will increase) that is necessary for cost
recovery by municipal companies is likely to be perceived negatively by the public and possibly objected
by the municipalities themselves. However it seems that household willingness-to-pay (as estimated from
current expenditure by households not connected to the grid for what is and inconvenient and unsafe
water supply) would be largely sufficient to allow the required water tariff restructuring, that would in
any case include phased increases (with corresponding GOCV decreasing subsidies), a lifeline rate and
adequate communication actions.
G. Main Credit/Grant Conditions
1. Thefollowing conditions were met during negotiations:
I. I The Project Management Unit has been created (Decree No.40-A/98) and staffed with key personnel
(Coordinator, Accountant, Program Officer, Renewable Energy Specialist, Executive Assistant);
1.2 The final Project Implementation Plan was discussed, including detailed performance indicators and
procurement plans and agreement was reached on changes to be made to reflect final project scope and
arrangements;
1.3 The PMIJ's accounting and financial procedures have been defined in a draft financial management
hanidbook and the necessary software/hardware has been installed at the PMU;
1.4 Enginieering design and draft bidding documents were prepared for IDA-financed water/sanitation
extension works in Assomada;
1.5 Detailed technical specifications have been completed for the wind farm extension;
1.6 Draft bidding documents have been prepared for the selection of private PV concessionaires and the
purchiase and installation of PV systems;
1.7 A consultant has been recruited to prepare engineering design and bidding documents for IDA-
finaniced water extension works in Praia;
1.8 A consultant has been recruited to conduct a detailed environment audit of Electra's facilities and
prepare the engineering design for environment mitigation measures;
1.9 The final draft of PMU's financial management handbook was discussed during negotiations and
agreement was reached on minor changes to be made to the liandbook;
1.10 The final draft of the Statement of Sector Development Policy for the power and water sectors was
discussed and signed during negotiations.



21
2. The following conditions of Board presentation have been met:
2.1 Five consortia have been pre-qualified for the privatization of Electra, based on qualification criteria
satisfactory to IDA;
2.2 A consultant has been recruited to define engineering design for IDA-financed investillent in
electricity connections to be implemented by Electra privatized.
3. Credit Effectiveness Conditions include the following:
3.1 Promulgation of the Electricity Law, the Water and Sanitation Law and the Regulatory Agency Law
and approval of the corresponding bylaws regarding regulatory arrangements, in form and substance
satisfactory to IDA (expected completion: June 1999);
3.2 Final documentation for the privatization of Electra, satisfactory to IDA, is released by the GOCV to
pre-qualified firms, including memorandum of information, draft concession agreements, draft statutes,
draft shareholding agreement, approved resolution oni tariff of electricity and water, and other documents
as judged necessary by the privatization adviser (expected completion: May 1999);
3.3 The strategic partner has been selected for the privatized Electra and has been invited by the GOCV
to enter into negotiations (i.e. Electra is brought to the point of sale);
3.4 The PMU is fully staffed and its financial management system is fully operational;
3.5 The DCA and GEF Agreement have been ratified;
3.6 The detailed Environmental Management Program, satisfactory to IDA, has been finalized;
3.7 The PMU has appointed an independent auditor;
3.8 The GOCV has opened a project account for counterpart funds and has made an initial deposit of the
equivalenit of US$100,000:
3.9 The GOCV has established the project advisory committee.
4. Other /class if according to co ienant tvpes used in Legal Agreemnents]:
DCA:
4.1 Signature of a Project Agreement with Electra privatized regarding implementation of IDA-financed
extensioni of electricity connections, not later than 9 months after credit effectiveness;
4.2 Signature of concession agreements, satisfactory to IDA, between the GOCV and the municipality of
Assomada. for the exploitation of IDA-financed water and sanitation systems: by December 31, 2001;
4.3 Signature of concession agreements, satisfactory to IDA, between the GOCV and the private
concessionlaires, for the exploitation of IDA-financed public PV systems, by December 31, 2001;
4.4 Conduct the project mid-term review: by December 31, 2001;
4.5 Deposit GOCV counterpart funds on the project account on a quarterly basis;
4.6 OPEC FUND to approve its cofinancing for the project by December 31, 2000.
GEF Agreement:
4.7 Signature of a Project Agreement with Electra privatized, regarding the GEF-financed extension of
wind farms, not later than 9 months after credit effectiveness (condition of disbursement for the GEF
category related to windfarm extension;
4.8 Selection of private concessionaires by PMU for the commercialization of small photovoltaic and
wind systems, satisfactory to IDA: by March 31, 2000;



22
4.9 Signature of concession agreements, satisfactory to IDA, between the private concessionaires and the
GOCV, regarding the commercialization of GEF-financed photovoltaic/wind systems: by June 30, 2000.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[xl The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.    [I  Not applicable
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
[xl The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[x] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
(i) complete bidding documents for privatization of Electra;
(ii) engineering design for IDA-financed investment in electricity connections to be implemented by
Electra privatized.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ] [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval: None. The project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.]
[signagn~
Task Team Leader: Philippe Durand, AFTG I
[signature]
Sector Manager: Mark Tomlinson, AFTG1
[signature]
Country Director: Mahmood Ayub, AFC14



23                                 Annex 1
Annex 1
Cape Verde Energy and Water Reform and Development Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative-Summary.,        Key Performance Indicators        Monitoring       Critical Assumption
and                    Risks
.______ _______ ______     . ____________ __  .Supervision
Sector-related CAS Goal                                                       (CAS Objective to Bcank
Promote sustainable        I Full privatization of the power  Bank/IMF        Mission)
development by             sector                             Supervision     1. Governmenlt remainis
encoiragilig public-private   2. Private participation in largest    and Sector  committed to private sector
partnershiip in the        municipal water companies          Reports         infrastructure development
provision of economilic    3. Goverml-ent subsidy for Electra
infrastructtire.           is phased oit by 2000              Economilic      2. Political. social and
4. At least 15 % of all electricity  reports by the    economic stability continues.
Global Environment         generated by renewable energy by    Office of the
Objective                  the year 2003                      Vice Prime
5. Savings of 6500 toins of       Minister
Mitigation of climate      petroleum products in 2004
chanige throughi reduction  (substituted with renewable
of greenhotise gas         energy), equivalent to 19,000 tons
emissions                  of C02.
Project Development        1. Househiold access to electricity    Sector      (Development Objectives to
Objectives                 increasing as follows (in %):      operators       C'AS Objective)
(i) Improved access to                    98     02     07   reports
energy, water, and         Praia          69     80     90   Supervision      1. Incenitives for private sector
improved sanitationi       Mindelo        92     95     99   mission reports  participation continiue
services with optimum use                                     Beneficiary     improving, including
of renewable resources                                        assessments     satisfactory power/water tariffs.
and promotion of private    2. Houselhold access to water
sector participation.      increasing as follows (in %):                      2. Power/water sector legal and
(ii) Increased operational                98     02     07                    regulatory framework is
and end-use efficiency in  Praia          25     50     65                    satisfactory and well enforced
the power and water        Mindelo        65     80     90                    in the sectors.
sectors
3. Good coordination between
GEF Operational            3. Household access to sanifationi                 donors.
Program Objective          increasing as follows (in %):
98     02     07                    4. Timely implementation of
Under GEF OP#6, remove    Praia           8      35     43                    necessary investments by the
the barriers to grid                                                          privatized Electra.
coninected wind generation    4. The penetration of wind power
and off-grid PV electric   on the three main grids (Praia,
systems                    Mindelo & Sal) averages 19,'o by
2002.
5. 4,500 households gain access to



24                                   Annex 1
NarrativeSummary            Key. Performance Indicators        Monitoring        Critical Assum  pi
andRik
____._______________                                          Superviion
electricity from off-grid
renewable sources.
6. Cost recovery achieved for
water distribution in 2002
(without subsidy).
7. Water losses declining as
follows (in %)
98     02      07
Praia         23      18      15
Minidelo      20      18      15
Project Outputs                                                                  (Outputs to Dev'elopmnent
(1) Privatized ELECTRA       1.I ELECTRA privatized by          I. Supervisionl   Ojhectilves)
with improved commercial   December 1999                        mission
viability and establishment    1.2 More thani 90 % of cominitted    reports.      I. Governmeit comimiitment for
of an efficient &            investments by Electra privatized  2. Anilual       agreed-upon privatization
indepenidenit regulatory    materialize in a timely maninier.   reports and      strategy persists
entity.                      1.3 100% of forner ELECTRA &       finanicial       2. Consenlsus of Governmenit
EMAP employees are trained by      statements of    stakeholders and donors on
(2) Increased electricity   the privatized Electra by 2003.     privatized       ELECTRA's privatization
demand met by private        1.4 Revenue targets for privatized    ELECTRA and   strategy and during its
sector involvemenit in       ELECTRA are met.                   other             implementation.
developing grid-connected    1.5 80 electricity customers per   comilmercial     3. Sufficient competent firms
wind power and               Electra employee by 2003. up       entities.        bid for ELECTRA.
photovoltaic systems for    from 59 in 1997.                    3. Quarterly     4. Satisfactory concession
decentralized rural areas.   1.6 Rate of return on Electra's    reports on       agreement and efficient work
assets increases to 8% in 2003     project           of regulatory entity.
(3) Increased quantity,     from -1% in 1997                    impleienltatio   5. Penetrationi of wind farms is
quality and reliability of   1.7 Power/water regtilatory entity  n progress.     not technically/economically
drinkinig water for Praia   fully operational by 12/99          4. Yearly audit  limited.
and Mindelo, integrated     2.1 7.2 MW new wind capacity is   reports.           6. Local enterprises are
multisectoral water         added to the existing system.                        adequately trained/supported
resource strategy and       2.2 Photovoltaic systems                             for competitive dissemination
strengthienled regulatory   commercialized by at least 2                         of photovoltaic systems
framework for water         private enterprises by 2002.                          7. The target population has
sector..                    3.1 Per capita water constiuimptioni                 sufficient incentives for rational
rising as follows (1/d)                              use of power and water.
(4) Increased coverage of                  98      02     07                      8. Targeted households
sanitationi systems in Praia    Praia      40      75     90                     able/willing to pay for power,
and improved recovery of    Mindelo        35      60     80                     water and sanitation services
wastewater                  Assomada       25      50     60                     that meet their expectations.
9. Project implementing entities
3.2 Water quality meets WHO                         are well staffed, and with
standards.                                           adequate support and budget.
3.3 Satisfactory regulatory



'5                                     Annex 1
Narrative Summary            Key Performance Indicators           Monitoring         Critical Assumptionsand
and                      Risks
Supervision                               .^
framework for water/sanitation
sector in place by 1_/99
3.4 Four secondary centers %%ater
utilities have been strenigthienied by
2000, and 8 bv vear 2007
3.5 Grouidwater use and quality
fully moniitored nation wide by
INGRH. by year 2003.
4. At least S % of wastewater in
Praia is recovered for irrigation or
otlher puriposes.
Project Components            Inputs in Snuillions (IDA                              (('oMponewn  lo Iv ()upI/s)
financing/GEF finanicinig)           1. Stupervision
(1) Reform and                10.2 (6.6)                           missioni          I. Recomimienidationls of the
developimenit of power                                             reports.          finanicial/pr ivatization adviser
sector                                                             2. Aniniual       are timely implemiienited.
reports and       2. Bidding foI privatization of
(2) Renewable enirgy          14.5 (0.8/4.7)                       finanicial        ELECTRA takes place in a
promilotioni & developmenit                                        statemenits of    timely maninler.
privatized        3. Couliterpart fiunds made
(3) Retorm  and               14.4 (5.6)                           ELECTRA and   available in a timely maninier.
developmeint of water sector                                       othel             4. Incenitives arc sufficienit for
coImmiiiercial    developmenit of r enewable
(4) Sanitationi developmenit   6.4 (1.5)                           entities.         energy by private operators.
3. Quarter ly     5. Procuremlienlt/disbtirsemenit
(5) Project coordination      2.1 (1.9)                            reporls on        decisions are not delayed.
and moniitoirilng                                                  pro ject
implecmlenitatio
11 prgrless.
4. Yearly audit
reports.



26                                     Annex 2.1
Annex 2.1
Cape Verde: Energy and Water Sector Reform and Development
Detailed Project Description
A. Power Sector Reform and Development Component (IDA-financed)
I .    This component is designed to support the power sector reforml undertakeni by the Govermiienit of
Cape Verde, as presented in the draft Statement of Sector Development Policy (see Aninex 2.2). The
component consists mainly of the following:
(i) supporting the ad-hoc task force that the GOCV  lias established to prepare and conduct the
privatization of Electra. This would include the definition of thie legal and regulatory framework, the
evaluation of Electra, the selection of the privatization strategy and the competitive sale or concessioll of
Electra's assets to a strategic investor, Electra workers and other private interests (Cape Verde citizens,
thirough a public offering), and possibly to institutionial investors; most municipalities currently not served
by Electra would also become sharelholders of the new company, by contributing with their electricity
productioni/distribuition assets. The strategic internationial investor would have managemilenit control of
Electra privatized, in which the Government of Cape Verde would retain control over strategic decisions
tlhroLIgh golden share arrangements. The privatization process will be conducted with SUppOrt from a
privatizationi adviser financed under the project (PPF), for a total cost of US$0.8 millioll;
(ii) supporting the implementation of a souLid legal and regulatory framework for the power and water
sectors, to be monitored and enforced by a multi-sector regulatory entity (that will also oversee the
telecom  and transport sectors) in order to ensLire electricity service quality and some degree of
comlipetitioni for supply of electric power and desalinated water, and to apply the electricity tariff system
as per the Electricity Law and the concessioni agreemenit with the privatized Electra; This will include
techniical assistance (regulatory experts, external auditors for finalicial and technical services, legal
specialists, environment specialists, etc.), studies, trainilng, and the purchiase of vehicles and equipmenit
for the regulatory entity, for a total cost of US$0.7 millionl;
(iii) promotinig demand-side managemiienit and energy efficient equipment: This will include information
actions, traininig, pilot activities, definitioni and application of tecihinical norms for equipment, and design
of incentive measures, for a total cost of US$0.5 million.
(iv) supporting the Ministry of Trade, lndustry and Energy (MCIE) tor formiulating energy sector policies
and strategies, coordinating sector development, preparinig and updatinig statistical data, and monitoring
sector activities and demand. Tllis will include tecllimical assistance, studies, training, and the purchase of
vehicles and equipment, for a total cost of US$0.25 millioni;
(v) contributing to investment costs of measures to be implemenlted by the privatized Electra for: (a) the
mitigation of existing environment impacts of Electra activities (as defined by an environmental audit
carried out prior to the privatization of Electra), for a total cost of US$0.5 million; and (b) developing
marginally economic electricity supply to 4,000 new customers in periphery urban areas or secondary
urbani centers, for a total cost of US$3 million; and



27                                    Annex 2.1
(vi) supporting the financial restructuring of Electra, through the financing of severance payments to
Electra workers (for a total cost of US$1 million) and Electra's debt restructuring (suppliers debt
reduction in an amount of US$1.7 million), both to be financed by the Government.
B. Water and Sanitation Reform and Development Component (IDA-financed)
B.1    City of Praia
Background
2.     The population of the city of Praia currently numbers 80,000. At the present growth rate of 4.5
percent, it should exceed 100,000 by the year 2000. The city's chief source of potable water supply is a
system of wells and galleries to reach aquifers and to collect infiltration water, which provide a total
capacity of 2,650 m3 per day. Since the end of 1996, the city has had a sea-water desalination plant with
a daily capacity of 2,500 m3 (two uniits with a daily capacity of 1,250 m3 each, of whichi only one is
currently in operation because of power supply deficit in Praia). Taking into account losses from the
distribution network, estimated at 23 percent, the total volume of water available for consumption is
around 4,000 m3 per day.
3.     Deducting from total supply the 24 percent used by industrial, commercial and public-sector
consumers leaves an average consumption of residential users of around 40 liters per inhabitant per day.
However, there is a large difference between those users connected to the network, who consume around
50 liters per inhabitant per day, and those without a connection, who have access to no more than 16 liters
per iniabitant per day. To handle the increasing demand for water resulting from population growth and
the expandinig connection rate, the water supply master plan for the city of Praia includes the installation
of supplementary desalination units, each with a 1,200-m3 per day capacity, in each of the years 1999,
2000, 2001 and 2002. Investments in strengtheninig desalinated water production will be handled by the
privatized Electra. Nevertheless, given the privatization timetable, investments needed until the year 2000
would be covered by Electra and/or the Government.
4.     There are a number of technical issues in the water distribution system that need addressing.
Technical losses in the potable water supply network are high, especially in the case of a system fed by
desalinated water. This is a serious problem that merits careful attention. The configuration of the water
distribution system, and in particular the inadequacy of the secondary and tertiary network, also represent
an operating constraint. The water distribution system covers only 60 percent of the city area, and the
water is supplied intermittently, for just a few hours a day. Only 20,000 inhabitants (4,000 subscribers)
are directly connected to the network. Since the water distributioni system does not extend to the densely
populated periphery urban areas, 75 percent of the population of Praia (60,000 inhabitants) are served
either directly by tank trucks or by standpipes (most of which are not hooked up to the network and are
also supplied by tank trucks). The consumers served in this way use methods of carrying and storing the
water that are conducive to pollution and contamination of the water, with serious consequences in terms
of public health. Indeed there has been an increasing prevalence of waterborne diseases, with the recent
cholera outbreaks being a case in point.
5.     Praia's sanitation facilities are still inadequate. Only 8 percent of the population (6,000
ihiabitants) have connections to the sewerage system. To achieve the 25 percent connection objective for
the year 2000 and the 43 percent goal for 2005 that have been set in the water and sanitation master plan,
the number of household connections will need to rise from the present 1,300 units to 5,000 by the year
2000 and 11,000 by 2005. This will demand a major investment effort, both to extend the basic



28                                   Annex 2.1
infrastructure (main drains and relay stations) and to develop secondary and tertiary networks. The
wastewater treatment plant, capable of handling an hourly flow of 220 m3, will not need to be extended
before the year 2003.
Project scope
6.    In order to improve the technical conditions of operation of the primary and secondary networks,
the European Union (EU) has included in Phase 2 of "Strengthening of the Praia Water Supply" a CVE
200 million (US$2 million) investment program that is intended principally to improve the primary
distribution system by (i) increasing water storage capacity (construction of a 50-m3 and a 400-m3
reservoir); and (ii) laying new primary and secondary pipes totaling 6350 meters to interconinlect and
extend the distribution system. The EU-financed program also includes the constructionl of 6 new
standpipes and the connection of 16 existing standpipes to the existing network.
7.     The actions to be financed by IDA under the Energy and Water Project aim to make potable
water accessible to the most disadvantaged population groups located downstream  of Praia's water
distributioni system. These mainly involve work on the secondary and tertiary networks designed to:
-      Reduce water losses by rehabilitating I I kin of the old asbestos-cement tertiary pipelines, so that
water formerly lost througil leakage can be supplied to communities hitilerto lacking water
service. Amount: CVE 22 million (US$0.22 million).
-      Expand access to runnilig water and improve water quality in the poorly supplied areas by
coninecting 34 existing standpipes to the primary network and constructing 6 new units, also
coninected to the network. Amount: CVE 13 million (US$ 0.13 million).
-      Increase the penetration rate of the potable water network in the periphery urban areas located to
the north of the city by extending the secondary and tertiary networks to those new
neighborhoods (an area of approximately 200 ha).  Amounit:  CVE 215 million (US$2.15
million).
8.     With respect to sanitation, the second phase of investment in the EU program, totaling CVE 390
million (US$3.9 million), is intenided to bring about substantial improvements in Praia's sewerage system.
This program will extend the primary and secondary network to neighiborhioods still lacking service, and
will include overall densification of the tertiary network to increase the number of residential sewer
conniections. The work will include: (i) laying of 3,360 m1 of main drains, (ii) construction of three
wastewater pumping stations and 900 m of discharge pipes, (iii) extension of the secondary and tertiary
pipelines to the neighborhoods of Achadinihia, Varzea, Palmarejo and Achada Sao Antonio (an area of
approximately 95 ha).
9.     The project also provides for an IDA-financed study of the possibility of recycling Praia's treated
wastewater, a promising solution for Cape Verde. where water resources are rare and costly. This study,
at an estimated cost of CVE 20millioni (US$ 200,000), will be divided into the following four phases: (i)
identification of possible uses for recycled wastewater, (ii) determination of the required quality for
recycled effluent (taking accounit of the need to observe hygiene and public health standards), (iii)
assessment of the available treatment system and determination of any necessary upgrades, (iv) technical
and economic assessment of the solution adopted. With a view to subsequent financing of the wastewater
recycling infrastructure, the Energy and Water Project includes a sum of CVE 100 million (US$ I
million).



29                                   Annex 2.1
B.2    City of Mindelo
Background
10.    The city of Mindelo has close to 60,000 inhabitants. Its water supply depends entirely on a sea-
water desalination system with a capacity of 3,000 m3 per day. Mindelo's water supply coverage is one
of the highest in Cape Verde, with 65 percent of the city's inhabitants receiving service. However, per
capita specific consumption is still low, a mere 35 liters per inhabitant per day. The city has an old water
distribution network that is difficult to operate because of its poor configuration.  Losses in the
distribution network are estimated at close to 20 percent of production, again high for a system based on
desalinated water. As in Praia, water distribution in Mindelo is intermittent, with resultant poor water
quality.
11.    The city has a sewerage system linked to a wastewater treatment plant (oxidation pond). A
portion of the effluent from this plant is recycled for agricultural purposes. Mindelo's sanitation facilities
operate relatively well, but they need to be extended in order to keep up with the pace of the city's rate of
development.
Project scope
12.    The water and sanitation facilities in the city of Mindelo were constructed, for the most part,
during phases I and 2 of implementation of the Mindelo Water Master Plan (financed by the African
Development Bank during the periods 1985-87 and 1992-94). It has now become necessary to update
that master plan to bring it into line with the present-day economic and population growth of a city in
transitionl. To that end, the Energy and Water Project includes the sum of CVE 50 million (US$0.5
million) to finance a study for updating the Master Plan, and an allocation of CVE 300 million (US$3
million) for subsequent implementation of the emergency investment phase of the updated Master Plan
for water investments.
B.3    City of Assomada
Beackground
13.    Assomada is the capital of the municipality of Santa Catarina, which has a  population of
approximately 45,000. Located oin Santiago Island, this municipality has to cope with a heavy volume of
immigraits, which, owing to its proximity to Praia, makes it the first settlement choice for migrants from
the rural areas. As a result, the demand for water there is steadily growing, and the quality of the service
caninot keep up with the city's ec.onomic and social development. Water distribution is inadequate and
intermittenit (barely two hours a day). The city's water supply comes from two wells connected to an 8-
kilm distribution network serving 800 subscribers (5,000 inhabitants). The rest of the population, as well
as the inhabitants of the numerous surrounding villages (in particular Ribeirao Manuel), are supplied
from two other wells by tank trucks. The distribution network is quite old, dating back to the fifties. It is
composed essentially of leaky asbestos-cement pipes, which account for losses of over 20 percent of
production, despite the fact that water is distributed for no more than two hours a day and pressure within
the network is weak.



30                                   Annex 2.1
Project scope
14.    The municipality of Santa Catarina, and particularly the city of Assomada, were targeted in the
priority investment phase of the Energy and Water Project, not only because of their economic
importance and large populations but also because the municipality is already engaged in restructuring its
municipal water and electricity service within the framework of a "Program to Support the Autonomous
Water and Electricity Services" financed by the Austrian cooperation agency. This program, in the
amount of CVE 80 million (US$0.8 million) is being applied in four municipalities: Sao Domingos,
Santa Catarina, Tarrafal and Sao Miguel. Its objective is to help local governments set up autonomous
water and electricity management services that will operate along commercial lines. Reorganizationi of
the Assomada water and electricity service is under way.
15.    The project contains a program  in the amount of CVE 115 million (US$1.15 million) for
rehabilitation and extension of Assomada's potable water supply, designed to: (i) repair existing
reservoirs and build a new 200 m3 reservoir, (ii) replace all the old asbestos cement pipes by new PVC
piping, (iii) rehabilitate the 800 existing connections, install 500 new connections, and install water
meters for all subscribers, (iv) extend the water supply network to new neighborhoods and peripheral
villages (Bolanha, Cumben, Nhagar, Pedra Barro. Achada Gomes).
16.   In the area of sanitation, the project will provide support to the municipality for the purchase of a
septic tank disposal truck, procurement of household waste collection equipment, and rehabilitation of the
public landfill. The estimated cost of this sub-component is CVE 15 million (US$0.15 million). The
feasibility of and justification for a sewer network linked to a wastewater treatment plant (oxidation pond)
will also be studied at the time of preparation of the detailed design for the water distribution facilities to
be installed in Assomada.
B.4 Evaluation of Public Investments for Waste Water
1 7.    Over the next five years, the GOCV intends to implement an ambitious program of investment in
waste water collection and treatment, in order to improve the conditions of public health and urban
environment. To that effect, techinical and economilic studies will be conducted to assess the justification
and timing of actions and investments to be undertaken in the cities concerned by the program. The
GOCV has requested the Bank to ensure the coordination of these studies which will be partly financed
by the project for an amount of CVE 10 million (US$0.1 million).
B.5   Institutional support and capacity building
18.    The project includes an important institutional component designed to: (i) support the reform of
Cape Verde's urban water subsector, (ii) improve the efficiency of the municipal water distribution
companies, and (iii) strengthen national capacities in the areas of water resource regulation and
management. The amount earmarked under this heading is CVE 50 million (US$0.5 million).
Support for restructuring of the Lirban water subsector
19.    The project will support GOCV's efforts in the restructuring of the water and waste water sectors,
in conjunction with similar restructuring undertaken in the electricity sector. The reform option retained
by the GOCV consists in entrusting the privatized Electra with the service of electricity, water and waste
water in all major cities in Cape Verde, including the capital city Praia where the assets of the municipal



31                                    Annex 2.1
water company (EMAP) will be transferred to the privatized Electra. The corresponding advisory
services are financed under the project (through a PPF) in the framework of Electra's privatization.
20.    The project will also support the review of the legal and regulatory framework for water and
waste water management, in order to adapt it to the new institutional situation resulting from the sector
reform (privatization of Electra that becomes a concessionaire for water/waste water in all major cities
and creation of municipal water companies in seconidary urban centers). The new institutional framework
for sector management will require strengtihening regulatory mechaniisms and sector monitoring. To that
effect, the GOCV has decided to create a multi-sector regulatory agency for the electricity, water,
telecommunications and transport sectors. This agency will be created in 1999 and will benefit from
logistical support for its installation and technical assistance for strengthening its capacities. to be
financed in the framework of the project for the water and electricity sectors.
21.    Regarding water tariffs, the project includes an EU-financed tariff study with the objective of
achiieving full cost-recovery over a reasonable period of time, including the progressive reductionl of
Government subsidies. The tariff study should take into account the promising perspectives for reducing
the cost of desalinated water that could be achieved through the most recent technologies.
Support for the creation of autonomous municipal water distribution companies
22.    The project provides assistance for restructuring and strengthening the municipal water
distribution services, in order to make them more efficient and to support the sustainable development of
the urban water subsector. This support, which falls within the framework of strengthening of the
national decentralization policy, will promote the creation of autonomous commercial enterprises to
operate potable water supply networks within the municipalities. These enterprises will have decision-
making autonomy, and the municipalities will no longer be involved in their day-to-day operations. In the
secondary urban centers not covered by the privatized Electra, thle municipal potable water companies
Could also be made responsible for electricity distribution. This would have several advantages, in that it
would make optimum use of huliman and logistical resources, reduce commercial costs (meter readings
and billing), and expand the list of customers. Private sector participation in the municipal water and
electricity companies would be highly desirable and should be allowed in the statutes of these companiies.
23.    The program for restructuring and strengthening capacities of the municipal water distribution
services is already under way with Austrian financing in the secondary urban centers of Santa Catarina,
SAo Domingos, Tarrafal and Sao Miguel. The new municipal enterprises will benefit under the project
from a technical assistance and training program covering the following aspects: (i) water demand
planning and formulation of investment programs, (ii) project management, (iii) diagnostic survey of
networks and design of servicing techniques, (iv) customer management, and (v) financial and accounts
management.
Support to INGRH for improved water resource management
24.    Water resource conservation is of strategic importance in Cape Verde. The project proposes to
support this aspect by strengthening INGRH's resources and capacities in the area of water resource
management. The Institute would receive capacity-building assistance in the areas of: (i) groundwater
resource inventory and quality control; and (ii) rational resource use planning in light of existing
groundwater potential. Support for INGRH will be provided within the framework of a performance
contract. The Institute will need to be relieved (perhaps gradually, over a period to be determined) of
such activities as construction and operation of rural wells. It will instead focus on two principal tasks:



32                                   Annex 2.1
(i) regulation of the water and sanitation sector; and (ii) water resource management. In the medium
term, the Institute will focus mainly on planning and management of water resources and will be
responsible for: (i) the assessment of water resources in Cape Verde; (ii) the monitoring of water quality;
and (iii) the delivery of permits to pump underground water according to the potential of aquifers. In
other words, INGRH will control water resources and ensure consistency between existing potential and
actual use of groundwater resources. Regarding waste water, INGRH will establish and monitor the
application of adequate norms for disposal, collection, treatment and re-use of waste water.
25.    To finance the Institute's activities in the area of water resource management, a pumping tax (taxe
d'exhaure) will be imposed on all consumers using groundwater wells (municipalities, farmers, industrial
companies, private individuals, etc.).  The revision of the institutional and regulatory framework
governing water resource management will be effected within the project, in particular the revision of the
Water Code and the definition of new relationships between INGRH, the National Coulicil of' Water
(CNAG) and the multi-sector regulatory agency.
C. Renewable Energy Component (GEF-financed)
C.1. Grid Connected Wind Farms
C.1.1. Objective
26.    The objective of the Grid Connected Wind Farm sub-componenit is to increase the proportionl of
wind-generated electricity supplied to the major grids.
C.1.2 Overview
27.    The sub-component covers the supply and construction of three wind farms on the main grids of
the islands of Santiago, Sao Vicenite and Sal. The three main grids are served mainly by existing diesel
generation though each grid has a wind farm, the result of an earlier Danida-supported project. The wind
regime in Cape Verde is excellent and the existing wind farms have achieved capacity factors in the range
of 27% to over 50%. There are good sites close to the main load centers where further wind capacity
may be built. The wind farms are financially attractive to private investors but carry substanitial risks if
built at the size envisaged. By making it possible for ELECTRA's strategic private partner to develop the
first commercial wind farms, it will remove the barriers and bringinig down the costs of futire wind
energy projects being implemented on a fully commercial basis. The role of the GEF is to assist in
reducing the risks, both perceived and actual, in building large-scale wind farms and achievinig high
levels of wind penetration.
28.    The physical characteristics of the proposed wind farms on the Praia, Mindelo and Sal grids are
given in the table below. The winid farms will be located as follows:
* Monte San Felipe on Santiago island, connected to the Praia grid (4.8MW)
*  Selada do Flamengo on Sao Vicente, connected to the Mindelo grid (1.8 MW)
*  Santa Maria or Palmeira on Sal, connected to the island's single grid (1.2 MW)
29.    The construction of the wind farms will form part of the investment program to be undertaken by
Electra SA, after it has been privatized.



33                                   Annex 2.1
Wind Farm Installations ($6.36 million private investor, $3.28 million GEF)
30.    This section contains a brief summary of each of the proposed wind farms. The characteristics
have been derived as a result of a detailed study undertaken by consultants. The study included for each
of the proposed sites:
*  Eiectrical system studies including measurement campaigns and operating strategy analysis;
* Energy resource assessment;
* Civil engineering and transport issues;
* Electrical engineering considerations;
* Detailed designs for each of the wind farms;
* Financial and economic analyses for the project;
*  Preparation of draft bidding documents for an Engineer, Procure, and Construct (EPC) type contract
arrangement;
*  Development of a project implementation plan (PIP).
31.    The sites and specifications described in this section are those which have been agreed with
Electra pre-privatization. Given the technical, construction and operation risks that are concerned with the
construction of all new plant, the investor must liave latitude to determine the final techinical and
contractual details by which the project is implemented. Safeguards to ensure the requirements of the
Government of Cape Verde and the GEF are outlined in the Implementation section below.
Praia
32.    The proposed wind farn site is at Monte San Felipe, approximately 8km north of the center of
Praia, the same site occupied by the existing Danida-sponsored wind farm consisting of three 300kW
turbines. There is adequate space for the existing turbines on the site and the existing infrastructure,
includirig roads, electrical system connections, and control building has adequate spare capacity for the
extension. The annual mean wind speed derived from the performiaice of the existing turbines is 7.7 mI/s
at 3 1 ihn hb height. The site is a rocky and sparsely vegetated plateau which is occasionally used for
grazing animals.
Mindelo
33.    The proposed wind farn site is at Selada do Flamengo, approximately 8 km southwest of
Mindelo and about 1.5 km southeast of the existing Danida-sponsored wind farm. The site is the crest of
a steep ridge. Although there are likely to be difficulties of construction on such terrain and the
possibility of some loss of energy due to flow separation at the crest of the ridge, they not considered
insuperable. Roads to the site already exist and the electrical system connection from the existing site
could also be used, as could the control room. The aniual mean wind speed is predicted to be 9.8 m/s at
3 1 mn hub height. A reserve site approximately 500m north of the planned site has been identified.
Sal
34.    Two potential sites have been identified onl Sal. One, at Palmeira, is adjacent to the existing wind
farm, where there is sufficient room for substantial expansion or at Santa Maria, at the southern end of
the island, approximately 25 km from the existing site. The Santa Maria site has the potential to capture
approximately 20% more energy and is near the tourist area which is the expected center of load growth.
Annual mean wind speed calculated from the existing units atPalmeira is 7.2 m/s and at Santa Maria is



34                                   Annex 2.1
7.7m/s. As the greater cost balances out the increased energy capture at Santa Maria, the choice of site
will be a matter of management preference and will be left to the privatized Electra.
Summary Details
35.    The table below summarizes details of the wind farms:
Characteristic                     Praia          Mindelo          Sal
Location                           M.S Felipe    S. do Flamengo    S. Maria
Size (MW)                          4.8            1.8               1.2
Cost 600kW rn/c (less IDC) $000    5,621          2,283             1,726
Annual mean wind speed (31 m)      7.7           9.8               7.7
Capacity factor (%)                28.5           53.9             32.3
Turbine size (kW)                  300 - 600      300 - 600        300 - 600
Existing system capacity (MW)      14.41          16.14            3.25
Existing wind capacity (kW)        990           990               660
Technical Assistance ($450,000 GEF funded)
36.    Technical assistance is required in the run up to privatization and afterwards. There are four
major activities envisaged under the technical assistance program, whichi will be managed by Electra:
*  Wind resource assessment ($85,000). The estimates derived from the wind turbine performance need
to be supplemented for Selado do Flamengo on Sao Vicente and the Santa Maria site on Sal. The
optimum way to undertake this work is by establishing meteorological monitoring at the proposed
sites. There is a mast at the Sao Vicente site but it has not operated for some time and requires
rehabilitation. A new station will be established at Santa Maria. Both stations will require a
monitoring program which should be managed by Electra but further assistance in analysis will be
essential;
-  Power system analysis ($80,000). Further, detailed power system analysis will be required to ensure
that bid specifications contain the most up to date information on which bidders can base their offers.
This analysis will be able to make use of existing ongoing studies and supplement them where
necessary;
*  Project performance evaluat,on and documenltation ($160,000).  It has been observed that the
proposed levels of penetration for wild will be among the highest in the world. The wind regime is
also exceptionally demanding oln turbines, with capacity factors on existing machines being among
the highest in the world. Technical assistance will be provided to monitor the wind farms and
systems, to forestall emerging problems and to document performance. Dissemination of results will
also be included under this activity;
*  Assistance with Operations and Maintenance (O&M) in the first year ($125,000). Though the
privatized Electra will be owner and operator of the wind farms, it is likely that the same management
and staff currently employed on the existing wind farms will be responsible for the new plant. There
is some evidence that O&M has been poor and that further training and support will be necessary.
The TA will also support improving management of O&M  and relevant contracts and supplier
warranties.



35                                  Annex 2.1
C.1.3 Implementation Arrangements
37.    The wind farrns will be part of the investment program required of the privatized Electra and will
be a condition of privatization. The program will define the amount of wind capacity to be installed, time
limitations under which the privatized Electra will be required to install them and the level of GEF
subsidy that will be available. The GEF grant will create an incentive for the privatized Electra to
maximize the installed capacity of the wind equipment. The wind farms will be wholly owned by the
privatized Electra.
Sequencing and Coordination with Privatization of Electra
38.    The privatization of Electra will include an obligation to ulidertake a program of investments in
the Electra system. The bidding and construction program for the wind farms is determined by the date at
which the privatized Electra can start the project. Delays to this date will affect wind farm construction
though it is unlikely to have an adverse effect oni costs. On present plans, start date is assumed to be 3-6
months after the privatization of Electra with a construction period estimated to be 24 montils (though
there is potential to reduce the elapsed time and the management of the privatized Electra may choose to
do so).
39.    Private sector bidders for Electra will receive the wind farn specification so that they are able to
build both costs and the sequencing into their plans and thus formulate their bid accordingly. They will
also be required to give an undertaking to have the wind farms operational within 30 months of the
privatization of Electra. It will be up to the privatized Electra to determine the precise contractual
arrangements by which the wind farms are built but EPC contracting is considered the most likely and is
the basis for the cost estimates.
Coordination
40.    Thle Government of Cape Verde will monitor the installation of the wind farms throughi its
electricity regulator who will have responsibility for overseeing the agreed investment program. If
required, the regulator will be able to appoint a consultant for detailed monitoring.
41.    Subject to the agreement of the World Bank, a Grant Subsidiary Agreement will be established
between the Government of Cape Verde and the privatized Electra for both the wind farn construction
and the technical assistance. Disbursements to Electra will be based on the progress indicators outlined
above, monitored through project supervision.
42,    Coordination between the Government of Cape Verde and the World Bank will take place
through normal project supervision.
Implementation Incentives
43.    Electra will be required to build at least 7MW of wind capacity with the flexibility to site this
plant anywhere on the three islands, subject to minima of 600kW on Sal, 1,200kW on Sao Vicente and
3,000 kW on Santiago. This will permit flexibility while still achieving the objectives of the Government
of Cape Verde. Because nameplate rating is subject to misinterpretation and is an unsuitable measure of
turbine size, the requirement will be stated in terms of total rotor swept area.



36                                   Annex 2.1
44.    The GEF grant will be calculated as follows: Maximum GEF grant of $3.276 million for an
installed capacity of 7.8MW is equivalent to $420,000 per MW. Based on the average of 51 turbine
designs in the size range of 300-600kW, the ratio between turbine rating and rotor area is 0.4kW/mr2.
The GEF grant will therefore be calculated on the basis of $168/m2 of rotor swept area, up to the
maximum of 19,500m2 or $3.276 million. This grant approach also provides an incentive to the operator
to maximize wind farm capacity up to the 7.8MW capacity because of the significant economies of scale
that accrue to larger wind farms.
45.    To ensure that the project is constructed in a timely fashion, the GEF grant will be disbursed in
tranches on a wind farm by wind farm basis as shown in the table below. Disbursements for the TA
component will be based on agreed arrangements in the consultancy contract and will follow normal
practice.
Milestone                         Payment (%)I
Award of contract to construct wind farms                 20%
Delivery of all turbine components to Cape Verde          20%
Handover of Praia (or largest) wind farm                  25%
Handover of Sao Vicente (or second largest) wind farn     1 5%
Handover of Sa! (or smallest) wind farn                   10%
Satisfactory completion of all performance tests          10%
' Iercentage based on total GEF contribution tbr wind farm constrmction (ie $3.276 million)
C.2. Off-grid electrification (Small photovoltaic and wind systems)
C.2.1 Objective
46.    The objective of this sub-component is to create a private-sector delivery infrastructure for off-
grid electrification services using photovoltaic and wind systems.
C.2.2 Overview
47.    For individual household and communities, there are few, if any, means by wilicil off-grid
electrification systems can be acquired. 90% of the rural unelectrified are to be found on the three islands
of Santiago, Santo Antao and Fogo. Even with an ambitious grid-based rural electrification program,
some 12,000 households will never be connected to the grid and many more, up to 20,000 will have to
wait for a considerable period. There is limited private sector capacity in Cape Verde for delivering off-
grid electrification and virtually none that involves either PV or other potentially economic renewable
sources. What little private capacity there is concentrates on capturing business from the bulk tenders
from donors and NGOs. There is little, if any, sustainable mechanism for training installers, market
building or after sales service unless specified within a donor program.
48.    The proposed project will create the circumstances under which environmentally benign
renewable energy technologies such as SHS and WHS will be chosen instead of fossil-fuel based
technologies. The project will have to overcome three barriers:
(i)    The absence of the delivery mechanism and consequent lack of the necessary business and
technical skills and experience in the rural energy supply business;



37                                   Annex 2.1
(ii)    The absence of information on the benefits and costs of renewable energy systems for rural
supply; and
(iii)   The high cost of systems, a product of both the current situation in Cape Verde and inherent
in renewable systems generally where the first cost is significant.
49.    Any attempt to address the needs of those households must be based on two principles:
*  Development of a range of products and services which offer access to a large number of the
currently unelectrified households;
*  That to achieve sustainability. the private sector must be involved in such a way that self-sustaining,
profitable businesses can be developed from the opportunity the market offers.
50.   In Cape Verde, the development of the off-grid market will be developed exclusively through the
promotion of private initiative. Promotion will be based on the selection of a certain number of specialist
enterprises on whom will be placed the responsibility to develop the market. Since the project will be
starting from a weak base, the project will encourage the formation of consortia of international firms
experienced in the field of off-grid rural energy supply working in partnership with local entities. The
incentives for enterprises to enter the businesses will include (i) adaptation, as part of the reforn process,
the regulatory and fiscal environment to be more conducive to businesses in this niclhe; (ii) privileged
access to a market for the installation and management of publicly-owned equipment; (iii) subsidies to
undertake market development activities; (iv) subsidies for off-grid equipment.
Market Description
51.   The population of Cape Verde is growing rapidly, as shown in Table I below;
Table 1: Population of Cape Verde
Numbers in 000           1980         1990         1997      % growth
_____________________   ____________80 -9 0
Total population         295.2        341.5        377.8        1.5
Households                57.1         67.6         76.8        1.8
Urban households         n/a           30.6         37.2        2.8
Rural households         n/a           37.0         39.5        1.0
52.    The distribution of households by island is uneven, though Santiago, the main island is home to
over half the total households. Large numbers of rural households -are to be found in Santiago, Santo
Antao, Fogo, Sao Nicolau and Brava.
53.   In 1997, the estimated level of connection of households was 44% at the national level though
there were considerable variations between islands. The large urban grids of Praia, Mindelo and Sal had
a much higher connection level while other areas were correspondingly low. It was estimated that in the
secondary centers and the rural areas, coverage by grid was as low as 25%. On this basis, around 32,500
households are thought not to have access to electricity services.
54.    Based on these data, estimates have been derived of the total population without electricity now
and those which cannot expect to be connected to the grid within the medium term (say 5- 10 years) - the
so-called durablement exclus. These are given in Table 2 below:



38                                  Annex 2.1
Table 2: Households without electricity connections, 1997
Island                         Households
Without       Durableinent     % Durablemnent
connection         excius           exclus
Santiago                20,000            8,000              40
Fogo                     5,500            2,000              40
Santo Antao              5,000            1,250              25
All other islands        2,000              500              25
Total                   32,500            11,750             37
55.    Based on Government of Cape Verde surveys on the three islands (Santiago, Santo Antdo and
Fogo) on which 95% of the durablernent exchl.'; are to be found, income levels and household energy
expenditures in the rural areas have been characterized into three groups as shown in Table 3 below:
Table 3: Household incomes on Santiago, Santo Antao and Fogo
Household type       Income level    Energy expenditure    Proportion
($/month)         ($/month)            (%)
Small consumer          <200         2.30 - 7.20          1.1 - 3.6
Medium consumer          280         8.80 - 30.30        3.0 - 10.5
Large consumer           560         26.60 - 69.90       4.7 - 12.4
56.   Taking these data into account, estimates of the market size for off-grid electrification suggest the
data in Table 4.
Table 4: Estimated market for off-grid electrification services
Cash purchases, numbers          Credit purchases, numbers
Island               3 years          10 years         3 years          10 years
Santiago              400             2,260            1,130            5,570
Santo AntAo             40              390              200              920
Fogo                  260             1,180              330             1,720
Total                  700            3,830            1,660            8,220
57.    Thle estimates suggest that over the first three years there is a reasonable market for household
electrification services, worth a total of perhaps $3/4 million, climbing to $4million over ten years. These
services can be met from small photovoltaic (PV) and wind systems in the range of 20 Watts peak (Wp, a
measure of the capacity of the system. 20Wp is sufficient for one or two lights for a few hours a day)
through to 300 Wp which is sufficient to provide power for lighting, radio, TV and refrigeration. In
addition, there will be a public market promoted by the Government of Cape Verde, worth a further $1
million over the lifetime of the project.
C.2.3. Implementation arrangements



39                                    Annex 2.1
58.    It is planned that this part of the project will be implemented through an adapted version of the
concession system. The concessionaire will not receive statutory monopoly rights, but it will receive
privileges in return for undertaking to provide a service. It will be overseen by a Project Management
Unit (PMU) which will act as the concessions' regulator in the first instance.
Concession arrangements
59.    The concession will be for 10 years, which will provide adequate time to recover investment
costs. There will be two concession areas: one comprising Santiago island and the other comprising the
remaining 9 inhabited islands of Cape Verde. There will be no territorial limitation within the islands,
permitting the concessionaire, if it wishes, to compete with the providers of grid connected electricity.
The concession will be awarded by competitive tender, for which detailed bidding documents have been
prepared. Consortia will be allowed to bid for both concessions and, in the event that they produce the
best bid for both, amalgamate the two concessions into one. The Government of Cape Verde will have
the right to terminate the concession at any time throughout its lifetime.
60.    Althouigh the project will have a duration of four years, the concession period will be for 10. It is
considered that support over the first five years will be give the market a sufficient strong start to be
sustainable thereafter. The prospect of an established market with continued growth prospects should
provide sufficient incentives for the concessionaire to continue for the remaining term of the concession,
and beyond.
61.    The economic analysis of the concession, based on incremental costs is shown in Annex 4.B. A
conisolidated financial analysis from the point of view of the concessionaires is contained in Aniex 5.
The obligations of the concessionaire
62.    Concessionaires will be obliged to undertake three roles:
*  Sales of off-grid electrification systems, sold for either cash or credit;
*  Sales of electricity or the services provided by electricity, through systems installed in houses and
public places, which they will own on a typical concession basis;
*  Management of publicly owned equipment, including installation, maintenance, setting of tariffs and
fee collection.
63.    Under the first of these roles, the operator will sell either complete systems or components, as
required by the consumer. The sales will be made under normal retail/consumer arrangements, including
equipmenit guarantees/warranties as appropriate. Components will be required to meet specifications as
established by one of a number of internationally recognized testing bodies. Operators will be obliged to
keep a sales and service office on the main islands of concern for the project, namely Santiago, Santo
Antao and Fogo.
64.    Under the second activity, the operator will be expected to provide a fee-for-service arrangement
for consumers, where systems will be supplied to individual households and for other private use (e.g. in
small businesses). The operator will use proprietary funds, or those of cofinanciers, to invest in systems
which it will continue to own but for which it will be able to charge a fee, which will be set by the
operator. The operator will establish from the outset the levels of service it offers and will be expected to
guarantee those to the consumer.



40                                    Annex 2.1
65.    Under the third role, the operator will act as the agent for publicly owned equipment. The
Government of Cape Verde will hold regular, probably six-monthly, tenders for this equipment, the size
of the tender being based on the volume of private sales the operator has achieved. The operator will
supply, install and maintain the equipment, either for public services, such as street lighting, or in private
households. The choice of use for the public equipment will rest with municipalities, which will be
responsible for meeting the fees charged by the concessionaire for the service it provides.  The
Government will meet the capital costs of the equipment (financed by an IDA grant) and either
municipalities or individuals will pay the concessionaire's fees.  The concessionaire will pay the
Government an annual fee based on the size of the installed 'park' of equipment.
The rights of the concessionaires
66.    The concessionaires will have privileged access to the market for off-grid electrification services.
This, plus the subsidies which are described below will give them a market advantage over other
enterprises which may wish to supply equipment for sale or under a fee-for-service arrangement. There
will, however be no prohibition for other businesses to enter the market should they wish.
67. Market access. Concessionaires will have privileged access to the public market for equipment for
use either in domestic or collective places. The size of the public market will be fixed according to the
level of private sales; the greater the level of private sales, the larger the public market, based at the
mnitiiicipality level. In each of the first four years, an increasing level of private sales will be required for
access to a given level of public market sales, effectively tapering this support down over 4 years as
follows:
___________                       e  I      Year2       Year3      Year 4
For I Wp of public market,    I Wp        1.5 Wp     2 Wp        S Wp
operator must sell private
systems totaling             _ _
Value of public market ($)    353,000    286,000    241,000    130,000
68. Direct s.ubsidies for equipziient. A subsidy will be provided for smaller equipment in the 20Wp and
5OWp range to overcome the high first cost barrier. The subsidy will be on a per unit basis and will
initially be 100% of the increienital cost of PV and wind systems but will decline over time. The
baseline for the incremental cost is the least cost alternatives of kerosene, dry cells and other equipment
(See Aniex 4 for details). Though the concessionaire will have the latitude to offer whatever system it
considers to most appropriate to the market conditions, the three generic systems, 20Wp, 50Wp and
50Wp for public lighting are likely to be the most popular. The subsidy will be used as follows:
System                          Year I      Year 2     Year 3      Year 4
20 Wp household system              148        148          89         45
(% of incremental cost)           (100)      (100)        (60)       (30)
50 Wp household system              157        141          79         31
(% of incremental cost)           (100)       (90)        (50)        (20)
50 Wp public lighting system       267         267        267         267
(% of incremental cost)           (100)      (100)       (100)       (100)



41                                    Annex 2.1
69.    The subsidy will be disbursed six monthly on production of adequate proof that the sales or
installations have been completed; systems will be put in place to ensure that systems are properly
accounted for.
70. Market development subsidies. During the first two years, the operator will receive GEF support for
market development activities, to include market studies, business planning, establishing sales networks,
staff training and promotional activities. Thie sum available for this will be $180,000 for the Santiago
concessioni and $240,000 for the rest of the islands. The support will be limited to 35% of the operators'
investments in the first two years. The subsidy will be disbursed six monthly.
Institutional strengthening ($0.14 million GEF)
71.    The project will be managed through the Project management Unit (PMU) which has recently
been established. To assist with its support, techinical assistance will be provided in a number of areas:
(a,) Biddingfor concessions. Thle bidding process will be managed by the PMU with consultant support.
Bidding documents have been developed as part of project preparation and discussed with a number of
potenitial private sector bidders. Bidding will comimlence on project effectiveness.
(h) Training of PMU staff  PMU staff will be trained in matters relating to off-grid electrification,
including technology, financing and cost recovery, project and program management and supervision of
the concessions. It is expected that much of this will be carried out 'on the job'.
(c) Technical standards. The project will rely on concessionaires supplying equipment that meets certain
minimum standards. Because Cape Verde is too small for it to be cost-effective for national standards to
be prepared or used, concessionaires will be given the choice of using existing internationally-recognized
standards. Some support work to identify which standards and which testing institutions are appropriate
will be required following project start-up, though most has been done in preparation.
(d) Assistance with regulation. Following reform and privatization of the power sector, an independent
utilities regulator has been established. Part of that role is to regulate the concessionaires, which will be
delegated to the PMU during project implementation. In the initial years, some support to the PMU will
be required as it deals with issues particularly related to off-grid electrification.



42                                   Annex 2.2
Annex 2.2
Cape Verde: Energy and Water Sector Reform and Development
Statement of Sector Development Policy
A.    Purpose
To improve public healthi and promote sustainable economic and social development, the
Government of Cape Verde (GoCV) intenlds to improve energy, water and wastewater related services,
by expanding access to them  and increasing their quality while mitigating their effects on the
environmenit. The GoCV considers restructuring and reforming the sectors as indispensable if it is to
achieve these objectives. This statement spells out the GoCV's strategy, targets and time-frame for
implementing such policy.
The core objective of the GoCV is to reduce State interventioni in the ownership and management
of public utilities providing energy, water and wastewater related services, enabling the private sector to
participate and/or own totally those entities.
The reforms to be implemenited in the above sectors are fully consistent with macro-economic
policies, and with sectoral policies and a significant contribution to the accomplishment of the objectives
and targets established in the National Development Plan (1997-2000), which aims at achieving
sustainiable economic growth and social developmenit and at reducing poverty.
B.    Resources
Energy is one of the most important sectors for Cape Verde, since it is a major factor for the
economy. The country is totally dependent upon external sources of fossil fuel. Local wind and solar
resources are still underdeveloped. Moreover, because of the scarcity of natural water resources, energy
is increasinigly required for the production of potable water through desalination. The sound management
of scarce water resources is of paramount importance for the country.
Cape Verde is also confronited withi poor or absent basic infrastructure for its electricity, water
and sewerage systems, a minimumil requirement for improving the quality of life of the population. This
lack of infrastructure has serious implications on public health, apart from hindering development of the
other sectors, tourism in particular.
C.    Existing Situation
Cl. Institutional Framework. There is no public service law in Cape Verde. The National
Council for Water (CNAG) is an inter-ministerial authority with overall responsibility for the long-term
maniagemenlt of water resources. The National Institute for Water Resources Management (INGRH)
oversees extraction of groundwater. Neither distribution of water from any source nor the collection of
wastewater is regulated.
Cape Verde has an established Foreign Investment Legal Framework, aimed at attracting and
stimulating investment through fiscal incentives and legal measures. The GoCV is implementing a
privatization and reform program to restructure the economy and to help reduce domestic debt. The
program aims to privatize public companies.



43                                   Annex 2.2
C2. Delivery of Services. Electra, the national power and water utility, generates power and
desalinated water and distributes electricity and water in the four islands of SaoVicente, Sal, Boavista
and Santiago. Municipalities generate and distribute electricity in areas not served by Electra onBoavista
and Santiago, and are the only source of electricity on the other five inhabited islands: SantoAntao, Sao
Nicolau, Maio, Fogo and Brava.  Generally, municipalities are also responsible for grouLidwater
extraction and distribution (often with support from the INGRH), except in Praia where a municipality-
owned enterprise, EMAP, distributes water and provides wastewater treatment. The municipality of Sao
Vicente provides its own wastewater service, the only other place in the country served by a treatment
plant.
Service coverage varies greatly from island to island; however on average nationally, 43% of
households are connected to the electric grid and 20% are connected to a water supply system. Average
electric distribution system losses for Electra are estimated at 14%. Water supply in the major population
centers is provided on a rotational basis with Praia receiving water for two hours each day, and Mindelo
only one day per week until recently - althougil currently with permanent supply. Water losses in
Mindelo and Praia are high, at an estimated level of 26% and 20% respectively. Wastewater coverage
amounts to about 50% in Mindelo, 7% in Praia and none elsewhere.
C.3 Tariffs. Electric tariffs have not been revised since 1985 and there is no established cost
indexationi method. Electra's production costs have increased substantially generating significant
finanicial deficits which must be covered by government contributions. Accordingly, there is little
likelihood that the Electra's financial situation is sustainable over the long-term under the current
institutionial set up in view of the need for expanding service, equipment replacement and refurbishment,
capacity expansion, and adjustments for inflation.
In addition, there are subsidies embedded in the current structure, for production of desalinated
water and for public lighting, which preclude price signals that encourage rational use. Furthermore,
there is no established structure for ensuring affordable basic levels of service for low income consumers.
Water tariffs are established for desalinated water by Electra, and by INGRH and municipalities
for underground water, and submitted to the CNAG for approval. CNAG approved tariffs are partly
based on costs but are also based on political and social references, which reflect neither steady
regulationi nor national balance. These tariffs are below average costs. No fee is charged for wastewater
service, where available.
D.    Government Objectives and Strategy
The geographic characteristics of Cape Verde create an unusual set of circumstances which
constrain efficient and low cost delivery of water and electricity. Further, there is a pressing need for
wastewater service in urban areas and for treatment of effluents.
In an effort to improve services, the GoCV plans to restructure the electricity, water and
wastewater sectors to:
* Extend service coverage to a greater proportion of the population
* Improve quality of service
* Reduce prices of electricity and water to the consumer, in the medium term, to the minimum
levels compatible with economic costs



44                                     Annex 2.2
*  Provide incentives for rational use of electricity and water
*  Encourage development of renewable energy sources, and
*  Install, when environmentally and economically suitable, wastewater treatment facilities.
The GoCV's strategy to reach the above objectives is based on the implementation of a far-
fetched reform of the power and water sectors with the following main features:
*  Creation and/or modification and enhancement of the legal and regulatory framework to
encourage private sector participation and investment in electricity generation and water
desalination;
*  Adjustment of tariff levels and structure for both electricity and water so that retail prices reflect
costs, with progressive ad justments in the case of water and wastewater;
*  Privatization of Electra, with the expansion of its scope of activities to achieve economies of
scale;
*  Supporting the creation of municipal enterprises to assume responsibility for water distribution
and wastewater treatment services in secondary urban centers; and
*  Creation of business opportunities that will expedite rural electrification, expansion of water
supply, and use of renewable energy resources.
The GoCV intenids to accomplish the above objectives having in minld the following constraints:
-  Geographical situation,
-  The small size of the systems, which emphasizes the need to take advantage to the
maximum possible extent of economies of scale;
*  ThIe scarcity of skilled human resources;
e  Shortest possible implementationi time;
-  Maximum degree of transparency;
-  Minimum "price shock" effects due to retail electricity and water price adjustments; and
-  Positive impact on the environimenit.
E.     Measures to be Implemented
The development of the electricity, water and sanitation sectors needs considerable institutional
reform, increased private participation, competition at production level and efficient regulation. The
measuires the GoCV intend to put in place are detailed below.
E.1 Legal and Regulatory Framework. This activity will address the definition of a general
framework for the functioning of the electricity and water sectors and includes a review of current issues
and constraints, the definition of the institutional set up, the definition of responsibilities of authorities
(national and municipal) and the operators, the preparation of a new  electricity law and of the
corresponding regulations. To accomplish this activity the GoCV has contracted consultant services of a
consortium of experienced firms which in addition will be in charge of assisting with the privatization of
Electra (see E4 below).
E.2 Establishment of Regulatory Authorities. This activity is aimed at the establishment of the
authorities which will regulate the water and electricity sectors;. It will be based on the conclusions of
the studies which are being carried out for the activity outlined in the preceding paragraph. These
authorities and their functions are:



45                                     Annex 2.2
(a) Electricity. In charge of controlling concession contracts for electricity production and
distribution, administering tariff rules, elaborating detailed standards of service which may
be required to complement legislation, monitoring compliance with the electricity law,
ensuring fair competition in bulk power supply and facilitating the settlement of disputes
within the sector.
(b)  Water supply and sewerage.       In charge of controllinig concession contracts for the
production and/or purchase of desalinated water or for the exploitation of water resources
and the distribution and commercialization of water, administering tariff rules for potable
water distributed by water companies, elaborating detailed standards of services and
facilitating the settlement of disputes within the sector.  This authority will be also
responsible for supervising the functioning of sewerage services and the compliance with
the corresponding regulations. as well as for ensuring fair competition in bulk desalinated
water supply.
The GoCV has examined the different options for establishinlg the above regulatory authorities in
the framework of its overall policies for the whole economy and has determined that the creation of a
single regulatory body to oversee the public utility sector (energy, water and communications) and the
transport sector will maximize administrative and economic efficiencies. Thus regulatory authority will
be concentrated in a single entity to be created progressively, starting with those sectors whose
regulationis have been approved -- the first being electricity, water and telecommunications.
Responsibility for overseeing the use of water resources and executing policies with regard to
tlleir evaluation and use will remain vested in the Ministry of Agriculture through its agency, INGRH,
ilcludinig control of quality of water sources and wastewater treatment and reuse.  INGRH  will
progressively relinquish its current activities in developing and operating water supply facilities in
secondary centers, a responsibility that will be transferred to municipal water utilities. The Code of
Water will be revised to foster decentralized and private use of water resources and the responsibilities of
the National Council of Water and the INGRH will be made consistent with the new institutional and
r egulatory framework for the water sector.
E.3 Definition of Tariffs. To ensure increasing efficiencies in the electricity and water sectors,
the GoCV has determined that tariffs should reflect costs. For the water sector a study will be conducted
to determine the tariff structure and levels which will serve as the basis for granting concession contracts
for the municipalities and/or the concessionaires that are expected to provide water distribution services.
For the electricity sector, the GoCV has determined that the faster way to increase efficiency is the
establishment of a price-cap system to be incorporated in the concession contract of the privatized
Electra. Such concession contract will include efficiency incentives which eventually are expected to be
passed on to the consumers. The definition of the tariff schedule for Electra privatized is part of the work
to be done by the adviser in charge of preparing the tender documents for the privatization of Electra.
E.4 Privatization of ELECTRA. The GoCV has decided to privatize Electra and has retained the
services of a privatization adviser for preparing the tender documents. Electra will be privatized by the
sale of 51% of its capital to a strategic partner. 5% of Electra's capital will be sold to Electra's workers
and 31% to private investors through a public offering. The municipalities will retain 13% ofElectra's
capital . The State will retain a 'golden' share which would permit, by means of provisions in the
shareholders agreement, to reserve for the state the right to block some fundamental actions such as
dissolution of the company, incorporation of new partners, transfer of the concession agreement, and
others which in the view of the GoCV could affect its policies and objectives.



46                                     Annex 2.2
The GoCV has decided to privatize Electra by the selling of its assets related to the electricity and
desalinated water production but retaining assets related to electricity and water distribution and
sanitation as state property in accordance to current legislation. Assets to be retained under state
ownership will be operated, maintained and expanded, as required, by the strategic partner under a 50-
year concession contract.
Electra, once privatized, will be required to have analytical accounting and will have separate
concessionis for the electricity, water supply and sanitation sectors. It will provide electricity distribution
services in the whole country and water supply services in Praia, Mindelo, Sal and Boavista. Electra may
extend services to other areas subject to additional agreements with the GoCV.
Privatization of Electra will include the following steps: (i) transformation of Electra into a
commercial company (plc); (ii) transfer of the electricity production and distribution assets that belong to
the state and the municipalities and the state-owned desalination facilities to the newly created company;
(iii) preparation of the tender documeLnits for privatization --including the procedures for selecting
stiategic partner, (iv) pre-selection of investors and operators interested in the privatization; and (v)
execution of the privatization.
E.5 Creation of Municipal Enterprises for Water/Wastewater Services. Because it is essential
fo- the sustainable development of the water sector, theGoCV intends to establish autonomous municipal
enterprises, in the areas not covered by the privatized Electra, with authority to acquire resources, bill and
collect for services (with tariffs based upon delivery costs) and terminate service for non-payment. At the
same time, it may be appropriate to outsource selected functions to professional operators (e.g., the
privatized Electra, or other private operators).  Reutilization of wastewater for industrial and/or
a(gr-icultural applications, as well as development of institutional and staff abilities for technical operations
anid quality control, are also to be considered.
The activities to support the creation of municipal enterprises to take over these activities include:
(i) defininlg uliserved areas based upon allocation of service responsibilities to the privatized Electra; (ii)
ideintifying the most appropriate forn of mun,icipal enterprise and whether or not outsourcing is required;
(iii) ensurinig that the legal and regulatory framework accommodates the proposed solution, increasing
water and wastewater supply to appropriate levels in the main populations centers; and (iv) refurbishing
and expandinig water and waste water facilities of these municipal enterprises.
Thle extension of water services to presently unserved rural areas will require developing self-
standinig models based on the build-up of local capabilities on this subject.  Alternatively, separate
concessioni contract could be established with a private operator for rural areas, with a separate set of
tariffs designed to shoulder the heavier capital investment burden associated to drinking water facilities.
A GoCV policy on this matter will be issued on the basis of a deeper specific study to be finalized by
end-2000.
E. 6  Business Models for Off-Grid Electrification.   The GoCV  intends to attract private
providers of off-grid electrification services based primarily on renewable sources of energy and in
particular photovoltaics (PV). One or more short term concessions or exclusive marketing agreements
will be established between the government and suitably qualified private firms selected through
competitive bidding. To avoid establishing a private monopoly, the operators would be required to
undertake market development activities and the market will be progressively opened up to competition.



47                                  Annex 2.2
E.7 Development of Grid-Connected Wind Power. Electra and other entities presently operate
wind turbines which were financed from various sources. The exploitation of this renewable source of
energy offers both the opportunity to reduce the foreign exchange needed to purchase oil and to make a
positive contribution to the environment. It is therefore GoCV policy to encourage the use of wind power
wherever it is economically attractive and environmentally acceptable. Investment in wind power will be
encouraged by the following measures:
*  The wind energy assets currently operated by Electra will be included on privatization; and
*  Investment in further wind capacity will be encouraged. initially by the privatized Electra and
subsequently by private operators
E.8 Promotion of Energy Efficiency. The GoCV will develop programs to encourage and
promote further fuel substitution, where viable. To this end thie GoCV intends to establish national
regulations and provide financial or fiscal incentives.
F.    Execution, Coordination and Timetable.
The above reform program will be placed under the direct responsibility of the Vice-Prime
Minister. A project execution un1it will be in cliarge of the preparation of the studies, legal instruments
and contracts. A Task Force, in which relevant institutions and the GoCV are represented will provide
advice to the Vice-Prime Minister for tlhe making of major decisions until the privatization of Electra is
completed.
Thle timetable for the execution of the wvhole process is three years (1998-2000). A schedule of
the main tasks to be carried out is attached.
G.    Conclusion.
The GoCV is convinced that the above statement of policies, objectives and strategy for the
reforn of the electricity, water and wastewater sectors represent a sound framework for the development
of these sectors.
Government of Cape Verde
(signed by the Vice prime Minister on 1/21/99)



I  X| 
>>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ >
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~|fi  



49                                                                            Annex 3
Annex 3
Cape Verde Energy and Water Sector Reform and Development Project
Estimated Project Costs and Financing Plan
Estimated Project Cost Summary
(Cape Verde Escudo Million)                      (USS Million)
%     % Total                                %      % Total
Foreign   Base                               Foreign   Base
Local     Foreign       Total   Exchange  Costs   Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange  Costs
1. PowerSectorReform & Development                       311.94      584.11      896.05       65       21      3.19    5.96     9.15        65       21
2. Renewable Energy Promotion & Development              183.13    1,147.03    1,330.16        86      31      1.87    11.71    13.58       86       31
3. Reform and Development of Water Sector                242.99    1,013.63     1,256.62       81       30     2.48    10.35    12.83       81       30
4. Sanitation development                                115.57      433.65      549.22        79       13     1.18    4.43     5.61        79       13
5. Project Coordination & Monitoring                     126.84      100.36      227.20       44         5     1.30     1.02    2.32        44        5
Total BASELINE COSTS                                        980.46    3,278.78    4,259.25       77      100    10.01    33.48    43.49        77      100
Physical Contingencies                                    91.50      225.33      316.83       71        7      0.93    2.30     3.23        71        7
Price Contingencies                                       33.31      142.30      175.61       81        4      0.22     1.05    1.27        83        3
Total PROJECTCOSTS                                        1,105.27    3,646.42    4,751.69       77      112    11.16    36.83    48.00        77      110



50                                                                                             Annex 3
Cape Verde
Energy and Water Reform and Development
Table 1 Power Sector Reform & Development
Detailed Costs
(USS Million)
Parameters (in %)
Phy.                                                                  Other Accounts
Base Cost                Totals Including  Cont.  For.   Gross                                                                                    Inpi.
Confingencies
2000 2001 2002 2003 Total 2000 2001 2002 2003 Total  Rate  Exch.   Tax          Diab. Acct.     Fin. Rule      Proc. Acct.             Proe. Method            Agenc  Proj.Are
Rate                                                                                      y
1. Investmrent Costs
A. Support to Power Sector Regulation
Equipment & Vehicles                      0.20    -    -    - 0.20  0.23    -    -    - 023    10.0  100.0         0.0 EQUIPMENT.DA   IDA( 100%)        EQUIPPA    ICBPM (80%), INTL_SHOPPING_PM (  PMU    PRAIA
20%)
Studies,AdvisoryServices&Training         0.15  015  010  0.10 0.50  0.16  0.16  0.11  0.11  0.54  00   100.0      0.0    CS&TDA        IDA(100%)         CS&T             CON_SRVCS_M(100%)             PMU    PRAIA
Subtotal                                   0.35  0.15  0.10 0.10  0.70  0.38  016  011  0.11  0.76
B. Promotion of Energy and Water Conservation
Equipment&Vehicles                          - 0.15  015      - 0.30     - 0.17  0.18     - 0.35   100   100.0      0.0 EQUIPMENT.DA    IDA(100%)        EQUIPPA    ICB_PM(80%), INTL_SHOPPING_PM(   PMU  COUNTR
20% )
Studies,AdvisoryServices&Training         0.10  0.05  005    - 0.20  0.10 0.05  0.05    - 0.21     0.0  1000       0.0    CS&T DA       IDA 100%)         CS&T             CON_SRVCS_PM( 100%)           PMU  COUNTR
Subtotal                                    0.10  0.20  0.20     0.50  010  0.23  0.23    - 0.57
C. Support to Energy Sector Monitoring
Equipment & Vehicles                     0.05     -    -    - 0.05  0.06     -           - 0.06   10.0  100.0      0.0 EQUIPMENTODA   IDA)100%)         EQUIP PA    ICB PM (80%), INTL_SHOPPING_PM)  PMU    PRAIA
20%)
Studies. Advisory Services& Training      0.05  0.10  0.05    - 020  0.05  0.11  0.05      021     0.0  100.0      00    CS&T DA        IDA(100%)         CS&T             CON_SRVCS_PM)100%)            PMU    PRAIA
Subtotal                                   0.10  0.10  0.05    - 025  0.11  0.11  0.05    - 027
D. ContrIbudon to Environmental and Social
Investments
Distributionequipmentfor smallmunicipalities  0.60  0.80  0.80  0.80  3.00  0.69  0.93  0.96  0.98  3.56   10.0  100.0  0.0 EQUIPMENT.DA   IDA(100%)     EQUIPPA               ICe PM(100%)              PMU  COUNTR
Instalationof DistributionEquipment       0.10  0.15  015  0.15  0.55  0.11  0.17  0.17  0.17  0.63   15.0   30.0  0.o CONSTRUCTION.   ELECTRA)   CONSTRUCTION.                NBF PM(100%)               PE   COUNTR
DA           100%)            PA
Environmental Improvements                0.20  0.30    -    - 0.50  0.23  0.34    -    - 0.57   15.0   60.0       0.0 CONSTRUCTION.   IDA) 92%)   CONSTRUCTION.               ICB_PM(100%)              PMU  COUNTR
DA                            PA
Subtotal                                   0.90  1.25  0.95 0.95  4.05  1.03  1.45  1.13  1.15 4.76
E. Costs of Electra restructuring to GOCV
Cash Payment (workers compensation)       1.00    -    -    - 100  1.09            -       109    10.0    0.0      00      FRE.DA          GOVT           FREPA                NBF_PM) 100%)              MF    PRAIA
CashPayment(suppliers'creditreduction)    1.60    .    -        1.60  1.74    .    -    . 1.74    10.0    00       0.0    FREDA            GOVT           FRE.PA               NBF_PM)(100%)              MF     PRAIA
Subtotal                                   2.60    -    -    - 2.60  2.83      -    -    - 2.83
F. Miscellaneous
PPF Reftnancing                           1.00    -    -    - 1.00  1.00    -    -    - 1.00    0.0  100.0         0.0    PPF.DA        IDA) 100%)        PPF.PA           CON_SRVCS_PM(100%)            PMU    PRAIA
5.05  1.70  1.30  1.05  9.10  5.46  1.94  1.53  1.26 10.19



51                                                                                              Annex 3
Cape Verde
Energy and Water Reform and Development
Table 2. Renewable Energy Promotion & Development
Detailed Costs
(US$ Million)
Parameters (In %j
Phy.                                                                        Other Accounts
Base Cost                  Totals Including    Cont.   For.   Gross                                                                             ImpI.
Contingencies
2000  2001  2002  2003 Total 2000  2001  2002  2003  Total  Rate   Exch. Tax Rate   Disb. Acct.              Fin. Rule            Proc. Acct.   Proc. Method    Agency  Proj. Area
1. lnvstrnent Costs
A. vind Farm extension
Supply & Installation of Equipment     - 4.66  4.66         9 32        5 09  5 24        10 33    2.5   65 0       0 0    SEE OA       GEF ( 32% ). ELECTRA (66%)    SEE PA    NBF_PM (100%)    PE    COUNTRY
Studies, Advisory Services & Training  - 020  0.25          0 45     -  0 21  0 27     -  0 48     0.0  100 0       00    CS&T DA              GEF (100%)               CS&T      NBF_PM (100%)    PE    COUNTRY
Subtotal                                 - 4 86  4.91      -  9 77     -  5 31  5 51     -  1082
B. Private Development of PV/Wind Systems
Support/TAtoPMU                     0.05  005  0.02  002  014  005  005  002  002  014             00   100.0       00    CS&TDA               GEF(100%)                CS&T      N8F_PM) 100%)   PMU   COUNTRY
Pre-financing Private Operators     0.22  0 20     -    -  0 42  0 22  0.20      -     -  0 42     0.0   90 0       0 0 EQUIPMENT DA           GEF (100%)             EQUIP PA   NBF_PM (100%)   PMU   COUNTRY
Individualsystems                   0.37  0.54  0.55  0.68  214  037  053  055  068  2.13          0.0   900        00 EQUIPMENTDA         GEF( 17%).PCS(83%)         EQUIP PA   NBF PM  100%)   PMU   COUNTRY
Public systems                      035  0.29  0.24  013  101  035  029  024  0.13  101            00    800        00    SEE DA                IDA (96%)              SEE PA    ICt PM(100%)    PMU   COUNTRY
Total                                    099  5.93  5 72  083 13 48  0 99  6 38  6 32  0.83 14.52



52                                                                                                Annex 3
Cape Verde
Energy and Water Reform and Development
Table 3 Reform and Developmnent of Wiater Sector
Detalted Costs
(USS Mgtion)
Parameters fin %)
Ptry.                                                                 Other Accounts
Bame Cost                 Totals tncluding   ConL  For.        Gross                                                                                      tnqtl
ContingencIes
2000 200  2002 2003 Total 2000 200  2002 2003 Total  Rate  Exch.  Tax    Dusb. Acct.          Fin. Rule      Proc. Acct.                 Proc. Methiod                 Agency    Proj. A
I                           1                                   Rate
L Investrnerr Casts
A. Suppoet to Wafe & Sanitation Sector Reform
1. Wate Tariff Study In Prdal
Studies, Advory Services &Training       0.15 0.15    -    -  30   0.16 0.16       -     -0.32    00  100.0   0.0   CS&T.DA           EU (1I00%)        CS&T                    NBF_PM)100%)                     MIH      COUN
2. Suppedt to Autonomious Wate Utilites In Santiago
EqUOMent                                 0.10 0.10    -       0.20   0.11 0.12     -        0.23   10.0  1000   0.0 EQUIPMENT.DA AUSTRIAII0O%    EOUIP.PA                       NBF_PM(100%)                    tNGRH     SANT.
Studies. Advisr Serices & Training       025 0.25     -     -0.50   0.26 0.27      -        053    0.0  100.0   0.0   CS&T.DA    AUSTRIA (1 00%         CS&T                    NBF_PM (1I00%)                  INGRH     SANT.
Subtotal                                  0.35 0.35          -0.70   0 37 0.38      -    -0.76
3. Suppord to Autonomous Water Utilities in Other Islands
Equipment & Vehicles                        - 0,20    -       0.20      - 0.23          -  023   10.0  100.0   0.0 EQUIPMENT DA   IDA 1100%)          EQUIPPA       ICEI_M (860% 1. INTL SHOPPING PM (20%)       MIH      COUN
Studies. Advisoy Services &Training      0.10 0.10  0.10    -0.30   010 0.11  0.11    -0.32    0.0  100.0   0 0    CS&T.DA           IDA) 100%)         CS&T                CON_SRVCS-PM)(100%)                  MIH      COUN
Subtotal                                  0.10 0.30  0.10    - 050   0.10 0.34  0.11    -0.55
4. Suppord to INGRH Restructuring
Equipmtent &Vehictes                     0.15    -    -    - 015   0.17    -    -        -0.17   10.0  100 0   0 0 EQUIPMENT DA   IDA( 100%)          EQUIP PA      INTL_SHOPPING_PM (20%). IC-PM (80%)          PMU        PRA
Studies, Advisory Services&rTraining     0.10 0.20  0.15    -0.45   0.10 0.21  0.16    -0.48    0.0  100.0   0 0    CS&T.DA          IDA) 100%)         CS&T                CON_SRVCS PM) 100%)                  PMU        PRA
subtotal                                  0.25 0.20  0.15    -0.60   0.28 0.21  0.16    -0.65
S. Support to Wate & Sanitation Sector Regulat ion
Equipment &Vehicles                      0.10    -    -    -0.10   0.11    -    .           0.11   10.0  100.0   0.0 EQUIPMENT DA   IDA) 100%)        EQUIP PA      INTL_SHOPPING_PM (20%). ICBfPM 80%)          PMU        PRA
Studies, Adviwory Services &Training     0.10 0.10  0.10    -0.30   0.10 0.11  0.11         0.32    0.0  100.0   0.0   CS&T.DA       IDA) 100%)         CS&T                CON_SRVCSfPM   100%)                 PMU        PRA
Subtotal                                  0.20 0.10  0.10    . 0.4    0.22 0.11  0.1`1    -0.43
S. ExtensIon of Prinmay Water Distribution Network In Praia
Civil VWorks                             1.00 1.00     - -    2.00   1.15 1.15     -        230   15.0  80.0   0.0 CONSTRUCTIO    EU (100%)   CONSTRUCTIO                       NBF_PM  1 00%)I                  MIH        PRA
N.DA                          N.PA
Superviion                               0.10 0.10    -     -0.20   0.12 0. 12     -        0.24   15.0  100.0   0.0    S&S.DA        EU)(100%)        S&S.PA                   NSF_PM(I100%)                    MIH        PRA
Subtaotl                                  1.10 1.10    -     -2.20   1.27 1.27      -    -2.54
7. RehabIlIatIon & Extension of Water Distribution in Praia
CIvi WVorks                                 -1.80  0.50    -  30        - 2.06  0.57    -2.63   15 0   60 0   0 0 CONSTRUCTIO   IDA)92%)   CONSTRUCTIO                          tCB_PM)I100%)                    MIH        PRA
N.DA                          N.PA
Studies &Superision                           0.10  0.10    -0.20       -0.11  0.11    -0.21    0.0  100.0   0.0    S&S.DA            IDA) 100%)       S&S PA               CON_SRVCS-PM)(100%)                  MIH        PRA
Subytotal                                    -1.90  0860    -2.50        -2.17  068    -2.85
S. Rehabilitation & Extension of Water Production & Distrib. systems for Mindeto
Ci VitMttt                                  - 0.70  1.46 0.45 2.61      - 0.80  1.68 0.52   3.00   15.0  60.0   0.0 CONSTRUCTIO   OPEC)100%) CONSTRUCTIO                        NBF_PM (100%)                    MIH       MINDE
N.DA                          N.PA
Studies & Supervision                    0.50    -          .0. 50   0.52    -    -      -  0.52    0.0  100.0   0.0    S&S.DA       IDA (100%)        S&S.PA               CON-SRV.CS.PM (100%)                 MIT      MINDE
Subtota                                   0.50 0.70  1.48 0.45 3.11   0.52 0.80  1.68 0.52   3.52
9. Rehabilitation & Extension of Waler Prod & Olstrbo. Systems In Secondary Centers
a. Assonmada
CMIvi Works                             0.75 0.25     -    -1.00   0.86 0.29      -     -  115   15.0  60.0   0.0 CONSTRUCTIO   IDA) 92%)   CONSTRUCTIO                        ICB_PM (100%)                    MtH     ASSOM
N.DA                          N.PA
Studie a Supeviio                       0.07 0.08     .      OA0.1    0.07 0.08   .    .0.16    0.0  100.0   0.0    S&S.DA          IDA)100%)         SaS.PA               CON-SRVCSPM) (100%)                  MIH     ASSOM
Subtotal                                 0.82 0.33    .        1.15   0.93 0.37              1 .130
b. Tanrafal
CivIWVorkts                                .   - 0.95 0.25  1.20            .  1.09 0.28   1.37   15.0  80.0   0.0 CONSTRUCTIO   OPEC 1100%) CONSTRUCTIO                       NBF_PM (100%)                    MIHI     COUN
N.DA                          N.PA
StudiessandSupervision                           0.007 0.07 0.14       .      .008 0.07   0.15    0.0  100.0   0.0    S&S.DA       OPEC)1 I00% I      S&S PA                   NBF-PM 1I00%)                    MIHI     COUN
Subtota                                             1.02 031  1.33      .        A17 0.35   1.52
Subtotal                                  0.82 0.33  1.02 0.31 2.48   0.93 0~37  1.17 0.35   2.82
Total Investent Costs                      3.47 5.13  3,43 076 12.7   3.85 5.81  3.90 0.87  14.43
9
II. RecurTent Costs



53                                                                                    Annex 3
TOTAL                              347 513  343 076 127   385 581  39n 087  1443
Cape Verde
Energy and Water Reform and Development
Table 4. Sanitation Development
Detailed Costs
(USS Million)
Parameters (in %)
Base Cost                 Totals Including
Contingencies        Phy.                                                   Other Accounts
Cont. For.  Gross
2000 2001 2002 2003 Total 2000  2001 2002 2003 Total Rate Exch.  Tax              Disb. Acct.      Fin. Rule      Proc. Acct.        Proc. Method     Impl.  Proj. A
Rate                                                                          Agency
I. Investment Costs
A. Extension of sanitation systems In
Prala
Civil Works                       1 70 2.20           -  3.90  1 95  2.52    -    -  4 48  15 0   80 0     0 0 CONSTRUCTION.DA   EU (100%)  CONSTRUCTION PA    NBF_PM (100%)    MIH    PRAI
StudiesandSupervision             0.10 0.10        -     020  0.10  0.11    -    -  021   0.0  100.0    00          S&SDA          EU 100%)          S&SPA           NBF_PM) 100%)    MIH    PRAI
Subtotal                            1.80 2.30     -    -  4 102 05  2 63    -    -  4.69
B. lmprovement of sanitation systems in   0 10 0.05  -    -  0 15  0 11  0.06    -    -  0.17  100  1000     0.0   EQUIPMENT.DA      IOA(100%)        EQUIP PA        ICB_PM (100%)    MIH  ASSOM
Assomada
C. Wastewater treatment reuse
systems for Prala
Civilworks                           - 0.60  0.40     -  1.00     -  0.69 0.46    -  1.15  15.0  60.0      0 0 CONSTRUCTION.DA   IDA (92%)   CONSTRUCTION.PA    ICB_PM  100%)    MIH    PRAI
Studies and Supervision              - 0.20     -    -  0.20      -  0.21    -    -  0.21   0.0  1000      0.0      S&S DA         IDA 100%)         S&S.PA          CON_SRVCS_PM       MIH    PRAI
( 100%)
Economic Study of Wastewater      0.15    -     -    -  0.15  0.16      -    -    -  0.16   0.0  100.0    00        CS&T.DA       IDA 100%)           CS&T           CON_SRVCS_PM       MIH    PRAI
Investments                                                                                                                                                             (100% )
Subtotal                           0,15 0.80  0.40      -  1 35  0.16  090  0.46        1 51
Total                 2.05 3.15  0.40     -  5.60  2.33  3.59 0.46    -  6.37



54                                                                                              Annex 3
Cape Verde
Energy and Water Reform and Development
Table 5. Project Coordination & Monitoring
Detailed Costs
(US$ Million)
Parameters (in %j
Phy.                                                                  Other Accounts
Base Cost               Totals Including  Cont.  For.  Gross                                                                                      lmpl.
Contingencies
2000 2001 2002 2003 Total 2000 2001 2002 2003 Total  Rate  Exch.   Tax         Disb. Acct.    Fin. Rule    Proc. Acct.               Proc. Method              Agenc    Proj. Area
Rate 
I. Investment Costs
A. Project Manageme nt Unit
1. Pro&esslonal staff
Project Coordinator                 0.04  004  004  004 017  0.04  0.05  0.05  0.05 0.19   00    0.0       0.0    PMS.DA       IDA (100%)       PMS               CON_SRVCS_PM)(100%)              MEC       PRAIA
Power Engineer                      0.03  0.03  0.03  0.03 0 12  0.03  0.03  0.03  0.04 014  00     0.0     0.0    PMS DA       IDA(100%)        PMS               CON_SRVCS_PM (100%)              PMU      COUNTRY
Sanitary Engineer                   0.03 0.03 0.03  0.03 0.12  0.03  0 03  0 03 0.04  0.14    0.0    0.0    0.0    PMS DA       IDA ( 100%)      PMS               CON_SRVCS_PM (100%)              PMU      COUNTRY
DSM & Renewable Energy Specialist   0.03 0.03 0.03 0.03 012 0 03 0 03  0.03 0.04 0.14    0.0    0.0         0.0    PMS.DA       IDA ( 100%)      PMS               CON_SRVCS_PM (100%)              PMU      COUNTRY
Project Management Specialist       0.02  0.02 0 02 0.02 0.07 0 02 0 02 0.02 0.02 o008    0 0    0.0        0.0    PMS DA       IDA (100% )      PMS               CON SRVCS_PM (100%)              PMU      COUNTRY
Accountant                          0.02  0.02 0.02  0.02 0.07 0.02 0.02 0.02  0.02 0.08    0.0    0.0      0.0    PMS DA       IDA (100% )       PMS              CON SRVCS_PM ( 100% )            PMU      COUNTRY
Administrative Assistant            0.01  0.01  0.01  0.01 0.04  0.01  001  0.01  0.01  0.05    0.0    0.0  0.0    PMS.DA       IDA(100%)        PMS               CON_SRVCS_PM (100%)              PMU      COUNTRY
Subtotal                              0.18 0.18 0.18 0.18 071  0.19  0.20  0.20  0.21  0.80
2. Support Staff
Sacretary                           0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.02  0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.02    0.0    0.0        0.0    PMS.DA          GOVT          PMS                   NBF PM (100%)                PMU       PRAIA
Driver                              0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.01  0.00  0.00  000  0.00 0.01     0.0    00      00    PMSDA            GOVT          PMS                   NBF_PM( 100%)                PMU       PRAIA
Messenger                           0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00 0.01  000  0.00  0.00  0.00 0.01    0.0    00    0.0    PMS DA          GOVT          PMS                   NBFPM (100%)                 PMU       PRAIA
Subtotal                              0.01  0 01  0.01  0 01 0.04 0.01  0.01  0.01  0.01  0.05
3. Local Consultants
Legal, Financial, Information & Other  0.11  0.12 0.12    - 0.35  0.12  0.13 0.14  - 0.39    0.0    0.0     0o     CSST DA      IDA (100%)       CS&T              CON_SRVCS_PM (100%)              PMU       PRAIA
servires
4. Vehices (2)                        0.03 0.03    -       0.05  0.03  0.03    -      0.06   10.0  1'00      0.0 EQUIPMENT.DA  IDA (100%)    EQUIPPA               INTL_SHOPPING_PM(100%)            PMU       PRAIA
S. Equipnent
Computers (6)                       0.03    -    -    - 0.03  0.03    -    -    - 0.03   10.0  100.0        0.0 EQUIPMENT.DA   IDA(100%)    EQUIP PA              INTL_SHOPPING PM(100%)            PMU        PRAIA
Printers (4)                        0.00    -    -    - 0.00 O.0    -    -        - 0.00   10.0  100.0      0.0 EQUIPMENT.DA  IDA (100%)    EQUIP.PA              INTL_SHOPPING_PM (100%)           PMU        PRAIA
Copier                              0.01    -    -    - 0.01  0.01     -    -    - 0.01   10.0  100.0       0.0 EQUIPMENT DA  IDA ( 100% )    EQUIP.PA           INTL_SHOPPING_PM  100%)            PMU        PRAIA
Fumiture and miscellaneous          0.02    -    -    - 0.02 0.02           -    - 002    10.0    0.0       0.0 EQUIPMENT DA  IDA (100%)    EQUIP PA              LCL_SHOPPING_PM(100%              PMU        PRAIA
Subtotal                              0.06       -       - 0.06  0.07    -    -    - 0.07
6. Training                           0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.08 0.02 0.02  0.02 0.02 0.09    0 0   100.0       0.0    CS&T.DA      IDA (100%)       CS&T             DIR_CONTRACT_PM (100%)            PMU        PRAIA
Subtotal                                0.40 0.35 0.33 0.21  1.29 0.43 0.39 0.38  0.25  145
S. Environmental Management Program
Studies, Advisory Services & Training  0.35         -    - 0.35 0.36    -    -        0.36    0.0  100.0      0.0    CS&T.DA      IDA (100%)       CS&T              CON_SRVCS_PM ( 100%)             PMU       PRAIA
C. Miscellaneous
PPF Refinancing                       0.50    -    -    - 0.50 0.50    -    -    - 0.50    0.0  100.0         0.0    PPF.DA       IDA 100%)       PPF PA             CON_SRVCS_PM (80%),              PMU       PRAIA
LCL_SHOPPING_PM (20%)
TotalInvestmentCosts                     1.25 0.35  0.33  0.21 2.14  1.30  0.39 0.38 0.25 2.31
II Recurrent Costs
A. OfticeRental, utildiesa,uel,ofTfcesupplies&    0.04 0.04 0.04 004 016  0.04 004  0.05 0.05 0.18    0.0    0.0  0.0  PMU_O&M.DA      GOVT      PMU_O&M.PA                NBF_PM(100%)                 MEC       PRAIA
communications -PMU
Total RecurrentCosts                     0.04 0.04 0.04 0.04 0.16 0.04 004  0.05 0.05  0.18
Total                                     1.29  0.39 0.37  0.25 2.30  1.34  0.43  0.42  0.30 2.49



55                                                                       Annex 3
Cape Verde
Energy and Water Reform and Development
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ Million)
Totals Including Contingencies
2000    2001    2002    2003    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Construction                                       4.30    8.02    3.97    0.97   17.26
B. Goods
1. Equipment & Vehicles                            2.17    2.28    1.68    1.66    7.80
C. Supply & Installation of Equipment                0.35    5.38    5.48    0.13   11.34
D. Services
1. Project Management Staff                        0.20    0.21    0.22    0.23    0.85
2. Studies, Advisory Services & Training           1.75    1.58    1.05    0.15    4.53
3. Design & Supervision                            0.82    0.63    0.18    0.07    1.70
Subtotal                                             2.76    2.42    1.45    0.45    7.09
F. Financial Restructuring-Electra                   2.83       -        -       -    2.83
G. PPF Refinancing                                   1.50       -       -        -    1.50
Total Investmnent Costs                               13.92   18.10   12.58    3.21   47.82
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operations & Maintenance                          0.04    0.04    0.05    0.05    0.18
Total Recurrent Costs                                  0.04    0.04    0.05    0.05    0.18
Total PROJECT COSTS                                    13.96   18.15   12.63    3.26   48.00



56                                                                        Annex 3
Cape Verde
Energy and Water Reform and Development
Components by Financiers
(US$ Million)
Government
of Cape                           Private     Austrian  OPEC  European
IDA     Verde      GEF   Electra,SA  Concessionaires   Govt    Fund    Union    Total
Amount  Amount  Amount  Amount             Amount       Amount Amount Amount Amount
1. Power Sector Reform & Development                 6.68       2.88       -        0.63                        -                  -   10.19
2. Renewable Energy Promotion & Development          0.97       0.04    4.71        7.03             1.77        -        -        -   14.52
3. Reform and Development of Water Sector            6.00       0.30        -          -                -     0.76    4.51      2.85   14.43
4. Sanitation development                            1.59       0.09             -                      -        -        -     4.69    6.37
5. Project Coordination & Monitoring                 2.27       0.23        -          -               -         -       -         -    2.49
Total Disbursement                                    17.52        3.53    4.71        7.65            1.77      0.76    4.51      7.54   48.00



57                                                                        Annex 3
Cape Verde
Energy and Water Reform and Development
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(US$ Million)
Power    Renewable  Reform and
Sector      Energy   Development                  Project
Reform &   Promotion &   of Water    Sanitation   Coordination
Development Development   Sector   development & Monitoring   Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works
Construction                                            1.20            -       10.44         5.62            -   17.26
B. Goods
1. Equipment & Vehicles                                 4.20        2.55         0.75        0.17          0.13    7.80
C. Supply & Installation of Equipment                        -        11.34           -            -            -   11.34
D. Services
1. Project Management Staff                                -           -            -           -          0.85    0.85
2. Studies, Advisory Services & Training                0.96         0.62        1.96         0.16         0.84    4.53
3. Design & Supervision                                    -            -        1.28         0.42            -    1.70
Subtotal                                                  0.96         0.62        3.24         0.58          1.68    7.09
F. Financial Restructuring-Electra                        2.83            -           -            -            -    2.83
G. PPF Refinancing                                        1.00            -           -            -         0.50     1.50
Total Investment Costs                                     10.19        14.52       14.43         6.37         2.31    47.82
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operations & Maintenance                                  -            -           -            -         0.18    0.18
Total Recurrent Costs                                          -           -            -            -         0.18    0.18
Total PROJECT COSTS                                         10.19       14.52        14.43        6.37          2.49   48.00



58                                    Annex 4
Annex 4
Cape Verde Energy and Water Sector Reform and Development Project
Economic Analysis Summary
A.    Water and Sanitation Component
1.    The financial and economic appraisal of the water supply component is shown on pages 5
through 10 of this annex. At the current average tariff of about 150 ECV/m3, the financial net present
value of benefits at the estimated 12% discount rate is ECV -326 millions and the IRR is 3%.
2.     On the other hand, using the willingness to pay of about 300 ECV/m3, the NPV of economic
benefits at 12% discount rate is ECV 797 millions and the IRR is 42%.
3.     Economic NPV at 12% = Financial NPV at 12% + Present Value of externalities generated by the
project at 12% discount rate. In our case, this would give: 797 = -326 + PV externalities at 12% discount
rate, or PV externalities (ECV 1123 millions). These externalities are essentially represented by the
implicit subsidy to consumers contained in the existing water tariff (ECV 875 million).
4.     For the sanitation component, the average incremental cost per cubic meter of effluent for both
Praia and Mindelo is 30.23 CEV. The wastewater reuse in Praia has a net present value of about 96 ECV
million and an IRR of 27% (see page 10 of this Aninex)
B.    Power Sector Reform and Development Component
5.    This component of the project would support the reform process in the electricity sector and the
privatization of Electra. This section evaluates the impact of ELECTRA's privatization.
ELECTRA's Financial Restructuring
6.     The cost of the financial restructuring of ELECTRA prior to its privatization has been estimated
on the basis of its balance sheet at December 31, 1997 as follows:
*      Accounts receivable are reduced to two months sale equivalent. The rest is left to the due
diligence of Government which can sub-conltract the recovery either to ELECTRA's private
buyer or to another entity. Assuminig that only 50% of these accounts are recoverable, the burden
would be approximately 361 ECV millions;
Existing inventories also need restructurinig to take into account the fact that some of these are
basically useless/outdated and cannot be used in the production process now or in the future. The
proportion of these inventories to be retired has been estimated at about 50% of total existing
inventories, at a cost of about 179 ECVr millions;
ELECTRA's accumulated debt service arrears should be capitalized at a cost to the Government
of 341 ECV million;
*     Accounts payable should be reduced to the equivalent of two months of supply. The Government
should mobilize approximately 164 ECV millions to pay ELECTRA's suppliers.
7.    The restructuring of ELECTRA would cost the Government the equivalent of ECV 956 million
(approximately US$10 million), that will be covered with part of Electra's privatization revenues. This



59                                    Annex 4
excludes the capitalization of subsidies received by ELECTRA (843 ECV million) to cover accumulated
losses (797 ECV million) and the payment of Electra's workers compensation (to come either from the
privatization revenues or under the form of shares in Electra).
8.     Several methods can be used to approximate the value of ELECTRA. Two of these methods are
discussed below:
a)     ELECTRA's Accounting Value (1997), Some Elements
* Net asset value is estimated at ECV 4.1 billion (or about US$41 million);
*  Current assets exceed current liabilities, excluding short-term debt, by about ECV 232 million,
(approximately US$2.32 million);
* Loans contracted to finance the purchase of assets, approximately ECV 2.8 billion (about US$28
million);
* Equity is about ECV 1.5 billion (or about US$15 million).
9.     The accounting value will depend on the amount of debt that the GOCV will decide to transfer to
the privatized ELECTRA.
10.   In all cases, the liquidation of ELECTRA after privatization would leave the Government with a
net balance equivalent to the Government's equity in ELECTRA, (US$15 million).
b)    Cash-Flow Valuation
IH.   Accounting analysis is only one (very approximate) method to determine the value of a company.
A private buyer would be interested not in the assets per se, although they may be important, but in their
earning power (i.e. the cash-flow they are likely to generate). Suppose that the private buyer were to
mobilize US$40 million for the acquisition of ELECTRA. The future company should be in a position to
earn substantial benefits to its private owner if he were to require a 15% return on equity: US$6 million
(or ECV 600 million) per year). Therefore, the cash flows that the privatized company would be required
to generate depend on the amount of capital the private buyer would have to mobilize and on his required
rate of return on equity. These parameters can, however, only be known after the evaluation of the
privatization bids has taken place
Economic Evaluation: Welfare Effect of Divestiture
12.    The basic approach to the evaluation of divestiture involves calculating the difference between
the social value of ELECTRA under private operation (i.e. post-divestiture) and the social value of
ELECTRA under continued public operation. The welfare effect of divestiture consists largely of this
difference. The only remaining effect is the one-time effect of the transfer of the sale price from the
buyer to the government. The major groups likely to be affected by the divestiture are: consumers, the
government, the buyers, employees, competitors, and the tax-payers. Conceptually, the social value of
ELECTRA is the sum of the welfare levels of each of these groups that might be affected by the
divestiture. In general, there is a trade-off between the possibility that private objectives are less
desirable socially, and the possibility that the private sector will pursue these objectives more efficiently.
13.   Let -W denote the net welfare effect of divestiture, we can write: -W = -S (consumer surplus) +
-P (effect on the buyer and the government) + -L (effect on providers of inputs, principally labor) + -C



60                                     Annex 4
(effect on competitors). In the case of ELECTRA, -L and -C are not significant and can be neglected.
The welfare change of divestiture is therefore reduced to -W = -S (consumer surplus) + -P (effect on
the buyer and the government). The effect of ELECTRA's divestiture on consumers depends on whether
and how much it caused movements in real prices and in output quantity and quality. Consumers are
better off the lower the real price, the greater the quantity produced, and the better the quality of that
production. The value of -S depends entirely on what happens to tariffs and quality of service after
divestiture. Should real tariffs not change, under a price-cap regulation for instance, there would be no
change in consumer surplus (-S = 0). It is foreseen that the actual level of electricity tariffs would
remain stable for an initial period still to be determined, after that a reduction of tariffs would be effected
to capture some of the efficiency gains made by the privatized ELECTRA. Water tariffs, on the other
hand, would have to go up immediately and substantially to eliminate the subsidy that now exists in the
water tariff because of the expensive water desalination. On balance, the expectation is that consumers
would be worse off after divestiture, at least in the short to medium term. This is not because of
divestiture per se but because of low tariffs that would have needed fixing even under public ownership.
It so happens that the fixing of tariffs will done under divestiture. For the privatization of ELECTRA to
be a welfare enhancing operation, -P, the effect oni the government would have to be positive and exceed
the loss in consumer surplus. This can only be ascertained ex-post (i.e. after the traiisaction has taken
place).



61                                                                       Annex 4
CAPE VERDE
ENERGY AND WATER SECTOR REFORM AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WATER SUPPLY COMPONENT
Table 1. Financial Appraisal (ECV Million)
IUSS=                     100   ECV
Tariff                    150   ECV/m3
Op. & Maint.              110   ECV/m3
Connection fee:           12240  ECV
Discount Rate              12%
Year                                        1999    2000    2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010   2011   2012   2013   2014   2015   2025
Praia
Investment                                  55       230       55
Operation & Maintenance                     36       39        39      37      40      38      38     42      42      42      42      42      42       42      42     42      42      42
Total Costs                                  91       269       94      37      40      38      38      42      42     42       42      42      42      42      42      42      42      42
Valueofsales                                38       41        43      41      46      44     45       52     52      52      52      52       52      52      52     52       52      52          NPVat
12%
Comection fees                              9        11        15      15      17     20      24      23      23      23      23      23      23      23      23      23      23      23
NetBe-efits                               -44      -216      -37      19      23     27      31      33      33      33      33      33      33      33      33      33      33      33              -73
M*ddo
Investment                                           50       100      50
Operation & Maintenance                               19       20      40      40      40      40      40     40      40      40      40       40      40      40      40      40      40
Total Costs                                         69       120      90      40     40      40      40      40      40      40      40      40       40     40      40      40      40
Valueofsales                                         22        27      55      55      55      55     55      55      55       55     55       55      55      55     55      55       55
Other Rev.                                            2        2       2       2       2       2       2       2       2       2       2       2       2       2       2       2       2
Net Benefits                                        -45      -91    -33       17      17      17     17      17      17      17       17      17      17      17     17      17       17             -45
Assoeuma
Investment                                  75       25
Operation & Maintenance                      I        I         I      I       I       I       I       I       I       I       I       I       I       I       I       I       I       I
Total Costs                                76       26        1       1       1       1       1       1       1       1       1       1       1       1       1       1       1       1
Value ofsales                                I        1        2       1       1       1       2       2       1       1       1       1       1       1       1       1       2       2
Other Rev.                                  1.2      1.2       1.2    1.2      1.2    1.2    1.2    1.2    1.2    1.2         1.2     1.2     1.2      1.2     1.2    1.2     1.2      1.2
NetB enefits                              -74       -24       1       1       1       1       1       1       1       1       1       I       I       I       I       I       1       2              -76
Other Secondary Centers
Investment                                                    150      50
Operation & Maintenance                                        3       3       3       3       3       3       3       3       3       3       3       3       3       3       3       3
Total Costs                                                  153      53      3       3       3       3       3       3       3       3       3       3       3       3       3       3
Value of sales                                                 3       3       3       3       3       3       3       3       3       3       3       3       3       3       3       3
Net Benefits                                                 -150    -50      0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0             -172
TotalNetBenefits                            -117      -285     -276    -62      42      45      50      51     51      51      51      51       51      51      51      51      51      52
NPV:Financial@8%          -240  [RR (o)    3%
NPV:Financial@ 12%        -326



62                                                                         Annex 4
CAPE VERDE
ENERGY AND WATER SECTOR REFORM AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WATER SUPPLY COMPONENT
Fbn Analysis
Investment                              130        305    305      100
Operation & Maintenance                  37          59     64      81      85      82      82      87      87     87      87      87      87      87      87      87      87      87
Total Costs                               167       364    369       181     85      82      82      87      87      87      87      87     87      87      87      87      87      87
Valucofsales                             40         65      75    100    106    103    105    112    111    111            111    111    111    111       112    112    112    112
Conn. fees & Other Rev.                   10         14      18      IS     21      24      27      26      26      26     26      26      26      26      26      26      26      26
NetBenefits                           -117        -285   -276      -62     42      45      50      51      51     51      51      51      51      51      51      51      51      52
NPV:FinAtcial@8%    -240  IRR (%)    3%
NPV:Financial@12% -326
Water supply. Production and Sales (demand)
Pr,"                  1997       1998   1999       2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010   2011   2012   2013   2014   2015   2025
Total Requirements    3724      4619   5578        6561   7476   8481   9416  10358  11414  11414  11414  11414  11414  11414  11414  11414  11414  11414  11414  11414
(m3/day)
Incremental (m3/dav)              895    959        983    915    1005    935    942   1056   1056   1056   1056   1056   1056   1056   1056   1056   1056   1056   1056
Production (m3/vear)     0   326675 350035    358795 333975 366825 341275 343830 385440 385440 385440 385440 385440 385440 385440 385440 385440 385440 385440 385440
losses (%)                         22     21          20      18      16      14     12      10      10      10      10      10      10      10      10      10      10     10      10
Sales (m3/year)               254807 276528    287036 273860 308133 293497 302570 346896 346896 346896 346896 346896 346896 346896 346896 346896 346896 346896 346896
Mindelo               1997       1998   1999       2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010   2011   2012   2013   2014   2015   2025
Sales (m3/day)                  2100   2100        2500   3000   4000   4000   4000   4000   4000   4000   4000   4000   4000   4000   4000   4000   4000   4000   4000
Incremental (m3/day)                        0       400    500   1000         0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0       0      0       0       0
Sales (m3/year)                             0    146000 182500 365000 365000 365000 365000 365000 365000 365000 365000 365000 365000 365000 365000 365000 365000 365000
losses(%)                          15      15         15      15      15      15      11     55      1    5IS        15      15      15      15      15      15      15     15      15
Production (m3/year)                0       0    171765 214706 429412 429412 429412 429412 429412 429412 429412 429412 429412 429412 429412 429412 429412 429412 429412
Assomada              1997       1998   1999       2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010   2011   2012   2013   2014   2015   2025
Consumption         120815    129538 138891      148920 157449 166465 175997 186075 196735 204376 212314 220561 229127 238026 247271 256875 266852 277217 287985 287985
m3/year (incremental)            8723   9353       10029   8529   9016   9532  10078  10660   7641   7938   8247   8566   8899   9245   9604   9977  10365  10768   8899
losses(%)                15        15      15         15      15      15      15     15      15      15      15      15      15      15      15      15      15      15     15      15
Projuction(m3/year)  142135    152398 163401     175200 185234 195841 207055 218912 231453 240442 249781 259484 269561 280031 290907 302206 313944 326138 338806 338806
m3/year(incremental)            10262  11004       11799  10034  10607  11214  11856  12541   8989   9339   9702  10078  10469  10876  11299  11738  12194  12668  10469
Secondary centers:  Production:               15 liters/person
5000 persons
27375 m3/vear
Sales (with 20% losses)    21900 m3/year



63                                                                             Annex 4
CAPE VERDE
ENERGY AND WATER SECTOR REFORM AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WATER SUPPLY COMPONENT
Table 2. Econonic Appralsal (ECV Milhon)
WUSS=        100  ECV               Conversion facors
Willingness   300   ECV/m3          Investment                      0.84
to Pay
Op. &c       110   ECV/m3           Operation & Maintenance         0.77
Maint
Connection fee:     12240 ECV
Discount Rate         12%/o
Year                                 1999   2000  2001   2002   2003 2004 2005 2006    2007    2008  2009  2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2025
Pro"
Investrnent                          46      192    46
Operation &Maintenance               25      26    27      30      30   31    36   36         36       36    36    36    36   36   36   36   36   36
Total Costs                            71     218    73     30      30   31    36   36         36       36    36    36    36   36    36    36   36   36
Valueofsales                         88      92    97    109    107   111   127  127         127      127   127   127   127  127   127   127  127   127                     NPVat 12%
Conmection fees                       9      11    15       15     17   20   24   23          23       23    23    23    23    23    23    23    23    23
NetBenefits                         27    -115   38       93      94   101   115  114       114      114   114   114   114   114   114   114  114   114            561
Mindelo
Investment                                   42    84      42
Operation& Maintenance                       12    15      31      31    31   31   31         31       31    31    31    31   31    31    31    31   31
Total Costs                                 54    99      72      31    31   31   31         31       31    31    31    31    31    31    31   31   31
Value ofsales                                44    55      110    110   110   110  110       110      110   110   110   110   110   110   110  110   110
Other Rev.                                    2     2       2      2      2     2    2        2        2      2      2     2    2      2     2    2      2
NetBenefits                                 -8   -42    39        81    81   81   81         81       81    81    81   81    81    81    81   81   81              431
Assomada
Investment                           63      21
Operation& Maintenance                I       I      I      I       1     1     1    1         1        1     1      1     1     I     I     I      I     I
Total Costs                         63      22     1       1      1      1    1    1         1        1      1      1     1     1     1     1    1      1
Value ofsales                         3       3     3       3      3     3     3    2         2        2      3      3     3     3     3     3    3      3
OtherRev.                            1.2    1.2   1.2    1.2    1.2   1.2   1.2  1.2          1.2      1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2   1.2
Net Benefits                        -59    -18    3        3      3     3     4    3         3        3      3     3      3    3      3     3     4     4          -47
Other Secondary Centers
Investment                                          125    42
Operation& Maintenance                               I      I       I     I     I    I         I       I      I      I     I     I     I     I     I      I
Total Costs                                       126    43       1      1     1    1        1        1      1      1     1     1     1     1     1     1
Value of sales                                      3       3      3      3     3    3        3        3      3      3     3     3     3     3     3     3
Net Benefits                                      -123   -40      2     2     2    2         2        2      2     2      2     2     2     2     2     2          -128
TotalNetBenefits                      -33    -141  -124    96       180   187  202  200       200      200   200   200  201  201   201   201  201   201
NPV Economic@8%    1328
NPVEconomic@12%    797    42o



64                                                                          Annex 4
CAPE VERDE
ENERGY AND WATER SECTOR REFORM AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WATER SUPPLY COMPONENT
Conversion factors:
a) Investment                             Conversion    Weighted    b) Operation & Maintenance          Conversion      Weighted                      Weighted
Item                      Fraction    X    Factor  =    Value         Item               Fraction    X   Factor  =      Value                        Value
Foreign Exchange (100/0     70%             0.9          0.63         Foreign Exchange    15%             0.9         0.13                         0.13
import duty)                                                          (10% import duty)                                 5                            5
Skilled labor               5%               1           0.05         Skilled labor        5%               1         0.05                          0.05
Unskilled labor             15%             0.5          0.075        Unskilled labor      20%             0.5         0.1                          0.1
Other Items                 10%             0.8          0.08         Other items          60%            0.8         0.48                          0.48
100%                         0.835        .                    100%          Total Con.   0.77                          0.77
Total                                                     tact.
Conversion
factor
1999   2000  2001   2002  2003 2004 2005 2006    2007    2008  2009  2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2025
Fin. Anabsis
Investment                           130    305  305       100
Operation & Maintenance               37      59   64       81   85   82   82   87             87   87      87   87   87   87   87   87   87   87
Total Costs                           167    364  369       181   85   82   82   87             87   87      87   87   87   87   87   87   87   87
Valueofsales                          40     65   75       100  106  103  105  112            III  Ill    Ill  IlI  Ill  II]  112  112  112  112
Conn.fees&OtherRev.                    10     14   18       18   21   24   27   26             26   26      26   26   26   26   26   26   26   26
Net Benefits                       -117  -285 -276        -62   42   45   50   51             51   51      51   51   51   51   51   51   51   52
NPV Fin@L8%         -240
NPV Fin.@12%        -326
Econ. Analysis
Investrnent                          109    255  255        84
Operation & Maintenance               25      39   44       63   62   64   68   68             68   68      68   68   68   68   68   68   68   68
Total Costs                            134    294  299      146   62   64   68   68             68   68      68   68   68   68   68   68   68   68
Value of sales                        91    139  157       224  222  227  242  242            242  242    242  242  242  242  242  242  243  243
Conn.fees &OtherRev.                   10     14   18       18   21    24   27   26            26   26      26   26   26   26   26   26   26   26
Net Benefits                        -33   -141  -124       96  180  187  202  200           200  200    200  200  201  201  201  201  201  201
NPV Fin.@8%         1328
NPV Economic@ 12%   797



65                                                                              Annex 4
CAPE VERDE
ENERGY AND WATER SECTOR REFORM AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
WATER SUPPLY COMPONENT
1999   2000  2001   2002   2003 2004 2005 2006    2007    2008  2009  2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2025                                        (iovert          Consumers
Net Resource Fk  of Extenudites                                                                                                                               NPV'i12%
Investment                            -21      5()  -50      -17     0     0     0     0           0    0       0    0    0    0        0    0      0     0        -106                     106
Operation & %faintenince               -12    -20  -20       -18  -22   -18  -14  -19            -19  -19    -19  -19   -19  -19   -19  -19  -19   -19             -143                     143
Total Oufflows                          -33    -70  -70)    -35   -22   -18  -14  -19             -19  -19    -19  -19  -19  -19   -19  -19  -19   -19              -249
Saks                                    il     74   82       124  116  123   13S  130            130  131    131  131  131  131   131   131  131   130             875                                    875
Com. tees & Otherre0 0                                0        0    0      0     0    0                  0       0    0    0    0       0    0      0      0         0
Totallntlows                             51      74   82      124   116  123   138  130           130  131    131  131   131  131   131  131   131   130             875
NetFlow                                  84    1-4   152      158  139   142   152   149          149  149    149  149  149  150   150  150  150   149              1123                     249            875
NP%VFine7 a        I 568
PV i12o            1123
Alocation of Extersatites                                                      Sumunary of the Distribution of Net Benefits
Govenrment         Consun                                                     ELECTRA Goverment             Consumers
249                             NPV Fin a 8o                              -240
875            PV of Emernalities a 12                                  249             875
Total Net Benefits                        -240            249            875
P\ of Externalities a 12o    1123
NPV Fin 4 1200) - (NPV Fin.    -87
NPV Externalities             1036
NPV Fin. n 8Xo                -240
NPV Econ. ?d 120o              797



66                                                                   Annex 4
CAPE VERDE
ENERGY AND WATER SECTOR REFORM AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SANITATION COMPONENT
Table 1. Cost Effectiveness Anahlsis
(ECV Million)
lUSS=       100   ECV                                Conversion factor
Operation & Maint.      5% of investment cost                  Investment          0.835
Discount Rate          12%                                    Op. & Maintenance: 0765
Year                                   1999   2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  2025
Investment                             125    200    25
Operation & Maintenance                 5       i2    13      14    14    14       14    14    14    14    14    14    14                    NPV at 12%
TotalCosts                              130    213    38       14    14      14    14    14    14    14    14          14    14             391
Quantity of Etluents (thousand of m3)    230    704   1241   1409  1566  1730  2248  2248  2248  2248  2248  2248  2248                    12925
(*)
Average Incremental Cost    30.23        CEV/m3
(*) Quantity of Effluents ('000 m3)
Praia                                   115    352   621    704   783   865   1124  1124  1124  1124  1124  1124  1124
Mindelo (1)                             115    352   621    704   783   865   1124  1124  1124  1124  1124  1124  1124
Total                                   230    704   1241   1409  1566  1730  2248  2248  2248  2248  2248  2248  2248
(1) The quantities of effluents for Mindelo will be determined during the updating of the Plan Sanitaire de Mindelo.
It is, however, expected that the quantities will be similar to those of Praia.
For Assomada, the project will finance the purchase of a cistem truck to help empty septic tanks
The Wastewater Reuse in Praia:
Year                                    1999   2000  2001   2002   2003   2004   2005  2006   2007   2008  2009   2010   2025
Investment                              0       50    33
Operation&Maintenance                   0       2      3      3      3      3      3      3      3      3      3      3      3                NPVat120o
Total Costs                              0       52    37      3      3      3      3      3      3      3      3      3      3             84
Qty. of treated Effluents (thousand of m3) (*)         496    564    626    692    899    899   899    899   899    899    899             6100
(*) 80ff of the Effluents                                                                                                                  13.79
BenefitsECV'OOO(treat wat.     35    ECVm3)(1)         17    20    22    24    31    31    31    31    31    31    31
sold 70
Net Benefits                                    -52    -19    17    19    21        28    28    28    28    28    28    28                  96
NPV@12% (ECV mils.)   96
IRR                  27.
(1) Halfthe lifeline water tariff (i.e 70 ECV m3)
(SEMAP tariff for consunption of less than 5 m3 month)



67                                   Annex 4
C.1    GEF Incremental Cost for Grid-connected Wind Farms
The economic analysis for the wind farm investment was carried out as part of the feasibility studies for
the wind farms. The report is available on files A cost benefit analysis is not reported here.
Costs
Capital costs were estimated based on quotations received from equipment manufacturers, in-country
knowledge of civil engineering costs, and electrical interconnection costs provided by Electra.
Contingencies were also included.
The capital and operating costs for the three projects were estimated for both 300kW and 600kW
turbines. These two sizes were chosen as the likely limits of commercially available machinles and the
physical feasibility of installation. For all projects currently envisaged, it was determined that the 600kW
turbine was slightly more cost-effective but it assumes the availability of a self erecting machine that
could be installed using the largest crane available on the islands. If a larger crane is required then
300kW machines become more attractive.
The analyses are based on costs determined for the largest sized installations outlined in Aniex 2
(4.8MW on Praia, 1.8MW on Mindelo and 1.2MW on Sal). This is not based on an absolute limit but
w.hat is considered to be technically feasible given the installed capacity on each island. It should be
noted that the economics of the project is not only limited by size but also by the impact of havinig to
'curtail' supply from wind sources in periods of low overall load.
Capital costs are given in Table 1 below.
Table 1. Capital Cost Estimate        1998 $US
Cost Category                        Praia         Mindelo          Sal           Total
Turbine costs                        4,356,387       1,646,077      1,104,014      7,106,478
Civil costs                            600,782        266,738        255,874       1,132,394
Electrical Costs                       295.994        127,560         107,618        531,172
SCADA system costs                      24,040         23,540         23,440          71,020
Design costs                           120,000         59,000         60,000         239,000
Project management costs                46,041         20,892          19,347         86,280
Operator training                        6.154          2,308           1,538         10,000
Engineering services                    80,000         18,462          12,308        110,770
Network connection                      92,000        118,000         142,000        352,000
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                   5,621,399      2,291,576      1,726,138       9,639,113
Wind Farm Size                        4.8 MW          1.8 MW          1.2 MW         7.8 MW
Baseline
The islands which constitute the Republic of Cape Verde rely heavily on imported fuel for their
electricity needs. The main grids on the three islands of Santiago (serving Praia), -Sao Vicente (serving
Mindelo) and Sal (serving the whole island) are largely supplied by diesel generators operated by Electra.
Installed diesel capacities for the grids are 11.2MW, 16.2 MW and 3.8 MW on the Praia, Mindelo and Sal
grids respectively; demand growth has run at 10-15% annually in recent years. A project jointly



68                                    Annex 4
sponsored by the Danish Aid Agency (DANIDA) and the Government resulted in the building of wind
farms in th- 600-10OOkW range which are now connected to the Praia, Mindelo and Sal grids. Other
wind installations exist but are largely out of service, with the exception of a 300kW wind farm on
Mindelo which has recently been refurbished by the original donor, KfW.
The baseline scenario is the continiued use of fuel to generate electricity. No diesel capacity has been or
will be displaced by the existing or planned wind farms. Additional wind-generated will displace further
fuel use.
Global Environmental Objective
The global environmental objective is to mitigate carbon emissions resulting from power generation in
Cape Verde. The project supports the GEF climate change Operational Program #6 aimed at promotiig
the adoption of renewable energy by removing barriers and reducing implementation costs. By making it
possible for Electra's strategic private partner to sponsor a wind farn project, it will open the way for
further projects on a fully commercial basis.
GEF Alternative
The islands of Santiago (Praia), Sao Vicente (Mindelo) and Sal have a substantial wind resource. An
alternative to diesel generation is the development of grid-connected wind energy projects. Wind energy
projects are currently operating in Cape Verde and additional wind energy development is possible.
Benefits to the Country
The expansion of the wind farms on Cape Verde provide the country with an indigenous,
environmenitally-friendly generating resource.  The wind farn extension component will provide
electricity directly to the Electra grids on the islands of SaoVicente (Mindelo), Santiago (Praia), and Sal.
The islands current utilize diesel generating plants to meet their electricity demands and new diesel
generating facilities are planned to meet the projected increases on each of these islands. Because the
wind farms do not use any fuel, the projects also provide a hedge against fuel price escalation.
As intermitter t generators, the wind farms are considered in this analysis as fuel savers. The period of
system maximum annual demanid occurs between July and September and coincides with the period of
miniimum monthly mean wind speed. It is assumed in the analysis that diesel capacity to cover the
maximum  demand (plus a safety margin) must be maintained to keep loss of load probability at
acceptable levels since that will be the de facto situation. As a result, capacity value of the wind farms
must be ignored.
Additional benefits from the extension of the wind farms include reduced implementation costs in the
futtire and the development of local skills in the construction and operation of wind power projects. The
existing wind projects have suffered from lack of proper maintenance, due largely to inexperience and
limited knowledge of the technology.
Benefits to the Global Environment
There are no carbon emissions associated with the wind farm expansion alternative, so there will be a
total replacement of the fossil fuel emissions that would have taken place under the baseline scenario.
The carbon emissions resulting from the manufacture, transport, and erection of the equipment were not



69                                      Annex 4
considered. The overall avoided emissions are over 352,000 tons of carbon for the wind farm expansion
(over the20 year life of the project).
The wind farm expansion provides an additional global benefit in that technical knowledge will be gained
on the effects of high penetration of intermittent resources into small utility grids. Perceived penetration
limits are a barrier for wide spread use of renewable energy technologies such as wind energy, because of
concerns about potential voltage and frequency fluctuations arising from swings in power output from an
intermittent generating resource. The proposed wind farm expansion projects in Cape Verde will result in
some of the highest penetration levels, over 30%, for wind energy projects in the world. System stability
studies on the Cape Verde island grids indicate that some curtailment of the wind projects may be
required in the first few years of operation due to these effects. This curtailment has been considered in
the project evaluation; however, actual experience with operating wind farms at these penetration levels
will be invaluable to the international energy-community. This experience will also provide Cape Verde
with the technical knowledge to evaluate additional investments in wind energy projects as their
electricity demand grows, thus removing a barrier to renewable energy development in the country.
Scope of the Analysis
The scope of the analysis is essentially national as it includes the nationial government, the utility, and the
tiurilkey contractor.
Project Economic Analysis
Under the baseline scenario, Electra will continue to generate electricity from fossil-fuel generatinig plants
oni the three islands under consideration. Expansion of the existing wind farms would displace generation
from these plants. Therefore, the economic benefit of the wind projects was considered to be the cost of
the fuel that was displaced.
A breakdown of the costs of each wind project are included in Table 1. The economic benefit of the
projects was based on the 1997 fuel costsI and the amount of energy generated by the wind projects that
could be used by each island on an annual basis. In the first few years of operation, a small amount of
energy is expected to be curtailed from each project during periods of low demand.
Project Inicremental Cost
The baseline course of action is greater reliance oni fossil fuels for power generation and will lead to
significanit emissions of greenhouse gases (CO2).
The GEF alternative to the baseline scenario is expanding the existing wind farm capacity on each of the
three islands of Sao Vicente (Mindelo), Santiago (Praia), and Sal. Additional technical assistance (such
as wind resource assessment work, power system analyses, operational assistance and training, and
monitoring), which would contribution to the removal of barriers resulting from inexperience with high
penetration of intermittent generation resources sucih as wind energy into utility grids, is included in the
GEF alternative.
As shown in Table 2, the incremental cost of the GEF alternative is based on a comparison of the NPV of
the displaced fuel with the NPV of the wind farm costs. However, without a contribution from the GEF,
I   See reference #20 in Annex 8 (Project File).



70                                          Annex 4
the EIRRs for the wind projects are lower than are commonly acceptable in Cape Verde, where it is
estimated that the opportunity cost of capital is 12%.
Technical assistance is also necessary to ensure the successful implementation of the proposed wind
projects. Wind resource assessment activities are necessary to finalize the site selection on Sal, and
determine the basis for making future energy estimates for eachi project. Power system studies will
further define the potential impact of integrating the wind systems into the utility grid.  Operations
assistance and training is necessary in the first years to ensure that Electra has appropriate procedures and
strategies in place to properly maintain the wind turbines and optimize their operation. Finally, oin-going
performance evaluation and monitoring is appropriate to document the experience and convey the lessons
learned to others in the energy community.
Table 2. Economic Components                (1998$US)
Exchange Rate: 95 ECV/$                 Discount Rate: 12%
Praia      Mindelo         Sal          Total
4.8 MW    1.8 MW   1.2 MW   7.8 MW
Wind Project Energy Generation
Wind Project Capacity Factor                 28.5%         53.9%        32.3%         35.0%
Annual Estimated Energy (MWh)                 12,000         8,500       3,400         23,900
Economic Values
NPV of Wind Farm CostsI                      5,561,059    2,264,256   1,696,453    9,521,768
NPV of Displaced Fuel2                       3,398,860    1,988,340    858,645    6,245,840
EIRR on Wind Farms                            4.5%          9.9%         2.2%
Incremental Cost (El RR= 12%)               $2,162,199     $275,916   $837,808   $3,275,923
Technical Assistance, GEF Funded                                                      $ 450,000
Wind Resource Assessment Program              $ 85,000
Power System Analysis                         $ 80,000
Project Performance Evaluation &             $ 160,000
Documentation
First year O&M Assistance                    $ 125,000
Total GEF Contribution                                                              $ 3,725,923
' sin- investment costs in Table I and annual costs: $6.000/turbine Ibr O&M; land charges of I'Vo of allntnal revenue; and insurance of t.5% of
total costs.
2 Fuel displaced is calculated based on average fuel oil consumption of diesels of 0.22t/MWh lor Mindelo. 0.24 t/MWh for Praia and 0.26t/MWh
for Sal (figures from Patou report, cited). For the economic cost of diesel, the untaxed landed price of fuel of $1 56-1 60/t was used plus a
ha..dling premium to cover costs associated with transferring it from the ship's bunker to the generating engine.



71                                    Annex 4
Incremental Cost Matrix
Baseline             Alternative           Increment
Domestic Benefit        Electricity generation from  Electricity generation
diesel generation with   from wind power
carbon emissions         without carbon
emissions
Continued reliance oni   Avoided fuel costs    Hedge against fuel
imported fuel                                 cost escalation
Global Environment    352, 293 tons of C02       0 tons of C02        Abatement of 352,293
Benefit                 emissionsI               emissions            tons of C02 emissions
Cost                    $6,245,845               $9,971,768           $3,725,923
(NPV of fuel)            (including TA)
Source: M. Patou's report
Process of Agreement
The incremental cost parameters described hereini have been derived on the basis of market studies and
economic models developed in the course of project preparation. These parameters have been confirmed
at project appraisal and will be formally agreed between the GOCV and the Bank at negotiations.
C.2    GEF Incremental Cost for the Decentralized Rural Electrification Sub-component
Baseline
Arounid 10,000 households currently receive electricity from mini-grids, and on average consume about
80 kWh/monthi (ranging from 20 - 120 kWh/monthi). The mini-grids will be extended and linked to cover
a ftirther 202,000 households over the medium term but about 12,000 households can be described as
durcablernwent exclus: they will never be connected. For households, the baseline is either a small gasoline
generator. 2 kVA for the larger loads or, for the poorer, kerosene and bottled LPG for lighting and dry
cells for electrical needs such as radio (there is very little use of automotive batteries for domestic
electricity in Cape Verde). For small businesses and community use (such as street lighting or communal
facilities), a gasoline generator or LPG is preferred.
Quoted initial purchase costs for SHS are among the highest in the world and availability is poor. In the
Dominican Republic, for example, a 48Wp system costs around $700 while in Sri Lanka a 35Wp system
costs around $5002. Comparable figures for Cape Verde at the present time are $420 for a 20Wp and
$810 for a 5OWp system (based on dealer estimates). There is one dealer in the country, whose main
business has been to supply donor projects with bulk orders of equipment. While there are firms and
individuals with the necessary skills, there is no-one practicing as a system designer or installer.
There is good evidence to suggest that the potential for decentralized electrification is high. Those who
are not connected exhibit high willingness to pay (WTP) and there is a substantial remittance income in
many rural households. The prospects for many of not being connected within any reasonable period
2   Source: Best Practices for Photovoltaic Household Electrification Programs Lessons from Selected Countries.
World Bank Technical Paper 324.



72                                    Annex 4
adds further credence. Without some form of intervention, it is clear that the market will not develop. In
market terms the baseline is the same as at the individual level: kerosene, LPG and dry cells for the
poorer households, gasoline generators for the better off.
Global Environment Objective
The global environment objective is to mitigate carbon emissions resulting from use of gasoline or diesel
generators for household electricity and the use of kerosene and LPG for lighting.  Total carbon
emissions are expected to be reduced by 1,110 tons of CO2 over the lifetime of the project. This
mitigation is the rationale for the GEF grant and indicates the international community's WTP for avoided
C02 emissions.
The project supports the GEF clhiate change Operational Program #6 aimed at promoting the adoption of
renewable energy by removing barriers and reducing implementation costs. By helping the local private
sector to enter the market for the supply, installation and maintenance of household-level photovoltaic
systems, it is intended that a sustainable economic activity will develop.
GEF Alternative
The role of the GEF funding would be to meet the incremental costs of supplying renewable energy
rather than the baseline equipment and support for the market development activities.  The GEF
alternative is described in Annex 2 (Project Description). Briefly the project will be implemented through
an adapted version of the concession system. The concessionaire will not receive statutory monopoly
rights, but it will receive privileges in return for undertaking to provide a service. The concession will be
for 10 years, which will provide adequate time to recover investment costs. There will be two concession
areas: one comprising Santiago island and the other comprising the remaining 9 inhabited islands of Cape
Verde. There will be no territorial limitation within the islands, permitting the concessionaire, if it
wishes, to compete with the providers of grid connected electricity. The concession will be awarded by
competitive tender, for which detailed bidding documents have been prepared.
Concessioniaires will be obliged to undertake three roles:
*  Sales of off-grid electrification systems, sold for either cash or credit;
*  Sales of electricity or the services provided by electricity, through systems installed in houses and
public places, which they will own on a typical concession basis;
*  Management of publicly owned equipment, including installation, maintenance, setting of tariffs and
fee collection.
The Government of Cape Verde will have the right to terminate the concession at any time throughout its
lifetime.
Scope of the analysis
There are two sets of project benefits, those that accrue directly to the households and those which accrue
to the global environment and both of these are considered in the analysis. The analysis is made from the
point of view of the country and of the beneficiary households. The point of view of the concessionaire
is not covered in the scope of the analysis as the nature of the concession has yet to be determined.



73                                       Annex 4
Direct benefits to households
Households benefit in numerous ways, many of which are difficult to quantify since other factors are also
implicated. Generally, however, the following benefits result from the availability of electricity in the
home:
(i)    Access to electricity allows the use of radio and television, connecting individuals with the
social and economic mainstream of Cape Verde;
(ii)    Improvements in lighting quality and quantity extend the working day (especially for
women) and permit the possibility of income generating activities after dark;
(iii)   Improvements in lighting quality and quantity lead to better conditions under which children
are able to read and study. There is a long-term positive effect on education and learning
experienced by children;
(iv)    By reducing the use of substitutes such as kerosene and candles, there is a reduction of
indoor pollution and of risk of fire so contributing to improved health.
The benefits to households can be measured by their willingness to pay (WTP) for the improved
electricity service. Deriving a figure for houselholds' WTP is complex since it is the sum of the actual
payments made for the SHS or WHS by the houselhold plus the consumer surplus. While actual payments
canl be determined, it is not possible to measure the consumer surplus. Hence the project benefits will be
somewlhat understated.
Direct Bene fits to the Global Enivironment
Global environiment benefits accrue from  the reduction in C02 emissions which are avoided when
kerosene, LPG and gasoline are replaced by renewable energy. The mitigation is the rationale for the
GEF grant and indicates the interinational community's WTP for avoided C02 emissions.
Costs
Ba.seline and GEF Alternative Uses and Costs Compared
There is evidence of ability and willingness to pay for improved electrification services (See Annex 2),
althoughi remittance income from family members abroad is a major factor in the purchase of larger
items. The improved service provided by PV in comparison with kerosene and gas can be expected to
increase willingness to pay of at least some buyers. Current use of energy equipment is given below,
categorized by the same income classes used in Annex 2:
Household type                       Baseline Provisioni                     GEF Provision
Light                   Electricity
Small consumer      I kerosene wick lamp                               2OWp SHS
I LPG lamp
Medium consumer    2 kerosene wvick lamp       8 R20 batteries/month   5OWp SHS
I LPG lamp
Large consumer     Small gasoline generator. 240 W incandescent bulbs, other  300 Wp SHS or 300Wp
equipment including TV. refrigerator/freezer. Estimated 80-  WHS
120 kWh/month total use
Community use      2 LPG lamps for street      Small gasoline generator  5OWp public lighting PV
lighting                                           system, equivalent of 300
I  Wp SHS or 300Wp WHS



74                                    Annex 4
The concessionaire will be given latitude to meet the demands of the market in terms of system type and
size. It is difficult to make exact comparisons between the light provided by a kerosene or LPG lamp and
that from a fluorescent bulb as may be used in an SHS because quality of light and convenience is not
taken into account. Incremental costs have been based on estimated prices of equipment a concessionaire
might be expected to pay for equipment, and not current prices wlhich are significantly higher because
such equipment that is bought privately tends to be one-off purchases. Levelized Monthly Cost (LMC) is
used for comparison with existing levels of payment. Investment costs are expressed as sum of the first
cost of the system and the present value of the running costs. A discount rate of 12% and a lifetime of 15
years is used.
System                   LMC        LMC of    Inv. cost   Inv. cost of
($)       baseline      ($)        baseline
($)                      ($)
2OWp SHS                  7.00        5.20         575         427
5OWp SHS                 12.60       10.60        1,025        869
300Wp SHS                49.00      138.40        3,645      11,313
300Wp WHS                57.20      138.40       4,672       11,313
5OWp Public lighting     13.90        13.60       1,136        870
300Wp Public use       variable     138.40     variable         n/a
Inic renmental costs
The incremental costs of each system can be calculated from the information in the table above. The
table below presents the incremental cost and the expected rates of deployment for each type of system.
System                    Annual Deployment        Incremental
Yrs 1-3      Yrs 4-5        Cost($)
2OWp SHS                   40         1,412              148
5OWp SHS                  124           384              157
300Wp SHS                  32            60          (7,667)
300Wp WHS                  32            60          (6,640)
5OWp Public lightinig     186                           267
300Wp Public use          100             0         Negative
Parentheses denote negative cost
The project incremental cost is derived by using the information from the table above and modifying it as
discussed below.
Small Consumers. These consumers will typically wish to acquire systems of 2OWp in size. The system
carries a significant incremental cost at the moment because of the weakness of the market. It is expected
that over the coming years, market growth will bring about a significant reduction in system cost and
hence incremental cost. Reductions in system cost of the range of 10-20% can be expected over the
lifetime of the project, which would bring them to the same order as those in other countries. It is thus
proposed that a 'first cost grant' is used, payable to the concessionaire to absorb the incremental cost in
the initial years. The first cost grant would follow a schedule of reducing payments:



75                                     Annex 4
2OWp System                Year I    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5 & on
($)        ($)       ($)       ($)         ($)
First cost grant payable      148       148        89        45          -
Proportion of incremental     100       100        60        30          0
cost_(%)                I_I
The schedule outlined above anticipates costs being brought down to a level more comparable with those
found in more mature markets. Direct comparisons are of little value given the special circumstances of
Cape Verde which add to costs, for example the small market size and distance from suppliers.
Mediun Consunmers.  Medium  consumers are expected to wish to acquire systems of 5OWp. The
consumers who acquire the 5OWp system will have either kerosene, gas and batteries or a gasoline
generator as the alternative. As with the 2OWp systems reductions in system cost of the range of 10-20%
can be expected over the lifetime of the project, which would bring them to the same order as those in
other countries. To account for the existence of a lower cost optioni in the 2OWp system and to avoid the
sLibsidy benefiting those who obtain a larger system (and who will tend to be better off) it is proposed that
the first cost grant cover 100% and 90% of the incremental costs in years I and 2 respectively, declining
thiereafter as shown in the table. Such a level of grant would keep the cost to the end user approximately
constant if prices decline at the rate expected and would result in year 6 in costs broadly comparable with
those found in more mature markets.
5OWp System                Year I    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5 & on
($)        ($)       ($)       ($)         ($)
First cost grant payable      157       141        79        31          -
Proportion of incremental     100        90        50        20          0
cost (%)                            I         I         I         I
Large Constmners. There is no incremental cost for the larger consumers to use PV or wind in preference
to a gasolinie generator and so no incentive is required.
Public Use. Electrification of these will be an option for the municipalities, who will have access to
funids made available by central governments.  For water pumping and use in rural schools and
communiity centers, the incremental cost is estimated to be negative, so no GEF grant will be necessary.
In the case of street lighting, the installations are expected to take place in years 1-4 of the concession to
achieve a strong demonstration effect. Payment for the full incremental cost of $267 throughout the
lifetime of the project is justified because installations are not proposed for subsidy to bring about cost
reduction but for their value as means of raising awareness and confidence in PV. The aggregation of the
demand for the public electrification services will be the basis for attracting concessionaires and so
meeting the full incremental costs for the public use is an essential part of the overall project approach.
Technical Assistance and Startup Costs for the PMU To support the activities of the PMU, the national
energy agency, in the launching of the bidding for the concessions and subsequently their regulatory
oversight, technical assistance is required over 2 years, costing a total of $140,000. The breakdown is as
follows:



76                                      Annex 4
Activity                     Increment
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _($ )
Bidding for concessions     50,000
Training of PMU staff       25,000
Technical standards         30,000
Assistance with regulation  35,000
Business Development and Startup Costs for Concessionaires.  Although it is expected that the
concessioniaires will be required to capitalize their operations on being awarded the concession, they will
inctir costs incremental to those which they would incur if they did not have a requirement to deal only in
renewable energy products. The incremenits for one concession are estimated as follows:
Increment ($)
Activity                                           Santiago           Increment
($)Other islands
Business planning                             20,000              20,000
Techinical training for staff and managers     30,000             30,000
Setting up delivery systems, and infrastructire  25,000           45,000
Market development and research, promotion     60,000             100,000
Setting/niegotiating regulatory norms         20,000             20,000
Developing and agreeing technical standards   25,000             25,000
Total                                          180,000           240,000
These costs will be incurred withinl the first year of each concession's lifetime.
Total GEF grant is thus determined as follows:
Item                       GEF grant
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _($ )
2OWp SHS                     181,000
5OWp SHS                      59,000
5OWp Public lighting         149,000
TA for PMU                   140,000
Concessionaires              420,000
Total                        949,000



77                                   Annex 4
Incremental Cost Matrix
Baseline            Alternative            Increment
Domestic Benefit       Lighting and electricity  Lighting and other
provided by fossil fuels appliances provided
from renewable
sources
Global Environment     29,138 tons of C02    0 tons of CO2         Abatement of 29.138
Benefit                emissions'            emissions             tons of CO2 emissions
Cost                   2OWp: $427            2OWp: $575            2OWp: $148
5OWp: $869            5OWp: $1,025          5OWp: $157
5OWp public: $870    5OWp public: $1,136    5OWp public: $267
Project, PV@12%:      Project, PV@ 12%:     Project, PV@ 12%:
$1.64 million         $2.52 million         $0.88 million
Source: Russel de Lucia. Indonesia RED. Global Environmental Calculus Note
Process of Agreement
The incremental cost parameters described here have been derived by Bank staff in consultation with the
Governmenit of Cape Verde (this is a Bank-executed project preparation). The information has been
gained from market studies and modeling developed in the course of project preparation. The parameters
have been agreed during project appraisal and will formally be agreed between the Bank and the
Government of Cape Verde at negotiations.



78                                    Annex 5
Annex 5
Cape Verde Energy and Water Sector Reform and Development Project
Financial Analysis Summary
Electra's Past Financial Performance (1995-1997).
1 .    Over the past few years, Electra has increased its production of water and electricity to respond to
a growing demand. Electricity generation went from 53.1 Gwh in 1992 to 93.6 Gwh in 1997 at an
average aniual growth rate of about 10%. Over the four islands, losses have been about 14.4% of
generation. In the water sector, demand has also been growing rapidly. Water production increased from
0.88 M m3 in 1992 to 1.67 M m3 in 1997 at an average annual growth rate of 11.3%. The island of Sao
Vicente uses most of the desalinated water (60.4% of the total in 1996), Praia 22%, Sal 16% and Boavista
1.6%. Losses are important in Sao Vicente (26%), but moderate in Sal and Boavista where the network is
small and relatively new. Sales, whicih reflect the growing demand for water and electricity, have
increased from 610 M ECV in 1992 to 1,195 M ECV in 1997 at an average annual growth rate of 12%.
2.     Despite the growth of its activities, however, Electra has experienced systematic losses since
1982. The cumulated losses are about 1.145 M ECV, after taking into account operating subsidies of 641
ECV M received between 1982 and 1995). This poor financial performance is largely explained by the
inadequacy of tariffs, particularly of water tariffs. The strong growth of sales between 1995 and 1997
was not sufficient to reverse the trend and the operating income (before interest) represented -2.1% of
sales in 1997. The rate of return on average net fixed assets was also negative (-1.2 %). After interest,
losses reached 188 M ECV in 1997, representing 15.7% of sales or about 12% of equity. Despite these
recurrent losses, however, the financial structure of Electra is weak but not catastrophic as a large share
of investimienits in Electra's balance sheet were acquired through grants and other concessional funding.
Owing to a low "cost of capital", Electra has had positive cash-flows until 1995. The debt service
coverage ratio was 1.3 in 1995. It became less than I in 1997 (0.9), thus showing the inability of Electra
to service its debt. The current ratio is stable at around 1.2 in 1997. The level of stocks is between 6 to
7.5 monlths of purchases. Accounts receivable were about 5 months in 1997. Public customers accounted
for 50% of the arrears and for only 10% of sales. Accounts payable were about 6 months in 1997.
3.     Electricity tariffs. The average production cost is about 8.38 ECV/kWh. Taking into account
network losses, public lighting (which is not billed) and the cost of distribution, the total cost of a kWh is
about 12.5 ECV. Electra's tariff was about 15 ECV/kWh in 1997. This leaves a small margin of about
2.5 ECV/kWh. This surplus is nearly wiped out by unpaid bills. Collection is about 93%.
4.     Water tariffs. The average water production cost for Electra as a whole is about 208 ECV/m3
(about US$2.2/m3). This cost is relatively homogenous over the three main islands but exceeds 520
ECV/m3 (about US$5.8/m3) in Boavista. The average cost of a cubic meter, including distribution losses
and other costs, is about 320 ECV/m3 (US$3.74/m3) in Mindelo and Sal. This cost is about 591 ECV/m3
in Boavista. These costs are to be compared to the average revenues (including meter rent) observed in
1996: 186 ECV/m3 (57% of the cost ) in Mindelo, 195 ECV/m3 (60% of the cost) in Sal, 187 ECV/m3
(32% of the cost) in Boavista, and 100 ECV/m3 (47% of the cost) in Praia. Losses in 1996 from this
pricing policy were 170 M ECV, higher than the loss experienced by Electra for the same year. Action
should be taken to drastically reduce system losses and reduce unit investment cost to the maximum
allowed by technology and demand considerations. This is, however, not sufficient and water tariffs
would have to be raised, sometimes substantially.



79                                     Annex 5
Electra's Financial Projections (1998-2010)
5.     The main assumptions made for the financial projections over the period 1998 - 2010 are the
following:
(a) The demand for electricity and water are expected to grow at an average annual growth rate
of 8 and 8.9%, respectively.
(b) Operating costs: the assumed inflation rate is 2.5%. Fuel consumption is calculated as
follows: the share of thermal energy falls from 90% in 1996 to 85% in 2001 and stays at that level
afterwards, the complement is made up by wind farms. The distribution betweengasoil and fuel oil is
expected to remain at about 86.4% for gasoil and 13.6% for fuel oil. Specific consumption for gasoil
would decrease from 258 g/kWh in 1996 to 240 g/kWh in year 2000. Fuel oil specific consumption
would also decrease from 207 g/kWh in 1996 to 200 g/kWh in 1998. Energy consumption for water
desalination has been estimated as follows: the specific consumption of electricity was 12 kWh/m3 in
1996, it is assumed that it will progressively decrease to 10 kWh/m3 in 2001. Contrary to Electra's
practice, electricity consumed for water desalination is accounted for as a cost to the water activity and a
revenue to the electricity branchl. The electricity thus consumed is priced at 66% of Electra's average
tariff (i.e. excluding distribution costs and network losses).
c) Stock turnover has been slow in 1996 and 1997: between 6 and 7 months of consumption,
including fuels. A significant improvement in stock management and supply would progressively bring
down this ratio to I month for fuels and 2 months for other equipment and materials by year 2001.
d) Accounts receivable for private consumers represented about 3 months of sales in 1997. They
are assumed to fall to 2 months billing starting in 1999. Thins are different for the public sector where
accounts receivable stand at about 24 months of sales. It has been assumed that public accounts
receivable are substantially reduced to bring them to I year in 1998 and to 3 months in 2001.
e)  Accounts payable stood at 6 months in 1997, including fuels.  It is assumed that a
rationalization of payments to suppliers would bring accounts payable to I month for hydrocarbons and
to 2 months for equipment and other materials.
f) Electra's investment program is assumed to be financed by a 20% operating subsidy from the
Government, and by long-term  loans at an average annual rate of 8%, 10 years repayment period
including a 4 year grace period.
g) Tariffs. The average electricity tariff was not adjusted in 1996 and 1997. The average water
tariff was increased by 13% in 1996 but was not adjusted in the following years. It is assumed that the
electricity tariff would be adjusted annually to take into account the forecast inflation of 2.5%. The
electricity tariff for desalinated water is taken to be 66% of the average electricity tariff. Given the
substantial tariff modification necessary, it is recommended to spread the adjustment over a period of at
least 4 years. For the financial projections, the tariff is increased by 20% from 1999 to 2002 to reach 368
ECV/m3. The water tariff to EMAP (excluding distribution, network losses and accounts receivable)
would increase from 100 ECV/m3 in 1997 and 1998 to 228 ECV/m3 in 2002.



80                                      Annex 5
Electra's Projected Financial Performance
6.     Electra's financial projections show that the operating income and net income do not become
positive until 2003 and 2006, respectively. Analysis of the accounts of 1996 and 1997 show that the
losses incurred are essentially due to low water tariffs.. Electricity tariffs on the other hand are slightly
higher than production costs. This, however, hides the fact that the lack of financial resources forces the
company to reduce maintenance significantly (0.5% of fixed assets in 1996 instead of the customary 2%),
artificially reducing the operating deficit.  This practice lead to an accelerated depreciation of the
equipment and would ultimately force the company into heavy rehabilitation or replacement expenses,
and therefore to more important tariff adjustments.
7.     The following measures are needed: (i) tariff adjustment: the financial projections which assume
a constant electricity tariffs (i.e. adjusted regularly with inflation) and an adjustment of water tariffs to
production cost levels observed in 1996, show that these tariff adjustments are not sufficient to insure the
survival of the company. Electra will not be able to undertake normal maintenance of its equipment and
would not be able to participate to the financing of its investments during the period 1998-2003; (ii)
Financial restructuring of Electra: as shown in Annex 4, the Government should contribute about 900 M
ECV to Electra to pay it suppliers and provision bad accounts receivable. It is important to note that if
the financial restructuring is not uLndertaken, any expansion of the system (extensions, densification, etc.)
will lead to additional operating losses.
EMAP
8. Emap's past financial performance as well as financial projections are given in page 6 of this Annex.
Comments are found in the main body of the report: Section E. Summary Project Analysis - 2. Financial.



81                                                                  Annex 5
Cape Verde Energy and Water Sector Reform and Development Project
ELECTRA Financial Summary
Years ending December 31, 1995 through December 31, 2010
Av.
Annual
1995  1996  1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  Growth
(%)
Actual    Forecast
Income Statement Items
Electricity Sales (MWh)  47664 53697 57475  62905  68769  75102  81942 89329 97306 10592 11522 12527 13613 14785 16051 17418   8.86
3     8      8     2      4     4      6
Average tariff            16    15    15       16      16     16      17     17    18    18    19    19    19    20    20    21          2.50
(ECV/kWh)
WaterSales('000m3)       878   992   1051   1135   1226   1324   1430   1545  1668  1802  1946  2101  2269  2451  2647  2859    8.00
Average tariff (ECVim3)   157   177   177    177    213    256    307    368   377   387   396   406   416   427   437   448    8.03
Water Sales to EMAP      28    371   393    424    458    495    534    577   623   673   727   785   848   916   989   1068    8.00
('000 m3)
Average tariff (ECV/m3)   80    100   100    100    132    159    190    228   234   240   246   252   258   265   272   278    8.90
Revenues                 952   1046  1195   1274   1635   1883   2175   2531  2824  3148  3508  3906  4348  4838  5381  5982   13.76
OperatingIncome          - 30   - 38   - 25   - 287  - 364  - 383   - 291  - 111   20    195   410   652   922  1 224 1 562 1 941
NetIncome                - 79  - 152 - 188  - 379  - 549  - 759  - 754  - 635 - 516 - 332  - 71   223   548   909  1 306 1 742
Funds Statement Items
Internal Sources         184   234   214    117    216    371        554    788   950  1142  1357  1598  1869  2171  2509  2888   30.63
Borrowings               332   207   560   1246   2540   1144    839    349   351                                                       -22.40
Equity Investments        95    413    140    312    635    286    210    87    88                                                     -22.40
Total Sources           611    854   914    1675   3391   1801    1602   1225  1389  1142  1357  1598  1869  2171  2509  2888    2.63
Capital Expenditures     474   620   700    1558   3175   1430   1048   437   438                                                       -22.40
Working Capital Increase  -106   -29    2    -261    -80      27      29     64    53    58    65    72    80    88    98    108
(Decrease)
Debt Service             141   207   248    268    384    513    591    779   1033  1140  1180  1165  1146  1090  1009  953    11.15
Cash Variation           101    55    -36    110    -88    -169    -65    -54   -135  -57   112   362   643   993   1402  1826   26.34
TotalApplications       611    854   914    1675   3391   1801    1603   1225  1389  1142  1357  1598  1868  2171  2509  2888    4.64



82                                                             Annex 5
Cape Verde Energy and Water Sector Reform and Development Project
ELECTRA Financial Summary
Years ending December 31, 1995 through December 31, 201 0
Balance Sheet Items
Current Assets         827   959   1028   806    118   -58    -136  -120  -195  -186  -2   439  1170 2260  3770  5716   17.74
Net Fixed Assets       3074  3285  4137  4424  7019  7694   7897  7433  6941  5994  5047 4101  3154  2207  1260  313   -19.80
Total Assets         3900  4244  5166  5230  7137  7636   7760  7314 6746  5808  5045  4540 4324  4467  5031  6029   1.19
Current Liabilities    712   765   879   851   331   296    254   261   269  275  283   290   299   308   318   329   -7.60
Long-term Liabilities  1691  1721  2765  2925  5265  6273   6983  7077  693   z17 5618 4882  4109  3334  2582  1827  -3.85
Equity                 1497  1758  1521   1454  1540  1067   523   -25  -45.   i84  -855  -632  -84   825  2131  3872   8.51
Total Liabilities and  3900  4244  5166  5230  7137  7636   7760  7314 6746  5808  5045  4540 4324 4467  5031  6029   1.19
Equity
Financial Ratios
Operating Income as a %   -3.1  -3.6  -2.1  -22.6  -22.3  -20.3  -13.4  -4.4  0.7  6.2  11.7  16.7  21.2  25.3  29.0  32.4
of Revenue
Netlncomeasa%of        -8.3  -14.6  -15.7  -29.7  -33.5  -40.3  -34.7  -25.1 -18.3 -10.5  -2.0  5.7  12.6  18.8  24.3  29.1
Revenue
Average Net Fixed Assets     3179  3711  4281   5721   7357   7795  7665  7187 6468  5521  4574  3627  2680  1734  787
Return on Net Fixed          -1.2  -0.7  -6.7  -6.4   -5.2   -3.7  -1.4  0.3   3.0  7.4  14.2  25.4  45.7  90.1  246.7
Assets
Debt Service Coverage   1.3   1.1   0.9   0.4   0.6   0.7    0.9   1.0  0.9   1.0  1.1   1.4   1.6  2.0   2.5   3.0   17.52
Percent of Total Capital
Expenditures
financed by Internal   38.8  37.7  30.6   7.5   6.8   25.9   52.9  180.5 216.9                                                52.25
Sources
Current Ratio          1.2   1.3   1.2   0.9   0.4   -0.2   -0.5  -0.5  -0.7  -0.7  0.0   1.5  3.9   7.3  11.8  17.4  27.42
Debt-Equity ratio      0.4   0.4   0.5   0.6   0.7   0.8    0.9   1.0  1.0  1.1  1.1   1.1   1.0  0.7   0.5   0.3   -4.98



83                                                         Annex 5
Annex 5
Cape Verde Energy and Water Sector Reform and Development Project
EMAP Financial Summary
Years ending December 31, 1995 through December 3 1, 2010
Av.
Annual
1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005 2006 2007  2008  2009  2010  Growth
(%)
Actual Forecast
Income Statement Items
WaterSales('000m3)   865   987  1043  1125  1213  1308  1405  1507  1617  1734  1858  1991  2132  2283  2443  2613    7.28
Average tariff         112   124   124   123   171   213   213   213   213   213   213  213   213   213   213   213    4.69
(ECV/m3)
Revenues(ECV           102   132   138   149   222   300   322   345   370   397   426  456   488   523   560   599    12.31
millions)
OperatingIncome        - 13  - 18  - 27  - 31  - 53   - 5   - 8   - 11  - 13  - 15  - 16 - 16  - 15  - 14  - 19  - 23
NetIncome              - 8   - 9   - 17  - 21    0       16    14    13    12    13    14   16    19    22    20    19
Funds Statement Items
Internal Sources        6      5    -3    -6   -23    30    28    27    27    27    28    30    33           36    34    33
Total Sources          6      5    -3    -6   -23    30    28    27    27    27    28    30    33    36    34    33
Capital Expenditures                              14    14    14    14    14    14    14   14    14    14    14    14
Other uses              6      5
Total Applications     6      5     0      0     14    14    14    14    14    14    14    14    14    14    14    14
Balance Sheet Items
CurrentAssets           82    99    100   95    101   119   135   150   165   180   196  214   235   260   283   305    10.23
NetFixedAssets         119   110   95    81    81    81    81    81    81    81    81   81    81    81    81    81                0.00
Total Assets          201   209   196   176   182   200   216   231   246   261   277  295   316   341   364   386    6.77
Current Liabilities     7      13    17    18    24    26    28    30    33    35    37    40    42    45    48    52             9.31
Equity                 193   196   179   158   158   174   188   201   213   226   240  255   274   296   316   335    6.44
Total Liabilities and    201   209   196   176   182   200   216   231   246   261   277  295   316   341   364   386    6.77
Equity



84                                                        Annex 5
Annex 5
Cape Verde Energy and Water Sector Reform and Development Project
EMAP Financial Summary
Years ending December 31, 1995 through December 31, 2010
Financial Ratios
Operatinglncomeasa  -12.5  -13.9 -19.4 -20.8  -23.6  -1.7  -2.6  -3.2  -3.6  -3.7  -3.7  -3.5  -3.1  -2.7  -3.3  -3.8
% of Revenue
Net Income as a % of   -7.4  -7.0  -12.5 -13.8  0.0   5.2   4.3   3.7   3.4   3.2   3.2  3.5   3.8   4.2   3.6   3.1
Revenue
AverageNetFixed               114   102   88    81    81    81    81    81    81    81   81    81    81    81    81
Assets
Return on Net Fixed          -16.0 -26.2 -35.0  -64.8  -6.2  -10.2  -13.6  -16.3  -18.2  -19.3 -19.5 -18.7  -17.6  -23.1  -28.2
Assets
Current Ratio          11.0   7.6   6.0   5.3   4.2   4.5   4.8   4.9   5.0   5.2   5.3   5.4   5.6   5.8   5.9   5.9    0.84



85                                          Annex 5
Cape Verde Energy and Water Sector Reform and Development Project
Financial Performance of Off-Grid PV Concessionaires (consolidated)
000 CVE                 Year I   Year 2   Year 3  Year 4   Year 5  Year 6  Year 7  Year 8    Year 9   Year    Year    Year
I10     11-14   15
Receipts
Cash sales to private  11,717   13,610   15.510  21.557  25.879  25.879  25.879   25.879  25.879  25.879
market
Cash sales to public   18,139   14.837   12.753    6.095
market
Down payments for       3.545    2.965    2.6 10   3.670   2.640   2.640   2.640     2.640   2.640   2.640
leases - private
L.ease payments -       5.285    9.934   14.204   18.358  21.344  24.332  27.320   30,308  33.296  36.284   25.086  25,086
PIrivate and Public
(GEF suLipport -       20.800   19.000
market development
GEF support for        12.191   11.869   9.031    3.537
equipment
Residual equipment                                                                                                     55.328
value (year 15 only) 
T'otal receipts        71,777  72.215   54.108  53.215  49.863   52.851   55.839   58,827  61,815  64.803   25,086  80,414
Expenses
13usiness startup,     57.000  38.000                                               38.000
maintenianice
Equipment for           3.473   4.117   4.589   6.523    7.764   7.764   7.764       7,764    7.764    7.764
Icasing_
..(Ifi'rrnugc payments  2.283   4.215   5.929   6.560   6.560   6.560   6.560        6,560   6.560    6,560
to (iocV
Cost of'equipmenit     25.482  25.991   27.404  30.183   30.313  32.404  34.496    36.587   38.679  40,771   17,560  56,290
sales and installationl
'I'otal expenises      88,238   72,323  37.921   43.265  44.636  46,728  48.819   88,911   53.002  55.094   17.560  56,290
Net cash flowv          (16.461    (109)  16.186    9.950   5.227   6,124   7.020  (30,083    8.813   9.709    7.526  24,124
D)iscounted value rc?  18.226
12% over 15 years                    _                                                                                   _
Interinal rate of return   34%T       I
Assumptions:
Level of recovery of private payments                                80%
Level of recovery of public payments                                 100%
Margin on equipment and installation                                 30%
Initial investment in business start ups                             95,000 CVE
Cash sales as a proportion of total installed private market  70%
Sales prices (in CVE):
20 Wp         50 WV        300 Wp        50 Wp public
Cash sales price for complete system               18,000       49,000        200,000       47,000
Down payment for leased system                    5,000         10,000        50,000       l                   l
Monthly lease payment                             500            1,000        4,000         650
Annual equivalent of monthly lease payment  6,000                12,000       48,000        7,800



86                                                  Annex 6
Annex 6
Energy and Water Sector Reform and Development Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
PROCUREMENT
The procurement methods applicable to the various expenditure categories are summarized in Table A.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Non ICB Aggregated as Other
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
International
Competitive
Bidding             Other bl        N.B.F. c/        Total
A. Civil Works d/
1. Construction                                     5.50                   -           11.76          17.26
(5.06) a/               -                          (5.06)
B. Supply & Installation of Equipment e/              1.01                   -           10.33           11.34
(0.97)                  -                          (0.97)
C. Goods fl
1. Equipment & Vehicles                            4.66                0.36             2.78           7.80
(4.66)             (0.36)                          (5.02)
D. Services
1. Project Management Staff                            -               0.80             0.05           0.85
(0.80)                         (0.80)
2. Design & Supervision                                -                1.10            0.60           1.70
(1.10)                         (1.10)
3. Studies, Advisory Services & Training               -                3.07            1.46           4.53
(3.07)                         (3.07)
E. Operating Costs g/
1. Project Management Unit
PMU O&M                                              -                  -            0.18            0.18
F. Financial Restructuring-Electra                       -                   -            2.83            2.83
G. PPF Refinancing                                       -                1.50                -           1.50
(1.50)                         (1.50)
11.16               6.83            30.00          48.00
(10.68)             (6.83)                -        (17.52)
a/ Figures in parenthesis are the amotnts to be financed by the IDA credit.
b/ Other procurement methods include international shopping (for equipment purchase) and selection of consultants following IDA
guidelines. equipment and works procured by strategic investor in Electra. S.A. (selected by competitive bidding).  National
Competitive Bidding will not be used.
c/ N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
d/ "Civil works" financed by IDA include construction of water distribution infrastructure, waste water reuse facilities and
environmental improvements in power plants.
e/ "Supply and installation of equipment" financed by IDA includes the purchase and installation of small solarphotovoltaic public
systems for municipalities.
f/ "Goods" financed by IDA include purchase of equipment, related supplies and vehicles for supporting project implementation and
purchase of electricity distribution equipment to be installed by Electra after it is privatized.
g/ "Operating costs" (financed by the GOCV) include incremental operating costs incurred on account of project management and
supervision, including office rental. office supplies, communications, fuel, utilities and travel expenses of PMU staff.
All works, goods and services under the IDA Credit would be procured in accordance with IDA
guidelines for goods, works and services ("Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA Credits",
published by the bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and



87                                    Annex 6
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers", published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January
1999 (the Consultant Guidelines)).
Contracts to supply works, goods and services will be the responsibility of the following project
implementing agencies:
*  The Project Management Unit (PMU), created during project preparation under the Office of the Vice
Prime Minister, will be responsible for: the power/water sector reform and regulation component; the
demand-side management component; the GEF photovoltaic component; the power distribution
equipment component; the environment management program (in coordination with SEPA); the
energy sector monitoring component (in coordination withi MCIE), and the water resource
management component (in coordination with INGRH).
*  The MIH will be responsible for the extension/rehabilitation of water and sanitation systems in Praia
and Assomada, in coordination with the Municipality ofAssomada for the latter sub-component) and
for the construction of waste water reuse facilities in Praia.
*  Electra, once it is privatized, will be responsible for the GEF wind-farm component and for the
installation of power distribution equipment procured by the PMU.
Project accounting and the transmission of all procurement documents or decisions to IDA will be
centralized in the PMU.
Procurement Capacity of the Project Implementing Entities
The current Project Coordinator became familiar with the World Bank's procedures for consultant
services and intemational shopping, that he has applied within the framework of the PPF-financed
preparatory work for the proposed Project. The MIH  is familiar with international procurement
procedures, through its role in supervising the development of sanitation systems in Cape Verde, and with
the World Bank's procedures for procuring works through its implementing role for Bank projects in
transport and infrastructure in Cape Verde. Training will be organized for procurement and disbursement
staff of the PMU and MIH before Credit effectiveness, with support from the Bank Resident Mission in
Dakar.
The private strategic investor in Electra - to be selected through international competitive bidding - will
provide adequate procurement capabilities and use commercial practices for the components under its
responsibility (extension of windfarms with GEF co-financing, and installation of IDA-financed
electricity distribution equipment).
Procurement Schedule and Methods
A draft procurement schedule is included in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). It will be finalized
and made available by the Borrower for review at negotiations. The procurement schedule includes
relevant information and milestones concerning procurement of works and goods and services for all
project components.
The procurement plan and arrangements outlined in the PIP will be updated semi-annually and at the
annual review with IDA. During implementation, all bidding documents, bid evaluation reports and draft
contracts transmitted to IDA for review will contain an updated copy of the procurement plan.
Procurement information will be collected and recorded as follows:



88                                     Annex 6
(a) prompt recording of contract award information by the Borrower; and,
(b) semi-annual reports to the Bank by the Borrower indicating: (i) revised cost estimates for individual
contracts and the total program, including best estimates of allowances for contingencies; (ii) revised
timing of estimated procurement actions, including experience with completion time and completion
costs for individual contracts; and (iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of
procurement.
The Government will take the necessary measures to ensure that procurement phases do not exceed the
following target time periods:
Procurement phases                 Maximum number of weeks
Preparation of bidding documents   4 (consultants/goods); 8 (works)
Preparation of bids by bidders     4 (consultants/goods); 6 (works)
Bid evaluation                     2
Signature of contracts             2
Payments                           3
Procurement of goods
Goods will automatically be grouped in packages of US$200,000 or more and procured through ICB.
Procurement for readily available off-the shelf goods that cannot be grouped or standard specifications
commodities for individual contracts less than US50,000 not exceeding an aggregate amount of US$0.35
million for the life of the project, will be procured on the basis of comparison of at least three eligible
international suppliers (not excluding national suppliers).
Procurement of works
All civil works contracts which are not expected to cost less tlhan US$500,000 each (totaling US$5.5
million) will be procured through ICB. All contracts exceeding US$1 million each will be subject to
prequalification because of the complexity of the corresponding works.
Supply and Installation of Equipment
IDA-financed solar photovoltaic public systems totaling US$1 millioni will be procured through ICB,
using the standard bidding documents for the supply and installation of equipment.  To simplify
procurement, all equipment to be installed over a period of three years will be included in one single
contract, with provision for delivery in several tranclhes.
Margin of preference
Taking into account the nature of civil works and goods to be procured, as agreed with the GOCV during
negotiations, the margin of preference for local firms is not justified and will not be applied.
Contracts for consultant services and training
The recruitment of consultant services will be carried out in accordance with Bank Guidelines for the
selection of consultants, January 1997 (Revised September 1997). A list of expected consulting
assignments will be published in a General Procurement Notice in Development Business and will be
updated annually. Contracts exceeding US$200,000 each shall be advertised in Development Business
and in a national newspaper in order to obtain expressions of interest from qualified firms. The method of
selection will be based on quality and cost of the offer, except for the auditing services which would be



89                                     Annex 6
procured through least cost selection procedures. Provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Guidelines would
not apply. Simplified contracts will be used for short-term assignments, i.e. those not exceeding six
months, carried out by firms or individual consultants.
Review by the Bank (see Table B below)
(a) Consultants service
Prior Review: With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$100,000 or more but less than the equivalent of US$200,000, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a) and 5 of Appendix I to
the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more and each contract for the employment of
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix I to the
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Post Review: With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of paragraph 4.4(b), the
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply.
Training: For training abroad and in country, the program containing names of candidates, cost
estimates, courses, period of training and institutions selected would be reviewed by IDA annually.



90                                              Annex 6
(b) Goods and Works: Prior review for goods would apply to contracts exceeding the amount of
US$100,000. All contracts for works and supply & installation of equipment would be subject to prior
review. The review would cover about 90% of the total amount of contracts for goods.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review 3
Expenditure         Contract Value (Threshold) 4                              Estimated Total Value of
Category                                       Procurement Method       Contracts Subject to Prior Review
1. Civil Works5                  All contracts                ICB                       US$5.5 million
2. Supply and Installation       All contracts                 ICB                       US$1 million
of equipment
3. Goods (vehicles and        $200.000 and above               ICB                      US$4.66 million
equipment)                   Below $50.000                  IS                            n/a
4. Services (including       $100.0())0 and above             QCBS                       US$3.6 million
consultant services
contracts and training)     Less than $50,000          LCS for audits                      n/a
Individuals                       n/a
ICB =   International Competitive Bidding          QC'BS =  Quality and C ost Based Selection
IS =    International Shopping                     Q13S =   Quality Based Selection
L.CS = Least Cost Selection
DISBURSEMENTS
Disbursements of the IDA credit and of the GEF Grant will be made for works, goods and services that
are eligible for IDA and GEF finanicing. The credit and the grant will be disbursed over a period of four
years, and the credit and grant closing date would be six month after the end of the fourth year. The
disbursements would be fully documented at time of submission of witildrawal application, except for
expenditures which would be made against Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). The possible application
of the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI) to effect disbursements from Credit will be assessed
during the project launch workshop.
Use of Statements of Expenditures (SOEs):
Expenditures valued at less than US$100,000 equivalent would be made against SOEs and would be kept
available for examination by auditors, teciniical audits and by IDA  supervision missions. Applications
for direct payment could be submitted for amounts exceeding US$100,000 equivalent.
Special accounts:
3 All thresholds stated in this table would be reviewed by IDA during the annual review and aggregate amounts would be
updated after the implementation period ol two years.
4 Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds will be maintained by the Borrower for ex-post review by
auditors and by IDA supervision missions. Selective ex-post review of contracts awarded below the threshold levels will
apply to about one in three contracts.
5 Civil works contracts above US$1.000.000 each will be subject to Prequalification. All prequalification documents will be
subject to review.
6 Terms of Reference for all consultant contracts are subject to prior review. For contracts above US$200,000, a technical
evaluation report will be required by IDA for no objection.



91                                          Annex 6
To facilitate disbursements, the Government would open an IDA Special Account and a GEF Special
Account at the Central Bank (Banco de Cabo Verde) for IDA's and GEF's shares of eligible
expenditures. The authorized allocations of these two accounts would be the equivalent of US$500,000
and US$200,000 respectively. IDA would make initial deposits of the equivalent of US$250,000 and
US$100,000 respectively upon credit and grant effectiveness. Each replenishment requests will be
accompanied, as necessary, by an up-to-date bank statement and a reconciliation statement.
Credit and Grant categories and financing percentages
Disbursement categories and the percentage financed are shown for the IDA Credit in Table C- I below.
Table C-1: Allocation of IDA Credit Proceeds
(USS millions)
Expenditure Category                                           Financing
Amount               Percentage
1. Civil Works                               5.06        100% of foreign expenditures,
80% of local expenditures
2. Supply & Installation of Equipment        0.97        100% of foreign expenditures,
80% of local expenditures
3. Goods                                     5.02         100% of foreign expenditure,
90% of local expenditures
4. Consulting Services and Training          4.98                  100%
S. PPF Refinancing                           1.30
Total:                     17.52
Amounts net of taxes and duties
Disbursement categories and the percentage financed are shown for the GEF Grant in Table C-2 below.
Table C-2: Allocation of GEF Grant Proceeds
(USS millions)
Expenditure Category                                           Financing
Amount               Percentage
1. Supply & Installation of Equipment        3.31        100% of foreign expenditures,
80% of local expenditures
2. Goods                                     0.78        100% of foreign expenditures,
90% of local expenditures
3. Consultant Services and Training          0.62                  100%
Total:                      4.71
Amounts net of taxes and duties



92                                          Annex 6
Counterpart Funds
Government's counterpart funds needed for twelve months to cover the share of investments and PMU's
recurrent costs not covered by IDA, GEF and other donors will be deposited by the Government in a
project account on a quarterly basis starting on January 15, 2000. The following table provides the
estimated  needs of Government counterpart funds, including  payments  for Electra's  workers
compensation and suppliers credit reduction totaling an estimated $2.83 million that will be paid in 1999
from the privatization proceeds.
GOCV contribution to project costs (US$ million)
Project component/sub-component                   Total   1999   2000   2001    2002    2003
1. Power sector reform & development               2.88
Workers' compensation (100%)    1.09    1.09
Suppliers' credit reduction (100%)    1.74    1.74
Environment improvements (8%)    0.05          0.02    0.03
2. Renewable energy promotion & development        0.04
Public PV systems (4%)    0.04         (.01    0.01    0.01    0.01
3. Water sector reform & development               0.30
Water distribution works in Praia (8%)    0.21             0.16    0.05
Water distribution works in Assomada (8%)    0.09     (0.07    0.02
4. Sanitation development                          0.09
Waste water reuse wvorks Ilraia (8%)    0.09             0.05    0.04
5. Project coordination and monitoring             0.22
Support stalffPMU (100%)    0.05    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01    0.01
Recurrent costs PMU (100%)    0.17    0.02    0.04    0.04    0.04    0.03
Total    3.53    1.86    0.15    0.32    0.15    0.05
Accounting, Financial reporting and Auditing arrangements
An accounting and financial management system, based on internationally accepted accounting principles
acceptable to the Bank, would be established and operational in the PMU. The PMU would maintain
separate set of accounts for each component of the project. The PMU would prepare the consolidated
project accounts and financial statement on the basis of the individual accounts. All procurement
documents, contracts, and invoices would also be maintained by the PMU and made accessible to
supervision missions and auditors.
The Bank is introducing an initiative to change loan administration in Bank group projects, the Loan
Administrative Change Initiative (LACI). This initiative, which relies on the existence in the project of
sound financial management, procurement and output monitoring systems, effects disbursements on the



93                                     Annex 6
basis of agreed quarterly Project Management Reports (PMR) rather than on the basis of individual
invoices or statements of expenditure.
Since project appraisal was carried out prior to July 1, 1998, the process does not apply to it. The LACI
concepts have, however, been taken into consideration in project preparation. To that end, an assessment
of the project accounting and financial management system will be carried out during the project launch
workshop.
The assessment of the project financial management system would determine whether the project meets
LACI standards for PMR-based disbursement. If not, complementary measures will be introduced and
additional assistance will be provided over the first 18 months of implementation to strengthen further the
financial management of the project to ensure an orderly transition to LACI. To that end, IDA will carry
out at the end of the first year of implementation, a comprehensive and detailed assessment of the project
financial management to determine its adequacy and readiness for LACI. A second assessment will be
carried out at the end of the third quarter of the second year of implementation to evaluate the
effectiveness of the transition to LACI.  During the first two years of implementation however,
disbursements under the project will be made in accordance with the SOE-based approach. The project
will still be required to submit, in addition to its financial statements, five quarterly reports, namely a
Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds, a Contract Expenditure Report - Goods & Works, a Contract
Expenditure Report - Consultants,  a Procurement Management Report - Goods & Works, and a
Procurement Management Report - Consultants.
During negotiations, the government would provide assurances that: (a) project accounts will be audited
in accordance with international audit standards by experienced and internationally recognized audit
firms acceptable to IDA. The audit reports and related project accounts will be submitted to IDA within 6
minoniths after the end of Government fiscal year; (b) in addition to their standard short form report with
the opinion, the auditors would be required to: (i) carry out a comprehensive review of all the SOEs,
along with the internal control procedures governing their preparation, pertaining to the relevant period
under audit, and express a separate opinion thereon; (ii) review the management and utilization of the
special account and express a separate opinion thereon as well; and (c) finally, the auditor would perform
an in-depth review the internal control system of the program with a view to identify the major
weaknesses and shortcomings and propose practical recommendations for improvement. The results of
this review would be documented in a Management Letter to be submitted along with the audit reports.
Reporting and Supervision
The PMU will submit the following reports, prepared jointly with the MIH and with the entities
collaborating in project implementation (SEPA, MCIE, INGRH): (a) semi-annual progress reports; (b)
aniual project accounts to be audited; (c) a detailed progress report on technical and financial project
activities not later than a month before the date of the project mid-term review; and, (d) the Government
contributioni to the Implementation Completion report (ICR) before the closing date.
The project will require intensive supervision during the start-up phase. The first full IDA/donors mission
would take the form of a project launch workshop, to take place at credit/grant effectiveness, and will be
followed by two other missions in the same fiscal year. The project will then be supervised every six
months. A mid-term review will be conducted not later than two years after project effectiveness and a
project completion mission will be conducted just prior to closing date.



94                                      Annex 7
Annex 7
Cape Verde Energy and Water Sector Reform and Development Project
Summary of Environment Assessment and Management Program
A. Main Environmental Impacts of the Project
Water and Sanitation Component: The main environmental impacts of the project are expected to be
positive. Through increasing access to good quality drinking water and sanitary services, both in quality
and in coverage the project will undoubtedly increase the quality of life for the people in Praia,Mindelo
and Assomada. The hygiene standards will be improved with corresponding drop in health problems; the
pollution of the environment will also be reduced, by concentratilg wastewater and solid waste in places
where they can de dealt with in an environmentally safe manner.
The main potentially negative effects are:
(i)    Unplanned land use and occupation due to migration to areas with new services.
(ii)    Social impact due to increase in price of water and sanitation services.
(iii)   Contamination of groundwater in Assomada due to septic tank system
(iv)   Groundwater depletion and contamination due to excessive abstraction of water, in Praia where
salinity of the groundwater is increasing.
(v)    Degradation of water quality in coastal waters receiving treated waste water. The modern
technology waste water treatment facility in Praia is vulnerable to correct operation practice.
(vi)   Public health hazards in vicinity of discharge of treated waste water.
(vii)   Pollution coastal waters in Praia due to poor waste handling and treatment. The surface runoff
from the solid waste site discharges into the ocean close to the intake to the desalination plant
Energy Component - Thermal Generating Stations: The main environmental impacts of the project
with respect to electricity supply are both positive and negative. The expected positive impacts are the life
quality improvements for the affected population that may follow infrastructure development. However,
there are also negative environmental impacts from thermal electricity generation.
The main negative impacts from existing thermal electricity generation are:
(i)    High level of air pollutioni from operation of existing power plant engines. The impacts are
greatest in the cities of Mindelo and Praia, where large power plants are situated in the center of
the cities, and in the village of Assomada. The power plant on Sal is located further from
residential areas, and therefore the impacts from this site are of a lesser magnitude.
(ii)    High level of noise from operation of existing power plant engines, again as with air pollution, the
impacts are more serious for the city located plants of Mindelo, Praia and Assomada - less so for
Sal.
(iii)   Risk of soil and groundwater contamination from discharge of untreated drainage water, leaking
oil storage tanks, fuel pipes or faulty oil handling procedures. The larger units are equipped with
spill containment facilities, waste water treatment facilities are planned and the general standard
of operation is of a relatively higher quality at these sites. For the municipal plant inspected in
Assomada - and presumably for other municipal plants as well - the potential risks and impacts
associated with deficient oil handling procedures are at least an order of magnitude greater: Fuel
storage facilities are not equipped with containment facilities, there is generally a poor level of
personnel training, and at least one major spill of oil had occurred. This needs urgent attention.



95                                      Annex 7
The impacts associated withl the existing thermnal power generatioin are compounided by the unsuitable
location of many power plants in the centers of the cities. The magnitude of the impacts may be reduced
by relocating or building new unit expainsions at mnore suitable, remote sites. However, the issue of land
ownership, and conflicting land use for power plant sites and transmission line right-of-way (ROW)
should in that eventuality be conisidered carefully.
Energy Component: Off-grid Elecrification: For the off-grid rural electrification usingphotovoitaic or
wind systems, main environmental imipacts are the risks associated witlh the potential soil and groundwater
contamination from discarded or improperly disposed of batteries and acid. Launching and enforcing a
battery collection and recycling scheme rnmay mitigate these impacts. .
Energy Component: Wind Farms: The inain positive environmental benefit is of course the reduction in
diesel fuel consumption and associated atmospheric emissions. Otlhers identified are:
- reduced dependence on impports;
- increased production of electricity;
- reduced risk of oil spills.
Potential negative environmental effects studied are:
- changes in land use (none expecterd)
- conflict with other forms of land use (quarrying at Praia, tourism and industrial developmnenit on Sal);
- effect on birds (no major imnpacts identified);
- effect on flora (no major impacts identified given good civil design and cornstruction practices);
- effect on telecommunications (none expected);
- effect on air traffi  control (none expected);
- landscape and visual effects (negative impacts not expected);
- noise (negative impacts not expected, though this issue may affect future developments on Sal);
- health and safety (no high or. unusual risks, given normfial wind farm construction and operation practice).
B. Mitigating Measures and Recommendations
General Observations. As a new crganisation SEPA has little institutional capacity and experience. In
order to be able to enforce the environmental policies and supervise the monitoring and implementation
of the mitigation measures recommended in thlis repor SEPA must be strengthened. SEPA has committed
themselves to assign one staff member to the Proiect. It is recommended to include a substantial
institutional support program to SnPA with main components being: Capacity building on organisation
and strategic planning, dovelopprnnt of standards and regulations, and environrnental monitoring. A
programme of technical assistance from international specialists should also be included.



96                                     Annex 7
Water and Sanitation Component: The mitigating measures for the identified potential negative impacts
are listed in Table 7.1. Mitigation can be seen in relation to the different stages of the project: Design:
Many of the potentially negative impacts can be mitigate effectively simply by a good environmentally
sound design. Construction : To mitigate negative impacts during construction is basically a problem of
setting the rules for the contractor and make sure they are adhered to. Operation : Once the construction
phase is over and the normal operation and maintenance of the water and sanitation services starts, it is
even more important to have good mitigating measures in place. Even small negative impacts can over the
lifetime of the infrastructure accumulate into a major probiem.
Communities and staff of the organisations involved do not have the skills, knowledge and motivation to
base mitigation only on contracts and manuals. It will be necessary to implement capacity building
programs, training programs and awareness programs for the communities, the labour force and the
responsible institutions. Some specific recommendations are:
(i)    INGRH do not seem to possess the capacity to assist SEPA in monitoring the project and
implementing the mitigation measures. It is recommended to include a substantial institutional
support program to INGRH with main components being: Capacity building on development of
standards and regulations and environmental monitoring.
(ii)    Awareness campaigns should cover subjects like: information about the proposed project, water
and sanitation and hygiene, connecting to and using the services, hygienic disposal of solid waste,
Save Water, pollution and the natural environment, and environmental mitigation. Awareness
programs must be targeted at the communities but also at staff of the operating institutions
(Electra and Camaras Municipais) and the regulating institutions (SEPA and INGRH).
Some specific mitigating measures are recommended for immediate implementation:
(i     Give housing support to poorer people and enforce building code in order to limit the illegal
construction of houses, causing soil erosion problems in all three cities.
(ii)    Support connection to the piped sewer system in Praia by giving financial support, adapt a tariff
policy encouraging connections.
(iii)   Start water quality control at consumers in Praia and Assomada.
(iv)   Start chlorinating drinking water in Assomada.
(v)    Improve septic tank system in Assomada with design support and emptying system.
(vi)   Regulate solid waste dumps in Assomada and Praia.
Energy Component: Thermal and Off-Grid Electricity: It is proposed that the following mitigation
measures be implemented within the context of the proposed project:
- Review in detail the environmental status of the existing units of Electra. Develop technical feasibility
studies regarding the possibility of improving said units to such an extent that the environmental load
reaches acceptable limits. The primary study areas should be (in order of priority): i) Reduction of air
emissions from the existing Electra power plants in Praia and Mindelo to an acceptable standard; ii)
reduction of noise emissions from the existing Electra power plants in Praia and Mindelo to reach
acceptable limits and iii) collection and treatment of waste water and pluvial drainage from the Electra
facility on Sal.
- Review the existing environmental status of all municipal systems to prioritize allocation of economic
resources either to relocate these operations to environmentally more suitable sites or to connect to the
existing major grids. Develop mitigation plans.
- Develop, record and implement spill contingency plans, standard operating procedures for fuel and oil
handling, fire fighting and emergency plans for both Electra as well as municipal units.
- Identify and develop appropriate new sites for thermal power plant expansion (for municipal as well as
Electra plants). Provide all new sites with exclusion zones, to protect against future encroachment from



97                                    Annex 7
residential or other conflicting land use. Identify present day land ownership and ensure that ownership
can be transferred permanently or leased to Electra for a period of not less than 50 years.
- Build capacity within Electra and the regulatory agencies (SEPA) to: (i) apply EIA methodology for
future expansion projects, (ii) perform strategic planning with respect to environmental protection, (iii)
develop standards and regulations appropriate for the sector and (iv) define needs for, and monitor
environmental performance in the sector.
- Develop the necessary institutional organization and capability to launch, administrate and enforce a
collection and recycling/disposal scheme for used batteries and acid.
Energy Component: Wind Farms:
The following mitigating measures have been recommended:
-  Enforcement of good civil engineering and construction practice;
-  Negotiation of the Wind Farm sites ownership and/or concession between Electra and Municipal
Governments;
-  Designation of exclusion zones around each Step I and 2 site;
-  Limitation on expansion of the quarry at the Praia site;
-  Use of underground cables in preference to overhead lines;
-  Provision of training, and establishment of a reporting system, for bird collision victim collection and
identification;
-  Detailed review of ornithological issues concerning any future movement of the proposed sites into
coastal or mountainous areas;
-  Ecological baseline study of Sal southern site (if selected) with post-construction visit.
C. Action Program
Water and Sanitation Component: To be able to implement the recommended mitigating programme in
an effective and efficient manner it is recommended to (i) enforce environmental mitigation measures
during construction; (ii) implement an Environmental Monitoring Plan covering communities, coastal
waters, groundwater, rivers with social, biological, physical and chemical parameters; (iii) implement an
environmental management training programme and education programme on organisation and strategic
planning, standards and regulations, monitoring and operation of water and sanitation services; (iv)
implement a comprehensive awareness programme on water-sanitation-health, environment, social
communication. The details of the recommended measures can be seen in table 7.1.
Energy Component: Table 7.2 presents the actions needed to implement the environmental mitigation
programme and an estimated budget. The budget covers primarily the study and program costs to
establishing the necessary measures.



98                                                     Annex 7
Table 7.1 Water and Sanitation: Action Program and Measures:
Action                     Main aspects a             Application Phase    Documents        Responsibility  Cost Estimate-US$
requirements                                    provider
Enforcement of             Identify environment aspects During construction    Consultant   MIT             Included in  e Bid
environmental mitigation   during implementation of    phase               C'ompany                         Documents
measures during co istruction  water and sanitation systems
of water and sanitatiorn   a Pollution control
systems                    o Vegetation protection
e Erosion control
Blurrow areas and landfill 
sites control
Construction waste
control                              
Environmental Monr-itoring    Communities,            During conustruct on   Ku1lstdt..t     SEA /          150.000 US$ to prepa-re
Plarn| Coasstal waters (For Praia   | phase wid operati.onl of l!Comipanv                  .INGRH           a monitoring plan
and Mindelo),             water and sanitatiorn
Groundwater (particularly    systems
for Assomada) and Rivers.
Social, Physical, Chemical
____~aind Biological parameters .                         _.                       .
Management iraining and    Organisation and Strategic   Phases: planninig  Cmasultanit       SEPA           100.000 US$ to prepare
Sanity and Ernvironment    Planning                   design, coiistt-action    Company                     a training program
Education Prograxn for all    Development of Staindards   aind operation of water                           inclusive currinuliim
orgawiised employees       and Regulations            and sanitation systems                                and mate ials
involved                   Monitoring of the Environ-
ment
Routine operations of Water
and Sanitation
Awareness Program          Water-Sanitation-Health    Phases: planning     Consultant        SEPA           100.500 US$ to make
Sanitation-Environment   design, construction    Company                       initial survey on
Social Communication      and operation of waterm                               awareness and prepare
Social C.o nn;unaand saiaind sytm                                        awarnesprogrami



99                                                   Annex 7
Table 7.2 Energy: Action Program and Measures:
Action                    Main aspects and           Application Phase    Documents      Responsibility  Cost Estimate-US$
requirements                                   provider
Enforcement of            Execute the detailed study of   During rehabilitation  Consultant  Electra, SEPA, 39,750 to prepare the
environmental mitigation  environment aspects of safety   phase          Company         PMU           reduction of air
measures during           and protection during                                                        emissions study
rehabilitation of thermal  rehabilitation of thermal units:                                            40,000 to prepare the
units and Off-grid        o Reduction of air emissions                                                 noise and water studies
electrification
. Reduction of noise                                                         54,000 to prepare the
* Collection and Treatment                                                   Contingency Plans
of waste water and pluvial
drainage
* Solid Waste control
* Spill Contingency Plan
Environmental Monitoring    Control and evaluate     During construction   Consultant    Electra, SEPA, 20,000 to prepare a
Plan                     mitigating measures, establish  phase and operation   Company   PMU           monitoring plan
parameters, stations and   of thermal units and
procedures                 Off-grid
electrification
Environment Management   Utility management          Phases: planning    Consultant      Electra, SEPA, 95,500 to prepare and
Training and Sanitary and    Operation of Water and  design, construction   Company      PMU           execute a training
Environment Education     Sanitation infrastructure  and operation of                                  program
Program for all organized                            Thermal Units and
employees involved                                   Off-grid
electrification
Wind Farms: Bird Control:   Procedures and Management:  Phase: Operation  Consultant     Electra, SEPA,  10,000 to execute a
Training Program          Bird Collision                                 Company                       training program



100                                  Annex 7
D. Environmental Management and Training
Water and Sanitation
The Environmental Management should be undertaken by both the operator (presently EMAP in Praia, the
Camara Municipal in Assomada and Electra plus Camara Municipal in Mindelo) and the regulator
(SEPA and INGRH). The current capacity of the existing institutions is generally not sufficient to
guarantee satisfactory environmental management. This is with respect to knowledge, skills, experience
and equipment. SEPA and INRGH need to be ahead of the operators to be able to manage the environment
rather than being managed. It is very important that environmental management is done in close
collaboration between the operator and the regulator, but also that the two groups are clearly distinct and
independent of each other. SEPA must be capable of looking ahead and in collaboration with the industry
develop new procedures and regulations as technology and demands on resources develop. Environmental
Management must be seen globally and it is important that the management strategy is transparent and
known to all parties including the public. Also relevant environmental information must be published
regularly to ensure full participation and avoid unnecessary unrest due to misinformation. It is anticipated
that in the longer term the INGRH should be able to develop some impact monitoring programs. An
overall Training program must include the headlines in Table 7.; the details are only examples.
Table 7.3
Capacity Building in Environmental Management
Activities                                          SEPA   INGRH    Camara    Electra
Municipal
Training in strategic planning                        X        X         X          X
Setting objectives
Internal Organising
Consultative / Participatory approach
Communication / Information
Training in development of standards and regulations  X
International requirements/experience
Enforcing standards and regulations
Training in monitoring of the environment                      X         X          X
Water quality laboratory technique
Remote sensing
Mathematical modelling
Training in routine operation of water and sanitation                    X          X
services
Safety procedures
Sewer treatment plants (several sub issues)
Chlorinating potable water
Maintenance of submerged pumps
Leak detection and repair
Technical assistance                                  X        X
Support from long or short term specialists
Equipment and materials
The environmental management-training program should be co-ordinated closely with the support the
institutions already being received from Portugal and Sweden.



101                                   Annex 7
Energy
The lack of experience in environmental protection work. in national environmental guidelines and
environmental administrative capacity creates complications in relation to the design, implementation and
control of the EAP for the proposed project. In order to carry out and manage the proposed mitigation
measures and execute the proposed monitoring plan, experts in these areas have to be allocated to the
project.
It is recommended that a study with the main objective of determining the need for regulatory authority
capacity building be undertaken. Not only with respect to the specific needs of the proposed project, but
with the greater aim of developing the environmental protection agency and national environmental
protection guidelines to a standard appropriate to the country's need as a whole. Especially pertinent for
this specific project is training and capacity building in:
-   Environmental protection, legislation, regulation and guidelines
-   Pollution control and monitoring
-   Risk and safety management, assessment and analysis
-   Environmental impact assessment, management and auditing
-   Oil spill contingency planning, emergency response planning
Within the context of this specific project, it is recommended that a small ad-hoc environmentahdminis-
trative and regulatory structure (the Committee) incorporating, if necessary, assistance from international
experienced consultants be established. The implementation of the EAP will in that way serve as a pilot
project in EIA and implementation of EAP and transfer valuable methodological and environmental
experience from intemational consultants to Cape Verde regulatory agencies.
The main objectives of the advisory committee would be that of advising, examining and evaluating the
environmental action plan for the project. The committee would incorporate:
- one member representing the Government of Cape Verde (chair),
- one member representing SEPA (high-level environmental officer),
- one member representing intemational environmental impact assessment and pollution control expertise,
and
- one member representing Cape Verde energy and environment NGOs.
Electra, ENACOL, Shell Cabo Verde and other operators in the energy sector may act in an advisory
capacity and as a dialogue partner to the Committee to define and implement all national standards and
good engineering practices with respect to issues such as fuel handling and disposal, contingency planning
and emergency response planning, to be defined by the Government of Cape Verde or its Executive
Agency.
It is recommended that the main responsibility for the economic component and the implementation part
of the EAP be designated to Electra for their specific tasks. Electra should designate an environmental
liaison officer. He should carry the responsibility for implementing the EAP and coordinating
environmental activities with the local and national authorities and contractors. A responsible environ-
mental officer representing the Government or its Executive Agency (SEPA) should be designated to the
project and carry the overall administrative responsibility for controlling the implementation of the EAP.



102                                  Annex 7
It is thus recommended to contract an intemational consultant experienced in regulatory capacity building,
EIA, pollution control and monitoring design. The international consultant should act as project leader for
supervising the environmental part of the project and carrming the overall responsibility for supervision
and implementation of the environmental action plan. The project leader will also be responsible for
environmental clauses in any tender documents. A tentative budget for the assistance provided by the
intemational expert is presented below and the internal manpower costs to Electra or SEPA isnot
included.
ITEM                                                                           COST
Technical Assistance
International consultant, 4 man-months (1 man month = 17,500 US$)          70,000 US$
Reimbursable expenditures
3 international airfare (round-trip)                                         9000 US$
pr. diem (60 days/150 US$)                                                   9000 US$
Reporting                                                                   2,500 US$
Miscellaneous                                                               5,000 US$
TOTAL                                                                      95,500 US$



103    -                                    Annex 8
Annex 8
Cape Verde Energy and Water Sector Reform and Development Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                      Planned               Actual
$225.000 (BB)          $202.000
$139.000 (GEF)          $94.000
B. Project Schedule                             Planned              Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         6                    12
First Bank mission                              02/10/95             20/09/97
Pre-appraisal mission departure                 10/10/97             10/10/97
Appraisal mission departure                     05/25/98             05/25/98
Negotiations                                    08/10/98             01/19/99
Board                                           09/22/98             05/11/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   12/31/98             08/31/99
Prepared by: Office of Vice Prime Minister
Preparation assistance: PPF Q069-0/1 CV: $1,300,000. Japanese Grant TF29426: $400,000.
GEF PDF Grant TF28964: $230,000
Cape Verde team:
Name/entity                                Specialty
Antao Fortes, VPM's Office      Project preparation coordinator
Martinho Ramos, Electra         Power sector reform
J. Fonseca, Electra             Power sector development
A. Fonseca, Electra             Electra financial projections/restructuring
A. Horta, EMAP                  Water/sanitation development Praia
Jorge Brito, INGRH              Water sector reform
J. Goncalves, VPM/ERSO          Electra privatization
P. Monteiro                     Water/sanitation development Assomada
L. Sousa, MIH                   Sanitation development
Local consultants               Environment, legal, financial
Bank team:
Name, Unit                                Specialty
Philippe Durand, AFTG 1         Team leader
Matar Fall, AFTU2               Water & sanitation sector
Noureddine Bouzaher, AFTG I     Economic analysis
Richard Spencer, IENPD          Renewable energy
Susana Hristodoulakis           Project costs
Magaye Gaye                     Financial management
Agilson Perazza, consultant     Environment impact assessment
Serge Pagnucco, consultant      Financial analysis
Quality Assurance Team:
Heman Garcia, IENPD             Power sector reform
Jan Janssens, AFTU2             Water and sanitation sector reform
Omar Fye, AFTEl I               Environment
Robin Broadfield, ENVGC         GEF component



104                                   Annex 9
Annex 9
Cape Verde Energy and Water Sector Reform and Development Project
Documents in the Project File
1. Plano Director de Energia Electrica. Relatorio final. Intemel & EDF International Abril de 1993.
2. Cape Verde Wind Farms. Step 2. Feasibility Report (3 volumes). RISO & ElsanProjekt, Sept. 1996.
3. Nouvelle centrale diesel et usine de dessalement d'eau de Praia - Cap Vert, Bureau d'etudes techniques
SGTE. Avant-projet sommaire, fevrier 1994. Avant-projet d6taill6, Mars 1995. Dossier d'appel d'offres,
Janvier 1997.
4. Centrale thermique et usine de dessalement d'eau de Praia - Cap Vert. Rapport d'evaluation de
l'avant-projet sommaire. Technitas, Mai 1995.
5. Rehabilitation et extension des equipements electriques de l'ile de Sal (4 volumes). Nouvelle centrale
diesel de Palmeira. Restructuration des reseaux moyenne tension. Electra & EDF-GDF Services, Fevrier
1997.
6. Les energies renouvelables au Cap Vert. Michel Matly, Marge Consultants, Novembre 1996.
7. New power station for Praia in Palmarejo. Fuel handling and storage facility! Prefeasibility Report.
Ruy Spencer Lopes dos Santos, Consultant. March 1997
8. Estudo Tarifario de Electricidade e Agua-Electra, Cabo Verde. EDF Intemational & Intemel (3 Vol.).
Fevereiro de 1995.
9. Diagnostico do sector energetico de Cabo Verde. Direccao geral da industria e energia. Ministerio da
coordenacao econ6mica, 1996.
10. Insercao dinamica de Cabo Verde no sistema econ6mico mundial. As grandes opcoes do plano 1997-
2000. Uma opcao pelo desenvolvimiento econ6mico e social autosustentado. Ministerio da coordenacao
econ6mica, 1997.
11. Wind Energy Project BMFT/KfW. Wind Park Mindelo Cape Verde. Monitoring program. Vol. 1
First year results (1/9/89-31/8/90). Vol 2: Second year results(1/9/90-31/8/91). Vol 3. Short-term
measurements and second year inspection. DECON-Deutche Energie Consult Ingenieurgeselschaft.
12. Etude de la Distribution d'Eau Potable et d'Assainissement de la Ville de Praia. Annexe I rapport
Technique, Annexe II rapport Economique-Financier. Ministere des infrastructures et des transports, 25
Mars 1997. C. LOTTI & Associati.
13. Projet d'Approvisionnement en Eau Potable et d'Assainissement de la ville de Praia. Etude d'impact
sur l'environnement de la phase II. Union Europeenne. Rapport provisoire, Juin 1997.
14. Gouvernement du Cap Vert. Reforme institutionnelle des secteurs de l'electricite et de l'eau. Note
strategique, Septembre 1997.



105                                   Annex 9
15. Etude de faisabilite pour un programme d'alimentation en eau et d'assainissement de la ville
d'Assomada (lie de Santiago), rapport final, HYDRO CONSEIL, Juillet 1997.
16. Capacit6 et Volonte de Paiement des Consommateurs, Rapport Final, MCE, Groupement Marge-
Premium, Septembre 1997.
17.  Renforcement Institutionnel. Rapport Final , MCE, Groupement Marge-Premium  avec la
collaboration de MM Ruy Santos et Pascoal Almeida. Septembre 1997.
18. Les centres Secondaires de Distribution d'Electricite et d'Eau Potable, rapport final, Synthese et
programme d'action, MCE, Marge-Premium, Septembre 1997.
19. Restructuration d'Electra, Rapport Preliminaire, EDF & Lyonnaise des Eaux, Aout 1995.
20. Programme de developpement a moyen terme du sous-secteur de l'dlectricitd gere par l'entreprise
publique d'e1ectricite et d'eau ELECTRA, M. Patou, Octobre 1997.
21. Relatorio e contas da ELECTRA de 1996 e de 1997.
22. Request for proposals for the power and water sector reform and the privatization of ELECTRA.
February 2, 1998.
23. Electrification Hors Reseau au Cap Vert, Dossier d'appel d'offres, Marge Consultants, Novembre
1998.
24. Preparatory Studies for Grid-connected Wind Farms, Feasibility assessment (July 1998). Bidding
documents (October 1998). Garrad Hassan, Consultants.
25. Financial assessment and projections - Electra and Emap. S. Pagnucco, consultant. July 98.
26. Environment Assessment of the Energy, Water and Sanitation Project. November 1998.



106                                                                      Annex  10
Generated: 04/15/99
Republic of Cape Verde
Status of Bank Group Operations in Cape Verde
Operations Portfolio
As of 12-Apr-99
Difference Between
expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                   and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                                              disbursements a/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                    Purpose
IBRD        IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed        Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects; 5
Active Projects
CV-PE-55467    1999   GOV. OF CAPE VERDE                PRIVATIZATION TA                        0.00        9.00        0.00               8.59         .27        0.00
CV-PE-50956    1998   GOV. OF CAPE VERDE                ECO. REFORMS SUPPORT                    0.00       30.00        0.00              14.79       11.53        0.00
CV-PE-438       1996   GOV. OF CAPE VERDE               PRIVATE/FINANCIAL SE                     0.00      11.40        0.00               4.95        2.26        0.00
CV-PE-426       1995   MIN EDUC & SPORTS/LABOR,         BASIC EDUCATION AND                     0.00       11.50        0.00               1.38        -.75        0.00
CV-PE-437       1994   GOV. OF CAPE VERDE               PUB SEC REFORM & CAP                    0.00        8.10        0.00               1.51        1.11        1.11
CV-PE-435       1993   GOV, ENAPOR, ASA                 TRANSPORT INFRASTRUC                    0.00       12.50        0.00               2.34        2.37        0.00
Total                                                                                            0.00      82.50        0.00              33.56       16.79        1.11
Active Projects      Closed Projects          Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA);                 47.31               23.40              70.71
of which has been repaid:                  0.00                 .79                 .79
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                 82.50               20.41              102.91
Amount sold                     :                0.00                0.00                0.00
Of which repaid              :                0.00                0.00               0.00
Total Undisbursed               :               33.56                0.00               33.56
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 31-Mar-99.
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)



Annex 10
107
Cape Verde
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 28-Feb-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1992                  AEF Growela              .30    0.00    0.00    0.00      .30    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993                  AEF Htl Tropico          .64    0.00    0.00    0.00      .64    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                    .94    0.00    0.00    0.00      .94    0.00    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Ouasi  Partic
Total Pending Commitment:           0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS) on 04/15/99



Annex 1 1
108                                                      Page 1 of 2
Cape Verde at a glance                                                               1/19,99
Sub-   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                 Cape  Saharan   middle-
Verde    Africa  Income       Development diamond'
1997
Population, mid-year (rn4ilons)                     0.40       614     2,285                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                 1.047       500     1,230
GNP (Atlas method, USS billIons)                    0.42       309     2,818
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (%)                                       2.3       2.7       1.2     G 
Labor force (X)                                      1.3       2.6       1.3     GNP                             Gross
per                           primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                            capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverly line)  30
Urban population (% of total population)              52        32        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      65        52        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 lIe births)               46        90        36
Child malnutrition (% olchikfren under 5)             19        27                         Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% ofpopulation)                 52        44        84
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                   28        43        19
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)  114       75       111        -CapeVerde
Male                                               119        82       116             Lower-middle-income group
Female                                             110        67       113    _
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986      1996      1997
Economic ratlor
GDP (USS billions)                         0.06     0.15      0.43      0.43
Gross domestic investment/GDP              36.3    48.3       33.5      30.3
Exports of goods and services/GDP           10.7    24.8      23.7      30.9                    Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                 -29.6    -7.7       -6.9     -4.6
Gross national savings/GDP                 -34.1     9.3      25.7      23.5
Current account balance/GDP                         -27.8      -7.9     -6.8       /msi
Interest payments/GDP                       0.2      1.4       0.5       0 5     Domestic                    Investment
Total debtlGDP                              f9.2    79.2      53.8      61.8     Savings
Total debt service/exports                           7.4       5.1       7.6
Present value of debVGDP                    0.0      0.0      31.4      36.2
Present value of debtexports                         0.0      68.4      73.6
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97    1996      1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                10.6     3.5      4.3       3.0       4.3        -     Cape Verde
GNP per capita                      9.4      1.2     1.5       0.2       1.6              Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services      17.3     7.4    25.0        6.6      13.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986      1996      1997   i Growth rates of output and investment(%)
(% of GDP)                                                                       40
Agriculture                                 11.4    11.7        7.5      8.6
Industry                                   20.5    18.0       17.6      21.4     2 
Mtanufacturing                                                0.6       0.5
Services                                   68.1    703        74.9      70.0            92   93   94  WNo' 9e   97
Private consumption                       118.9    82.1       77.4      84.5   -40
General government consumption              10.7    25.7      29.5      20.1                - GD1            GDP
Imports of goods and services              76.6    80.9       64.2      65.9
1976486  1987-97     1996      1997     Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                 9.3    -6.7        5.7       6.1    30- .
Industry                                    7.6      6.4       2.5       6.7    20. 
Manufacturing                                      18.7       3.9       3.5    10
Services                                    11.7     5.0       4.8       1.5     e
Private consumption                         6.9      3.4       -2.9      3.9   -1e           93   94   95  1X   97
General govemment consumption               12.6    13.3       -2.7     -7.3   -20 r
Gross domestic investment                   10.2     3.1       1.5      -2.1    30
lmpors of goods and services                8.0      8.1      -3.1      -2.0                  Exports       Imports
Gross national product                      10.8     3.4        4.0      2.9
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. ITf data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex I 1
109                                                        Page 2 of 2
Cape Verde
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                             1976    1986        1996     1997      Inflation(%)
(% change)                                                                        12
Consumer prices                                ..    10.9        6.2      10.6     1,
Implicit GDP deflator                         0.0    16.4        4.4       9.5
4.
Govemment ffnence                                                                  2
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                oT
Current revenue                                 .     21.9      35.9      36.8            92   93   94   95   9e   97
Current budget balance                         ..      0.4       8.9      11.1               -GDP deflator  --OCPI
Overall surplusideficit                        ..   -39.1         ..   -14.6
TRADE
1976    1986       1996      19 7     Export and import levels (USS millions)
(US$ n7ilins)
Total exports (fob)                            ..       ..        13       40    291
Commodity 1                                   ..      ..         1         1
Commodity 2                                   ..      ..         1         1   I
Manufactures                                  ..      ..         0         0
Total imports (cif)                            ..      91        203      209      14-
Food                                         ..  ..  45  47   9111111
Fuel and energy                               ..      ..        10        10
Capitalgoods                                  ..      ..       119        79       o
Si1  92   93  914  95  go  ST
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..       ..       100      100
Import price index (1995=100)                  ..       ..       106      107                U Exports     simports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..      ..        94       94
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)  - -                         1976    1986        1996     1997      Current account balance to GOP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                   ..     36        101      132       0
Imports of goods and services                  ..     102        273      280      -2
Resource balance                                      10 -65    .172      -149     -4
Net income                                              -4        -7        -7        . 
Net current transfers                                  73        146      108      -s
Current account balance                        ..      41        -33       -29   | 0
-12
Financing items (net)                          ..      44         36       24    -14
Changes in net reserves                                 -4        -3        5    1.-
AMemo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)        33       56         54       50
Conversion rate (DEC, locaJ,1USS)            30.2    80.1       82.6      93.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1986       1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                     Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          12      115        229      263
IBRO                                         0        0          0        0                        G 6
IDA                                          0        5        42        49                                B 49
Totaldebtserfice                               0        5         10       16             E 39
IBRD                                         0        0          0        0
IDA                                          0        0          0        0
Composition of net resource flows
Ofricial grants                             11       76         62       62
Ofricial creditor                           11        7         36       16
Private creditors                                     10
Foreign direct investment                             0         28       1
Portfdio equity                              0        a          *-       * |                     D 160
Wortd Bank program
Comm'dments                                  0        0         11       30      A - IBRD                     E-Bilateral
Disbursements                                0        2          9        8      B - IDA    0- Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                         0        0          0        0      C-IMF                        G- Short-term
Net flows                                    0        2          9        8   1a.
Interest paynents                            0        0          0        0
Net transfers                                0        1          9        8
AFTNt5                                                                                                              119/99



IBRO 30064
26'UIY                            26130'                             25'00'                             24 30'                             24'UT'                            33'30'                             23G0'                             023
0RlSeTho G,or,& '.'', /
PoI
6<
SANTO ANTAO
17                                                                                     NEvo
MindeIo                                                                                                                                                SAL
JBUQKWA\    3Oo'/doy   SANTA LLJZIA                                    /   4,                                                                 PpfmIrol50mJ/4
61
WCENTE                           .22
BRANCO                     SAONICOLALJ
&SOfl*E   40
OR,joo o'o
CAPE VERDE                                                                                                                                      /                                                                          ..'"  IH'3U2
ELECTRIC POWER AND WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM
R5JSTEMAS E FORNECIMENTO DE ENERGIA ELCTRICA E AGUA                                                                                                                                                 .A             '
ENERGY AND WATER REFORM AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                       '
PROJECTO DE REFCRMA E DESEN VOL VIMENTO DOS
SECTQRESDF ENERGIA E AGUA                                                                                                                                                              2
IN$TALISD P0'A'0 CAPACITY (GIESEL  ONTO)                                                                                                                                               BOA
CA PA Cf VA 00 ELUC7RJCA INSTA lAVA (PIANTAS 010501)                                     A                             .,                                                             VISTA
INSTAllED CAPACITY {WINDFARATS)                                                                      A              
6100'                                            CA PACI VA VS SLC79ICA IN$TALAVA (PLANTA3 SOLICAS)                                                                                                                                                                                           19'
*    POREHOLES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        00]
    PLANNED CAPACT'S )WINDPAPMS)
CAPACIVAV4 PREV1STA (PLANTAS T6IICAS)
WATEE DESALINATION PLANTS
PLANTAS VAOAIINAVVPAO VBAVUA
POWOSTRANSMISION LIN$ {EXISTING)
LINHAS VS TRAT'4PORTE 0100CR 100 )TXISTTNTAS)
P029/OR TSANSMIUION L]NP$PIANNRD)
UNHAS VSTRANPQRTE EITCTRICO (PRO VISrAS)                                                                                             N      D      S
INTERNATIONAL EC)UNVAIRES                                                                                         $     j    A
13'30'                                            5N)' 00TERCIONAI                                                                                         I                                                                                                                                 0030-'
V
26100'                            3A'3U'                                                                         A'                                               SANTIAGO                              MAIC
_______________________________________  -                                                                                                                  0125V99/dox   <'<
I            I        N                                                                                                                          .                                  /
*          N                                                                                                                      IL2 '152326                          /
'1                                             V
MAURITANIA             MALI                                                                                                              Sb,             >4                                                               10 20 30 SR  
THE GA A6I6--.                                        0000'                                                              llMoUoiroo                             yS>Oo Jo       A48090W                                                                                            1006
'.6<6                                (,SOo
5t.'R               I  0226K NA 26                                                     ROMBO                  2                                            DooiRgoo    L'  (6'
GUINEA.A(                          PASO    )                                        SCOS  2  6                 FOGO                                                 'I.',."
O1SSAJ        GUINEA                                                                           Purn                                                           2400 m'/doy         1114/A LW
2UUoPIipo                                                                                                                         7Romo0opo4o.d21' PoR9ooIoo foIl  9Add0ooE
,,*,**                                                                        03             1                                                  2500  /  p                                              A9o,,00H,. dOo 900090 2940 9999,0  09
("I '  COol                                                    ORMYMI    N900S,TI0O                                                                                                                             0  09 10  4oolI,op
AIlAr'ITIC   SIERRAIRONE   <A  "')  0001   tGAANAI'8I                                                  V.  21< ,'2         'U    ..'<        '*                                                                                                           000009               261
RE1                                                                                                                                                                                                    09    01900099009 0209   200
35'UU'                            ZO'3U                              24'UU'                            2300'                              23000'                            0000'
I                                                                                                                                    .  .1
MARCH 999



