Report No. PID6537
Project Name                     Cape Verde-Energy and Water Sector (@)
Reform and Development Project
Region                           Africa
Sectors                          Energy & Water
Project ID                       CVPE40990
Borrower                         Republic of Cape Verde
Responsible Agency               Office of the Vice Prime Minister
Project Management Unit
Attn: Mr. Antao Fortes
UCP-EAS
Caixa Postal 145
Cha-de-Areia
Praia, Republic of Cape Verde
Tel: 238-615954, 238-615931,
238-617584
Fax: 238-615904
Date PID Prepared                May 13, 1998
February 22, 1999 (Revised)
Project Appraisal                May 25, 1998
Projected Board Date             April 27, 1999
Background
1.      Country and Sector Background
The Government of Cape Verde's National Plan for 1997-2001 (NDP) has, at its
center, policies aimed at achieving sustainable economic growth and social
development and at reducing poverty. The strategy to reach these objectives
centers on the efficient use of resources and building public-private
partnerships. To this end, the NDP emphasizes the need to improve the
country's institutional framework, make optimum use of available resources,
increase productivity and improve infrastructure. Given the scarcity of
public funds for infrastructure development, the NDP places special importance
on the need to develop energy, water and sanitation systems with substantial
private sector participation. The Government has taken the decision to
privatize a number of public enterprises, including Electra, the supplier of
electricity and water.
The ten islands which constitute the Republic of Cape Verde rely heavily on
imported fuel for their electricity needs and for desalinating water.
Electra, the state-owned utility, is responsible for providing electricity in
the most populous areas of the three islands of Santiago, Sao Vicente and Sal
and it also has a long term electricity concession on Boa Vista. Electra
increased power supply by 94% over the period 1990 to 1996 and the installed
capacity of power plants increased from 13.5 MW to 31 MW. Praia and Sal's
power capacities are facing serious shortages in the near future; electricity
demand in Praia alone is increasing at the rate of 15% per annum.    In 1996,
ELECTRA supplied 30.8% of generated power to domestic consumers; 16.8% to
commerce and services; 15.8% to desalinated water production; 12.1% to



industry; 3.2w to public agencies; 2.3w for non-billable public lighting; 5t
in self consumption and 149 was lost in the distribution network.
Electra also has responsibility for water supply on Santiago, Sao Vicente Sal
and Boa Vista. Water supply coverage is very low in the main and secondary
urban centers.  As for example, in the city of Praia, only 30t of the
population has access to safe piped water. The average per capita consumption
is about 40 litres per capita per day, with a large disparity between
connected consumers (50 liters per person per day - lpd) and non connected
populations (only 16 lpd). Half the water production (2650 m3/day) comes from
ground water exploitation and the remaining 50t is provided by two new
desalinization plants of 2500 m3/day capacity (2 units of 1250 m3/day). Water
supply through public network increased only lt per year since 1990, while the
population annual growth was 4t in the same period. In Mindelo, even though
coverage has increased to 65w, the average per capita consumption is only 35
liters per day. Both Electra and EMAP, the municipal producer for Praia,
produce a substantial proportion of water from the sea. Desalination is
energy intensive, using both heat and electricity, which supplies the logic
for Electra having responsibility for both services. Most of Electra's power
and desalination plant is co-located to optimize energy use.
At the micro level, Electra faces shortages of capital and other financing
difficulties. Electra has made losses in every year since its formation in
1982 and there has been no increase in the power tariff since 1985. One of
the main causes is the number of accounts receivable that reached $4.3 million
in 1994, more than 60t of which was over a year past due by public agencies.
Other factors are low sale price for desalinated water, losses in the
distribution networks of both power and water and unsatisfactory accounting
procedures. In areas not covered by ELECTRA, municipalities or private
consumers independently own and operate electricity production and
distribution facilities, but ELECTRA provides technical support to some
municipalities. These small, often old power systems have high operating
costs, which are compounded by insufficiently trained staff and unsatisfactory
management, commercial and accounting procedures.
Sanitation services are the responsibility of the municipalities and are
limited in scope. In Praia, only about 6000 people, or 8t of the population
is served by the sewer system. About 24t of the population has septic tanks
and the remaining households do not have any means of sanitation facilities.
To achieve objectives of the sanitation master plan, the actual number of 1300
sewage connections should be raised up to 5000 in year 2000 and to 11000 in
year 2005 with an important extension of the secondary and tertiary network.
The sewage system of Mindelo is acceptable but like in Praia, it covers only a
small part of the city. None of the secondary urban centers have effluent
disposal systems. Septic ditch is the sole existing sanitation system with
low coverage levels, which raises serious risk to human health by polluting
underground water. Despite efforts by municipalities to provide adequate
garbage collection, the systems remain inappropriate due to the rapid growth
of urban population. Another constraint is the breeding of animals in
residential areas, leading to garbage accumulation and reproduction of germs
obviously harmful to public health. The lack of adequate basic sanitation
infrastructure in most urban centers of Cape Verde, are contributing to
environmental degradation and recrudescence of water related diseases.
The project design is based on the need to meet the increasing demands being
-2 -



placed on the electricity and water sectors and to remedy some of the
shortfalls in the sanitation sector.
2.      Objectives
The proposed project is embedded in the objectives and options of the
Development Plan for 1997-2000 and will support the Government strategy to
continue increasing private sector participation in the infrastructure
sectors. The development objectives of the project are: (i) to improve the
supply of power, water and sanitation systems; (ii) to increase operational
and end-use efficiency in the power and water sectors; (iii) to promote the
development of clean, renewable energy sources; (iv) to foster the sound
management of water resources. Specific objectives of the project include:
(a) privatization of Electra; (b) increased private participation in and
financial autonomy of water sector operations; (c) expansion and
rehabilitation of power, water and sanitation systems in major urban centers;
(d) development of windpower capacity with private financing; (e) promotion of
photovoltaic and wind energy systems for decentralized use; (f) development of
a regulatory and legal framework in the power and water sectors; (g)
strengthening the capacity of sector entities to monitor and regulate energy
and water sector activities and promote end-use efficiency in these sectors.
3.      Description
The project consists of five components:
Reform and development of the power sector: The purpose of this component
would be to support the consolidation of Electra and a number of small
municipal systems, their financial restructuring and subsequent privatization.
Privatization would be through the competitive sale or concession of Electra's
assets to a strategic investor, Electra workers and other private investors.
The component would support the implementation of a sound legal and regulatory
framework for the power and water sectors and creation of a multi-sector
regulatory agency. Under this component there will be some contribution to
the cost of additional investments in distribution and the mitigation of
environmental impacts of Electra's activities. Promotion of demand side
management and energy efficient equipment will also be supported, as will the
formulation of sector policies and strategies.
Renewable energy promotion & development: This component would finance the
extension of existing wind farms on the Praia, Mindelo and Sal grids, with a
total increase of up to 7.8MW. The wind farms would be constructed after the
privatization of Electra and would be supported in part by a grant from the
Global Environment Facility (GEF). The component would also finance the
development of a delivery infrastructure for off-grid electricity supply
systems (predominantly photovoltaic - PV) for community and household use.
The approach to be adopted would be to let two exclusive concessions to
private firms to supply equipment on either a cash, credit or lease basis to
both private users and the public sector. This activity would be funded
predominantly by the private sector although a grant would be made from the
GEF to support it.
Reform and development of the water sector: The project would support GoCV's
restructuring of the water and waste water sectors in conjunction with similar
restructuring in the electricity sector. The privatized Electra would take
- 3 -



responsibility for water and waste water in all the major cities. The legal
and regulatory framework for the sector would be brought into line with that
of the electricity sector. The component would also support investment to
reduce water losses and expand access to potable water. Better management of
water resources and decentralization of responsibilities for water supply to
secondary centers would also be included, as would associated studies,
technical assistance and training.
Sanitation development: Extension of sanitation systems in Praia and Assomada
would be covered by this component. Also to be covered would be systems for
wastewater reuse in Praia and the associated technical studies. The component
would be largely physical investment, with some technical assistance and would
be met from Bank and bilateral donor sources.
Preparatory studies. This component covers work now largely complete and
consisted of support for project preparation. It was funded from PHRD, PPF
and GEF PDF sources.
4.      Financing (preliminary)
Source                           Amount
(Million US$)
IDA                              17.5
GEF                              4.7
Other International*             12.8
Government                       3.5
Private                          10.2
Total                            48.0
* Includes EU, OPEC Fund, Austria,
5.      Implementation
The project would be implemented over four years, from January 2000 to
December 2003. The Executing agencies will be: (i) Project Management Unit of
the Office of the Vice Prime Minister, to coordinate and monitor project
execution, carry out the power and water sector reform components, including
the sale of Electra and establishment of a regulatory entity for the sectors,
in collaboration with the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy. It will
carry out the water resource management sub-component in conjunction with the
National Institute for Water Resources Management (INGRH). It will manage the
selection of the off-grid concessions; (ii) Electra, post privatization, will
be responsible for implementing the investments in the power and water
sectors, including the extension of the wind farms and the installation of
IDA-financed extension of power distribution systems.
6.      Sustainability
Project sustainability will depend first upon the satisfactory completion of
sector reform, i.e. the success of ELECTRA's privatization to a competent
private investor selected through competitive bidding, together with the
soundness of regulatory and monitoring dispositions (particularly the
concession and tariff agreements), the continued commitment of the Government
to sector modernization, and the compliance with contractual agreements by all
parties. The timely setting up of an efficient, independent regulatory entity
- 4 -



will be another condition of project sustainability. GOCV's role, limited to
policy, coordination and monitoring functions, will also ensure sustainability
of the corresponding project component. The municipalities commitment to
provide sufficient autonomy to and allow private participation in municipal
water companies is a key condition for satisfactory operation and development
of municipal water and sanitation systems.
Wind Farms
Future developments of wind farms will be sustainable as a result of the
combined effects of economies of scale in wind farm development and predicted
decreases in the unit costs of equipment. Decreasing prices and increasing
demand for household photovoltaic systems will result in increased sales and a
sustainable market for photovoltaic systems distributed by local private
enterprises without further GEF financial support. At the end of the
concession period, increased competition would continue to hold prices in
check.
7.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The project design reflects worldwide and regional experience that
institutional development by way of privatization ensures efficiency gains in
a short period of time and that sustainable development requires improved
institutional framework, optimum use of available resources and improved
productivity of human capital by targeting poverty issues. These lessons are
reflected in the GOCV's policies, which emphasize the promotion of private
sector participation in the provision of energy, water and sanitation
services.
The project's schedule and expected outputs take into account the complexity
of and time required for successfully reforming the power and water sectors,
as experienced in other countries worldwide. Successfully attracting
competent private investors requires careful preparation of bidding process,
financial restructuring and prior definition of legal/regulatory aspects.
With regard to renewable energy development, the DANIDA-financed wind farm
project has established the technical viability of this technology, and built
technical capability in ELECTRA for system operation and monitoring. The
project has demonstrated that there is considerable additional potential for
cost reduction in wind generation and scope for substantially increased
penetration on the network.
Concerning decentralized photovoltaic systems, experience indicates that: (a)
for household use, systems have a high investment cost which the project must
assist in overcoming; full cost recovery is, however, essential, which is
generally achieved by ensuring that adequate consumer financing mechanisms are
in place. Success is generally higher when projects focus on the household
level rather than on collective systems where responsibility for payment is
shared; (b) at the market level, it is necessary to establish responsive and
sustainable PV sales and distribution delivery mechanisms by local private
enterprises, providing quality products and ensuring that adequate managerial
and technical skills are available. Past PV projects in Cape Verde have not
systematically met the conditions for sustainable development, either by
design or in their implementation; (c) international private sector operators
will enter the market in partnership with locals when the conditions become
- 5 -



favorable; and (d) sales of energy or services comparable with those in use
for conventional grid electricity tend to be preferred by consumers over the
sale of equipment.
8.      Poverty category
While the project does not explicitly address poverty alleviation, it is
expected to provide electricity, water and sanitation services to urban and
rural households and institutions that would not otherwise receive them. In
addition, by substituting private capital for public and domestic resources
for those imported, additional resources will be available to the government
for social and poverty alleviation activities.
9.      Environmental aspects
In accordance with World Bank Operational Directive 4.01 (Environmental
Assessment), the project has provisionally been assigned as Category A. The
proposed project would contribute to improving the environment, primarily
through expansion and improved management of water and sanitation systems, as
well as substitution of clean renewable energy for polluting thermal-based
energy. The project does not include groundwater resource development and has
no component with major environmental impact. The project implementation will
not result in involuntary resettlement and will only require limited land
acquisition (wind farms).
The final EA was completed in August 1998 and was released in November 1998.
The EA defines a program of environmental impact mitigating measures for
water, sanitation and energy. The strict application of standard operating and
maintenance procedures for power plant facilities and the implementation of
adequate training programs will minimize the potential accidental spills of
fuel and waste oil products. The increase of stacks heights and use of fuel
with lower content of sulfur, ash and trace metal will minimize the negative
impacts of gas emissions in thermal power plants. Rehabilitation and
installation of supplementary noise reduction measures will provide an
adequate noise control in the existing thermal power plants. The
Municipalities of Sal and Mindelo will transfer to Electra their land rights
for the wind farm sites and in the case of the wind farm site in Praia, the
Municipality will acquire land rights from private individuals that currently
own part of this land. The detailed design and the implementation of the water
and sanitation components will include a specific Environmental Management and
Monitoring Plan to be developed and monitored by the GOCV and the water sector
regulatory entity.
The project includes financing for implementing the Environment Management and
Monitoring Plan, as well as environment mitigation measures for Electra and
municipal power facilities (as identified through an detailed environmental
audit to be finalized in March 1999), for a total amount of US$1.1 million.
The EIA has also defined environment quality standards to be complied with by
the privatized Electra in its future operations, which will be included in the
bidding documents for the privatization of Electra.
10.     Program Objective Categories
Private Sector Development, Environmentally Sustainable Development.
- 6 -



11.     Contact Point
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending February 26, 1999.
- 7 -



