Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF022458
Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Energy and Water Sector Reform and Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an
implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility
Dated June 3, 1999
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF022458
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 3, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) 
acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in 
respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the 
Bank as participants of the GEF.
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of 
the Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the 
protection of the global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound 
and sustainable economic development;
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued 
in place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank which, inter alia, established the GEF Trust 
Fund, authorized the first replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund and appointed the 
Bank as Trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2);
(C)
the second replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund was approved on the 
Page  2
basis set forth in Resolution No. 98-2 of July 14, 1998, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank (Resolution No. 98-2);
(D)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), 
has requested assistance from the GEF Trust Fund for funding the Project and 
said request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the 
Instrument for the Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility 
approved under Resolution No. 94-2, and to be funded from contributions to the 
GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 98-2, which may include funds carried over 
from the first replenishment of the GEF Trust Fund under Resolution No. 94-2;
(E)
the Recipient has also requested the International Development 
Association (the Association) to provide additional financing towards the 
financing of the Project and, by an agreement of even date herewith between the 
Recipient and the Association, the Association has agreed to provide such 
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to twelve million five 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 12,500,000) (the Credit); and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions 
Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, 
as amended through December 2, 1997, with the modifications set forth in 
paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral 
part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), 
(15), (18), and (20), 2.02, and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i), and (p), 
6.03, 6.04, and 6.06; 
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii) Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08, and 
9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03, and 10.04; 
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03, and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to 
Page  3
read as follows: "the term ‘Special Drawing Rights’ and the 
symbol ‘SDR’ mean special drawing rights as valued by the 
International Monetary Fund in accordance with its Articles 
of Agreement";
(ii)
the term "Bank," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
other than in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the 
last use of such term in Section 5.01 thereof, means the 
Bank acting as an implementing agency of the GEF, except 
that in Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the 
Bank acting in its own capacity;
(iii)
the term "Recipient," wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Recipient;
(iv)
the term "Loan Agreement," wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement;
(v)
the term "Loan" and "loan," wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant;
(vi)
the term "Loan Account," wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; and
(vii)
a new subparagraph (q) is added after subparagraph (p) in 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions, as follows: "an 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen in which any 
further disbursement under the GEF Trust Fund Grant would 
exceed the resources available for disbursement from the 
GEF." 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context 
otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in 
the Recitals to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, 
and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Advisory Committee” means the committee consisting of 
representatives of the Borrower’s public sector, its private sector, regulatory 
institutions, and water and energy consumers, to be established pursuant to 
Section 6.01 (d) of the Development Credit Agreement and referred to in 
paragraph 1 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, which will be responsible for 
advising the PMU (as hereinafter defined) on cross-sectoral issues;
(b)
“BCV” means Banco de Cabo Verde, the Borrower’s Central Bank, 
established by the Borrower’s Decree-Law (Decreto-Lei) No. 42/93, dated July 15, 
1993;
(c)
“Cape Verde Escudo” and “C.V. Esc.” mean the currency of the 
Borrower;
(d)
“Development Credit Agreement” means the Agreement of even date 
herewith between the Recipient and the Association for the Project, as such 
agreement may be amended from time to time, and such term includes the “General 
Conditions applicable to Development Credit Agreements” of the Association, 
dated January 1, 1985, as amended through December 2, 1997, as applied to such 
agreements and all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Development 
Credit Agreement;
(e)
“ELECTRA” means Empresa Pública de Electricidade e Agua, E. P., a 
public utility for power and water supply, established and operating pursuant to 
its statutes enacted by Decree of the Council of Ministers No. 37/82 of the 
Borrower, dated April 17, 1982;
(f)
“Environmental Management Plan” means the environmental management 
Page  4
plan included in the eighth chapter of the environmental impact assessment dated 
November 11, 1998;
(g)
“INGRH” means the Instituto Nacional de Gestão dos Recursos 
Hídricos, the Borrower’s national institute for water resource management, 
established and operating pursuant to its statutes enacted by Decreto 
Regulamentar No. 126/92 of the Borrower, dated November 16, 1992;
(h)
“Initial Deposit” means an amount in C.V. Esc. equivalent to U.S. 
dollars 100,000 referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement;
(i)
“MAAA” means Ministério da Agricultura, Alimentação e Ambiente, the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Environment; 
(j)
“MCIE” means Ministério do Comércio, Indústria e Energia, the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy;
(k)
“Midterm Review” means the midterm review referred to in paragraph 
4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(l)
“MIH” means Ministério das Infraestructuras e Habitação, the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Infrastructure and Housing;
(m)
“OVPM” means the Borrower’s Office of the Vice Prime Minister;
(n)
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit within OVPM which will be 
responsible for the overall implementation of the Project, established and 
operating under the Borrower’s Decree No. 40-A/98 dated August 27, 1998 and 
referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(o)
“Point of Sale” means that the Borrower has (i) carried out a 
valuation of ELECTRA; (ii) prepared a prospectus or dossier for ELECTRA; (iii) 
solicited offers for ELECTRA directly or through advertisement(s) in appropriate 
newspapers or other appropriate forms of advertisement; (iv) evaluated any such 
offers and selected successful bidders(s); and (v) invited the successful 
bidder(s) to enter into good faith negotiations;
(p)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.04. of 
this Agreement;
(q)
“Project Coordinator” means the Project Coordinator who is also the 
Director of the PMU referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(r)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual referred to in 
paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement containing, inter alia, work plans, 
training plans, the monitoring and performance indicators referred to paragraph 
4 (a) of Schedule 4 and procedures to be used for the purposes of implementation 
of the Project, as they may be amended from time to time, in consultation with 
the Association, and such term includes any schedules to the Project 
Implementation Manual;
(s)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters 
dated October 7, 1997 and October 20, 1997 between the Borrower and the 
Association;
(t)
“SEPA” means the Secretariado Executivo Para o Ambiente, the 
Borrower’s Executive Secretariat for Environment within MAAA; and
(u)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
Page  5
of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant in an amount in various currencies equivalent to three million four 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 3,400,000).
Section 2.02.  (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so 
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for carrying out the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in BCV on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2004 or such later date 
as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of 
such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, and 
technical practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03.  For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, 
a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan.
Section 3.04.  Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of 
Page  6
this Agreement, the Recipient shall:
(a)
open and maintain an account (the Project Account) in C.V. Esc. in 
BCV on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank;
(b)
promptly thereafter, deposit the Initial Deposit into such account 
to finance the Recipient's contribution to the Project;
(c)
deposit into the Project Account in January, April, July and 
October of each year, until the completion of the Project, such amounts as shall 
be required to replenish in a timely manner the Project Account in an amount 
equal to at least the expected expenditures of the following quarter; and
(d)
use the Project Account funds exclusively to finance expenditures 
under the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project 
of the departments or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the 
Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for 
each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, 
the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received 
the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; 
Page  7
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure 
submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01.  The following events are specified as additional conditions 
to the effectiveness of the GEF Grant Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Recipient has established the Project Account and deposited 
therein the Initial Deposit referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement; 
and
(b)
all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the Development 
Credit Agreement, other than those related to the effectiveness of this 
Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02.  The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date 
of this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 5.03.  This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have 
fulfilled all their obligations hereunder.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 6.01.  The Minister of the Recipient at the time responsible for 
finance is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Office of the Vice Prime Minister
C.P. 30
Praia
Cabo Verde
Cable address:
Telex:
COORDENACAO
608 MCECV
Cape Verde
For the Bank:
International Bank for 
   Reconstruction and Development, 
Page  8
acting as an Implementing Agency of 
   the Global Environment Facility
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of 
the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
By /s/ Amilcar Spencer Lopes
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT acting as an implementing agency of 
the Global Environment Facility
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for 
items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
GEF Trust Fund
Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works for Part B.1
   2,100,000
100% of 
foreign
expenditures 
and
80% of local
expenditures
(2)
Goods for Part B.2
     550,000
100% of 
foreign
expenditures 
and
80% of local 
expenditures
Page  9
(3)
Consultants' services
100%
and training:
(a) for Part B.1
     300,000
(b) for Part B.2
     100,000
(4)
Unallocated
     350,000
TOTAL
   3,400,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency 
of any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of any country other than that of the Recipient; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of 
the Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the 
Recipient.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall 
be made in respect of payments made for (a) expenditures prior to the date of 
this Agreement; and (b) expenditures under Category (1) unless and until ELECTRA 
has been reorganized in a manner satisfactory to the Bank and has entered into a 
project agreement with the Bank setting forth, inter alia, its rights and 
obligations with respect to the carrying out of Part B.1 of the Project.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, 
works and services under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, 
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.
5.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent 
with the provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account an amount equal to the amount so used or the portion thereof as 
specified by the Bank.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to (i) improve the quality, and extend 
the coverage, of electricity, potable water, and sanitation systems in the 
Borrower’s territory; (ii) reduce the costs of water and power services; (iii) 
increase operational and end-use efficiency in the power and water sectors; (iv) 
remove restrictions on the development of clean, renewable energy sources; and 
(v) foster the sound management of water resources.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Power Sector Reform and Development
1.
Carrying out the privatization of ELECTRA including, inter alia, assisting 
the Borrower with the evaluation of bids and contracts in respect of such 
Page  10
privatization through the provision of technical advisory services.
2.
Strengthening the institutional, legal and regulatory framework for the 
power sector, through the provision of technical advisory services, training of 
personnel, studies and the acquisition of vehicles and equipment.
3.
Design and implementation of a program to strengthen the Borrower’s 
capacity to promote energy efficient equipment and demand-side management of the 
energy sector, through the provision of technical advisory services, training of 
personnel and studies and the acquisition of equipment.
4.
Strengthening the capacity of MCIE to (i) formulate energy sector policies 
and strategies; (ii) coordinate and monitor the development of the energy 
sector; and (iii) prepare and update statistical data, through the provision of 
technical advisory services, training of personnel, studies, and the acquisition 
of vehicles and equipment.
5.
Extension of the supply of electricity to about 4000 new customers in 
peri-urban and secondary urban centers, through the provision of technical 
advisory services and the acquisition of equipment.
6.
Design and implementation of a program to improve the negative 
environmental impacts of power generation and desalinated water production 
facilities, through the provision of technical advisory services and the 
installation and acquisition of equipment and related works.
Part B:
Renewable Energy Promotion and Development
1.
Promotion and development of renewable energy resources, including the 
extension of up to 7.8 MW of grid-connected wind farms in Praia, Mindelo and 
Sal, through the provision of technical advisory services, training of 
personnel, studies, and the acquisition and installation of equipment.
2.
Installation of decentralized wind and photovoltaic public and individual 
systems for community and household use, through the provision of technical 
advisory services, training of personnel, studies, and the acquisition and 
installation of equipment.
Part C:
Water Sector Reform and Development
1.
Reform and development by the Borrower of the water sector, including (a) 
reform of the urban water production and supply systems; (b) establishment of 
autonomous municipal enterprises to improve water distribution and provide 
wastewater treatment services; (c) facilitation of private sector participation 
in the ownership and operation of the said autonomous municipal enterprises; (d) 
strengthening of the legal and regulatory framework for the water sector, all 
through the carrying out of studies, the acquisition of vehicles and equipment, 
and the provision of training and technical advisory services.
2.
Extension and rehabilitation by MIH of the primary and secondary water 
distribution network and water production systems in Praia, Mindelo and Assomada 
and other secondary centers, through the acquisition of equipment, civil works, 
and the provision of technical advisory services.
3.
Strengthening of the operational and research capabilities of INGRH, 
including its capacity to formulate sound water policy and develop policies for 
efficient water end-use and water resources regulation and management, through 
the provision of technical advisory services and training, and the acquisition 
of vehicles and equipment.
Page  11
Part D:
Sanitation Development
Carrying out by MIH of (i) the extension of sanitation systems in Praia; 
(ii) the improvement of sanitation systems in Assomada; (iii) the design and 
construction of  wastewater reuse systems in Praia; and (iv) sanitation studies, 
through the acquisition of equipment, civil works, and the provision of training 
and technical advisory services.
Part E:
Project Coordination and Management
1.
Strengthening of the capacity of the PMU to coordinate, supervise and 
monitor the execution of the Project, through the provision of training of its 
personnel, studies, technical advisory services, auditing services and the 
acquisition of vehicles and equipment.
2.
Design and implementation of an environmental management program with the 
collaboration of SEPA, through the provision of training of its personnel, 
studies, technical advisory services, and acquisition of equipment.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995, and revised in January and August 1996, 
and in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of 
the following Parts of this Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank 
member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, 
respectively, to “Participating Countries” and “Participating Country.”
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II 
of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part 
B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for contracts for works estimated to cost US$1,000,000 equivalent 
or more shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Page  12
(b)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost US$200,000 equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed US$350,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to 
bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all 
goods and services shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan 
as shall have been approved by the Association and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each ICB contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
US$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in 
January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the 
modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant 
Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank 
member countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, 
respectively, to “Participating Countries” and “Participating Country.”
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ 
services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 
thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 
Page  13
thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for auditing, estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent 
per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of 
the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the 
proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection 
of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, but less than the 
equivalent of US$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other 
than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting 
firms estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) 
and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the 
qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the 
consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its prior review and 
approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, 
the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Page  14
1.
PMU and Advisory Committee
(a)
The Borrower shall maintain the PMU and the Advisory Committee 
until the completion of the Project.
(b)
The PMU shall maintain, until the completion of the Project, a 
Project Coordinator and competent staff in adequate numbers, all with terms of 
reference, qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association, and an 
accountant who shall be employed in accordance with the provisions of Section II 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.  The Project Coordinator shall be responsible 
for the supervision and coordination of the day-to-day management of the 
Project.  The accountant shall, inter alia, assist the Borrower in the carrying 
out of the obligations set forth in Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement.
2.
Project Implementation Manual
The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with procedures set 
out in the Project Implementation Manual and, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, shall not amend or waive any provision thereof, if such 
amendment or waiver may, in the opinion of the Association, materially or 
adversely affect the implementation of the Project.
3.
Progress Reports
The Project Coordinator shall be responsible for the preparation and the 
transmittal to the Association, promptly after the end of each calendar semester 
and in any case
not later than January 31 and July 31 of each year, of a 
detailed report regarding progress in carrying out the Project during the 
preceding calendar semester.
4.
Performance Indicators and Midterm Review
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the performance indicators 
agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
carry out, jointly with the Association, not later than December 
31, 2001, the Midterm Review.  The Midterm Review shall cover, among other 
things (i) progress made in meeting the Project’s objectives; (ii) overall 
Project performance as measured against Project performance indicators, (iii) 
implementation of the Program and, in particular, its privatization and 
regulatory components; and (iv) quality of the advisory services under the 
Project;
(c)
at least three (3) weeks prior to the Midterm Review, furnish to 
the Association a report describing the status of the items listed in paragraph 
(a) above and of Project implementation generally; and
(d)
not later than four (4) weeks after the Midterm Review, prepare an 
action program, acceptable to the Association, for further implementation of the 
Project having regard to the findings of the Midterm Review and, thereafter, 
implement such action program.
5. Other 
Covenants
(a)
The Borrower shall, in accordance with the provisions of Section II 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement (i) not later than March 31, 2000, select 
Page  15
private concessionaires for the commercialization of public and private 
photovoltaic and wind systems; and (ii) not later than June 30, 2000, execute 
concession agreements, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, 
with such private concessionaires.
(b)
The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 2001, execute 
concession agreements, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, 
with the municipality of Assomada for the exploitation of water and sanitation 
systems in the municipality of Assomada.
(c)
The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 2002, execute 
agreements, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association with private 
concessionnaires for the future maintenance and exploitation of public 
photovoltaic systems.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for Part B of the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from 
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
US$400,000 to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, 
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation 
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to US$200,000 until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 1,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as 
follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account 
of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient 
Page  16
shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested and as 
shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the 
Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall 
be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified 
by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of 
the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after, and to the extent that the Bank shall have 
been satisfied that, all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by 
the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund 
to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case 
may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
Page  17
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
