                               Document of
                             The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR00001108




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-32050, TF-22458)




                                  ON A

                                 CREDIT
                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12.5 MILLION
                     (US$ 17.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                  AND A

               GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITY GRANT
                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 4.7 MILLION

                                 TO THE

             GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE

                                 FOR AN

  ENERGY AND WATER SECTOR REFORM AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                               June 30, 2009




Energy Unit
Country Department AFTEG
Africa Region

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                 (Exchange Rate Effective as of June 29, 2009)

                  Currency Unit = Cape Verde Escudo (CVE)
                           Euro 1.00 = US$ 1.40495
                           US$ 1.00 = Euro 0.711769

                                FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 ­ December 31

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADP       Água de Portugal (Water Utility of Portugal)
ARE       Agência de Regulação Económica (Agency for Economic Regulation)
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CNAG      Conselho Nacional de Águas (National Council of Water)
CO2       Carbon Dioxide
CVE       Cape Verde Escudo
DGIE      Direcção Geral da Indústria e Energia (Directorate of Industry and
          Energy)
EDP       Electricidad de Portugal (Power Utility of Portugal)
ELECTRA   Empresa Publica de Electricidade e Água (Public Company for Electricity
          and Water)
ESAP      Environmental and Social Action Plan
EU        European Union
GEF       Global Environment Facility
GoCV      Government of Cape Verde
HFO       Heavy Fuel Oil
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IDA       International Development Association
Infraco   Infrastructure Development projects in Africa and South East Asia
INGRH     Instituto Nacional de Gestão dos Recursos Hídricos (National Institute for
          Water Resources Management)
IRR       Internal Rate of Return
MAAA      Ministério da Agricultura, Alimentação e Ambiente (Ministry of
          Agriculture, Food and Environment)
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MECC      Ministério de Economia, Crescimento e Competitividade (Ministry of the
          Economy, Growth and Competitiveness)
MIH       Ministério das Infra-estruturas e Habitação (Ministry of Infrastructure
          and Housing)
MCIE      Ministério do Comêrcio, Indústria e Energia (Ministry of Trade, Industry
          and Energy)
MTR       Mid-Term Review
NDP       National Development Plan

NPV    Net Present Value
OPEC   Oil Producing and Exporting Countries
PDO    Project Development Objectives
PEAS   Projecto Energia, Água e Saneamento (Energy and Water Reform and
       Development Project)
PHRD   Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PMU    Project Management Unit
PSR    Project Status Report
PV     Photovoltaic
KPI    Key Performance Indicator
SEPA   Secretariado Executivo Para o Ambiente (Executive Secretary for
       Environment)
SP     Strategic Partner
SSA    Sub-Saharan Africa
TA     Technical Assistance
VPM    Vice Prime Minister (Office of the Vice-President)




                      Vice President: Obiageli K. Ezekweseli
                    Country Director: Habib M. Fetini
                     Sector Manager: Subramanian V. Iyer
                Project Team Leader: Stephan Claude Frederic Garnier
                   ICR Team Leader: Stephan Claude Frederic Garnier
                 ICR Primary Author: Joseph W.B. Bredie

                               REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
             Energy and Water Sector Reform and Development Project




                                                CONTENTS


Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development and Global Environment Objectives Design................. 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 5
3. Assessment of Outcomes.............................................................................................. 10
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome and Global Environment Outcome .... 14
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 14
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 17
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.............................................................................. 21
Annex 2. Outputs by Goals and Objectives...................................................................... 23
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis..................................................................... 26
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 27
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results............................................................................... 29
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results....................................................... 30
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR......................... 31
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders........................... 33
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 34

A. Basic Information

                                                                 CV-Energy & Water
Country:             Cape Verde            Project Name:
                                                                 SIL (FY99)
                                                                 COFN-04320,IDA-
Project ID:          P040990,P042054       L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                 32050,TF-22458
ICR Date:            06/30/2009            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                 GOV.OF CAPE
Lending Instrument:  SIL,SIL               Borrower:
                                                                 VERDE
Original Total
                     XDR 12.5M,USD 4.7M Disbursed Amount:        XDR 12.5M,USD 1.9M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B,B                Focal Area: C
Implementing Agencies:
Prorama Energia, Agua E Saneamento
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:



B. Key Dates
CV-Energy & Water SIL (FY99) - P040990

     Process           Date            Process        Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                          Date(s)
Concept Review:     10/02/1997    Effectiveness:        10/01/1999      12/15/1999
Appraisal:          05/25/1998    Restructuring(s):                     12/18/2006
Approval:           05/11/1999    Mid-term Review:
                                  Closing:              06/30/2004      06/29/2007


CV-GEF Energy & Water SIL (FY99) - P042054

     Process           Date            Process        Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                          Date(s)
Concept Review:     10/02/1997    Effectiveness:        10/03/1999      12/15/1999
Appraisal:          05/25/1998    Restructuring(s):
Approval:           05/11/1999    Mid-term Review:
                                  Closing:              06/30/2004      12/31/2008




C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes                                   Unsatisfactory
GEO Outcomes                               Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome                Substantial



                                           i

Risk to GEO Outcome                         Substantial
Bank Performance                            Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance                        Unsatisfactory



C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank                 Ratings              Borrower           Ratings

Quality at Entry            Moderately
                           Unsatisfactory   Government:            Unsatisfactory

Quality of Supervision:    Unsatisfactory   Implementing            Moderately
                                            Agency/Agencies:       Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                                Overall Borrower
Performance                Unsatisfactory   Performance            Unsatisfactory



C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
CV-Energy & Water SIL (FY99) - P040990
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
      Performance            Indicators           (if any)          Rating:

Potential Problem Project                     Quality at Entry
 at any time (Yes/No):           No                (QEA)             None

 Problem Project at any                          Quality of
     time (Yes/No):              No          Supervision (QSA)       None

    DO rating before         Moderately
 Closing/Inactive status     Satisfactory


CV-GEF Energy & Water SIL (FY99) - P042054
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
      Performance            Indicators           (if any)          Rating:

Potential Problem Project                     Quality at Entry
 at any time (Yes/No):           No                (QEA)             None

 Problem Project at any                          Quality of
     time (Yes/No):              No          Supervision (QSA)       None

    GEO rating before
 Closing/Inactive Status    Unsatisfactory




D. Sector and Theme Codes
CV-Energy & Water SIL (FY99) - P040990
                                                          Original       Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Power                                                       44             44
Renewable energy                                             7              7



                                           ii

Sanitation                                                     10                10
Water supply                                                   39                39


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Climate change                                                  20               20
Other financial and private sector development                  20               20
Other urban development                                         20               20
Regulation and competition policy                               20               20
State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization           20               20


CV-GEF Energy & Water SIL (FY99) - P042054
                                                            Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Renewable energy                                             100                100


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Climate change                                                  25               25
Other financial and private sector development                  25               25
Other urban development                                         25               25
Pollution management and environmental health                   25               25




E. Bank Staff
CV-Energy & Water SIL (FY99) - P040990
        Positions                       At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:            Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili      Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          Habib M. Fetini                 Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Manager:            Subramaniam V. Iyer             Mark D. Tomlinson
Project Team Leader:       Stephan Claude Frederic Garnier Philippe J-P. Durand
ICR Team Leader:           Stephan Claude Frederic Garnier
ICR Primary Author:        Joseph W. B. Bredie




                                                iii

CV-GEF Energy & Water SIL (FY99) - P042054
        Positions                     At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:          Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili          Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:        Habib M. Fetini                     Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Manager:          Subramaniam V. Iyer                 Mark D. Tomlinson
Project Team Leader:     Stephan Claude Frederic Garnier     Philippe J-P. Durand
ICR Team Leader:         Stephan Claude Frederic Garnier
ICR Primary Author:      Joseph W. B. Bredie




F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Project was embedded in the objectives of the National Development Plan for 1997-
2000, and was to support the Government strategy to increase private sector participation
in the infrastructure sectors. Development objectives are (i) to improve the supply of
power, water and sanitation systems; (ii) to increase operational and end-use efficiency in
the power and water sectors: (iii) to lessen the barriers to the development of renewable
energy resources; and (iv) foster sound management of water resources. Specific
objectives are:(a) privatization of Electra; (b) increased private participation in and
financial autonomy of water operations; (c) expansion and rehabilitation of power, water
and sanitation systems in major urban centers; ( d) development of wind power capacity
with private financing; ( e) promotion of solar photovoltaic and wind energy systems for
decentralized use; (f) development of a regulatory and legal framework in the power and
water sectors; (g) capacity strengthening for regulation, and promotion of energy
efficiency.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)


Global Environment Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To reduce contribution to greenhouse gas emissions through increased use of wind
power and solar photovoltaic electric systems in the energy balance of Cape Verde.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)


(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target       Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value          Values (from         Revised         Achieved at
                                               approval          Target        Completion or
                                             documents)          Values         Target Years

Indicator 1 :  Improved access to electricity, water and sanitation services, with optimum use
               of renewable resources, and promotion of priv ate sector participation.



                                               iv

                 Households
                 Access to electricity in   Access to
                 major urban centers:       electricity
                 Praia - 69 %               Praia - 90%
                 Midelo - 92%               Mindelo - 98%
Value            Access to water:           Access to water
(quantitative or Praia -25%                 Praia -45%
Qualitative)     Mindelo - 50%.             Mindelo -60%
                 Access to sanitation       Access to
                 services:                  sanitation
                 Praia - 8%                 Praia - 2 0%
                 Mindelo -20%               Mindelo -30%

Date achieved 12/31/1998                    12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 2 :    Increased operational and end-use efficiency in the power and water sectors.
                                            Electra to achieve
                 Electra to achieve cost    break-even on
                 recovery by end-2002.      operations in 2008,
Value            Electricity losses decline if appropriate
(quantitative or from 25% to 15% by         actions are taken.
Qualitative)     2002, water losses :23% However 2006
                 in Praia , and 20% in      will be anothe year
                 Mindelo                    of c ontinuing poor
                                            performance.
Date achieved 12/31/1998                    12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



(b) GEO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally      Actual Value

   Indicator           Baseline Value          Values (from       Revised       Achieved at
                                                 approval          Target      Completion or
                                                documents)         Values      Target Years

Indicator 1 :    Under GEF OP#6, remove the barriers to grid connected wind generation and
                 off-grid PV electric systems.

                 Penetration of wind        Penetration of
                                            wind will remain
Value            power average 19% of       about same, until
(quantitative or total electricity supply inwindfarm
Qualitative)     2002; and 4,500 houselds
                 connected off-grid solar   extension is

                 PV sys tems                carried out in
                                            2007.
Date achieved 12/31/1998                    12/31/2006



                                                 v

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)



(c) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value          Values (from                        Achieved at
                                                approval          Revised        Completion or
                                               documents)     Target Values      Target Years

Indicator 1 :    Household access to electricity at 80%, to water at 50%, and to sanitation at 35%
                 in Praia by year 2002.
                 See comparison with
Value            above. The original      The Target Values

(quantitative or values at appraisal were at project

Qualitative)     over-estimated due to    completion revised

                 lack of accurate data.   accordingly.

Date achieved 06/10/2005                   06/10/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 2 :    Penetration of wind power in the main electricity grids average about 19% by
                 year 2002.
                                          Target value will
                                          now reflect
                                          possible
                 Appraisal estimate was   accomplishment

Value            based on expectations    by project end, and

(quantitative or from development of the expected to be 8%

Qualitative)     windfarm, and the private penetration of
                 approach to development wind power, and
                 of so lar PV system       ab out 1,000
                                           individual
                                           household solar
                                           PV systems.
Date achieved 06/10/2005                   06/10/2005
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                vi

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


-
                                                       Actual
                                                   Disbursements
No.    Date ISR
       Archived        DO          GEO       IP    (USD millions)
                                                  Project 1 Project 2

 1    12/25/1999        S            S       S     0.00      0.00

 2    04/27/2000        S            S       S     1.52      0.20

 3    10/16/2000       HS           HS       S      2.04      0.20

 4    12/07/2000       HS           HS       S      2.04      0.20

 5    05/30/2001       HS           HS       S      2.92      0.32

 6    12/27/2001       HS           HS       S      3.50      0.44

 7    03/11/2002        S            S       S     3.70      0.44

 8    12/13/2002        S            S       S     6.08      0.66

 9    04/18/2003        S            S       S     6.64      0.67

10    12/02/2003        U            S       U     8.36      0.67

11    06/01/2004        U            S       U     9.04      0.67

12    06/15/2005        U            U       U     11.05     0.85

13    11/08/2005        U            U       U     12.03     0.85

14    06/30/2006        U            U       MS    13.99     0.94

15    12/28/2006       MU          MU        MU    16.90      1.04

16    06/25/2007       MS           MS       MS    17.46     1.05

17    12/17/2007       MS           MS       MS    17.55     1.06

18    06/03/2008       MS           MS       MS    17.55     1.22

19    06/25/2008       MU          MU        MS    17.55      1.22

20    12/24/2008        U            U       U     17.49     1.44




                                      vii

H. Restructuring (if any)
                                         Amount Disbursed
             Board ApprovedISR Ratings atat Restructuring in
Restructuring              Restructuring                        Reason for
                                            USD millions
   Date(s)                                                  Restructuring & Key
              PDO     GEO                                     Changes Made
             Change Change DO GEO IP Project1 Project 2

12/18/2006                 MU       MU      16.90




I. Disbursement Profile
P040990




                                    viii

P042054




           ix

1. Project Context, Development and Global Environment Objectives Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Resource Scarcity. The Republic of Cape Verde (CV), an island state off the
coast of Senegal, has historically struggled with scarce energy and water resources. For
energy it was entirely dependent on imported sources of fossil fuel for power generation.
Local wind and solar energy were underdeveloped.          Energy was also required for
desalination to produce water. Even groundwater was scarce with average rainfall of
227mm/year and only 20% of that ending up in groundwater systems. In addition, the
basic infrastructure for electricity, water and sewerage was old, beginning to deteriorate
and covering only central parts of the major cities. The deteriorating water and sewerage
systems posed a public health threat.

2.      Sector Institutions. Until the end of the 90's, there was no public service law
and the institutional framework for the power and water sector was weak. Tariffs for
electricity and water had been fixed since 1985 and there was no cost indexing
mechanism. ELECTRA, the national power and water utility generated and distributed
power and desalinated water on four islands. It operated at a deficit, lacked financial and
technical resources to maintain old generating assets and public distribution systems, and
capital for expansion. The Government of Cape Verde (GoCV) financed the operating
deficit and, in addition, subsidized customers by keeping tariffs low. Municipal utilities
were the only source for power and groundwater on the other five inhabited islands. S.
Vicente had the only water treatment plant. In 1999 at appraisal, only 43% of household
were connected to the electric grid, 20% to water supply (with only a few hours/day or
days/week service), 50% connected to the waste water system in Mindelo and only 7% in
Praia, the capital. Electricity and water losses were around 14% and 23% respectively
due primarily to lack of maintenance and system's age.

3.      Sector Policy. The government's 1999 policy for the energy and water sectors,
part of the 1997-2000 National Development Plan (NDP), called for: extending service
coverage; improving service quality; reducing prices for electricity and water for
consumers; providing incentives for conservation; encouraging renewable energy
sources; and installing water treatment plants. To achieve that it intended to: (i) establish
the legal and regulatory framework and regulatory authorities; define tariffs; (ii) privatize
ELECTRA; (iii) create municipal enterprises for water treatment; find private providers
for off-grid energy particularly photovoltaic (PV); and (iv) develop grid-connected wind
power.

4.      The Project. The Energy and Water Sector Reform and Development Project
(Programa Energia, Agua e Saneamento - PEAS) built on the 1987 IDA Infrastructure
and Technical Assistance Project (Cr.1954-CV) which had assisted ELECTRA in
reducing distribution losses. PEAS was designed to support the agreements reached at
the 1997 donor roundtable, organized by the GoCV, to reform the power and water
sectors and privatize ELECTRA. PEAS supported the government's 1999 sector policy


                                              1

and the strategy for private sector participation. It was consistent with the 1997 Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) which focused on achieving a viable and stable
macroeconomic framework, consolidating policy reform for privatization, and
accelerating poverty reduction. PEAS supported the climate change operational program
of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) aimed at promoting renewable energy by
reducing cost.

5.      Project Rationale. At the time of project preparation, in the late 90's, the
prevailing enthusiasm for private participation in infrastructure in developing countries
was clear.    The project design reflected worldwide and regional experience which
suggested that institutional development by way of privatization ensures efficiency gains
in a short period of time, and that sustainable development required improved
institutional framework, optimum use of available resources and improved productivity
of human capital by targeting poverty issues. There was strong ownership of this on the
part of the Government.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

6.      PEAS was embedded in the objectives of the NDP, and was to support the
Government strategy to increase private sector participation in the infrastructure sectors.
The development objectives were to: (i) improve the supply of power, water and
sanitation systems; (ii) increase operational and end-use efficiency in the power and
water sectors: (iii) lessen the barriers to the development of renewable energy resources;
and (iv) foster sound management of water resources. Specific objectives were: (a)
privatization of ELECTRA; (b) increased private participation in and financial autonomy
of water operations; (c) expansion and rehabilitation of power, water and sanitation
systems in major urban centers; (d) development of wind power capacity with private
financing; (e) promotion of solar photovoltaic and wind energy systems for decentralized
use; (f) development of a regulatory and legal framework in the power and water sectors;
and (g) capacity strengthening for regulation, and promotion of energy efficiency.

7.      The Key Performance Indicators were:

        (i)     Household access to electricity in Praia and Mindelo increasing to 90%
                and 99% respectively by 2007;

        (ii)    Household access to water in Praia and Mindelo increasing to 65% and
                90% respectively by 2007;

        (iii)   Household access to sanitation in Praia increasing to 43% by 2007;

        (iv)    The penetration of wind power on the three main grids (Praia, Mindelo &
                Sal) to an average of 19% by 2002;

        (v)     4,500 households to gain access to electricity from off-grid renewable
                sources;

        (vi)    Cost recovery achieved for water distribution in 2002 (without subsidy);

        (vii)   Water losses declining.

                                               2

1.3 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

8.     The GEO was to reduce carbon emissions from power generation through
increased use of wind power and solar photovoltaic electric systems in the energy balance
of Cape Verde.

9.     The Key Performance Indicators were:

       (i)      Full privatization of the power sector;

       (ii)     Private participation in largest municipal water companies;

       (iii)    Government subsidy for ELECTRA is phased out by 2000;

       (iv)     At least 15% of all electricity generated by renewable energy by the year
                2003;

       (v)      Savings of 6500 tons of petroleum products in 2004 (substituted with
                renewable energy), equivalent to 19,000 tons of C02.

1.4 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The PDO were not revised.

1.5 Revised GEO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The GEO were not revised.

1.6 Main Beneficiaries

10.    Expected benefits of the project included: (i) improved quality of life and health
for targeted population through increased access to electricity, safe water and sanitation
systems; (ii) enhanced private sector development through supply of least-cost, reliable
energy and water by private companies; (iii) increased private sector investment in the
power and water sectors which would alleviate pressure on public resources; (iv)
modernization of the power and water sectors; (v) foreign exchange savings by reducing
the imports of fuel for power generation; (vi) development of efficient entities for the
monitoring and regulation of power and water sectors; and (vii) reduction of greenhouse
gas emissions and both its social and environmental benefits.

11.    The project targeted the population and enterprises of major and secondary urban
centers, including those that suffered from unsatisfactory power and water services and
those in periphery urban areas that did not have access to these services and used inferior,
less safe and more expensive means of supply. The project also targeted part of those
isolated households that were likely to be excluded from modern supply of electricity in
the medium term (about 12,000 households). Cape Verde's enterprises would benefit
from the project by participating in new companies in the power and water sectors to
supply, install and maintain renewable energy systems.



                                                3

1.7 Original Components (as approved)

12.    The original components of the project are:

       12.1. Reform and Development of the Power Sector. (i) Support for the
       privatization of ELECTRA; (ii) implementation of a sound regulatory and legal
       framework; (iii) promotion of demand-side management and energy efficient
       equipment; (iv) strengthening MCIE's capacity for policy, coordination and
       monitoring; (v) supply electricity to about 4,000 new customers; (vi) implement a
       sector investment program (marginally economic grid extension and mitigation of
       environment liabilities); and (v) related studies, technical assistance and training.

       12.2. Renewable Energy Promotion and Development. (i) Extension of 7.8
       MW of grid-connected wind farms in Praia, Mindelo and Sal; (ii) development of
       decentralized wind or solar photovoltaic public and individual systems; and (iii)
       related studies, technical assistance and training.

       12.3. Reform and Development of the Water Sector. (i) Support for the
       implementation of a sound regulatory and legal framework; (ii) creation of
       autonomous municipal water companies in Assomada and other municipalities;
       (iii) extension and rehabilitation of the primary and secondary water distribution
       network and water production systems in Praia, Mindelo, Assomada and Tarrafal;
       and (iv) related studies, technical assistance and training.

       12.4. Sanitation Development. (i) Extension of sanitation systems in Praia; (ii)
       improvement of sanitation systems in Assomada; (iii) construction of wastewater
       reuse systems for Praia; and (iv) related studies, technical assistance and training.

       12.5.     Project Coordination and Monitoring.              Support to the Project
       Management Unit (staff, equipment) and for the implementation of the
       Environmental management program (studies, TA & training).

1.8 Revised Components
The components were not revised.

1.9 Other significant changes

13.    Extensions of the Closing Date. The combined IDA-GEF project was last
extended on December 2006 to ensure progress on the legal and regulatory framework;
then the IDA Credit closed on June 29, 2007. The GEF Grant was first extended for
twelve months to December 31, 2007, to allow the Government to enable the
procurement of the grid-connected wind farms and the off-grid individual PV systems
which encountered delays due to procurement problems and lack of investor interest. By
the fourth and final extension, the original closing date of June 30, 2004 had been
extended to December 31, 2008 to implement the redesigned critical Wind Farm Project.



                                              4

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

14.     Preparation commenced in 1996 with a project unit preparing technical, social and
environmental sector studies financed by a Japan Policy and Human Resources
Development Fund (PHRD) grant. Preparation accelerated with the 1997 water and
power sector reform donor roundtable. Civil society representatives and eight donors
participated in the roundtable and reached consensus on privatizing ELECTRA and
coordinating donor programs in the water and sanitation sector of the major urban centers
under the umbrella of PEAS. It was decided to establish a task force and regulatory
committee to prepare the legal and regulatory framework for the privatization of
ELECTRA and for tariff reform. This was to be completed by 1998. In early 1999 at
appraisal, a Privatization Advisor had been recruited and the Statement of Sector
Development Policy had been issued. The legal framework for privatization was signed
in late 1999.

15.     PEAS was approved in May 1999, a year after appraisal, and became effective
seven months later in December 1999. Effectiveness conditions included the release by
the GoCV of final documents for the privatization of ELECTRA (including a draft
concession agreement) satisfactory to IDA. However, elections in 2000 delayed the
signing of the concession agreement till 2002 when the new Government had come into
power. Soon, the complexity of PEAS ­ privatization of the national utility for electricity
and water, expanding its generation capacity, reducing its losses, improving its efficiency,
collection and finance, setting tariffs, environmental remediation, social connections for
the poor, procuring renewable energy projects, expanding water supply and sanitation
systems and treating plants ­ became apparent and started to slow implementation. In
part, these implementation issues were aggravated by PEAS's fragmentation ­ project
activities spread over nine islands each with their own power and water systems and local
agencies and municipalities to manage these. Moreover, it soon became apparent that
implementation capacity of ELECTRA, the newly established regulatory agency, the
environmental agency, and the ministries in charge of energy and water was weak.

16.     PEAS' design did not include mitigating measures to deal with the delays,
complexity or fragmentation. The risk that Government commitment for the privatization
would falter was considered negligible to modest.        In addition, risks related to an
unsatisfactory concession agreement were considered negligible and to be mitigated with
the recruitment of advisors (which was done in 2005 with limited benefits). Also,
technical or economic limitations to the wind farm extension were considered negligible
while household's ability/willingness to pay for power, water and sanitation services that
do not meet their expectations was considered modest as was the performance of
implementing entities and delays with procurement decisions. However, overall risk
rating was substantial.      Taken together, PEAS' design and quality-at-entry were
moderately unsatisfactory given the complexities, fragmentation, weak implementation
and procurement capacity and the unrealistic expectations regarding consumers'
willingness to pay for sanitation services (in view of the fact that all or most had septic


                                              5

tanks) and their demand for PV systems (in view of the expanded connections and rural
electrification).

2.2 Implementation

17.     The success of the project was largely predicated on its implementation by a
financially viable ELECTRA, under the management and majority ownership of a private
foreign operator. The implementation period (2000-2008) turned out to be unpropitious
for the restoration of power sector finances. The continued rise in oil prices throughout
the period seriously affected ELECTRA because its power generation is based almost
exclusively on imported oil. In addition, the authorities failed to put in place adequate
tariff mechanisms allowing for cost recovery. Starting from a situation where electricity
tariffs were below cost recovery, the GoCV found it politically and socially difficult to
adjust tariffs to ensure adequate return on investments for the private operator, in addition
to the increase required to pass on rising oil prices to consumers. The poor performance
of ELECTRA and the issues with tariffs affected implementation severely.

18.     Failure of ELECTRA's privatization. According to the sector development
policy, the GoCV had decided to privatize ELECTRA because not only did it supply
power to less than half and water to only one fifth of households, but it did so at costs that
generated financial deficits that had to be covered by government contributions. The
privatization agreement, which included investments by the Strategic Partners (SP) in
power and desalination plants, was signed in late 2000. But the finalization of the
concession agreement was held up for a variety of reasons including the delays in the
mobilization of the funds by the SP and disagreements between the SP and the GoCV
(which was represented on ELECTRA Board of Directors) on the tariff adjustments to
accompany the investments. The 2000/2001 elections, resulting in a new Government
delayed the signing of the concession agreement further till 2002. Investments expanding
power generation and water production capacity eventually took place in 2002/2003.
This allowed a significant increase in access to utility services (ELECTRA's customers
increased from less than 30,000 in 1998 to around 95,000 in 2008). It also resulted in an
improvement in generation efficiency and costs (with new engines running on HFO
instead of diesel).

19.     However, management and supervision by the Board remained ineffective and
ELECTRA's dire financial position hold up improvement in other areas. Quality and
reliability of service remained inadequate, and brown-outs and cuts in water supply
continued. High levels of distribution losses, resulting from fraud and illegal connections,
persisted, particularly in Praia. The SP trained staff, but their participation in
ELECTRA's daily management was minimal, especially in the strategic, financial and
engineering areas.     No further investments were made during 2004-2006 given the
persistent disagreements over tariff adjustments.        Eventually, in 2006 the GoCV
recuperated a majority equity participation in ELECTRA and assumed again the
responsibility for appointing the managers of the utility.        ELECTRA's operational
performance deteriorated further in 2007. In 2008, the SP ceded back to the GoCV their
remaining equity share in ELECTRA.


                                              6

20.     In addition to managing the expansion of power generation and desalination
capacity, ELECTRA took on, under the concession agreement, several commitments
related to project components, such as: operating a new water treatment plant in Praia,
connecting a much larger proportion of households to the expanded water supply and
sewerage systems, managing the procurement of the wind farm extensions and of the PV
system. Achieving these goals proved difficult given ELECTRA financial distress and
persistent disagreements between the SP and the authorities regarding tariff adjustments.

21.     Privatization did bring positive changes in some areas, such as financial reporting
and accounting. However, at project completion, key indicators of commercial and
financial performance had not improved. ELECTRA's financial situation remained dire,
and in the absence of significant investments after 2003, the growing demand for power,
water and sanitation remained unmet.

22.     Regulatory Delays.        To accompany privatization, the legal and regulatory
framework for the sector had to be developed from scratch. Legislation for power, water,
concessionary arrangements and independent regulations was passed in 1999. However,
adequate tariff-setting mechanisms and regulatory arrangements for the sectors had yet to
be put in place. During project preparation, these were identified as key elements for the
success of privatization, and PEAS included technical assistance to support "the
implementation of a sound regulatory framework for the power and water sectors, to be
monitored and enforced by a multi-sector regulatory entity". However, their absence at
the beginning of the privatization process proved to be a source of uncertainties, conflicts
and failure. Subsequently, in the absence of sustained political commitment, putting in
place adequate tariff regulation proved difficult.

23.     The (first) Multisectoral Regulatory Agency was created in 2000, but appointment
and training of staff were slow and regulatory capacity remained inadequate. In view of
this situation, the newly elected GoCV dissolved the agency in 2002. The (second)
Agency for Economic Regulation (Agencia de Regulacao Economica ­ ARE) created in
2003 also took a long time to develop staff and regulatory capacity. The GoCV enacted
legislation to cap tariffs for five years allowing ARE only annual adjustments based on
cost factors. However, these adjustments were difficult to make given ARE's capacity
and the lack of planification of ELECTRA's investments (aggravated by the physical
distance between ELECTRA's headquarter located in Mindelo on the Island of S.
Vicente and the regulator located in the capital Praia on Santiago). At project closing,
after significant technical assistance, supported by the Bank, ARE functioned
satisfactorily, but consumers find tariffs for electricity and water, and particularly
sewerage, high in view of the inadequate supply and the frequent cuts.

24.     Procurement Problems. The first tender for the wind farms was launched in
2002.    IDA had agreed (Project Appraisal Document-PAD p. 9; Aide Memoire of
11/27/2000) that ELECTRA could use its own procurement procedures. However, it did
not approve the prequalification proposing instead a new ICB tender with post
qualification. The ICB was launched in 2003 and one of the two bids was considered
responsive. However, ELECTRA could not come up with the funds to pay the gap


                                              7

between the GEF grant and bid price. During 2006 and 2007, the GoCV looked for new
donors to co-finance the wind farms. In 2007, Infraco - an EU-NGO for public-private
partnership ­ agreed to develop a much larger (28MW instead of 5MW) wind farm
extension project. Infraco issued EU standard bidding documents, but although the Bank
agreed that these were unrestrictive, transparent and competitive, it could not accept a
tender that did not use Bank procedures and procurement documents (the bidding
document used by the project sponsors would have required numerous waivers to ensure
compliance with the Bank guidelines including the World Bank Fraud and Corruption /
Audit, the Bank Remedies and the refunding clauses in the case of misprocurement in the
EPC contract). Consequently, the Bank did not approve the use of the GEF grant for this
tender despite an official request for waivers from the GoCV. Sixty percent of the GEF
grant for renewable energy was cancelled.

25.     It should be noted that none of the supervision missions included procurement
specialists and the PMU said that between 2003 and 2007 it had to wait, often for months,
to obtain no-objections or advice for procurement activities.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

26.     The PAD does not have an M&E section. Annex 1 lists 27 Key Performance
Indicators (KPIs), five for sector-related CAS Goal, seven for the PDOs and GEF
operational program objective, and fifteen for project outputs. The monitoring would be
done from supervision, economic and sector reports. The indicators have individual
achievement dates, with the majority for the power; water and sanitation; and, renewable
energy components to be reached by 2007. The KPIs have been monitored and updated
only in 2002, 2006 and at closing. It is clear that the project did not invest enough in a
specific M&E system neither for the PMU nor for ELECTRA. Neither the Bank, the
PMU nor ELECTRA paid sufficient attention to the KPIs; the M&E system in place
failed in generating data in a timely manner, as a result, during most of the project's
lifetime, ARE barely knew what to look for and then got little from ELECTRA to work
on. Therefore, there is a clear disconnect with the M&E satisfactory rating in the PSRs.

27.     At Mid Term Review (MTR), the KPIs were reviewed for achievement and
realism. Proposals for resetting starting points and unrealistic targets and problematic
definitions were put forward when the starting point of the indicator clearly relied on
faulty data or the targets were unrealistic (as noted in the Aide memoire of the January
2003 mission). However, target values were never formally revised. The majority of the
GEO and PDO indicators had either not been achieved or not reported on and therefore
clearly not used. Exceptions were ELECTRA's privatization, investments, and training
of workers which had been achieved.            Also achieved were: the per capita water
consumption in Praia and Assomada for 2002; the legal framework for the
water/sanitation sector; and, the installation of autonomous water services. The PMU has
updated the indicators at closing which are shown in the data sheet, part F. Results
Framework Analysis and in Annex 2. Globally, only one third of the 27 indicators have
been achieved.



                                               8

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

28.     Safeguards. The Executive Secretary for Environment (Secretariado Executivo
Para o Ambiente-SEPA) was to oversee compliance with the Environmental and Social
Action Plan (ESAP). The ESAP comprised the cleaning up of ELECTRA's production
sites (noise, gas emissions and oil spills) and applying social and environmental standards
during the construction of the power, water and sanitation systems infrastructures.
Although SEPA's Directorate was provided with the required equipments to fulfill their
work, it was not effective at monitoring and ensuring compliance and was replaced in
2005 by the General Direction of the Environment of the Ministry of Environment
Agriculture and Fishing. Compliance was ensured through regular Bank supervision
missions (although these did not include safeguard specialists), the inclusion of
mitigation measures in construction contracts, and the oversight of the implementation of
the mitigation activities by ELECTRA. These were completed in 2005. There was no
resettlement, either for the construction, or the acquisition of sites for the wind farms, and
OP 4.12 ­ Involuntary Resettlement did not apply.

29.     Fiduciary.     Financial management including audits has been satisfactory
throughout implementation.        Supervision missions included financial management
specialists at the MTR and in 2006. The procurement of some activities on the other
hand was plagued by confusion and misunderstandings. The Bank did not allow other
than its own procurement procedures for the purchase of wind power equipments. With
the benefit of hindsight, this impossibility should have been clarified from the beginning,
instead of leaving open the possibility of the use of ELECTRA's own procedures. Also,
the PIU has indicated that access to and supervision by procurement specialists was not
sufficient (paragraph 23). While procurement related issues were not the primary cause
of the very partial implementation of the renewable energy component, they created
additional delays without which an earlier restructuring of this component might have
been possible.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

30.     Connections to the water supply and sewerage continue to be made although at a
very slow pace, for instance, about 200/year for sewerage connections in Tarrafal. At
this rate it will take years before the water treatment plants can function properly. In
view of the continuing strong demand for more power and water, ELECTRA's
investment plans include power and water production, water reserve build-up, and
distribution expansion. However, unresolved revenue/tariff-, collection and billing-, and
operational issues hamper efforts to meet demand.               These issues and lack of
capital/equity make it difficult for ELECTRA to access capital markets and investors to
finance expansion of supply. The Bank is working with ELECTRA to address strategic
and financing issues and investments in power on the islands of Sal and Sao Vicente and
in water in Praia.

31.     Further sector reforms in terms of restructuring ELECTRA and tariff reform are
needed to achieve PEAS objectives of efficiency, sound management and renewable
energy. The GoCV plans to restructure ELECTRA and the Bank is proposing support for

                                               9

policy, strategy, efficiency and cost reforms. The Bank and other donors are also looking
into further support for ARE to strengthen its regulatory capacity. Tariffs do not yet
function as incentives for ELECTRA to improve efficiency and meet demand, while high
connection fees discourage consumers from connecting to sewers. On the other hand,
given observed oil price volatility, ELECTRA should be able to pass on fully and without
delays the variations of oil prices to its customers.       The use of the current tariff
methodology based on performance benchmarks developed for distribution utilities in
developed countries is not appropriate (at least in the short run). This is important as the
Government has been clear that it wishes to avoid subsidizing inefficiency at ELECTRA
through higher tariffs. Therefore, a robust and incentive-compatible tariff adjustment
mechanism that is better tailored to Cape Verde's logistical realities is still essential for
the viability of the power and water sectors. Since ARE has not been able to function
without political interference in tariff setting, it is recommended to review ARE's
governance arrangements, including a better delineation of its role in relation to that of
other agencies exercising regulatory functions, and to strengthen its analytical capacity to
base tariffs on sound economic and social analysis. Additional capacity building within
ARE will be required.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

32.     The PDO of improving supply of power, water and sanitation, increase efficiency,
and develop renewable energy were (and remain) important priorities for Cape Verde and
for Bank assistance. PEAS's design to establish the legal and regulatory environment,
privatize utilities, increase supply, and expand renewable energy was relevant.

33.     The project was designed around the introduction of private participation. The
success of the project was largely predicated on its implementation by a financially viable
ELECTRA, under the management and majority ownership of a private foreign operator.
The Renewable Energy Component, with the objective to increase Grid Connected Wind
farms (7.8MW) and off-grid electrification services using photovoltaic and wind systems
have proved to be unsuccessful due to lack of financing to fill the gap and weak appraisal
of market conditions for the PV system, which was largely superseded by on-grid
electrification.

34.     Implementation did result in increased connections to power, water and sanitation
albeit less than planned for water and sanitation and insufficient to satisfy demand. No
new renewable energy resources have been built despite grant funding availability and
extensive technical assistance.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives and Global Environment Objectives

35.     The PDO indicators for improved access to energy, water and sanitation were not
achieved, although access improved significantly for energy (90% of households
connected), less rapidly for water (60% connected and consumption still low) and very
gradually for sanitation (30% connected) (see Annex 2). This level of achievement

                                             10

resulted from the investments in power and desalination by ELECTRA and in basic
infrastructure under PEAS. The achievement will improve after the closing date of PEAS
with the additional connections that are planned for the next 4 or 5 years. This is possible
since the water supply and sanitation - including waste water treatment - systems have
been greatly expanded and rehabilitated in the major urban and suburban areas. An
increase in the supply of water and a decrease in the high costs of connection ­
particularly for sewerage ­ are needed to optimize the PEAS investments in basic water,
sewerage and water treatment infrastructure.

36.     Private sector participation in the sector was achieved for most of the life of
PEAS with the buy-in of ELECTRA by private partners. Lack and/or failure of (tariff)
regulations and ineffective management and supervision by the Board caused ELECTRA
to revert back to the State, partially at the end of 2006, and completely in 2008, without
much if any benefit from the privatization in terms of commercial performance or quality
of service. Efficiency improvements in energy and water use have not been adequately
monitored and do not appear to have been achieved with the notable exception of the
generalization of efficient lighting financed under the GEF grant, which is the most cost-
effective way to reduce energy consumption and reduce green-house emissions.
Distribution losses in both sectors remain high. Clandestine connections, especially in
Praia, are now a major issue causing unacceptable levels of distribution losses. It has to
be noted that since ELECTRA's management reverted back to the State, the situation and
sector sustainability has worsened.

37.     The GEF objective of removing barriers to renewable energy has been extensively
studied both before and during implementation. It has not been achieved, however, as a
result of a mix of design, management and supervision failures. No new sources of
renewable energy ­ grid-connected wind farm extensions and off-grid PV systems - have
been built due to inability to finance by ELECTRA and failed procurement of the wind
farms and conceptual and analytical misunderstandings of the viability of the PV systems.
Greenhouse gas emissions have not been monitored, but are very likely to have declined
as a result of increased efficiency in desalination and cleaner power generation plants.

3.3 Efficiency

38.     PEAS was to bring about efficiency improvements in water and sanitation and
power, lower the cost of services to consumers, increase revenues for the Government,
and improve the environment. At appraisal, the investment in increasing water supply
was projected to yield a Net Present Value (NPV) of 797 million CVE. At closing, the
NPV was calculated at 993 million CVE. For sanitation, the average incremental cost per
cubic meter of effluent was estimated at 30.23 CVE at appraisal. At completion, this
incremental cost was not possible to calculate due to lack of data. The improvements in
efficiency, quantity and quality of electricity were not quantified at appraisal and are
likely to have been achieved at least in part (see Annex 2). Benefits in terms of reduced
losses and increased revenues to the Government as a result of privatization have not
been achieved. The Government had to exchange financing subsidies for power and
water for financial guarantees of ELECTRA's commercial loans. The renewable energy
component was not realized and the economic benefits from that have not been achieved.

                                              11

39.     Financial benefits in terms of increased revenues and efficiency for ELECTRA
have not been achieved largely because of inadequate tariff adjustments and the reversal
of ELECTRA's privatization. International investors have not been found for the off-grid
PV systems. Institutional benefits have been uneven although consumers in secondary
towns have benefitted from the establishment of autonomous utility companies in terms
of better quality services. On the other hand, the costs of services have increased for both
power and water while the service quality of the latter has not. PEAS has brought about
improvements in the environment. ELECTRA's power plants have been cleaned-up;
emissions from desalination and generation have been lowered thanks to better
technologies that use less energy and fuel.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome and Global Environment Outcome Rating
Rating: Unsatisfactory

40.     The partial outcomes of PEAS in terms of: (i) increased power, water and
sanitation services; (ii) better sector institutions and a new regulatory framework; and (iii)
mixed outcomes with privatization and efficiency, have been lowered by the fact that the
renewable component has not been realized. The assessment of outcomes must also take
into account the rapid increase in customer demand for sector services. For instance,
population growth in Praia has been between 2 and 3% annually for most of the life of
PEAS. While supply has increased, the demand for connections has begun to exceed the
increase in supply. As a result, the level of service (i.e. liters of water/day available per
customer) has been declining. Also, the small base of basic infrastructure at effectiveness
and the almost total lack of a legal and regulatory framework, combined with a weak
national utility must be taken into account in assessing progress with increasing supply of
power, water and sanitation and developing a regulatory framework and tariff agency.
But, even taking the small positive outcomes in the global environment into account the
overall outcome is unsatisfactory.

41.     The GEF objective of removing barriers to renewable energy, it has not been
achieved and no new sources of renewable energy have been built.                  The GEF
disbursement rate is, at the end of the project, low with less than 40%. The KPIs for the
GEF component have not been achieved.              The one redeeming future has been the
effective support for energy efficient lighting; however the overall outcome is
unsatisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

42.     PEAS's increases in access to power, water and sanitation have contributed to
poverty reduction. As a matter of fact, PEAS financed some 3,200 social connections to
power for poor families. It is unfortunate that such an initiative did not cover all targeted
stakeholders, especially the poor and most vulnerable households in Tarrafal and Praia.
Consequently, this missed opportunity resulted in lower social outcomes (in terms of
environment enhancement and social development). The rural electrification and major

                                                12

improvements of the roads network undertaken in parallel by the GoCV have brought
electricity to towns and villages throughout the country and improved mobility and
access to, among other, schools and markets. Moreover, the GoCV gave away 300,000
low-consumption lamps (financed by the GEF portion of the project) to families helping
to lower their electricity bills.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

43.     Within the Cape Verdean government, the DGIE still does not have the technical
means to efficiently manage the sector and exercise its supervisory role over ELECTRA
and PEAS did not provide enough attention on DGIE's capacity building. Institutional
change in the regulatory area has been slow and it has been poor in the privatization
policy area. The GoCV created the legislative basis for the power, water and sanitation
sector in 1999/2000, which did not exist. It was less effective in creating an independent
regulatory agency for the sector, which took until 2006. Strengthening the Instituto
Nacional de Gestão dos Recursos Hidricos (National Institute for Water Resource
Management ­ responsible for groundwater) was slow as was the strengthening of the
environmental agency and ministry.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

44.     To improve public health PEAS not only included an expansion of the water and
sewerage systems in urban areas to replace tanker trucks, old reservoirs, standpipes and
septic tanks, but also water treatment plants in Praia, Tarrafal and St Cruz among others.
The new treatment plant in Praia operated by ELECTRA has a capacity of 8,000-
14,000m3/day and uses gas from sludge to treat the sludge so that it can be used for
agricultural purposes. However, in part because the water supply is still inadequate (a
few hours/day), but more because connections to the expanded sewerage system are
expensive, only about 1,000 households are connected and the plant gets less than
1,500m3 of sewerage/day. This is insufficient to use the sludge processing part of the
plant. Also, some of the sophisticated purification sub-systems do not work. The end
result is that the sludge is dumped and the (semi-treated) effluent is pumped into the
ocean (some 1,000m3/day). Only by 2014 is the plant expected to treat some 9.000m3 of
sewerage. In Tarrafal, there are only 200 connections to the sewers and the (small
amount of) sewerage is made to bypass the large treatment plant and dumped in the ocean.
The plant is St. Cruz is also not used for similar reasons.

45.     ARE has not been able to regulate the connection costs (for water/sewerage)
charged by ELECTRA or come up with incentives to encourage household to connect to
the sewerage system. It is cheaper for household to use their (often self-built and not
normally serviced) septic tanks. Neither the intended impact on the environment from
the investment in the wastewater treatment plants, nor the projected economic return
(selling sludge and effluent) had been realized at closing.




                                             13

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

46.     There have not been further stakeholder workshops after the one in 1997
(paragraph 13). However, customers have various channels to discuss (or complain
about) power, water or sanitation services. ELECTRA has offices in most urban areas as
has ARE where customers can discuss their issues. As a matter of fact, ARE publishes
information leaflets about public services and the rights of customers. Finally, services
and tariffs are subject of debate in the National Assembly, and representatives of the
municipalities have a seat on the Board of ELECTRA.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome and Global Environment
Outcome
Rating: Substantial

47.     The GoCV is planning further expansion of power and water supply
(www.governo.cv/ Programa do Governo Para A VII Legislatura 2006-2011).               The
infrastructure built and/or rehabilitated under PEAS will allow the distribution of energy
and water to more consumers. The greatest risk will be, however, to find a balance
between tariffs that will be affordable for customers and at the same time enable utilities
to recover cost and improve earnings. The challenge for ARE will be to come up with a
more progressive tariff structure that's responsive to consumers of different income and
consumption levels. In addition, a financial risk remains with regards to ELECTRA and
to the guarantees provided by the Government. ELECTRA's financial situation remains
dire and its level of debt high and still needs to be addressed. The risk to the global
environment outcomes is relatively small although the challenge of untreated effluent
being dumped into the sea needs to be resolved. New power and desalination plants will
have cleaner technologies, planned investments in wind power will help reduce emissions,
and once the water treatment plants become fully operational, disposal of sewerage will
improve.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

48.     PEAS's design responded to the urgent needs of customers for more energy,
water and sewerage services.       Also, cooperation with other donors and with civil
representatives and government agencies was satisfactory during preparation and
appraisal. Three donors, the Austrian Government, the OPEC Fund, and the European
Union co-financed the Project. However, with the benefit of hindsight, it appears that
progress with a regulatory entity and framework was not sufficiently advanced, and the
analyses of ELECTRA's financial health and of the prospects of attracting investors for
the off-grid PV systems were overly optimistic. In addition, the costing of the wind
equipments was underestimated (in fairness, the devaluation of the USD against the euro

                                             14

and increasing international demand for wind power equipments were parameters that
were difficult to forecast at project preparation). The viability of the sewage plant was
not sufficiently analyzed. Connections for poor and vulnerable households should have
been highly subsidized and seen as contributing to improvements in public health.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Unsatisfactory

49.     The first supervision mission and the PMU agreed that future missions would be
conducted semi-annually. However, between the December 1999 effectiveness and the
December 2008 closing, there were 12 missions with in some cases intervals exceeding
18 months. Beginning in 2005, supervision missions actively addressed the unresolved
tariff setting issue, providing technical assistance to ARE, and including financial analyst
in supervisions. The Bank financed the services of a mediator to help resolve the
differences between the GoCV and the SP. In view of the difficulties with ELECTRA's
privatization and finances, management suggested to add the country economist to
supervision missions, and to perform a quality of supervision assessment (QSA). These
suggestions were not taken up. Overall, there was an intense, if ultimately unsuccessful,
supervision focus on salvaging the privatization experiment.

50.     There were four Task Team Leaders (TTLs) over the lifetime of the project (9
years) and although the energy and sanitary specialists provided continuity, there was
never a procurement specialist on the supervision missions to work with the PMU and
ELECTRA on the complicated procurement of the wind farm extension, nor were Social
Development or Environmental Specialists included to address the social and
environmental issues. As the Government's ICR indicates, the PMU at times did not
know which staff could be contacted to help with procurement, regulatory, social or
environmental issues. Moreover, the project languished for long periods with insufficient
proactivity of restructuring. The MTR was done at the right time, but did not push for
solutions with privatization and tariffs.

51.     All this said, it is important to point out that the project has suffered from very
negative external circumstances and the financial viability of ELECTRA and of the
GoCV have been severely affected by the increase in oil prices.            In addition, the
successful implementation of the project was predicated on the privatization of
ELECTRA and on implementation by the private operators. The Bank was very actively
involved in trying to bridge the differences between EDP and the authorities regarding
tariff adjustments and save privatization and the failure of the GoCV to put in place
adequate tariff setting mechanisms cannot be blamed on a lack of effort on the Bank part.
It is not clear if more intense supervision efforts and resources would have made a
significant difference.     The failure of privatization and the slow progress in the
establishment of adequate regulatory institutions and mechanisms must be put in the
context of similar problems with power/water sector reforms and privatization in Sub
Saharan Africa countries in the same period. The complete dependence of ELECTRA on
imported oil products for power generation and water production meant that the stress put
by the oil price shock on ELECTRA was even more severe than for other African utilities.


                                              15

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

52.     Bank performance in terms of working with the GoCV in establishing: (i) a
regulatory environment and authority; (ii) a commercially minded and responsive
supervisory Board for ELECTRA; and (iii) a tariff structure that provided incentives for
ELECTRA as well as for consumers, was not effective overall. In part because of the
lack of continuity in the TTLs and uneven skill composition of the task teams,
supervision was less effective than expected by the GoCV. PEAS was designed to make
major contribution to both social and environmental conditions with the renewable
energy projects, however inconsistencies about procurement procedures, paucity of
timely advice, and misunderstandings contributed to cancellation of these project
investments.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

53.     At the time of project preparation, in the late 90's, the prevailing enthusiasm for
private participation in infrastructure in developing countries was clear. However, the
delay with the preparation of the regulatory framework and the establishment of the
agency was to haunt the privatization of ELECTRA as well as the implementation of
PEAS. Throughout the privatization episode, the strength of GoCV commitment to
privatization and tariff reform remained in question. The government was committed to
protecting the consumers by keeping tariffs low. The resulting tariff did not reflect
commercial costs in an environment of rising oil prices. These conflicting policies
affected the success of ELECTRA's privatization and ELECTRA's performance has
worsened since the return to public ownership with a rapid rise in non-technical losses in
Praia. It is not clear if even at this time, the expertise of ELECTRA's Board is adequate
to deal with the many strategic difficulties in the planning, financing, billing, and
maintenance areas the utility is facing. The sector ministries and ARE have been only
partially effective in overseeing regulations, the utilities and tariffs, and environmental
protection. The government's performance in implementing PEAS was unsatisfactory
and there is a need for structural sector reforms in the ministries to improve oversight of
ELECTRA and the municipal utilities and for genuine independence of regulatory
agencies if investments in the water and electricity sectors are to generate the expected
benefits.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

54.     The PMU has been diligent in the fiduciary area and in reporting. It has worked
well with the other donors, but has been less proactive with ELECTRA, ARE, the sector
ministries and the Government. Although a number of issues are not fully under its
control, the PMU has to share the failure in coordinating the management and
procurement of the renewable energy projects with ELECTRA, the sector ministries and


                                               16

the Bank. Similarly, the agencies ­ ARE, INGRH and SEPA - have also shown uneven
performance. ELECTRA's performance has been unsatisfactory and part of that was due
to poor oversight by the Board, especially of the government and municipal
representatives who had golden shares in the company.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

55.     While preparation of PEAS by the PMU, ministries, agencies and the Government
showed strong commitment, these partners have been less effective in implementing the
Project. PEAS was not given the attention it required from DGIE, commensurate with
the level of resources provided to DGIE under PEAS. The dispute with the SP over
investment efficiency and tariff policy persisted for a large share of the life of the project,
and the underlying issues remained unresolved after Government resumed ownership of
ELECTRA in 2006. Parts of PEAS investments such as the extension of the water and
sewerage systems and the water treatment plants are not operational and do not generate
benefits. In the end, customers are not having their need for power, water and sanitation
met despite the investments made. The Government has to take its share of responsibility
for this unsatisfactory situation.

6. Lessons Learned

56.     Project preparation and quality at entry. Some issues could have been better
anticipated during project preparation.

        -   The underestimation of the difficulties and risks related to privatization
            had a significant impact on project implementation. While there was broad
            agreement on the overall privatization scheme, there was insufficient
            appreciation and consensus on among other issues, the tariff, and the duration
            and exclusiveness conditions of the concession agreement. Moreover, even
            after the agreement had been signed, disagreements persisted about the timing
            and size of investments, source and cost of finance/loans, tariffs, earnings and
            efficiency/performance standards. It is now widely accepted that an enabling
            condition for a successful privatization is to put in place a comprehensive,
            sound concession agreement (including tariff adjustment provisions) prior to
            signing a privatization contract.

        -   The project suffered from an unrealistic timeframe for the implementation
            of the legal and regulatory reform. Initiating the privatization process when
            the legal and regulatory framework has to be established from scratch is a
            major challenge. Although in retrospect, the sequencing of the legal and
            regulatory reform in relation to the privatization process could be called into
            question, the focus here is the insufficient time allocated to the establishment
            of the regulatory agency prior to project effectiveness. Experience from other
            countries has shown that, in principle, a role of the regulator is to play an
            honest-broker role, independently intermediating between the government and


                                             17

            operator. Its earlier establishment might have mitigated the many difficulties
            that impacted the privatization process.

        -   The implementation of the regulatory framework and entity was crucial for
            the success of this power/water project, but was designed and supported under
            a different IDA-financed project, which created some difficulties during
            implementation. The ingredients of successful utility regulation are largely
            sector specific and it appears important to have a strong and sustained input of
            sector experts in the design and supervision of activities in support to
            regulatory reform and capacity-building.

        -   With hindsight, the support to regulatory reform provided by the Bank under
            this project appears to have not been focused enough on the critical elements
            for the success of the project. One possible approach would have been to
            move forward with regulation by contract, which is a well established model
            for water utilities, and is used as well as for small power utilities.        A
            contractual tariff adjustment formula could have been agreed at the time of
            privatization. It would have set the indexing parameters for the first few years
            of privatization (e.g. five years), and established the broad principles for
            subsequent revisions. This would have left enough time to establish the sector
            regulator and build its capacity, which could have avoided the disputes
            between the GoCV and the SP over tariff adjustments that were the main
            source of failure of the privatization experiment.

        -   Finally, in retrospect, a strong policy and regulatory framework also
            needed to be in place to exploit opportunities for alternative energy, in
            order to deal in a satisfactory manner with demand-side issues. Cape Verde
            had excellent opportunities for alternative energies but a policy and regulatory
            framework conducive to renewable energy needed to be in place for wide
            scale adoption to be successful. Most potential users did not have enough
            incentives, or could not afford the initial investment in energy systems such as
            solar. It is imperative for the Government and donors to find a way to have
            customers take a longer view about their energy needs and costs and act upon
            incentives to invest in alternative energies to meet their needs. Similarly, the
            demand-side issues had not been sufficiently analyzed for the sanitation
            component.

57.     Putting in place robust and realistic tariff adjustment mechanisms is still
essential for the viability of the power and water sectors. Given observed oil price
volatility, ELECTRA should be able to pass on fully and without delays the variations of
oil prices to its customers. There is ample evidence that financially distressed utilities
react by cutting maintenance and reducing investments, and that their operational
performance tends to deteriorate as a result. The tariffs set by ARE, need to recognize
that ELECTRA's costs of operation are inherently high: providing electricity and water
services to nine inhabited islands (only three of which have any substantial demand)
presents ELECTRA with serious logistical challenges. In addition, ELECTRA will need
to meet the increase in demand and catch up with the lack of investments since 2003. In

                                              18

this context, the use of tariff methodologies and performance benchmarks developed for
distribution utilities in developed countries is not appropriate.

58.     Addressing the Social Dimension of utility services and affordability issues.
The issue of affordability, for the poorest consumers, has been a significant one at several
points in the implementation of this project (PV component, sanitation, tariff adjustment).
Given the positive externalities of sanitation, and the existence of underutilized
infrastructure, it is urgent to put in place adequate pricing incentives for increasing the
number of connections. Subsidizing the upfront connection fee would appear to be a
logical option.

59.     A more general concern, which the Authorities will always need to take into
consideration, is the inherent tension between seeking a cost-reflective tariff structure on
the one hand, and taking into account social and political considerations on the other.
The two most salient issues are (i) the existence of social features in the tariff, and (ii)
having a uniform national tariff. Regarding the first point, a `lifeline' tariff is already in
place in Cape Verde. In comparison with other most other SSA countries, this tariff is
narrowly targeted towards the smallest users. In particular, the benefit is limited to
consumers using less than 40 kWh per month. As a result, a consumer using 50 kWh per
month pays the same price per unit as a much larger and wealthier customer consuming
ten times as much. In principle, targeting the benefit of the lifeline tariff towards the
poorest users is commendable. The downside is that it could make it more difficult to
implement the needed tariff adjustments. As many other countries, Cape Verde has a
national uniform tariff for electricity, in spite of very significant differences in the cost of
supply between islands. Therefore, the overall financial viability of the utility depends
on its ability to generate surplus with the most profitable customers (commercial users in
islands supplied with HFO). Any decision regarding the scope of ELECTRA's operation
(expansion of services towards less profitable users, sub-concessioning services for some
islands) must be preceded by an analysis of its impact on ELECTRA's overall financial
viability.

60.     Improving ELECTRA's governance. As the major shareholder of ELECTRA,
the GoCV has the responsibility to appoint board members possessing the adequate
experience and commitment for the function, and to hold them accountable. In addition,
while the primary responsibility lies with ELECTRA's management, it will also require
an effective and sustained support of the GoCV (to combat fraud, disconnect users in
default, eliminate illegal connections, and reduce the arrears of municipalities). The
sectoral reform are unlikely to succeed without significant attention to governance,
notably to aligning incentives; promoting transparency and benchmarking; enforcing the
rule of law (especially to reduce non-technical losses).

61.     Lessons for the design of future Bank operations. A general lesson is that
projects should remain relatively simple. It appears important to limit the number of
activities and their complexity to take into account the implementation capacity of the
client, and the limitation on supervision resources.         This is especially the case for
components and sub-components that involve capacity and institution building, whose


                                               19

implementation is lengthy and can occupy a large part of the dialogue with the authorities.
One recommendation would be to focus on the institutional and regulatory issues that are
critical for the success of the project. A general support for sector reform, on the basis of
a weak commitment of the authorities, has limited probability of achieving the intended
results. Another key lesson is to address the issues of affordability and financial viability
at the project preparation stage. The implication is for instance to make sure that the
promotion of renewable energy, either is cost effective for the utilities or users, or is
supported by adequate transfer and subsidy mechanisms. This would also be the case for
other investments that expand services in areas for which the utility is not able to charge
cost-recovering tariffs (e.g. expanding access in rural areas for poor consumers). The fact
that the provision of social services has a cost for the utility and that it needs to be able to
cross-subsidy these services or be compensated by other means is essential. It appears
also important to focus on investments that increase the efficiency of the utility (for
instance by lowering generation cost, or water production costs). Such investments often
have the benefit of expanding supply and lowering costs at the same time.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

62.     A summary of the Borrower's implementation completion report is provided in
Annex 7. The report provides primarily detailed information and explanations of what
was accomplished by component. Among the few issues the report raises are delays in
no-objection, the question of the skill mix of the supervision team, and the fact that
several missions comprised just the TTL instead of a team of different experts such as
procurement, social and environmental safeguards specialists (paragraph 44).               The
Borrower's ICR emphasizes the increases in coverage achieved during the life of the
project and concludes that PEAS' contribution to the power, water and sanitation sectors
was satisfactory.

(b) Co financiers
(no comments obtained yet)

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(no comments obtained yet)




                                             20

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
CV-Energy & Water SIL (FY99) - P040990

                               Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest
          Components                                                Percentage of
                                  (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                       millions)     Appraisal

POWER SECTOR REFORM
& DEVELOPMENT                           9.15                5.04       55.1%

REFORM AND
DEVELOPMENT OF WATER                   12.38              16.26       127.0%
SECTOR
SANITATION
DEVELOPMENT                             5.61                6.49      115.7%

PROJECT COORDINATION
AND MONITORING                          2.32                2.07       89.2%

RENEWABLE ENERGY
PROMOTION &                             9.33
DEVELOPMENT


CV-GEF Energy & Water SIL (FY99) - P042054
                                                     Actual/Latest
          Components           Appraisal Estimate                   Percentage of
                                  (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                       millions)     Appraisal

RENEWABLE ENERGY
PROMOTION &                             4.7                 1.83       38.9%
DEVELOPMENT


            Total Baseline Cost       43.49
Physical Contingencies                  3.23

Price Contingencies                     1.27

            Total Project Costs        48.00              31.69        66.0%
PPF                                     1.50




                                          21

(b) Financing
                            Appraisal Actual/Latest

         Source of Funds    Estimate   Estimate    Percentage of
                             (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                            millions)  millions)

GOVERNMENT OF CAPE
VERDE                           3.53       2.34       66.3%



INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION       17.52       16.18       92.5%
(IDA)


ELECTRA, SA                     7.65       2.83       37.0%


EUROPEAN UNION (EU)             7.54       3.74       49.6%


AUSTRIAN GOVERNMENT             0.76       0.76      100.0%


GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY (GEF)                  4.71       1.83       38.9%



OPEC FUND                       4.51       4.00       88.7%


PRIVATE CONCESSIONAIRES         1.77       0.00




Total Project Costs           48.00       31.69       66.0%




                                 22

    Annex 2. Outputs by Goals and Objectives

  Project Goals, PDOs, GEF                 Key Performance                            Project Outputs
  Objectives, and outputs at                    Indicators
             appraisal.
Sector-related CAS Goals             1. Full privatization of the power  1. Partially achieved. ELECTRA was 51%
Promote sustainable development by   sector                              privatized in 2000/2001, but ELECTRA's
encouraging public-private                                               privatization failed and GoCV recuperated
partnership in provision of economic                                     majority equity in 2006.
infrastructure.                      2. Private participation in largest 2. Thirteen (13) autonomous local utilities
                                     municipal water companies.          have been established.
                                     3. Government subsidy for           3. No subsidies were provided to
                                     ELECTRA is phased out by 2000       ELECTRA between 2000 and 2003 but
                                                                         from 2003, subsidies were to be provided
                                                                         again due to the lack of adequate
                                                                         adjustment tariff formula.

Global Environment Objective         4. At least 15 % of all electricity 4. No additional electricity generated by
Mitigation of climate change through generated by renewable energy       renewable energy by the year 2003.
reduction of greenhouse gas          by the year 2003                    Renewable energy penetration in 2008 is
emissions                                                                less than 3%.

                                     5. Savings of 6,500 tons of         5. Maximum savings over the course of the
                                     petroleum products in 2004          project was 1,700 tons of petroleum
                                     (substituted with renewable         products in 2006, equivalent to about 4,500
                                     energy), equivalent to 19,000 tons  tons of CO2
                                     of C02.
Project Development Objectives       1. Household access to electricity  1. Household access to electricity increased
(i) Improved access to energy, water increasing as follows (in %):       as follows (in %):
and improved sanitation services                 98      02       07                  98      02       07     08
with optimum use of renewable        Praia       69      80       90     Praia        76      65       79     81
resources and promotion of private   Mindelo 92          95        99    Mindelo      92      82       96     99
sector participation.
                                     2. Household access to water        2. Household access to water increased as
                                     increasing as follows (in %):       follows (in %):
                                                 2000      02        07             2000       02       07    08
(ii) Increased operational and end-  Praia       30       50        65   Praia       22        28       45    45
use efficiency in the power and      Mindelo 57           80       90    Mindelo      51       53       59     61
water sectors.
                                     3. Household access to sanitation   3. Household access to sanitation
                                     increasing as follows (in %):       increasing as follows (in %):
                                                 2000     02        07              2002            07       08
                                     Praia        8      10        30    Praia        9              17      18


GEF Objectives                       4. The penetration of wind power    4. The penetration of wind power on the
Under GEF OP#6, remove the           on the three main grids (Praia,     three main grids has decreased to less than
barriers gto grid connected wind     Mindelo & Sal) averages 19% by      3% in 2008 (coming from existing wind
generation and off-grid PV electric  2002.                               farms)
systems                              5. 4,500 households gain access     5. No households connected to off-grid
                                     to electricity from off-grid        solar PV system.
                                     renewable sources.


                                                      23

                               6. Cost recovery achieved for      6. Not achieved
                               water distribution in 2002
                               (without subsidy)

                               7. Water losses declining as       7. Water losses changed as follows (in %):
                               follows (in %):
                                          2000     02        07             2000       02      07    08
                               Praia      23       18       15    Praia      29        34      33     38
                               Mindelo 25          18       15    Mindelo 24           23      30     25

Project Outputs

(1) Privatized ELECTRA         1.1 ELECTRA privatized by          1.1 Contract with the Strategic Partner was
with improved commercial       December 1999                      signed in 2001 but ELECTRA's
viability and establishment                                       privatization failed and GoCV recuperated
of an efficient &                                                 majority equity in 2006.
independent regulatory
entity.                        1.2 More than 90% of committed     1.2 60% of planned investments by
                               investments by ELECTRA             ELECTRA privatized were made between
                               privatized materialize in a timely 2001-2006 (of which 85% in 2001 and
                               manner.                            2002)

                               1.3 100% of former ELECTRA &       1.3 About 60% of employees had been
                               EMAP employees trained by the      trained by 2003.
                               privatized Electra by 2003.

                               1.4 Revenue targets for privatized 1.4 Revenue targets for privatized
                               ELECTRA are met.                   ELECTRA were not set or met.

                               1.5 89 electricity customers per   1.5 120 electricity customers per
                               ELECTRA employee by 2003,          ELECTRA employee by 2003 (and 181 by
                                                                  2007 and 184 by 2008)

                               1.6 Rate of return on Electra's    1.6 Rate of return on ELECTRA's assets
                               assets increases to 8% in 2003     decreased to -2.6% in 2003 and -10 by
                                                                  2007)

                               1.7 Power/water regulatory entity  1.7 (1st) Power/water regulatory entity
                               fully operational by 12/99         established by 2000. (2nd) entity operational
                                                                  by 2003, and fully operational by 2006.

(2) Increased electricity      2.1 7.2 MW new wind capacity is    2.1 Not achieved.
demand met by private          added to the existing system.
sector involvement in
developing grid-connected      2.2 Photovoltaic systems           2.2 Not achieved.
wind power and                 commercialized by at least 2
photovoltaic systems for       private enterprises by 2002.
decentralized rural areas.


(3) Increased quantity,        3.1 Per capita water consumption   3.1 Per capita water consumption
quality and reliability of     rising as follows (1/d)            changed as follows (1/d)
drinking water for Praia                  2000     02       07              2000     02       07
and Mindelo, integrated        Praia      35      60       80     Praia      65      62       47
multisectoral water            Mindelo 35         50       90     Mindelo 41         41       34
resource strategy and          Assomada 42        50       50     Assomada na         na      77

                                               24

strengthened regulatory              3.2 Water quality meets WHO          3.2 Water quality meets WHO Standards.
framework for water sector.          Standards.
                                                                          3.3 Satisfactory regulatory framework for
                                     3.3 Satisfactory regulatory          water/sanitation sector in place since 2006
                                     framework for water/sanitation
                                     sector in place by 12/99

                                     3.4 Four secondary centers water     3.4 Five secondary centers water utilities
                                     utilities have been strengthened     have been strengthened by 2000, and 13 by
                                     by 2000, and 8 by year 2007          year 2007

                                     3.5 Groundwater use and quality      3.5 Groundwater use and quality fully
                                     fully monitored nationwide by        monitored nationwide by INGRH since
                                     INGRH by year 2003                   year 2003


(4) Increased coverage of sanitation 4. At least 5% of wastewater in      4. None of wastewater in Praia is
systems in Praia and improved        Praia is recovered for irrigation or recovered for irrigation or other purposes.
recovery of wastewater               other purposes.




                                                     25

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

For the water investment component, the PAD had estimated the following financial and
economic results based on projections of costs, revenues and benefits directly related to
the project:

                                 NPV (CVE million)            IRR
Financial analysis               -326                         3%
Economic analysis                797                          42%

Due to the lack of project specific data for the ICR, we have calculated financial and
economic NPV and IRR for the water business of ELECTRA as a whole.                    These
indicators are based on overall investments in the water sector and incremental costs and
benefits related to those investments since 1999. All analysis is in real CVE of 1999 and
uses a 12% discount rate. Because of the different methodology used, these figures are
not comparable to the estimates above. In the projections beyond 2008, it is assumed that
water sales and operating cost increase by an average of 3% per year, while the tariff
remains constant, all in real terms. The main difference between the financial and
economic analyses is that the former relies on actual tariffs while the latter uses a higher
estimated willingness to pay for piped water.

                                 NPV (CVE million)            IRR
Financial analysis               99                           13%
Economic analysis                993                          24%

On the basis of this analysis, the water investment component of the project (as a part of
overall investment in the water sector of Cape Verde) is viable financially and
economically. The number of ELECTRA water customers almost doubled from 16,534
in 2000 to 32,172 in 2008, significantly improving access to clean water. However, it
appears that supply of clean water could not keep up with increased connections as
consumption per capita dropped by 33% during the same period.

For the sanitation component, the PAD had estimated an NPV of 96 ECV million and an
IRR of 27%. We were not able to calculate similar indicators for the ICR due to lack of
data.

For the Power Sector Reform and Development component of the project, the main
financial and economic benefits were expected to be derived from the restructuring and
more efficient management associated with the privatization of Electra. Those benefits
were not quantified in the PAD; instead, a theoretical discussion of the economic costs
and benefits of utility privatization had been presented. Given that the privatization
failed, that Electra was returned to full public ownership by 2008 and that several
performance indicators have actually deteriorated, it is reasonable to conclude that this
component has not been successful from financial and economic perspectives.



                                             26

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

           Names                         Title             Unit   Responsibility/
                                                                     Specialty
Lending
Philippe Durand           Lead Energy Specialist         AFTG1  Team Leader

Matar Fall                Lead Water and Sanitation Spec AFTU2  Water & Sanitation
                                                                Specialist
Noureddine Bouzaher       Senior energy Economist        AFTG1  Economic analysis
Richard Spencer                                          IENDP  Renewable energy
Susana Hristodoulakis                                           Project cost

Magaye Gaye                                                     Financial
                                                                Management

Agilson Perazza           Consultant                            Environmental
                                                                impact assessment
Serge Pagnucco                                                  Financial Analysis
Supervision/ICR
Noureddine Bouzaher       Senior energy Economist       AFTTG1  Team Leader
Sam O'Brien               Senior energy Specialist       AFTEG  Team Leader
Fanny Kathinka Missfeldt-
Ringius                   Sr Energy Econ.                AFTEG  Team Leader

Boris Utria                                              AFTEG  Team Leader
Stephan Claude Frederic
Garnier                   Senior energy Specialist       AFTEG  Team Leader

Amadou Tidiane Toure      Lead Procurement Specialist    SARPS  Procurement
                                                                Specialist

Bourama Diaite            Senior Procurement Specialist  AFTPC  Procurement
                                                                Specialist
Fabrice Karl Bertholet    Financial Analyst              AFTEG  Financial Analyst

Fily Sissoko              Sr Financial Management               Financial
                          Specia                         LCSFM  Management
Luz Meza-Bartrina         Sr Counsel                     LEGAF

Matar Fall                Lead Water and Sanitation             Water & Sanitation
                          Spec                           AFTU2  Specialist
Sylvia Michele Diez       Operations Officer             ETW
Seynabou Thiaw Seye                                             Program Assistant
Lu Ha                                                    AFTEG  Program Assisatnt




                                          27

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                 Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                No. of staff weeks   USD Thousands (including
                                                     travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY98                                                            0.00
  FY99                                                            0.00
  FY00                                                            0.00
                        Total:                                    0.00
Supervision/ICR
  FY00                                 11                        40.54
  FY01                                 11                        33.51
  FY02                                   7                       26.95
  FY03                                 18                        79.91
  FY04                                 16                        69.31
  FY05                                 24                       129.07
  FY06                                 13                       112.23
  FY07                                 17                         2.06
  FY08                                   5                        0.00
                        Total:        122                       493.58




                                    28

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)




                                    29

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)




                                  30

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                         PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
                                      April 17, 2009
                                  Inacio Mendes Pereira
                                Unidade de Coordenação
                  PROGRAMA ENERGIA, AGUA E SANEAMENTO
                                         (PEAS)

                                   Summary in English

I.      Introduction. PEAS was part of the 1997-2000 National Development Plan to
reform the power, water and sanitation sectors. PEAS objectives were: improve the
supply of power, water and sanitation systems; increase operational and end-use
efficiency in the power and water sectors: lessen the barriers to the development of
renewable energy resources; and foster sound management of water resources. The cost
was US$ 48.0 million, financed by the GoCV, IDA, EU, Austria, OPEC, ELECTRA and
Private Operators. It had 5 components.

II.     Performance Indicators. PEAS had 26 Key Performance Indicators, five for
sector-related CAS Goal, six for the PDO and GEF operational program objective, and 11
for project outputs.

III     Purpose of the Report.       To provide IDA and the GoCV a report of the
implementation, the technical, financial and administrative coordination by UCPEAS,
and the results obtained.

IV.     Results and Impact of PEAS. A. Energy Sector - Sector reform included the
passing of (new) laws ­ Lei # 54/99; 75/99; 5/99; and 76/99 - for power, natural
resources, water and regulations. Privatization of ELECTRA was realized when EDP and
IPE ­ Agua de Portugal - purchased respectively 31% and 20% of shares in ELECTRA in
2000. Between 2001 and 2006 an estimated US$ 79.0 million was invested in power
generation and transmission and desalination (Table 4.1).       However, ELECTRA's
revenues stayed in the red (US$ 8.0 million in 1999 and US$ 18.0 million in 2007).
Access to power expanded to 81% in Praia and 99% in Mindelo by 2008. The extension
of the wind farms was aborted and wind power continued to contribute only around 3%
nationwide. Regulatory reform was first managed by ARM and subsequently by ARE.
Besides some 3,200 social connections and 300,000 low-energy lamps conservation made
little headway.

        B. Water and Sanitation Sector - Reforms of the water and sanitation sector
included studies of the water tariff in Praia and the extension and rehabilitation of the
primary and secondary infrastructure (some 20,000 meters of new pipes for water and
30,000 meters for sewerage).      It included the construction of new reservoirs and
replacement of water mains in Praia, Mindelo, Assomada, Tarrafal, Chao Bom, Ribeira
da Prata and purchase of garbage trucks.        The water treatment plant in Praia was


                                            31

renovated and expanded, but operates below optimum levels. Thirteen new municipal
utilities have been established to service customers in S. Nicolau, Santo Antao, Maio,
Fogo, Brava. Technical assistance was extended to INGRH and to ELECTRA.

        C.   Program Management - The project coordination unit managed procurement,
studies, technical assistance and coordination with other agencies. ELECTRA in 2006
completed the environmental clean-up of its generation sites (Table 4.8) and INGRH
began testing water quality in 2004. The UCPEAS produced annual reports to inform
Bank supervision missions about implementation progress. Supervision missions were
however not bi-annual and several comprised only the TTL or the energy or sanitation
specialist. UCPEAS also managed the project accounts which were audited annually by
an independent auditor.

        D    Sector Financing - A total of US$ 37.22 million was disbursed of the
US$ 48.0 million project cost estimated at appraisal. IDA financed 43.5%, the EU 22.6%,
OPEP 10.7%, ELECTRA, SA 7.6%, the GoCV 6.2%, GEF 4.9%, and Austria 4.3% of
the project cost.

V.      Performance of Partners. IDA during implementation was slow in issuing no-
objections for procurement. Also, the skill-mix of the teams was uneven after 2003
which slowed implementation. Finally, the frequent changes in TTL (four) also required
that the UCPEAS had to bring TTLs up-to-date on implementation which was time-
consuming.     ELECTRA SA. performance was marked by delays with the planned
investments in power and water and particularly with regard to the wind farm extension
sub-project which had to be postponed and eventually cancelled. The OPEC Fund
showed considerable flexibility in allowing its funds which were planned for Tarrafal to
be used for the social connections in Praia. Both the EU and the Austrian Cooperation
were effective and timely in their financing, implementation and supervision of their
investments.    The performance of the GoCV, municipalities, sector ministries and
agencies was uneven. The UCPEAS performed satisfactory.

VI      Global Evaluation. PEAS was well designed and was to make a substantial
contribution to national development in the power, water and sanitation sectors. Initial
implementation was slow, characterized by the issues surrounding the privatization of
ELECTRA. By October 2002 at the MTR about 60% of the physical aspects of the
project had been implemented, but only 33% of the project funds had been disbursed.
The performance of ELECTRA held up implementation for most of the life of PEAS.
Four extensions were necessary to compensate for delays. The water and sanitation
component was well implemented except the operation of the water treatment plants.
Sector reform was slow, but by completion most reforms had been put into place. At
closing about 66% of the funds had been used which is moderately unsatisfactory.

VII     Final Conclusions. The water and sanitation component has made a contribution
to improving services in these areas. Also, the provision of power by ELECTRA has
improved nation-wide. Municipal utilities have improved services in secondary towns
and villages. Despite several constraints, particularly the need for further restructuring of


                                            32

ELECTRA, PEAS has made a satisfactory contribution to the power, water and sanitation
sectors.

VIII    Lessons Learned. The solar power sub-project was poorly conceived in terms of
responding to the socio-economic situation with the intended customers probably too
poor to pay. It was also problematic to have the financing of the wind farm extension
sub-project depend on a company which operated at a loss for years on end. Also, the
limited expertise in municipalities to manage utilities and the investments in water and
sanitation systems slowed the implementation. Procurement was delayed by having to
wait for no-objection from the bank which took often several months. The extension of
the closing date allowed the GoCV to delay its allocation of counterpart funds. Cape
Verde had no experience or models for utility regulations it could use to establish the
legal and regulatory framework for the sector. Local businesses benefitted from working
with foreign ones in the public works projects. Also, the international procurement of
plant and equipment was beneficial for local companies and ELECTRA to acquaint
themselves with new technologies and standards.


Annexes:       List of Studies conducted

               Table 4.1      Investments made by ELECTRA, SA

               Table 4.3a     Performance Indicators ­ power and water

               Table 4.4      Performance Indicators ­ renewable energy

               Table 4.8      Mitigating measures of the Environmental Protection Plan

               Table 4.17     Overall achievement of PDO Indicators




Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
(no comments obtained yet)


                                           33

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

   1.      Agencia de Regulacao Economica ­ ARE. Agency for Economic
           Regulation, Republic of Cape Verde, Legal Framework for Independent
           Regulatory Agencies.

   2.      Agencia de Regulacao Economica ­ ARE. Servicos Publicos ­ O que os
           utentes precisam saber?

   3.      Government of Cape Verde. Conselho de Ministros Decreto-Lei No 75/99,
           De 30 de Dezembro; Decreto-Lei No 54/99 de 30 de Agosto; Decreto-Lei
           No 30/2006 de 12 de Junho; Lei No. 41/II/84 de 18 de Junho.

   4.      Republica de Cabo Verde. Programa Energia, Agua e Saneamento, Unidade
           de Coordenacao. Relatorio ­ De desempenho do Programa, referente ao
           Ano de 2007, Janeiro de 2008.

   5.      Cape Verde ­ Energy and Water Sector Reform and Development Project
           Project Appraisal Document, Africa Region.

   6.      Development Credit Agreement, Energy and Water Sector Reform and
           Development Project between REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE and
           INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION Dated June 3, 1999
           CREDIT NUMBER 3205 CV.

   7.      GEF Trust Fund grant Number TF022458 Trust Fund Grant Agreement
           Energy and Water Sector Reform and Development Project
           Trust Fund Grant Agreement Energy and Water Sector Reform and
           Development Project) between REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE and
           INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
           DEVELOPMENT Dated June 3, 1999.

   8.      Supervision Reports, ISRs and aide memoires.

   9.      Program Completion Report, Inacio Mendes Pereira, Unidade de
           Coordenacao, April 15, 2009.




                                        34

