Docmueit of
The World Bank
FOR OMFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 8753
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 855-IN)
JUNE 15, 1990
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department IV
Asia Regional Office
This docutent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Banik authorlation.



,          ,MB=L KQITAL 
US$ 1.00 - Rupees (Rs) 8.6 (SAR - Sept. 1978)
(Rs) 12.5 (March 1986)
Q03RMBU T OF TNDIA FISCATs YEA
SAU and GOI April 1 to March 31
WFITHTS AnD MFEASURES
Metric System
AlEFBVTIATIONS
DDG      -    Deputy Director General
DOA     -    Department of Agriculture
GOI     -    Government of India
ICAR    -    Indian Council of Agricultural Research
ISP     -    Interdisciplinary Scientific Panel
NAARM   -    National Academy for Agricultural
Research Management
NARP    -    National Agricultural Research Project
NDO-     -    New Delhi Office, IBRD
PFC     -    Project Funding Committee
PU      -    Project Unit
SAU     -    State Agricultural Universities



FOR OFCAUSONY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
US.A.
Oficef dOvctorGwmal
Opqa#tif Evatun
June 15, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on India National
Agricultural Research Proiect (Credit 855-IN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on India - National Agricultural Research
Project (Credit 855-IN)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office. An
audit of this project is under preparation by the Operations
Evaluation Department and will be issued shortly.
Attachment
This document has a resticted dislribution and way be used by rewpients only in the performance
of their oflcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dislksod without World Bank authofization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
INDTA
NATIONAL AGRICUTTURAL REAUARCH PRQT3-rT f REI-TT 855-TM
PRJECT COMPLE-TI0N REPORT
Table gf Contgntg
PREFACE  .         ........................................... 
BASIC DATA  SHEET  .........................................
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  ........................................ iv
I.   INTRODUCTION AND BACKGROUND ............................ 1
II.   PROJECT FORMULATION .................................. 3
III.   PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION ................................ 6
IV. PROJECT IMPACT ................................                                               7
V.   INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE .............................. 9
TABLES:
Table  1.   Related  IDA Credits ........................... 12
Table  2.   Project Timetable ........................... 14
Table  3.   Credit Disbursements .......................... 15
Table  4.   Project  Implementation ........................ 16
Table  5.   Project Costs and Financing  .................... 17
Project Costs .............................. 17
Project  Financing ........................... 18
Table 6. Status of Covenants .19
Table 7. Use of Bank Resources                                 ..20
Staff Inputs                             ..20
Missions                               ..21
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(CREDIT 855-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the National
Agricultural Research Project for which IDA Credit 855-IN in the
amount of US$27.0 million was approved on October 10, 1978.   The
Credit was closed on September 30, 1985, following a two-year
extension.   US$7.5 million of the Credit was cancelled and final
disbursement was on May 2, 1986.
This PCR was prepared by the Agriculture Operations Division,
Country Department IV, of the Asia Regional Office.   The report is
based on the data contained in a PCR prepared by the Indian Council of
Agricultural Research, a review of the Staff Appraisal and President's
Reports, loan documents, and of supervision reports and correspondence
on file.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department
(OED). The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower on March 29, 1990, for
comments by May 17, 1990, but none were received.



INDTA
NATIONAL AGRiCULT RAL REV-ASIR     PROJECT
(Credit 855-IN)
PROJCT  OMPLETIOn RRPORT
BASIC DATA -NEE
KEY PROJEC=T flATA
Appraisal         Actual or          Actual as % of
_t-g*m                gxu.at.na    Currant Estimate   Apprainal Kntimate
Total Project Costs (USS million)         54.0              44.0                  81
Credit Amount (USS million)               27.0              19.5                  72
Disbursed (USS million)                                  19.5
Cancelled (USS million)                                   7.5
Physical Targets
Background Papers                      15               22                    147
Research Reviews                       15               16                    107
Research Subprojects                   56               86                    154
Consultant Man-months                 160                79                    49
Date Physical Components Completed       30 Sept. 1983      30 Sept. 1985         -
institutional Performance                                  Satisfactory
_IJMTILATIVE ESTIMATED AN_   ACTUAL DISBURS-MENTS
FY 7£EBf E7Ei £XY8    E    -EY84 mi  FX   E£X
Appraisal Estimate (USS million)          0.9   3.8   9.2 17.5  27.0  27.0  27.0 27.0
Actual (USS million)                       -    0.4   1.6  4.7   7.0  11.4  15.0  19.5
Actual as % of Appraisal (%)               -   10.5  17.4 26.9  25.9  42.0  55.5 72.0
Date of Final Disbursement:                              May 2, 1986
PROJECT DATES
Original
Plan       .avisign          8sLwa
Identification (Project Brie~:1                  5/76      3/77 and 9/77       11/77
Preparation                                      2/78             -             2/78
Appraisal                                         3/78            -             3/78
Negotiations                                      8/78            -             8/78
Board Approval                                  10/78             -            10/78
Signing (Credit Agreement Date)                 12/78             -            12/78
Effectiveness                                    2/79             -             1/79
Closing Date                                      9/83           9/85           9/85



- i$i -
STFYPA_NPtJ?S (Staff weeks)
EX2  EIU   Wal  EMA  EXM   E=h  £X     EXli MX     2=a1
identitication/
Preparation                 38                                                         38
Appraisal                          140                                                  140
Negotiations                                3                                             3
Supervision                                11      13    5      1'.'   20    18    32   118
Subtotal                    38   140    14      13    5      19    20    18    32  299
MSSON 1DATA
Date   No. of  Specializations   Performance   Types of
(I/yXrl   &XSa=    Represontad a/    Rating h   Pr4blam c
Identification/         8/76-8/77   7    AE, AP, EC, ED,           -
Preparation                              PB, AG2
Appraisal                3/78        5    AG2, EC, AE, E           -             -
Negotiations             8/78        -
Board Approval          10/78        -            -                -            -
Supervision       I     12/78        2     AG2                     1            M
Supervision      II      3/79        3    AG2, EC                  1            M
Supervision    III       9/79        1    AE                       2            M
Supervision      IV      3/80        3    AE, AG, RES              2            M
Supervision       v     10/80        1    AG                       2            M
Supervision      VI      3/81        2    AE, RES                  2            0
Supervision    VII      10/81        3    AE, AG2                  2            M
Supervision   VIII       4/82        3    AE, AG                   2            T, M
Supervision      IX     10/82        4    AG4                      2            T
Supervision       X      6/83        2     AG2                     2            T
Supervision      XI      3/84        4    AG4                      2            T
Supervision    XII       9/84        5    AG4, AE                  2            T
Supervision   XIII       6/85        4    AG4                      2            T, M
A/  AE   Agricultural Economist, AP - Animal Production Specialist, EC   Economist,
ED   Education Specialist, PB - Plant Breeder, AG = Agriculturalist, E - Engineer,
RES   Research Administrator.
~/   I - Problem free, 2 - Minor proble...s.
M - Management, T = Technical, 0 = Other.
OTHER PROJEC? DATA
Borrower:                       Sovernument of India
Executing Agency:               tndian Council of Agricultural Research
Fiscal Year of Borrower:        April 1 - March 31
Name of Currency:               Pupee (Rs)
Follow-On Project:
Name                       National Agricultural Research Project II
Credit Number              1631-IN
Amount (US$ million)       72.1
Approval Date              October 22, 1985



- iv -
INDIA
RATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT (Cr. 855-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summrv
General
1.       This Project Completion Report (PCR) was prepared by the Asia
Regional Staff. It is based on a comprehensive draft PCR prepared by the
Borrower, together with the Staff Appraisal Report, President's Report and
supervision reports and correspondence. It suamarizes the key successes and
difficulties of the National Agricultural Research Project (NARP) in
supporting improrements to India's agricultural research system. The project
was designed by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) and IDA,
with assistance from several State Agricultural Universities (SAUs).
Oblectives
2.       NARP was developed to help strengthen agricultural research at SAUs.
Through the SAUs, it was intended to decentralize research to various
geographic areas in the states, specifically to identify different agro-
ecological zones, their unique crop production requirements and priority
needs for research. Particular attention was to be given to cereals, pulses
and oilseeds production under rainfed and mixed farming systems. An
important objective also was to strengthen the linkages between research and
extension, with effective liaison between farmers and researchers through
extension staff. All SAUs were eligible to participate, provided they
complied with GOI/ICAR salaries and recruitment procedures, were willing to
recruit experienced staff, and had established satisfactory linkages with
state extension services. The project was considered timely in that it aimed
to strengthen research into new technologies at the same time as IDA was also
assisting GOI to reform and strengthen state agricultural extension .services.
3.       It was proposed that the Credit finance; research subprojects,
including civil works, equipment, incremental staff and operating expenses;
strengthening of SAU research administration, including incremental staff and
training, and organizing zonal workshops; and administrative costs of a
Project Unit at che ICAR.
Implementation
4.       Responsibility for organization and supervision of the project
rested with ICAR. A Project Funding Committee (PFC) was establishEd in ICAR
to approve subprojects and monitor project execution. The PFC was advised by
an Interdisciplinary Scientific Panel (ISP) of eminent scientists. The
Project Unit served as secretariat to the PFC and ISP. Implementation of
subprojects was the responsibility of the participating SAUs. The SAUs
prepared subproject proposals, which were reviewed by the Project Unit and
the ISP. Based on their recommendations, subprojects were approved by the
PFC and the funds were released by the ICAR.
5.       Implementation was to be over five years, from 1978 to 1983.
Progress was slow initially because of the ineligibility of 12 SAUs until
early 1980, delays in land acquisition and civil works, slow recruitment of
staff for zonal research stations, and inadequate staff in the Project Unit.



In addition, the overall concept of the project -- decentralization and
formulation of subprojects in consultation with extension services -- was not
fully appreciated. Supported by ICAB-organized workshops to explain the new
concept, it took almost three years to address these issues.
6.       The importance of decentralized research was well understood by the
project completion date in March 1983. Systematic formulation of research
programs, based on local farmers' (zonal) needs, was becoming established.
Continuation of IDA support at that stage was considered crucial to
consolidating the project's objectives. Therefore, the Closing Date was
extended by two years, from September 30, 1983 to September 30, 1985. By the
latter date, 109 subprojects were in various stages of implementation by 21
SAUs; 17 subprojects had operated for five years, and 65 had been taken up
during the two years extension.
7.       Notwithstanding the slow startup, the main objectives of research
decentralization and an improved system of research selection were achieved.
Research administration at the national and state levels was strengthened.
Comprehensive assessments of research needs for each selected agro-ecological
zone were made. Implementation of research subprojects was generally good.
with emphasis being given to the development of high yielding, and drought
and pest resistant varieties. New varieties, cropping patterns and
management techniques were developed and recommended by zonal research
stations for rice, groundnuts, pulses and vegetables. There were substantial
improvements in the focus and quality of agriculture research overall. On
the other hand, the pace and quality of some research were hindered by
inadequate operational funding by the states. Also, closer liaison between
researchers and extension staff will be necessary as research efforts are
targeted to the problems of more discrete agro-ecological subzones.
Sustainabilitv
8.       Aside from the slow startup, project formulation underestimated
difficulties with land acquisition, government constraints on fees payable to
local consultants, and the posting of staff to zonal research statiQns in the
interior where health, education and other facilities are often unavailable.
Unless salaries, fees and other conditions are enhanced, some of the stations
will continue to lack experienced staff and technical support, with a
concommitant shortfall in the quality of research and in benefits accruing to
investments under the project. Similarly, sustainability cannot be assured
unless the state governments and SAUs provide continued and adequate
budgetary funding for the zonal research programs. In the absence of such
funding, infrastructure created and trained staff will remain underutilized,
and research, which usually takes a long time to generate results, may become
further delayed.
9.       These observations suggest that in designing agricultural research
projects, the Bank should give consideration to financing not only investment
costs per se, but both incremental and non-incremental recurrent costs to
help ensure that all operational funding needs of such projects are met for
at least 10 years. In this way, continuity of research and maximum benefits
from expenditures already incurred are more likely to be realized.
Findings and Lessons
10.      For research work to be effective, scientists should involve local
extension staff in identifying farmers problems so that relevant programs are
designed to address them. Inadequate funding of recurrent costs by state
governments and lack of incentives to attract qualified research staff in
some remote areas slowed project implementation.



NATTONAL ACRTCULTt!UAL, AR~SEROU PROJECT
(CREDIT 855-TN)
PROJRCT rOMPT-iTQN REP
1.  INTRODUCTIOi AM AACKCIROUQD
1.1   A draft PCR, which forms the basis of this PCR, was prepared by the Indian
Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) in 1988. In addition, this report is
based on a review of the World Bank Appraisal Report (SAR No. 2083), the
Development Credit Agreement dated December 7, 1978, World Bank supervision
reports and project files.
Agri cultuire in India
1.2   India has a geographical area of 328.7 million hectares of which 46.6% was
cultivated during 1982-83. The population of India which was about 630 million
in 1978, and growing at an annual rate of 2.2% ia estimated to have increased to
about 800 by 1988. The average per capita annual income is currently estimated
at arouad US$270 against USS150 in 1976.
1.3   Agriculture is the dominant sector of the Indian economy and contributes
over a third of the country's GDP, engages about two-thirds of the labor force
and accounts for about a quarter of the country's merchandise exports. The
average size farm holding is only about two hectares. Farmers with less than one
hectare of land occupy approximately 57% of the holdings and about 30% of the
rural population are landless agricultural laborers.
1.4   Despite the endeavors and the impressive results of t'  Green Revolution
primarily in wheat and rice production -- the annual overall growth in foodgrain
production remains almost equal to the population growth. Indian agriculture
still continues to be susceptible to the vagaries of weather and foodgrain
production oscillates as much as 15-20% between successive years. tlthough
expansion of irrigation to reduce this variation remains a priority, Government
of India estimates (optimistically) that by 2000 AD the country will still have
45% of its cultivable land under rainfed agriculture. Therefore, about half of
the farmers will not benefit from the irrigation intensive technologies developed
since the early sixties. The bulk of the production of coarse grains, pulses,
oil seeds and cotton comes from rainfed areas. Moreover, crop yields under
rainfed conditions have shown very little improvement over the last two decades,
a fact which prompted this project's emphasis on improving dryland farming
technology.
Agricultural Research
1.5   India nas made appreciable progress towards the development of a highly
competent, professional and effective agricultural research system. When fully
developed, this system should be capable of generating relevant technologies for
a sustained, and rapid increase in agricultural productivity and should also be
able to help reduce variations in agricultural growth between different regions
of India.
1.6   ICAL_ As an apex organization, the ICAR coordinates, promotes and aids
agricultural research and education in the country. It provides financial and
technical support for the development of, and setting appropriate standards for
agricultural education and research at SAUs; it manages its own 40 Central
research institutes and 60 all-India coordinated research projects; and it
provides linkages between central and state governments and cooperation with



international research inrtitutes and other international organizations and
bodies for exchange of information, genetic material and technical consultations.
The ICAR has also established the National Academy for Agricultural Retearzh
Management (NAARM) to provide research management training to ICAR Scien.:.ists.
1.7   State Agricultural Universities ISAUsl.  Prior to the establishment of 26
SAUs in India, agricultural education and research was carried out by the
colleges and research institutes affiliated to the General Universities and the
State Departments of Agriculture. SAUs, have now assumed responsibility for
almost all research and education in the states. This in itself is a significant
step for strengthening the institutional basis for country wide research.
1.8   The SAUs were patterned on the U.S. Land Grant College System. Several U.S.
colleges provided technical assistance in the planning and development of the
first six SAUs established.  The development of the SAJs has been uneven
depending upon state commitment to agriculture, initial leadership, etc.
Participation of the SAUs in .he national coordinated research, sponsored by the
ICAR, has contributed to greater exchange of information and genetic material
within and among the states and helped to improve the overall quality of
research.
1.9   The SAUs -- receive financial support from the state governments and grants
by the ICAR for various development activities and coordinated research programs.
They have reached a stage where they can decentralize research to address
agricultural probi.ems of the different agro-ecological zones within the state.
But substantial assistance will continue to be required to enable the
universities to develop the facilities, deploy the necessary staff and provide
the operating support in the formative years of zonal stations.
1.10  GOI development plans have emphasized agriculture and sought to raise
foodgrain production by increasing the use of irrigation, fertilizer, plant
protection chemicals, and seeds of improved varieties. During the last decade or
so increasing attention has been given to the improvement of extension services,
and upgrading research car-Abilities needed to support the extension effort and
more recently to improve groductivity of the rainfed areas. If agricultural
production is to be stimulated and growth rates progressively enhanced, the
transfer of technology through efficient and well educated state extersion
services must be backed up by a research effort aimed at generation of
sustainable, yield-improving, location-specific technology.
1.11 The 1980 G.V.R. Rao Committee Report of the ICAR Review notes, inter alia,
that Indian agriculture made rapid strides, and the level of foodgrains
production rose impressively to about 150 million tonnes from about 50 million
tonnes at the time of independence. The report states further that, due to a
variety of complex causes, agricultural production has been on a plateau during
the last 3-4 years ....... The water management is poor.  The problems of dryland
farming call for vigorous action . , if the production level is to be raised by
100 m. tonnes in the next 12 years. The thrust of the report's recommendation is
that the ICAR should become a body with vision and vigor - vision to analyze the
problems of Indian agriculture, particularly issues like the ecological
sustainability, the economic viability of agricultural production, the problems
of agricultural equity in growth.... The report suggests "that the ICAR be given
full autonomy in its day to day working, which it now lacks", and that
"decentralization is essential to make the system work efficiently".
1.12 Regarding funding of All India Coordinated Research Projects, the report
says that "the level of support for recurring contingencies is too inadequate".



-3-
The report suggests that the £CAR should consider providing 30-40% of non-salary
costs for meeting all operational needs of the research projects. Regarding
funding of research conducted by SAUs, the report observes that it is unfortunate
that many of SAUs are getting poor financial support from the state governments
and, but for the re3varch grants frQm ICAR, Lhets 1z&LituLions would collapse.
The report states that "we recognize that it is the states' responsibility to
provide the basic support for research relevant to their needs and they should be
made to realize that responsitility".
1.13 On technology generation, the report comments that "the present practice of
developing a comwon program for all (National Research) Centers at the national
workshop meetings would have to be considerably modified. -The reseazch program
from now on, should be developed by the researchers mainly to meet the needs if
the states and their farmers in the different agroclimatic zones and farming
situations".
Agricultural Extension
1.14 While SAUs have responsibility for generation of appropriate technology,
the State Departments of Agriculture are responsible for extension. In 1974,
GOI, with IDA assistaice, introduced a new approach to agricultural extension -
the training and visit system. Six IDA-assisted extension projects were in
operation by the time of appraisal of this projectl/. The projects in the
initial five states had applied research components, but later projects assumed
that the National Agricultural Research Project (NARP) would provide the
necessary research support. The reorganized and strengthened extension system
through extension staff and the end users of technology - the farmers - is now
putting pressure on research to develop location-specific research.
II. PROJECT FORMULATION
2.1   The National Agricultural Research Project was prepared by the ICAR and IDA
with assistance from a number of SAUs between October 1977 and February 1978;
appraised in March/April 1978; negotiated with IDA in July/August 1978; signed on
December 7, 1978 in the amount of US$27 million; became effective on January 22,
1979 and closed on September 30, 1985, two years behind schedule; an unused
balance of US$7.5 million was cancelled.
2.2   The NARP had limited objectives.  It was designed to strengthen research at
SAUs an important means of improving the national agricultur4l research effort.
It would achieve this through a reform of existing university-based agricultural
research, and would concentrate on research relevant to different agro-ecological
zones,2/ especially on cereals, pulses and oilseeds. Particular attention would
be paid to foodgrains grown under rainfed conditions and mixed farming systems.
The ICAR-supported Central Research Institutes and the All India Coordinated
1/ The six projects are described in the Assam Agricultural Development
Project Report (No. 1535a-IN), Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research
Report (No. 1754a-IN), Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project
Report (No. 1442a-IN), Orissa Agricultural Development Project Report
(No. 1301a-IN), Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project
Report (No. 1443a-IN), and West Bengal Agricultural Research and
Extension Project Report (No. 12B8a-IN).
2/ 127 agro-ecological zones have been identified in the country.



-4-
Research Projects were excluded from the project, because at that time the ICAR
had adequate funds to finance these programs.
2.3   The SAUs did not have adequate resources, neither financial nor technical,
for agricultural research at the zonal level. Most of the funds provided by the
states and the ICAR were utilized at the main campuses of the universities. The
feedback available to researchers from the farmers and extension workers was also
very poor. Consequently, the research programs were not responsive to the local
farming needs and most technologies generated at the main campuses were not
suitable for statewide adoption, due to varying agro-climate conditions in
different parts of the states.   For example, since 1966 about 240 rice varieties
have been developed. But only 30-40 varieties have attained national importance
of which only a small number is of wide-spread importance.
2.4   The following types of research activities were to be supported under the
project:
(a) At SAU campuses. Strengthen basic research;
(b) At SAl main stations Strengthen ongoing research,
pursue new applied research, verify research results for major
commodities produced in the stations' service areas and identify
farming constraints;
(c) At SAI aubstations- Verify research results for important commodities
grown in substations' service areas.
2.5   The NARP emphasized the strengthening or establishment of zonal main
stations. To formulate research program for these stations, the project proposed
to hold seasona' zonal workshops between the SAUs and the subject matter
specialists an,  anior officials of the Departments of Agriculture (DOA) in the
respective zones to review research objectives and topics proposed and recommend
p.ziorities for the research needs of the zones. To improve the knowledge about
the zonal agricultural problems, the main stations were to incorporate the
following:
(a) field tests of research results by scientists in 2-3 villages with
farmers with different resources;
(b) main station agronomists to help design, supervise and analyze
adoptive research trials contracted by the extension staff;
(c) observation trials by scientists at farmers' fields to test the impact
of research recommendations under varying soil, climatic and
topographical situations; and
(d) studies of constraints and economic viability of research
recommendations by main station economists.
2.6   The NARP proposed a detailed review of the total research effort in the
SAUs, areas of influence to develop long-term research strategies for planned
development.  The review was to include consideration of the number and location
of stations, utilization of existing staff and resources, and administration of
research. All SAUs were eligible for support provided they:
(a) complieo with GOI/ICAR standards of salaries and recruitment
procedures;



(b) were willing to recruit adequately experienced staff; and
(c) had established satisfactory linkages with state extension services.
2.7   The proposed Credit was to finance:
(a) research subprojects -- civil works, equipment, incremental staff and
operav. ng expenses;
(b) st   .--.ening of research administration -- incremental staff,
or,,. -fig zonal workshops, training of university staff;
(c) facilities for training of university staff -- buildings for trainees;
and
(d) ICAR administration of the NARP -- staff costs of the Project Unit.
2.8   The original proposals for the project concerned mainly the strengthening
of the ICAR institutes. After discussions lasting over two years with a number
of state governments, SAUs, the ICAR and GOI, the project design was changed to
emphasize assistance to SAUs to integrate and decentralize research. This
concept was appropriate then and remains relevant today. Although the concept
and objectives of the NARP and role of various implementing agencies were well
defined in the project documents, the appreciation of the same varied from state
to state.
2.9  At a time when GOI was reforming and strengthening agricultural extension
with IDA assistance, the NARP was timely. It proposed to strengthen research for
the generation of new technologies and to provide training support to extension
staff.
2.10 The design was highly innovative in evolving procedures for preparation of
subprojects to strengthen or establish zonal research stations.3/ The eligible
SAUs prepared Resaarch Reviews and subproject proposals, which were examined by
the Project Unit (PU) and an Interdisciplinary Scientific Panel (ISP) of eminent
scientists established under the project. Based on their recommendations, the
Project Funding Committee (PFC), chaired by the Director General of the ICAR,
sanctioned the subprojects. The associated funds were then released by the ICAR
to the SAUs after obtaining consent of the concerned state governments to support
the subpprojects following the five-year period of NARP support. This procedure
was very helpful in developing local capability in critical analysis of existing
research programs, and future research needs for development of areas served by
the SAUs and zonal research stations. But for this innovation, it would not have
been possible to implement a project of this nature.
2.11 The initial formulation of research programs for the zonal research
stations depended on existing experience within the SAUs and DOAs. However, to
make the research programs relevant to local emerging needs, it was necessary for
the research stations to improve steadily their knowledge of the areas. To
achieve this objective, the project proposed to establish a permanent mechanism
of seasonal zonal workshops between SAU and DOA experts of the areas.
Participation of extension staff, whose association with farmers was to reveal
gaps in technology, was to help select research topics relevant to local needs.
3/ Eighty one stations were established in agro-climatic zones in 15
states.



-6-
2.12 The ICAR was to be responsible for overall organization and supervision of
the project. A Project Unit (PU) was to be established under the Deputy Director
General (DDG) (Education) to provide a secretariat to PFC and ISP. The DDG
(Education) was to act as the Project Administrator. Implementation of
subprojects was to be the responsibility of the recipient SAUs. The subprojects
were to be monitored by the ICAR through regular reporting by the Associate
Directors of the subprojects/SAUs, and visits by ICAR scientists teams and
Directors of Research at the SAUs. The project was to be implemented over five
years, from 1978-79 to March 1983.
III.  PROJTCT IMPLEMENTATION
3.1   Project implementation started promptly as two subprojects were submitted
to the ICAR almost on time. Progress then became slow because of: (a) the
ineligibility of 12 out of 21 SAUs until March 1980; (b) inadequate staff in the
PU; (c) delays in land acquisition and civil works; (d) slow recruitment of staff
for the zonal research stations; and (e) inadequate delegation of financial and
administrative powers. Also, the concept of d ntraiZAtion and nrogrAm
formulation In consultation with the state extensaon services was not fully
appreciated uniformly over the entire country. The situation changed when the
reorganized extension services, supported by IDA, established effective contacts
with farmers and started putting pressure on research to develop technologies
suited to local agro-climatic conditions. The ICAR also organized workshops at
SAUs to explain the new concept. It took almost three years to address these
issues, after which the progress of implementation improved.
3.2   By March 1983, the importance of research decentralization was much better
understood. More emphasis was being given to directing research to local
farming needs and the methodology of research program formulation had been
improved. Continuation of IDA support at that stage was considered crucial to
achieve fully the project's objectives. The closing date, therefore, was
extended by two years, from September 30, 1983 to September 30, 1985.
3.3   The NARP was a complex project involving the ICAR (GOI), 21 SAUs and
related state governments. The commitment of the state governments to
agricultural research varied, which resulted in uneven performance.4f At closing
(September 1985), 109 subprojects were operative at various stages of
implementation; 17 had operated for five years and 65 had been taken up in years
5 to 7 of the project.
3.4   The NARP was boldly conceived to reorganize agricultural research efforts
in the entire country. It took considerable time for the state level senior
officials and SAU staff to become convinced of the need to decentralize research
and to change methodologies for zonal research program formulation. The project
formulation underestimated the magnitude of the problems related to land
acquisition and posting of staff to zonal research stations located in the
interior where health, edueation and other facilities were/are not available
Some positions are still vacant and unless some innovative and attractive salary
policies are evolved, some of these stations are not likely to attract motivated
experienced staff. Consequently, the quality of research will suffer and the
4/ SAUs in the States of Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Kerala, Punjab, Tamil
Nadu and Rajasthan have performed well; considerable improvement is
needed in the states of Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Assam and Himachal
Pradesh. It is interesting to note that extension performance was also
uneven depending upon quality of research support.



service area of the concerned zonal station will not fully benefit from the
investments made.51
3.5 At project completion, the NARP had committed Rs 707 million against the
appraisal estimate of Rs 715 million; the ICAR disbursed Rs 418 million (98%)
against estimated expenditures of Rs 425 million.6/ IDA disbursements were low;
US$19.5 million (72%), mainly because of the gradual rupee devaluation.
3.6   Progress of research subprojects was generally good; the NARP sanctioned 86
research subprojects (including five basic research projects) against the
appraisal estimate of 56, and expenditures were about 101% of the estimates.
However, progress of the two training subprojects was slow; fund utilization was
only 19% at project closing because of slow civil works construction programs.
IV. PROJECT IMPACT
4.1   Acmlishmat of objecttives   Although project implementation was slow in
the beginning, the main objective of research decentralization was achieved.
Subprojects to establish or strengthen 81 zonal research stations were approvad.
By the Closing Date, 11 had completed five years and were fully operational and
the remaining 70 7/ were in different stages of development.
4.2   Research administration at both the national and state levels has been
strengthened. A mechanism for the involvement of Subject Matter Specialists of
the state extension services has been established for the formulation of research
programs. The project is providing support to the extension services, which are
being reorganized with IDA assistance.
4.3   Oualitative Achievemants.  There have been substantial improvements in the
quality of research programs. At appraisal there were 21 SAUs. Five more have
been established since then. The SAUs have prepared detailed Research Reviews
(para 2.10) of good quality, which are of value to researchers and agricultural
administrators. The reviews contain comprehensive assessments of the research
needs of each agro-climatic zone.
4.4   Although the Research Reviews have identified the broad agro-ecological
zones in each state, there is within each zone a number of subzones, each with
its own specific crop production requirements. Realizing the need to develop a
more detailed knowledge of these farming situations, the PU emphasized and helped
prepare a Status Report for each zone. Detailed guidelines for the preparation
of these reports have been prepared by the PU. The reports are prepared by
multidisciplinary groups of scientists interacting with farmers and extension
services, and include such details as different farming situations (topography,
soil types, rainfall, irrigation, etc.), cropping patterns, existing yields and
yield potential gaps, as well as production constraints. To improve report
clarity, the PU and the World Bank's New Delhi Office (NDO) helped prepare a few
5/ Even after three years of NARP II, these problems persists.
6/ Total project expenditure was estimated at Rs 465 million including Rs
40 million by the SAUs out of their own resources.
7/ NARP II which followed the NARP is helping to complete the 70 ongoing
subprojects and to establish another 39 to cover all agro-climatic zones
except those in Assam and the other North Eastern States.



model Status Reports. The Status Reports prepared thus far have been very
helpful in indicating priority areas of research.
4.5   SAU scientists have made use of the findings of Research Reviews and Status
Reports in the design of broad experimental work to determine the suitability of
present varieties and practices to develop farming systems and to adjust the
recommended practices to suit individual farmers' resources.
4.6 Technologu Qevalooment. The agricultural research has given emphasis to
the development of high yielding or drought or pest tolerant/resistant varieties,
improved agronomic practices and an increased focus on soil and moisture
conservation in rainfed areas. It is too early to expect any break-through, but
some zonal research stations have made appreciable achievements. New varieties
of rice, groundnuts and pulses (black bean), which are drought and pest tolerant,
and integrated pest management techniques have been developed and recommended by
zonal research stations in Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu.
Alternative cropping patterns like vegetables/groundnut/soyabean cultivation in
rabi after kharif rice have been developed, which are better than the prevalent
pattern of rice followed by rice in both seasons. Intercropping of redgram with
groundnuts has been found to be less risky and more profitable in semi-arid
areas. opening of a dead furrow at 3.6 m intervals in groundnut crops was
developed as an effective, simple in situ water harvesting technique. Zonal
stations serving some of the irrigation commands have played an important role in
the development of improved system management plans for irrigation schemes. They
have been responsive to changing research priorities as water regimes have been
modified.
4.7   Economic Benefits.  Because of the nature of the project, the appraisal did
not estimate an economic rate of return. It is very difficult, perhaps
impossible, to quantify the benefits of NARP which are not only dependent upon
the performance of zonal research programs but also on the support services which
may delay adoption of the recommended technology and thus reduce benefits.
However, as mentioned in paras. 4.3 to 4.5, qualitative improvements have been
achieved in the formulation of research programs and a permanent mechanism for
interaction between research and extension has been established to review and
improve research programs to suit the changing demands.
4.8   Project Sustlainability.  The NARP has provided an appropriate
institutional vehicle for the formulation of research programs relevant to local
farming conditions and farmer resources. The greatest constraint to
sustainability is inadequate funding by the state governments 8/ and lack of
incentives to attract research staff to some of the zonal research stations
located in the interior areas. Higher priority given to agriculture by GOI and
the state governments would help overcome some of these problems. Additionally,
strengthened liaison being established between extension staff and researchers,
and between farmers and the extension services (developed under extension
projects assisted by IDA) should put greater pressure on the SAUs and state
governments to fund the zonal research programs adequately.
8/ Already some zonal stations are facing problems of insufficient funding.
In its 1988 Report of the ICAR Review, the G.V.K. 30 Committee has
observed that "it is unfortunate that many stations are getting poor
financial support from the State Governments". Even for the All India
Coordinated Research Projects, the level of support for recurrent
funding is too inadequate and the report suggests that the ICAR should
consider providing 30-40% of non-salary costs in helping to meet all
operational needs of the project.



4.9   In India, as in many other developing countries, agricultural research is
underfunded. As a consequence the infrastructure already created remains
underutilized and the experimental work, which generally takes a long time to
produce meaningful results, becomes further delayed. Agricultural research
(experimentation is not a one time investment) is a continuous effort to meet
changing needs. Under the circumstances, the Bank should engage in a longer
collaboration period for such projects. The Bank should review its policies and
give serious consideration to funding koth Incremental and non-incremental
Freurrent eoats to ensure that all operational funding needs of these projects
are met for at least 10 years. In this way, maximum benefits should be derived
from the infrastructural investments already made, whether supported by the Bank
or otherwise.
4.10 It is apparent from the NARP that one of the most critical inputs necessary
for success is a consistent flow of adequate funds, carefully managed, to ensure
continuity of the research programs. It is important to note that almost all
expenditures incurred on agricultural research (whether capital or recurrent) are
primarily of an ineastment nature, in the sense that they are used to construct
assets which provide a lifetime of services.  These Basst  are not readily
discernible (in the same way that buildings or port facilities are), being bodies
of stored knowledge on crops, farming practices, soils, climatic conditions,
etc., which are developed and refined as the years progress. It is, therefore,
important to recognize that insufficient or sporadic funding has a harmful effect
on the continuity of obtaining and retaining information from agricultural
research. Not only may urgently required research utilizing new technology not
be undertaken, but essential ongoing research may be delayed or abandoned with
consequent loss of economic benefits. Valuable capital assets such as buildings
and research equipment may also not be used as qualified research and support
staff may be underutilized and become demoralized, lessening their future
effectiveness. Therefore, once an agricultural research project is agreed on,
every effort should be made to ensure that adequate funds are consistently made
available.   The Bank should consider lending funds for most if not all essential
expenditures for extended periods, e.g. up to ten years or beyond, to ensure the
continuity of ongoing research and to maximize the gains made from research
expenditures previously incurred. Time-sliced operations may be appropriate.
V.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
5.1   The Wrld Bank.  Mainly through supervision and other technical back-
stopping by NDO staff, the Bank contributed significantly to project
achievements. It was able to develop a collaborative relationship, in its true
meaning, with the ICAR and the SAUs. The Bank reviewed and provided constructive
suggestions to improve the quality of the subprojects preparation reports and to
clarify the project concept. The Bank's participation in the ICAR-organized
NARP-related workshops at SAUs, and comprehensive field reports prepared during
supervision have been particularly valuable; going far beyond the scope of
supervision reports and providing specific observations and recommendations for
the implementation of the project. Bank assistance in implementation enabled
much clearer definition of problems and practices for research relevant to
different agro-ecological conditions. The Bank also provided a leading role in
developing the methodologies for preparation of the innovative constraint-
analysis "Status Reports", which provided critical analysis of the available
relevant technologies, and gaps in research for the service areas of the zonal
research stations. It is relevant to note that the system has been extended to
projects outside India.



- 10 -
5.2   Bank involvement in the early stages of the project cycle --identification
and preparation -- was also helpful in clarifying the conceptual changes proposed
under the NARP and setting standards for participation by SAUs in the project.
Early in the project there were considerable delays by SAUs in meeting the
eligibility criteria, and in civil works and staff recruitment. The appraisal
underestimated the time it would take for officials of the state governments and
the SAUs to become convinced of the new concepts and the procedural delays
involved in staff recruitment and civil works. In hindsight, pre-project testing
of analytical techniques and institutional linkages, backed up by learning
workshops, would have been extremely helpful and would have speeded up acceptance
of the project concept. The number of staff-weeks contributed by Bank staff
indicates a need for higher levels of support by the Bank during supervision for
these types of innovative operations. There is a need for implementation
assistance and collaborative work in desigr. and development to optimize project
benefits.
5.3   Zhe Rorrower. The Director General, ICAR, gave full support to the PU,
especially in resolving policy issues with the States of Maharashtra, Uttar
Pradesh and Rajasthan. As a result, the PU has been instrumental in effective
implementation of the project. The PU set and achieved high standards in the
preparation of Research Reviews and in the appraisal of research subprojects
prepared by SAUs. This has helped improve research planning and quality and
relevance of research. However, because of procedural requirements, there were
delays in staffing the PU and in fact it was never fully staffed. Also the PU
was unable to hire the requisite number of suitable consultants as the fees fixed
for local consultants by GOI are unattractive to experienced scientists and
research administrators. The Borrower failed to solve this problem, which led to
significant implementation delays in the beginning and continues to do so today.
NDO had to compensate for some of the subproject appraisal work that was expected
to be carried out by the consultants.9/
5.4  The Interdisciplinary Scientific Panel met as frequently as necessary to
review subproject appraisal reports. This review process enabled the SAU and PU
to improve the quality of project preparation. The Project Funding Committee met
at least thrice a year to sanction subprojects and to give necessary directions
for improved performance. The performance of the PFC has been fully
satisfactory.
5.5   Although the concept of decentralized research has found a favorable
response from researchers, extension workers and the farmers, due to the past
weaknesses inherent in the Indian research system (para 2.2), the period of five
to seven years is too short a time to bring about a complete change of attitude
among administrators and scientists alike. Therefore, there is a need for longer-
term collaboration between GOI and IDA. The ICAR will need to place continued
emphasis on certain aspects of research planning and administration to ensure its
permanent integration into the research system. For example, there is need: for
better understanding of the objectives; for greater use of Status Reports; for
more emphasis on research planning to suit local needs rather than a "top down
approach"; for a gradual change in the present incentive system to allow rewards
to scientists for finding solutions to farmer problems; and for improved liaison
between farmers, extension workers and scientists to render the interface of
their activities more effective.
9/ Although costly to NDO, it had a positive spin-off in that it brought
the Bank, the ICAR and SAU staff into closer scientific collaboration
resulting in benefits to all.



- 11 -
5.6 In summary, project performance benefitted greatly from the implementation
support provided by NDO (See Table 7). The Borrower was unable to resolve the
problem of unattractive fees to local consultants, and but for the NDO support in
subproject appraisals, review of research reports and preparation of status
reports, project implementation would have been further delayed. Acceptance of
the project concept could have improved if preproject learning workshops had been
organized. In order to attract motivated researchers to the remote zonal
research stations, provision of essential social amenities would have been
helpful. Research is not a one time investment cost, but a continuous, living
process.
5-7 Poient nDoementa tion. The SAR provided helpful guidelines to the Borrower
for implementation of the project. The standards of preparation of the
subprojects, with respect to research objectives and estimated resource
requirements, were illustrated in three subprojects and one special subproject
reviewed at appraisal. Procedural guidelines were suggested for the review of the
SAU-prepared subprojects by the PU, Interdisciplinary Scientific Panel and the
Project Funding Connittee. The SAR also provided eligibility criteria for the
participating SAUs, with a view to maintaining uniform and high standards for
recruitment of scientists and for their salaries and working conditions. The
Borrower complied with the covenants of the Development Credit Agreement and
provided progress reports on time.
Finding and Lessons
5.8 For research work to be effective, scientists should involve local
extension staff in identifying farmers problems so that relevant programs are
designed to address them. Inadequate funding of recurrent costs by state
governments and lack of incentives to attract qualified research staff in some
remote areas slowed project implementation.



'                 ~~~Pep I Jo2
WATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEAWCH PROJECT
(Credit 656-II)
ROJlECT COIITiEl SWaRT
PRCOJET PROFILE
Tabl. 1: Related Sealw Loses oadJor Credit.
LeO5a/Cidit                                       Vet    of
Title                  Purpose                 ApprOVl       State                     o     t
West Benglt Ags,c  Dove-op-        Agric.
meat Proj-ct (Cf.  413,            Dow.                    04/22/76      Closed  8/1        US6U4 a         Folly disbursed
Chaebsl  oros5fd                   Irrigation a
Ate  Dov. (Cr. 682)                Agric. 0".              06/17/76      Cloed 0/S1         U5824 a              -de-
lnt greted Cotton                  Cotton Resoech,
Doe. (Cr. 610)                     Eatension, Proce ins 01/27/76        Cloed 8/84         US$16.          US$0.01 a cnel led
morale A90c.                       Agric.                                                                                                             t
Dow. (Cr. 6o6)                     G*o.                    02/17/77      Cloemd A/6         US$&o .         Folly disbrsed
Drise.  Agric.                     Agric. Rest rch
Deo. (Cr. 062)                     and fatonsion           02/22/77      Clesed 6/84        US220 a         US$1.12 a cencellod
lest Be"gl Agric.                  Agric. Research
0 w. (Cr. 690)                     and Extension           03/22/77      Clo sd 8/6         US$12 a         U$56.15 * Cncel led
edhys Predoes
ArSc. Roo. and Extncsion                -do-               0612/277     Cle d 9/68          US80 a        USSO.20 * (Cr. 712)
eseel led
Les  Agric.                        Agric Research
Dew. (Cr. 726)                    s*d Extonn  an           06/29/77     Close  $/8/         US  0 a         Fuully dibreed
Reiseths. Agric.                        -do-
Exteooeln I Rsechrtb (C'.787)                             0/19/77      Closed 0/08        1Us1             Folly disbursed
Biker Agric. Roo.
A Eatession (Cr. 781)                   -do-               12/27/77     Cloed ,/86          US$5.a          USs.68 a cencel led
Ceeposite Agric                    A rie.
Exteasio  (Cr. 062)               E9  nct;ion             12/12/7      ClOsed              US$26 a        Folly dibursed
Morals Agric.
Ertenclon (Cr. 1028)                    -do-               06/22/60     Closed 0/00         US$IO *         Fully di4bursed.



P.9. 2 .1 2
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTIMAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Credit SWI-MN)
PROJECT COWLETION EORT
PROJECT PROFILE
Table 1: Rlotatd BSank Loans nd/or Credits
Loan/Credit                                     Year of
Titlo                  Purpose                Approval     Status                  C_ments
Maharashtra Agric.
Extension (Cr. 1136)                    -db-             04/21/01      Closed 0/07        USt23 a        Fatly disburosd
Too!;I NO&b
Agric. Extension (Cr. 1137)             -d4-             04/23/01     Closed 0/7          US$28 a        US$O.8 a coneloled
Ihyd.  Praeh
Agric. Eutenion (Cr. 1138)              -db-             04/23/81     Closing 6/09        USe37 a        US830.2 a disbursed
10/fl
Andhore Pradosh
Agric. Extension (Cr. 1219)             -do-             03/30/82     Closing 3/89        US$S 0         US$4.07 a disbursed
10/U8
National Agric.
Extension (Cr. 1623)                    -do-             10/02/84     Closing 3(90       US$30.1 a       USU6.4 * disbuserd
Second National
AgrIc. EXt4nSion (Cr. 1569)             -do-             03/26/85    Clotn, $/91         USt41 *         US819.4 a diobursd
10/U0
Socond National                   Agric.
Alric Roeearch (Cr. 1831)         Research               10/22/S      Closing 6/93       US$72.1 a       US9. 8 .
disbursed 10/fl
Third Nationol                    Agric.
Agric. Extension (Cr. 1754)       Ent.                   01/20/07     Cloelog 8/94       US$84 a         US$3.2 a
disbursed 10/8



-14 -
NATION" AGRICULTULAL RESEARCH PROJECT
{Credit 855-I")
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PROJECT PROFILE
Tsae_ 2: Project Timetable
Date                 Date              Date
Item                  Planned               tevised           Actual
- Identification         5/76 (first brief)   3/77 and 9/77    11/77
(Project - Brief)
- Preparation            10/77 to 2/78              -           10177 to 2/78
- Appraisal Mission      3/78                                   3/78
- Credit Negotiations   8/78                         -          8/78
Credit Signature       12/78                       -          12/78
Credit Effectiveness  2/79                         -          1/79
Credit Closing         9/83                      9/85         9/85
Project Completion    3(83                       3/85         3/85



*tA      - 1S -
A~MMLUICILIWAL. RESEAR  PROJECT
(C.lt 666-W)
mac? cowrzs. W?
PROJECT PROFIL
Table 35 Credit D0sburvement*
Cusative Eatimated and Actual Otaberemetet
(US3-0m)
FY79  FYO   FY61   FY6B    FY68   fY4   FY66  FY6
Appraisal Estimate                   0.9    3.6     9.2  17.6   27.0  27.0  27.0  27.0
Actual                               -      0.4    L.a    4.?   7.0   11.4  16.0  19.6
Actual as X of Estimated             -     10.6   17.4   20.9  26.9  42.0   6t.6  72.0
Date of Final Oisburemse"                               2/U
Revised Estimae  a/                  -      -       -       -      -     11.6  16.6  20.0
Actual as X ef Revised Esimae        -      -       -      -      -    99.0  61.0  97.6
s/ Project *wo extended for two years ond disbursement  stimates revised
from 164 o*nwards.



- 16 -
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
(Credit 855-IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PROJECT PROFILE
Table 4: Project Implementation
Appraisal          Actual or
Indicators                Estimate         PCR Estimate
Background Papers               15                22
Research Reviews                15                16
Research Sub-projects           56                86
Administrative Sub-projects   15                  21
Training Sub-projects            2                 2
Consultant Han-months          160                79 al
HARP Couitments (Re H)         715               707
NARP Disbursements (Rs H)    425                 418
Project Unit Staff (No)          7                 7
a/ Low utilization due to unattractive fee fixed for local
consultants by GOI.



-17 -
Plalosal AgrIcultural Roseacl, Pr,j.c
(Credt 06-tO
Proljet Csidetios Roeort
Project Proflet
Tsble 6: Project Costs and flomsle
A. Ppo!eCt Costs
Agoralsl Es*timate                  Actual 
Local   Foreign                   Local   Foreign
_t__                      Costs    Costs    Total            CoSts    CoWt      total
Ifaetrs"rctse, $taff,
Vehicles, quipmamt        40.0       6.0    4*.0             32.8       4.1     U.4
(8*6.0)
iLad acquisition,
SAU otead                  4.8       0.2       5.0            4.0      0.2       6.0 i
(40.0)                            (40.0)
SAL Adin. Subre"jct        0.9       0.1       1.0            1.6      0.2        1.7
(100-)                            (19.0)
1ANt & NAAM  Suiob3ject    1.$       0.2       2.(F           0.8      0.1       0.4
(20.0)                             (3.0)
ICAR Adis. (PU)            0.9       0.1       1.0           0.4       0.1       0.5
(9.0)                       *     (.8)1
Total                40.4       6.0      64.0           81.8       4.7     44.0
*/ Fgue"  i brecket are Fe 1111e.Io
b/ SAU were expegte  to _s  Re 40 a an lend *qe;ietlon. As no *ctual figures are avellable
and lend was oaired for buildings SAR estimates have bee used.



-18-
oel AgpiaIlturol R.arch Pr ct
(Credit $66-DO
Projt Ce21*tIon Resort
PI..J.t Prop i l
Tobie 6: Prolect Coste *sf FPlnenc
S. Pre-ect Finacino
SeurC                      Crodit
tDA                       MI E                                  U 
A.  Subro)jeot Reseerh           24,500    24,600        100         18,800         73
S.   S.bpJojet. SAU Admin.          000       S00       to0                        so0  
C.  Subp"joest  tMA, iM             1200      1200       1o             2           t
0.  PU eubi Is,                   =400         400       100            200          0
Subtoetal              27,000                              19,500        72
C.Ptnanclne fill
Other, external Sinuses "II
Doometlc
00t/ICA                     22,000                              19,500
SAU                          6.000                               COW0 e/
Subtotals              27,000                              24,500
Teal                   64,qQQ                              i4,sm
A/ ctual onpeedturo nt *ee;lbio.  The Le*n  was purchase  *rn  Sipreleel e*timte of
eapendturewas usW.



- 19 -
National Atricultural Research Protect
(Credit 655-IN)
Proiect Completion Report
Proiect Profile
Table 6: Status of Covenants
AUGHT            SECTION            DESCRIPTION OF COVENANT                   STATUS
CU£D              3.02         Borrower to make available funds                  OK
to ICAR for completion of ICAR
approved subprojects.
PROJ              2.018        ICAR annual budget request to                     OK
include provision for subprojects
to be approved.
2.06         Furnish proposals for 2 subprojects              OK
for review.
2.07         PFC to be established to consist                 OK
of specific memb.zs.
2.08A       Criteria acceptable to Association                OK
applied to SAU and subproject
eligibility.
2.08B       App. grant to finance subprojects                 OK
terms and conditions satisfactory
to Association.
2.09         Subprojects in excess of S1.400,000              'K
to be revieved by Association prior
to approval by PFC.
2.10         1st 5 subprojects with civil works
over SZO00.00 ICAR to furnish recom-
mendations to Association for comments.
2.11         Each subproject reviewed on site at              OK
least annually and completed in
accordance with implementation  --edule
2.12         Prepare and furnish annual report and 6          OK
month report on progress of subprojects.



- 20 -
INDIA
National Agricultural Research Proiect
(Credit 855-IN)
Proiect Completion Report
Project Profile
Table 7: Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs (Staff Weeks)
Stage of                   No. of Staff Weeks
Project Cycle             Total     H.Q.       Field      Comments
I.    Identification and         37.8        -        37.8   Total Staff
Preparation                                            weeks based on
historical P&B
1I.   Appraisal                  50.9       22.9      28.0   and MIS data
sheets on file.
TIT.  Negotiations               10.0       10.0       -     Headquarter and
Board Approval                                         field break-up
through Effectiveness                                  calculated from
files.
IV.   Supervision               210.4      93.2      117.2
V.   Additional NDO Support    26.4         -        26.4



- 21 -
IOIA
Natlonel Agricultural Rsearch Projet
(Credit SUE-IN)
Prolect COpletlon Resort
prejoct Profils
Tablo ?: Use of Bank Reource
S. .leelons
St.a  of              Month/   NM  of   Dayo in  Specialialtio    Rnting          Typo of
Peolect Cycle            Yoer      Pero"    Field   Represented a/   Stete b/  Problem/
I.      eoaCtiftatioo and    6/70-477    7          1t9     Al, AP, IC,          -          --
Preooati eo                                           ED, P9, AG2
It.   APWpaitsl               3/7?                  140     AC2, EIC, AE, E       --
ttl. Nagot o                  0/7          --        __     __                    __        ._
Soard Approval          10/70        --        -- _  __
throueg £tfectiveee_   1/79          --        --     --                   --
IV.   Sgaup e"ito
1.                     12/70          2         8     AC2                  1 I
2.                      J/?9          8        45     A2, IEC               I 
3.                      9/79          1         a     AE                   2          U
4.                      ai/o          a        68     Al, AG, RS
S.                     10/t0          1         3     A4                   2         U
0.                      3/01          2        16     AI, RES              2          0
7.                     10/01          a        u4     AE, A=2              2 
O.                      4/02          3        39     AE,AG                2          T, U
9.                     10/32          4        44     A"4                  2         t
10.                     6/38          2        30     AO2                  2         T
It.                     3/04          4        S0     A04                  2         t
12.                     9/04          6        s0     A4, AE               2         T
1J.                     */8           4        72     A"4                  2         T, M
/  AlE  Agriculturel Iconemiet, AP- Animal Production Spetialist, ECC  Economist, ED0  Education
Specialist, Pie Plant Brooder, AGC Agriculturist, En Enginoet, RES- Reowerch Adinistroter.
b/  1- Problem free, 2t Minor problem.
Me U  Uoagemt", T  Technical, 0m Other



-22 -
1-I
Natloel Aprcvtacei* Re _ari PpoeIst
(Credit  -IN)
Project Cowl.ios Reort
Proj3t Profile
Table 7: Use of Bank Re'uera
M. iseloiw (C.tA'd)
.6S  ~ ~ ~ ~      of ~~Spweil-
NCO            IX^h/    NO. Of  O Yu         ltatlion         Supervision
S.wervlalo.         Y5G'   P ¢ete    fild   Regr555itud Al    Activit              Locatloe
-   -         -~~~~~~~G              e  op;; -   ooo
-21            Wi'S     1          S            AG        Reviw i u prO.  As_w
2             6/"       1           5           AG        Review eubproj.    y      es  
4             11/62     1           6           AG        Revls eoubpej.   Andre Pra-saI
3             11/S6     1           7           AG        Review subproi.   0ag*re
0             12/62      1          5           AG        Revi.w subproj   Ra)athas
7              7/83     1           5           AG        Review subr.   Aurd  Pr_1dss
e              9/68     1           4           AG        Review sbIoj.   Gujarat
a              7/64     1           6           AG        Pr" etatus Po. GJ *aat
10              6/04     1           t           AG        M411 woerkhop    LAde. Pradea
it              6/64     1           6           AQ        Pre  status PO.  Taol N ds
12       9       /64     1      t                AG        Pre  statue  pt. GJusaat
18              2/66     2           9           A02       Prep statue mt. A#dre Pradee
14              8116     1           6           AG        Pre  Statu  Po.  TaIl Iade
is              4/66     3           5           AG&       Pre  statue Pt:. Gujret
6        *      14/6     2           8           AC2       Ptp statue rP.  Tai I Made
17              61/6ti   1     8                 A         Prep osttus apt. Taloi NMad
:16             9/65     1          12           AG        Research revie    tasi I NO
to              6/66     2          10           AG2       Prep stau  rpt. Gujistt
20              9/66     3          12          ALO        R_erb review   Taoi I Mad.
adAGa Agricuiturist.



