FILE C OPY                              Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-23 30-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED-CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
NATIONAL AGRICTTLTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
September 21, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as of September 1, 1978)
Rs 1.00            =        Paise 100
US$1.00            =        Rs 7.94
Rs 1.00            =        US$0.1260
Rs 1 million       =        US$126,000
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been officially
valued relative to a "basket" of currencies. As these
currencies are now floating the U.S. Dollar/Rupee ex-
change rate is subject to change. Conversions in the
Appraisal Report were made at US$1 to Rs 8.60, which
represents the projected exchange rate over the dis-
bursement period).
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 1
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIMMYT         -    Centro Internacional de Mejoramiento de Maiz
y Trigo (International Maize and Wheat
Improvement Center)
CIP            -    Centro Internacional de la Papa (International
Potato Center)
GOI             -    Government of India
IARI           -    Indian Agricultural Research Institute
IBPGR          -    International Board for Plant Genetic Resources
ICAR           -    Indian Council for Agricultural Research
ICRISAT        -    International Crops Research Institute for the
Semi-Arid Tropics
PFC            -    Project Funding Committee
SAU            -    State Agricultural University(ies)
Staff College  -    ICAR Central Staff College for Agriculture



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            India, acting by its President
Beneficiaries:       Indian Council for Agricultural Research (ICAR);
state agricultural universities (SAU)
Amount:              US$27 million
Terms:               Standard
Relending Terms:    (a)  India to ICAR:  Funds to be provided as a grant.
(b) ICAR to SAU: Funds to be provided as a grant.
(c) GOI to carry exchange risk.
Project
Description:        The project is intended to address the agricultural
problems specific to individual agro-ecological regions
of the-country and to narrow the gap between research
programs and the needs of farmers for new technology and
information. The project would strengthen and reorient
research at SAU and strengthen ICAR's ability to support,
guide, coordinate and monitor agricultural research at the
state level. The project would focus on research on higher
yielding, more disease and pest resistant varieties of grain
and oilseed crops, and on improved cropping patterns and
agronomic practices, particularly for rainfed areas. Re-
search results would benefit both large and small farmers
living in the different ecological regions within parti-
cipating states.
The risks associated with the project are related mostly
to ensuring that research results are responsive to farmers'
needs and effectively communicated to them and to ensuring
that the participating institutions have the staff and other
resources required to prepare, appraise and implement sound
subprojects. Steps have been taken to minimize these risks.
The project has been designed to ensure that regional
research programs are based on local needs and effectively
linked with state extension services. Incentives would
be provided to enable project institutions to attract
and retain quality staff. Measures to coordinate, monitor
and expedite all phases of implementation have been dis-
cussed with relevant local institutions.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                             (US$ million)
Local    Foreign    Total
Research Subprojects            44.8        5.2        50.0
Administrative Subprojects        .9         .1         1.0
IARI/Staff College
facilities                     1.8         .2        2.0
ICAR Administration               .9         .1         1.0
48.4       5.6        54.0
Financing Plan:                                             (US$ million)
Local    Foreign    Total
IDA                             21.4        5.6      27.0
GOI                             22.0         -       22.0
SAU                              5.0                  5.0
50.4       5.6       54.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                                         (US$ million)
FY79   FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83
Annual                   .9    2.9    6.4      9.3    7.5
Cumulative               .9    3.8   10.2    19.5   27.0
Appraisal
Report:            No. 2083a-IN dated September 21, 1978.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA FOR THE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India in an amount equivalent to US$27 million on stand-
ard IDA terms to help finance a project to strengthen and improve agricultural
research in the various agro-ecological zones of the country. The Credit
would be passed by GOI as a grant to the Indian Council for Agricultural
Research (ICAR). ICAR would in turn provide the funds on a grant basis to
other participating institutions, mainly state agricultural universities,
to carry out approved research subprojects.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2008-IN dated April 17, 1978), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 18, 1978. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is a vast, continental country with over twenty States divided
on linguistic and ethnic grounds with a population of over 620 million people,
almost as many as live in Africa and Latin America combined. It has a dual
economy. While 79% of its population lives in rural areas, their productivity
is low. Agriculture's share in value added declined only gradually from about
50% to 43% over the last twenty years. The share of manufacturing has in-
creased slowly and, since the late 1960s, has remained approximately constant
at about 16%. Industry has a highly diversified structure with import substi-
tution and self-sufficiency pushed to the point where India has the capacity
to produce virtually every type of consumer and capital good required for a
modern economy. As in the case of many other large economies, the foreign
sector plays a relatively minor role; both exports and imports represent about
7% of GDP; foreign saving has supplied only about 5% of gross investment in
the recent past.
4.        Even though growth has been slow in the past, the economy enjoys
many of the prerequisites for sustaining faster growth and development.
Although literacy is far from universal, India has large resources of well
trained administrative, scientific and technical manpower and a dynamic entre-
preneurial class. Per capita consumption of commercial energy is low by
1/   Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage
Project (Report No. P-2293-IN) dated August 23, 1978.



- 2 -
international comparison and power shortages are a way of life; but India is
relatively well-placed with regard to primary fuel sources. There are very
large reserves of coal and nuclear ores, and considerable hydro-electric
potential. Recent petroleum and gas discoveries have begun to be exploited
and prospects are bright for further discoveries. The basic elements of the
infrastructure needed to serve the economy have been established; in absolute
terms the irrigation, railway, telecommunication, road and power systems are
each among the largest in the developing, and in some cases the developed,
world. However, considerable gaps remain as the situation varies greatly
from state to state.
5.        Given the size of India's population, its annual increase of 13 mil-
lion people is such as to absorb a large portion of any provision to increase
standards of living. It is not possible to discern any significant increase
in the incomes of the vast mass of the rural and urban poor, who number 200
million with a per capita income of US$70 per annum or less. Although food-
grain production may be persistently underestimated, there has been no perma-
nent increase in per capita foodgrain consumption recorded in aggregate
statistics since 1960/61. Many years after the initial target, primary educa-
tion is still not universal. The labor force has grown faster than employment
and a considerable backlog of unemployed exists. Nevertheless, there has been
progress, with per capita income increasing on trend 1%-1.5% per annum; birth
rates falling to below 37 per thousand from levels of 45-50 per thousand at
the start of the 1950s, life expectancy increasing from about 32 years in
the 1940s to 45-50 years in the 1970s, school enrollment rising from 32%
to 65% of children of primary school age and from 5% to 29% of children of
secondary school age since 1950/51.
6.        The rate of growth of GDP has been 3.5% per annum over the period
since Independence and 2.8% per annum over the period 1969/70 to 1976/77.
These low rates of growth are only partly due to low availability of inves-
tible resources, although there have been times that foreign exchange was a
severe bottleneck. The net transfer of resources from abroad has never been
above 3% of GDP and fell to as little as 0.8% between 1969/70 and 1973/74.
India's saving effort has grown steadily since the beginning of planning in
1951, when it was 9% of GDP, to its recent level of 20% of GDP, which compares
well with other countries' saving performance at the same level of per capita
incomes. Despite a doubling in the rate of investment, from about 10% of GDP
in the early 1950s to about 20% at present, the trend rate of GDP growth has
not increased. This marks a decline in the efficiency of capital use which
transcends fluctuations due to weather, war or international terms of trade
shifts.
Recent Trends
7.        In many respects economic conditions during the last three years
have been significantly different from those prevailing in previous years.
In the late 1960s and early 1970s, the economy faced several shortages--
foodgrains, agricultural and industrial inputs and foreign exchange--which
retarded production and investment and often led to price increases. An ad-
verse shift in terms of trade, starting with the oil price hike in 1973 and



continuing with the foodgrain and fertilizer price rises in the following
year, greatly increased the cost of acquiring these essential commodities
abroad. These external shocks combined with a spate of bad weather played
havoc with the economy through 1974/75, causing slow growth in production
and investment and a record level of inflation.
8.        Since the excellent monsoon in the summer of 1975, a new situation
has arisen. The period 1975 to 1978 has been characterized by much greater
price stability, enhanced agricultural and industrial output and comfortable
foodgrain and foreign exchange reserves. The new situation was a combined
result of domestic policies and fortuitous circumstances. The increase in
foodgrain stocks was only in part due to improved policies and programs. The
more decisive factor has been the three good-to-excellent monsoons coming on
top of substantial foodgrain imports in 1975 and 1976. Industrial output
increased on average by 7% a year in 1975-1978 compared to 3% in 1970-75,
due to greater power availability, better management in the public sector,
improved labor relations, better transport and some increase in demand derived
from increased incomes due to improved harvests, greater exports and higher
levels of public investment. The most dramatic turnaround ocurred in the
balance of payments, with a sharp real reduction of the import bill helped by
good harvests and increased domestic production of iron and steel, fertilizer
and oil, which reduced demand for imports. The supply of foreign exchange was
also greatly increased by a significant step-up in the volume of exports, an
increase in foreign aid and a substantial jump in remittances from Indians
working in the Middle East, Europe and America.
9.        In 1977/78, the growth of GDP was about 5%, a recovery over the
rate of 1.6% in 1976/77 but less than the 8.5% reached two years earlier.
Prices, which had been rising during 1976/77 after a decline in 1975/76,
were stabilized; wholesale prices at the end of March 1978 stood at about the
same level as in March 1977, and the yearly average was only 5.4% above that
of the previous year. Exports in 1977/78 are estimated at US$6.4 billion and
imports at US$6.6 billion. The inflow of invisibles from abroad at US$1.4
billion and net aid disbursements of US$1.2 billion more than offset the small
trade deficit of US$200 million and IMF repurchases of US$330 million to in-
crease reserves by US$2.1 billion to US$5.8 billion by end of March 1978.
10.       The 1977/78 foodgrain crop may exceed the 1975/76 record level of
121 million tons due to very good weather and increased input use. Support
purchases could result in peak foodgrain stocks as high or even higher than
in 1977, when they were 21 million tons. In addition to ample and evenly
distributed rainfall, more intensive and widespread use of three crucial
inputs--irrigation water, fertilizer and extension advice--contributed to
the bumper harvest. Fertilizer consumption surged 30% in 1977/78, continuing
its recovery from the depressed level of 1974/75. Annual additions to irri-
gated area have averaged 2 million hectares since 1975/76 compared with 1.3
million hectares per annum achieved from 1969 to 1975. An improved extension
system, which has been getting heartening results, has been introduced in
several states and is slated for further coverage.



-4-
Development Prospects
11.       India faces the future with large stocks of foodgrains, high and
rising external reserves, excellent crop expectations, price stability and good
prospects for sustaining the improved supply of foreign exchange. The circum-
stances present a great opportunity for further promoting the development of
the Indian economy. The Draft Five Year Plan for 1978-83, discussed though
not yet approved by the National Development Council, responds to this chal-
lenge by projecting a rapid growth in real terms of both overall investment
and public Plan expenditures. Investment is to rise on average by 10.7% per
annum and the economy is expected to grow on average by 4.7% per annum during
the years 1978-83.
12.       The new Draft Plan reveals an intention to reorient the country's
development toward improving the living conditions of the poor. This is
reflected in its principal objectives: (i) the removal of unemployment and
significant underemployment; (ii) an appreciable rise in the standard of
living of the poorest sections; and (iii) the provision of basic needs to
low-income groups. To achieve these objectives, the Government proposes to
emphasize agricultural development, cottage and small-scale industries, area
planning for integrated rural development and the provision of minimum needs.
As a first step toward complete removal of unemployment, the Plan envisages
the creation of a large number of new jobs through a considerable expansion
of construction activity as well as a boost in the consumption levels of the
poor--which in turn would require the production of the necessary wage goods,
largely in small-scale, labor-intensive units. Specific programs to achieve
these objectives are still in the making.
13.       In order to achieve a sizable rise in the income of the poorest
classes of society, the Draft Plan--in conformity with the Janata Party policy--
places prime emphasis on the development of rural areas. A major impulse for
agricultural development will be provided by the expansion of irrigation and
related agricultural inputs, such as fertilizers and better farming techniques.
The Draft Plan argues that efforts to increase productivity should be sup-
plemented by measures with a redistributive impact such as supporting small
farmers and small industry with institutional credit and material supplies
and assistance for marketing. The Draft Plan also intends to complement the
creation of employment and the increase in rural productivity by providing
basic services to those groups which have so far been unaffected. For this
purpose, the minimum needs program launched at the onset of the Fifth Plan
is being revitalized and accelerated.
14.       The allocation of the Draft Plan outlay for the next five years
reflects these priorities. Out of a total expected spending of US$81 billion,
US$35 billion--43%--have been earmarked for rural development programs includ-
ing agriculture, irrigation, fertilizer and social infrastructure expenditures
directly benefitting the rural areas. The share of these sectors amounted to
37% during the Fifth Plan period and to 40% in the Annual Plan for 1978/79.
It can thus be expected to rise further during the next four years. Similarly,
spending on the minimum needs program in 1978-83 will absorb 6% of the Plan
resources, as compared to less than 3% in the Fifth Plan. On the other hand,
the shares of industry and of transport and communication have been reduced.



15.       There is considerable scope for stepping up growth in agriculture.
The most promising development is the sharp increase in government outlays
and improved project implementation for irrigation. There are also indica-
tions that private investment in tubewells is picking up again after a slump
in the early 1970s. Other favorable indicators include the spread of an
improved system of extension to more states and the recovery of fertilizer
demand. With regard to more productive use of existing capacity, there is an
increased awareness in the Government that the benefits of irrigation projects
can be much increased, not only through command area development, but also
through improved design standards in major surface irrigation infrastructure.
Nevertheless, comprehensive improvement in water management remains a distant
goal, particularly in existing systems and where farms are small and frag-
mented. The bulk of the increase in private tubewell development in the last
few years has come from the Eastern Region, where more and more farmers are
sinking wells to enable them to grow a winter crop of wheat in addition to
providing better water control for the summer rice crop. Improved water man-
agement would make such investments even more productive. Increased farmer
incomes from the recent good harvests, somewhat lower fertilizer prices, and
grain prices supported at incentive levels have encouraged farmers to apply
considerably more fertilizer. Finally, the reorganized and improved extension
and research system which has been introduced recently in several states in
northern and eastern India holds out the hope that sound advice will reach
many more farmers in both irrigated and rainfed areas and will raise their
productivity significantly. The improved extension system is an excellent
example of how the growth effort can and must be structured so as to increase
the incomes of small and marginal farmers, who work 25% of the cultivated
land and account for somewhat more than 25% of production; more importantly,
these farmers make up about 70% of the rural population and constitute the
majority of those living below the poverty level in India.
16.       Industrial prospects are somewhat more difficult to discern.
Moderate growth in 1977/78 after an excellent year in 1976/77 suggests the
persistence of problems plaguing the sector since the mid-1960s--large un-
utilized capacity, stagnant capital formation in the private sector and low
productivity growth. Lower investment than expected, of course, is one of
the reasons for low capacity utilization in capital goods industries, which
make up a significant portion of the sector. Sluggish demand for industrial
products from all sources--not only from investments but also from agricul-
ture, exports and import substitution--has been a basic constraint. Further
import substitution cannot be a major source of growth for manufactured goods
in the future because most opportunities for efficient import substitution
have been exploited. Increased growth of real incomes from greater produc-
tivity in both agriculture and manufacturing, sustained increases in exports
and increased investment, particularly by the public sector, all can raise
demand for industrial production.
17.       The new industrial policy of the Janata government and the orienta-
tion of the Draft Five-Year Plan emphasize small-scale industry over heavy
industry and have accordingly promoted such measures as product reservation,
credit rationing and, within the small-scale sector, plans to initiate special
efforts for the growth of the "tiny" sector. While the priority accorded to



the small-scale sector is laudable, there are doubts about the efficacy of
the policy measures chosen. Past experience indicates that other factors
are also crucial to its development, particularly effective demand, quality
control, prices and marketing techniques. Some small-scale industry is cap-
ital intensive and not well suited to as rapid employment generation as is
hoped; nor can all goods be efficiently produced using small-scale technology.
18.       India's population growth rate of about 2% is not high in comparison
with that of most developing countries. Moreover, the rate is on the decline,
after growing steadily census to census from 1920 through 1970, both because
the birth rate continues to fall and because mortality is not falling as
steeply as in the past. Family planning acceptor rates slowed down in the
wake of the abandonment of the 1976 population policy after the 1977 general
elections and the momentum of the program has yet to be recaptured, particu-
larly in Northern India. However, the new Government has reaffirmed its com-
mitment to a voluntary family planning program and has budgeted the resources
to carry it out. Over the longer term, with a sustained family planning
effort, it should be possible to bring the birth rate down from its 1970-75
level of about 37 per thousand to about 23 per thousand by the end of the
century, implying a population growth rate somewhat under 1.1%. Our "best
guess" projection of India's population in the year 2000 is 885 million. Many
of the benefits of family planning policy will only be felt beyond the turn of
the century; the decline in fertility will, however, bring about an earlier
change in the age structure of the population. The school age group will grow
more slowly or not at all after 1981, thereby reducing the pressures on the
primary and secondary education systems. However, the labor force will con-
tinue to grow at a faster rate -- 2.5% per annum -- until well into the 1990s,
resulting in an increasing proportion of the population in the labor force
from 40.8% to 45% in 1991.
19.       The Government's goal of eliminating unemployment in 10 years implies
an expansion of the number of jobs at the rate of 9 million per annum -- 7
million new entrants to the labor force and the absorption of 2 million or
so formerly unemployed. The majority of these will have to continue to be
absorbed -- judging from the prevailing composition of the labor force -- in
agriculture and the unorganized small-scale sector. The absorptive capacity
of the modern organized sector is unfortunately low; its employment elasticity
is expected to be no more than 0.5. Given its low current share of output,
even rapid growth of this sector would not make much of a dent in the backlog
of the unemployed. Employment in the organized sector has been growing at
about 2.2% per annum in the past ten years, less than the labor force growth
rate, and all of this in the public sector. Private sector employment has not
grown at all since 1966. While the labor absorption elasticities of the small-
scale sector may be higher in some cases than that of the large-scale sector,
a major effort to expand production must succeed before an appreciable employ-
ment impact will materialize.
20.       In the short run India's balance of payments should not be a con-
straint on growth and development.  With good medium-term prospects for
India's exports, the expected continuation of growth in invisible receipts
and the potential for an increase in net aid disbursments, the net availability



of foreign exchange to finance merchandise imports is projected to rise over
the next five years, in current prices, from US$8.7 billion in 1977/78 to
US$16.7 billion in 1982/83, an average of 14% per annum. Given the unlikely
need to increase rapidly imports of some traditionally important items -- e.g.,
petroleum, fertilizer, foodgrains, edible oil and cotton -- other imports can
increase at the rate of 20% a year over the next five years.
21.       Altogether, these currently favorable circumstances present the
opportunity to double India's trend rate of growth of per capita income from
the average annual rate of 1.5% that prevailed for the last thirty years to
3% over the next five, and thereafter. This requires a continued fall in the
rate of population growth to below 2% per annum and a rise in the growth of
GDP from the historical rate of 3.5% to 5.0% per annum. Both of these targets
are within reach. The first should be achieved barring a total abandonment
of the family planning program. The second requires improved efficiency and
increased investment by both the public and private sectors; it also means
more fully harnessing the gains from trade through international specializa-
tion, implying a strong export effort and continued easier access to imports.
In addition to enabling a faster rate of per capita income growth, the pre-
sent situation allows for increasing the coverage of the population's minimum
needs. This requires formulating and administering effective, efficient
programs of public investment and, of course, requires larger public outlays.
22.       With the enhanced resources at India's disposal, the economy is
poised for a higher rate of economic growth. The Government is moving to
take advantage of this opportunity with increased public expenditure envi-
sioned over the next five years, and the liberalized trade policies recently
announced. It is yet too early to know whether the moves made so far will
be sufficient to achieve the desired targets or whether additional steps will
be necessary. Assured international support for India's development effort
will be an important factor in moving the Government to take greater risks
in pursuing a dynamic development program directed at meeting the huge needs
of its large and impoverished population.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
23.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 55 loans and 105 development
credits to India totalling US$2,236 million and US$5,738 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$924 million had been
repaid, and US$1,928 million was still undisbursed as of July 31, 1978.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of July 31, 1978,
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
24.       Since 1957, IFC has made 15 commitments in India totalling US$63.6
million, of which US$14.5 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled.  Of the balance of US$34.6 miillion, US$26.9 mil-
lion represents loans and US$7.7 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of July 31, 1978, is also included in Annex II (page 2).



- 8 -
25.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
t`G-.S  Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capac-
ity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in support-
ing infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and railways.
Family planning, education, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
26.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, command area development of existing irrigation schemes,
intensification and streamlining of extension systems, and seed production
form an important aspect of the Bank Group's program for the next several
years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefitting small farmers.
Projects supporting water supply, sewerage, and urban development also form
an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on agriculture-, export- and energy-related projects.
27.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in large part to the response of the aid community, India has success-
fully adjusted to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need
for foreign assistance, to augment domestic resources, stimulate investment
and accelerate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assist-
ance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of
local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of
the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry. Con-
sequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most projects.
This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors as agriculture,
irrigation, rural water supply and medium- and small-scale industry.
28.       Although the growth prospects of the economy have improved, India's
poverty and needs are such that as much as possible of India's external capi-
tal requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly, the
bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to be,
provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be
allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support, and India may be regarded as creditworthy for some supplemental Bank



- 9 -
lending. As of July 31, 1978, outstanding loans to India totaled US$1,247
million, of which US$559 million remained to be disbursed, leaving a net
amount outstanding of US$688 million.
29.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 62%, 27% and 38%,
respectively, in 1977/78. On March 31, 1977, India's outstanding and dis-
bursed external public debt was US$13.3 billion, of which the Bank Group's
share was 28%. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in
the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
In 1977/78, about 16% of India's total debt service payments were to the
Bank Group.
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND RESEARCH IN INDIA
General
30.       Agriculture is the most important sector in India; it engages 70%
of the labor force, has recently contributed about 42% of national product
and accounts for a major share of exports. During the last decade, GOI
development plans have emphasized agriculture and sought to raise foodgrain
production by increasing the use of fertilizers, plant protection chemicals,
and seeds of improved varieties. GOI has sought to modernize and expand its
agricultural credit institutions and accelerate the development of irrigation.
Most recently, increasing attention has been given to improvement of extension
services and upgrading the research capabilities needed to support this exten-
sion effort.
31.       Despite these endeavors and the impressive results of the Green
Revolution in some areas--primarily in the wheat-growing northwestern states--
the annual overall growth in foodgrain production over the last 15 years has
been about 2.3%--only slightly above the rate of population growth. Further-
more, India's agriculture continues to be particularly susceptible to the
vagaries of weather, and foodgrain production can vary as much as 20% between
successive years. Although expansion of irrigation facilities to reduce this
variation remains a priority, GOI recognizes that, in the area where over half
of India's farmers live, water resources for irrigation are extremely limited
and the best hope for improving living standards is to increase production of
rainfed crops. Unfortunately, yields under rainfed conditions have shown
little improvement over the last two decades. A stepped-up program of research
for improving dryland farming technology is thus a very high Government priority.
32.       In absolute terms, public expenditure on agricultural research has
increased rapidly, from about US$1.2 million in the First Plan to a provi-
sional US$126 million in the Fifth Plan ending March 1978. As a proportion
of total public outlay, however, it has remained almost stationary at about
one-third of 1% of total expenditure.  In the draft Five Year Plan (1978-83),



- 10 -
total expenditure on agricultural research and education is placed at US$494
million, more than double the comparable figure for the Fifth Plan. This
represents about 2% of total designated outlays for agriculture, rural devel-
opment and irrigation.
Agricultural Research System in India
33.       India has made notable progress in recent years toward the devel-
opment of a highly competent, professional, and effective agricultural
research system. As it continues to be strengthened, this system should be
capable of generating the scientific and technological advances required for
a sustained growth in agricultural productivity.  It has already demonstrated
its worth and effectiveness in several very important areas, notably in wheat,
rice and maize production.
34.       Agriculture is constitutionally a state subject in India, and thus
agricultural research is primarily a state responsibility. However, through
the Indian Council for Agricultural Research (ICAR), the Central Government
makes a contribution to agricultural research and education at the state level.
The ICAR serves as the apex national coordinating and supporting agency for
much of the research carried out through state agencies. By virtue of its
prestige as a competent institution and through the provision of funds, ICAR
has come to play an effective role in setting standards for state agricultural
universities (SAU) and coordinating the national research effort. Research at
the state level is mainly the responsibility of SAU although in a few states
the State Department of Agriculture is responsible for adaptive, or applied,
research.
35.       The success of the research programs supported under the project
will be positively influenced by the close asosciation which has developed
between SAU, ICAR and the international research institutes (CIMMYT, IRRI,
CIP, ICRISAT, and IBPGR). The SAU maintain contact with these institutes
through ICAR which, as the representative of the agricultural research com-
munity in India, has a Memorandum of Understanding with all of them.  This
has led to collaboration in research between institutes and SAU (e.g. the
upland rice project, the sorghum downy mildew project), the free flow of
genetic material into SAU research programs, the exchange of staff and in-
formation, and the regular attendance by SAU staff at research seminars
and conferences. This cooperation is strong and effective, and adequate
for the support of the agricultural research to be tackled under NARP.
ICRISAT is located in India in the state of Andhra Pradesh. Its main work to
date is in research of farming systems and improvement of sorghum, pearl
millet and pulses. Local and international interest in ICRISAT programs and
results is expanding and ICRISAT is receiving many requests for assistance in
project formulation and advisory services from the Bank Group, UNDP and
other organizations. To help it in responding to such requests and to perform
other functions relating to the extension and dissemination of ICRISAT's
expertise throughout the world, a consultant/advisory team has recently
been organized in ICRISAT.



- 11 -
Indian Council for Agricultural Research (ICAR)
36.       The ICAR was originally established by GOI in 1929, and in 1966 it
was reorganized following the recommendations of a national review committee
on agricultural research and education. The reorganization of the ICAR was
in recognition of the need to consolidate all centrally supported research
and higher education in agriculture, animal sciences and fisheries, including
the various central agricultural research institutes and research previously
conducted under separate commodity committees. The Council was also made
responsible for providing central guidance and financial support to the SAUs
and colleges and for developing linkages with international research insti-
tutes. The Council was reconstituted under the chairmanship of the Union
Minister of Agriculture. Its governing body was placed under the chairmanship
of the Director General, who was chief executive of the Council. Since 1973,
the Director General has been designated as Secretary to the Government of
India for the Department of Agricultural Research and Education, Ministry of
Agriculture and Irrigation, thus ensuring appropriate liaison with Government.
37.       The Director General is assisted by four Deputy Directors General
(crop sciences; animal sciences; soils, irrigation and agricultural engineer-
ing; and education), a secretariat, and additional staff as required. Fif-
teen scientific panels in various subjects have been set up for considering
the various research schemes and projects supported by the Council, for
advising the Governing Body on technical matters, and for drawing attenion
to gaps in current research and training efforts. The total budget for the
ICAR (plan and non-plan) for the current Draft Plan period has been tentatively
estimated at US$61 million, approximately 25% above the previous level of
budget allocation. The ICAR has a staff of approximately 5,500 scientists.
38.       The ICAR has two special institutes at which advanced training is
given to agricultural graduates and graduates entering into the service of
ICAR. The first of these is the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI).
The IARI is the premier institution in the country for Ph.D. and postdoctoral
training in the agricultural sciences and in basic agricultural research. The
second ICAR institute is the recently established Central Staff College for
Agriculture at Hyderabad. It was set up in 1975 and is concerned presently
with orientation and instruction of new recruits to the ICAR. It is expected
to have a larger role in the future in refresher training courses for scien-
tists engaged in the central and state research programs.
Agricultural Universities
39.       The present system of agricultural universities in India (21 univer-
sities in 16 states plus the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARb))
has evolved over the past twenty years. These universities have been devel-
oped with the objective of creating a system of scientific education which
is dedicated to serving the needs of the farming community. The faculty are
involved in both teaching and applied research. Students are expected to get
a practical orientation to agricultural problems.



- 12 -
40.       The basic objectives of the state agricultural universities (SAU)
are similar to those set by the philosophy of the U.S. Land Grant College
system (i.e. to integrate research and teaching). Several U.S. colleges
p-ovided teams of technical advisors to assist in the planning and development
of the first SAU established. The development of the SAU has been uneven,
however, resulting from differences in the local political situation, the
strength of initial leadership, and the support accorded by state governments.
The SAU of Uttar Pradesh (now G.B. Pant University of Agriculture and Tech-
nology) and the Punjab SAU (now divided into Punjab SAU and Haryana SAU)
became pace setters in recruitment of well-trained staff, assumption of
responsibility for agricultural research within the state, and liaison with
the farming community.  Other SAU have developed less rapidly and a few have
not yet had sufficient time to reach full maturity.
41.       The agricultural universities are state institutions.  They receive
their basic financial support through the state governments and are provided
grants for various development activities and for a very substantial number
of research projects from ICAR.
42.       The SAU are all involved with both instruction and research and
most of them over the past five to ten years have been given statewide respons-
ibility for this latter function. The assimilation of the staff and facilities
involved in this transfer has posed administrative and organizational problems
for several SAU, especially those more recently established which must ini-
tially devote considerable efforts to the development of the central educational
and research organization. Time and assistance are required to enable these
SAU to absorb the large numbers of field experiment stations and other facil-
ities made available to them, and to develop well-planned, balanced and cohe-
rent research programs directed effectively to the major problems limiting
agricultural progress in the various agro-ecological zones of the state. Most
of the SAU are addressing these problems and are analyzing the agro-ecological
conditions and cropping patterns of the different zones of their states in
order to identify major zones and plan the creation of zonal lead experiment
stations at which they can establish a critical mass of staff and facilities
to address the problems of that zone on a continuing basis. Other smaller
substations are also required, closely linked to the zonal station, for
adaptive and verification work.
43.       The agricultural university system has now progressed to the point
at which it can address, with the assistance provided under the project, the
real agricultural problems of the different agro-ecological zones. The project
is geared to helping the universities to develop the facilities, deploy the
necessary staff, and provide the initial operating support required to estab-
lish effective zonal research stations.
Main Achievements of Indian Agricultural Research
44.       Despite problems noted above, the Indian Agricutural research sys-
tem has had a number of important successes. One of the first major achieve-
ments of Indian agricultural research came through the coordinated maize
improvement scheme instituted by ICAR in cooperation with the states in 1957.



- 13 -
This scheme helped to set the pattern for more effective national planning of
research on a commodity or problem basis, for international collaboration,
and for effective center/state cooperation in research. The scheme provided
for a national coordinator, based at the IARI, four main centers and nine
smaller substations. This scheme was able, within four years, to develop,
test and prepare for release four highly productive maize hybrids, with wide
adaptability in the Gangetic Plain, the Terai, and the Deccan. It further led
to the development of plans for the National Seeds Corporation which would
arrange for production and distribution of foundation and certified seeds of
these hybrids and improved varieties and hybrids of other crops for use by the
farmers throughout the nation. The National Coordinated Maize Improvement
Scheme served as the model on which the ICAR subsequently developed a large
number (now 51) of national coordinated schemes on other crops and problems
having important significance to the nation and to several states therein.
45.       Central, state, and international cooperative research has achieved
major advances in wheat and rice production during the past fifteen years.
The basic genetic materials having high yield potential, short stature, high
tillering capacity, lodging resistance, and fertilizer responsiveness were
imported from abroad--wheat from Mexico and rice through the International
Rice Research Institute in the Philippines. These initial introductions
were further developed to achieve the desired grain quality, broad based
resistance to pathogens and pests, and better adaptation to the variety
of cultural practices and ecological conditions prevailing in the country.
Since the early 1960's, wheat production has increased 2-1/2 to 3 fold and
total rice production in the country has gone up by more than 50%. Wheat
production is now moving into the northeastern part of the country, where it
was previously of minor importance, but shows promise of adding a second
productive harvest on substantial areas of land in that region. There are,
however, many ecological situations for which dependable and profitable
technology for substantial improvement in rice production is still elusive
and has not yet been achieved.
46.       Initially, hybrids of pearl millet promised a breakthrough similar
to that of wheat and rice. However, production advances were stopped when
two diseases, downy mildew and ergot, attacked the hybrids. Now it has be-
come necessary to revert to seeking new sources of resistance to these diseases
and develop new varieties which will resist attack, a task which is now well
underway.
47.       The above examples illustrate the fact that India has capable
scientists and has been able to make very substantial progress in agricultural
research. At the same time, it has become apparent that this capability is
not developed to an adequate degree in all areas. There is an urgent need to
adapt and transfer scientific advances from the relatively few major research
centers to other ecological situations. Strong, well-staffed, -equipped and
-financed research stations in each of the major agro-ecological zones of the
states are still lacking. Thus, the emphasis of the proposed project is to
meet the needs of the SAUs, through ICAR, in promoting locally important
applied research.



- 14 -
Previous Bank Group Support
48.       The proposed project would complement the ongoing agricultural
research and extension projects in six states (Orissa Agricultural Develop-
ment Project, Cr. 682-IN, April 1977; Assam Agricultural Development Project,
Cr. 728-IN, June 1977; West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project,
Cr. 690-IN, June 1977; Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research
Project, Cr. 712-IN, June 1977; Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research
Project, Cr. 737-IN, November 1977; Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research
Project, Cr. 761-IN, January 1978). Experience with these projects, which
total US$71 million in IDA credits, is so far generally favorable, although
the projects are of recent vintage.  The projects have demonstrated that farmers
will adopt improved practices given an effective system to deliver knowledge
of such practices. Their success depends, however, on a steady flow of appro-
priate and practical advice from the research system to the extension system
for delivery to farmers. The proposed National Research project would comple-
ment and support research efforts under the ongoing extension and research
projects and under future extension projects.
49.        ICAR has been involved in three other Bank Group projects:  Credit
342-IN which provides general support for the State Agricultural Universities
in Assam and Bihar, and Loan 1273-IN and Credit 816-IN, which both support
India's national seed program. The agricultural universities and the first
seeds projects got off to a slow start due to various difficulties. The delays
in the seed projects were mainly the result of key management turnover at the
National Seeds Corporation, the main project implementation agency, and the
difficulty in finding suitable replacements for the Chairman and Managing
Director, which posts were vacant for a number of months. The agricultural
universities project also fell behind schedule as a result of difficulties in
recruiting project staff for the two universities, which are in fairly remote
areas of India, and changeovers in university leadership. These problems have
been overcome and the projects are making satisfactory progress. ICAR's
performance in these projects has been satisfactory.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
50.       The project was prepared by ICAR and IDA with the assistance of a
number of SAU. It was appraised by IDA in February/March 1978. The Staff
Appraisal Report, No. 2083a-IN, dated September 21, 1978 is being distributed
separately. Negotiations were held in Washington in August 1978. The nego-
tiating delegation for India was headed by Dr. 0. P. Gautam. A supplementary
Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Description
51.       The purpose of the project is to address the agricultural problems
specific to individual agro-ecological regions of the country and to narrow
the gap between research programs and the needs of farmers for new technology
and information. To do this, the project would strengthen and reorient re-
search at State Agricultural Universities (SAU) and strengthen ICAR's ability



- 15 -
to support, guide, coordinate, and monitor research at the state level. To
achieve these purposes, the project would finance four main types of invest-
ments:
US$ million
SAU Research subprojects                      50.0
SAU Administrative subprojects                 1.0
IARI and ICAR Staff College training
facilities                                   2.0
ICAR Project Unit                              1.0
Total Project Cost                      54.0
SAU Research Subprojects
52.       The bulk of project resources would be devoted to financing research
subprojects at main campuses, main zonal research stations and substations of
state agricultural universities. Most research subprojects would focus on the
development of facilities and staff at the main agro-ecological zonal stations.
To a lesser degree, the project would also support subprojects devoted to
strengthening research at the main campuses of SAU where such research relates
to topics which are crucial for the long-term agricultural development of the
state. In a few cases, subprojects could also entail provision of funds for
individual applied research activities on priority topics which might arise
during project implementation on an ad hoc basis. Types of investments
financed would include civil works (laboratories, office and classroom space,
staff housing, farm development), equipment, and incremental staff and operat-
ing funds for a period of up to five years.
53.       The average size of a research subproject cannot be estimated pre-
cisely. However, it is expected that the majority of subprojects will comprise
development of main research stations and substations. The costs of the three
research subprojects examined by IDA during appraisal ranged from Rs 8.5 mil-
lion to Rs 18.2 million. The proportion of costs devoted to civil works
averaged about 40%, and for equipment about 10%. The balance of costs were
mainly incremental staff and operating costs and the cost of land acquisition.
The total number of research subprojects expected to be financed under the
project is about 56. Nine universities had submitted background papers (see
paragraph 60) by the end of April 1978, and fifteen universities are esti-
mated to become eligible to benefit from the project.
SAU Administrative Subprojects
54.       In some cases, the administrative capabilities of the SAU would not
be strong enough to ensure that research projects were effectively monitored
and carried out. In such cases, the project would finance measures needed
to strengthen the research administration of an SAU. Items which could
comprise an administrative subproject include: (i) incremental staff and
related costs for planning and monitoring the university's total research



- 16 -
program; (ii) organization of regional, commodity and discipline-oriented
workshops for subject matter specialists in the university and the state
department of agriculture; and (iii) sending staff to advanced centers of
research within India for non-degree training. In three cases reviewed by
the appraisal mission, the cost per university for strengthening research
administration amounted to about Rs 1 million (US$116,000).
IARI and ICAR Staff College Training Facilities
55.       IARI and the ICAR Staff College are the only centers equipped to
offer training in research administration. At the time of project appraisal,
the Staff College did not admit SAU staff and the capacity of IARI to accept
university trainees is limited. ICAR has agreed to prepare proposals by
March 31, 1979 for IDA review that would enhance the capacity of these insti-
tutions to accept university trainees in research administration (see Section
2.06 of draft Project Agreement). The main component of these proposals is
expected to be buildings for the accommodation of the trainees.
ICAR Project Unit
56.       A Project Unit will be established within ICAR to administer the
project (see paragraph 57 below). The resource requirements financed under
the project would include incremental staff, consultants, equipment and oper-
ating costs.
Project Implementation
57.       A high level Project Funding Committee (PFC) has been constituted
as an executive body to administer the project. The Committee is chaired by
the Director General of ICAR and has the Agricultural Commissioner, GOI, the
Chief (Agriculture), Planning Commission, Vice-Chancellors of two selected SAU
and the Project Administrator as members. The PFC is the executive authority
and has power to admit SAU to participation in the project (see paragraph 58
below), to approve or reject subprojects and to supervise the execution of the
project. An inter-disciplinary scientific panel of eminent scientists in
different fields has been set up to provide technical advice to the Committee.
The ICAR Deputy Director General (Education) has been appointed Project
Administrator and will head the Project Unit which will serve as a secretariat
to the Committee. This unit, which is presently being staffed, will carry out
day-to-day management and monitoring functions and will advise on and process
subprojects. Appointment of key staff of the Project Unit is to be completed
by January 31, 1979 (see Section 2.13 of draft Project Agreement). The imple-
mentation of specific subprojects would be the responsibility of the recipient
SAU, through the office of the Director of Research. ICAR's work program
related to the project for 1978/79 was reviewed during negotiations. To help
ensure a reasonable distribution of project funds among the various states,
ICAR would provide special assistance to weaker states' SAU in the prepara-
tion of sound subprojects.



- 17 -
Eligibility Criteria
58.       Subproject proposals would be appraised by the PFC on the basis of
criteria agreed with the Association (see Section 2.08 of the draft Project
Agreement). The PFC decision would be guided by, inter alia, the importance
of the research proposal to state agricultural development, the capability
of the SAU to carry out the subproject, and whether the research was original
non-duplicative, and practically oriented. All SAU would be eligible to
receive support from the National Agricultural Research Project provided that,
to the satisfaction of the PFC, they:
(a) complied with GOI/ICAR administrative standards regarding
salaries, recruitment and administrative procedures;
(b) produced a background paper containing a critical analysis
of SAU and its research responsibilities;
(c) possessed or were willing to recruit adequately experienced
staff and established adequate mechanisms for research
administration;
(d) established satisfactory linkages with state extension services;
and
(e) agreed to participate in a review of the research effort in
the SAU service area and carry out the recommendations of
the review.
Administrative Standards
59.       To allow the university to compete for and retain competent staff,
the SAU will be required to follow at least the pay scales of the GOI Univer-
sity Grants Commission. Scientific staff would be recruited on an All-India
basis. Scientific and senior administrative staff recruited under the sub-
project would be required to sign a commitment not to apply for or accept
another position for at least two years and the SAU would be requested not to
transfer staff during the operation of the subproject. The university pro-
cedures for audit, accounting and procurement will be reviewed by PFC to
assure standards comparable to those of ICAR and to provide sufficient decen-
tralization of administrative powers for efficient subproject implementation.
Background Paper
60.       This document will provide the background information against which
the first one or two subprojects for each SAU would be considered. The back-
ground paper would provide a brief introduction to agriculture in the state,
identify the agro-ecological zones in the area influenced by the SAU and
analyze their characteristics and research needs, describe the existing orga-
nization and management of research and propose possible modifications of
research administration and linkages with extension as well as priority sub-
projects. The background paper would also be the starting point for under-
taking the detailed research review (see paragraph 63 below) which would be
re uired prior to PFC approval of subsequent subprojects in respect of a given



- 18 -
Research Administration
61.       To help focus the research effort on regional needs, an Associate
Director of Research would be appointed to head the total research effort
within each zone. His tasks will include improving upon the existing know-
ledge of farming constraints, promoting close collaboration with the Depart-
ment of Agriculture, arranging regional workshops and courses for research
and extension staff, formulating amendments to the research program and super-
vising and reporting on the regional research effort. The Office of the
Director of Research will similarly be responsible for planning, directing,
monitoring and evaluating the research effort of the university as a whole.
The SAU must satisfy the PFC that its research organization is geared to the
needs of the zones it serves and that it has the administrative and scien-
tific capacity to bring about an increased emphasis on location specific
research.
Linkages with Extension
62.       The results from research must reach the farmers if the program
of applied research is to be justified. The SAU and state government must,
therefore, be prepared to establish a system of linkages between SAU research
stations and the state agricultural extension service which is acceptable
to the PFC. Where applicable, these linkages would take into account the
requirements and characteristics of the "Training and Visits" extension sys-
tem now being adopted by many states with the support of IDA. Linkage between
extension and research would be promoted through informal contacts between
extension and research staff, exchange of staff, workshops, courses and colla-
boration in the state departments of agriculture field testing programs.
Research Review
63.       The project recognizes that, in the past, university research has
developed through a series of individual projects, many of which have been
conceived in isolation and developed to address a particular problem at a
particular point in time. Under the project, the strategy would be to
develop a planned approach which integrates all agricultural research within
the state, avoids duplication and ensures maximum staff involvement with the
most pressing research problems. The SAU must, therefore, within one year
of its acceptance into the project, initiate and participate in a detailed
review of the total research effort of the SAU service areas and the prepara-
tion of a report. The review team would be appointed by the ICAR Project Unit
and would consist of representatives of SAU (Directors of Research), ICAR,
state departments of agriculture and one eminent scientist recruited from
outside the state with a knowledge of research organization. The review would
be comprehensive and would include a consideration of the number and location
of stations, division of labor with ICAR institutions, use of existing staff
and resources, and organization and administration of research. The PFC would
ensure that subsequent subproject proposals conformed with the recommendations
of the review report prior to approving them.



- 19 -
Project Cost and Financing
64.       The project cost would be US$54.0 million equivalent over 5 years,
of which about 10% or about US$5.6 million is the estimated foreign exchange
cost. The IDA Credit of US$27.0 million would finance 50% of project costs
and cover all foreign costs and a proportion of local costs. Duties and taxes
are negligible. The remaining costs would be met by GOI (41%) and SAU (9%).
GOI would make both the Credit proceeds and its own funds available to ICAR
as budgetary grants and ICAR in turn would finance approved subprojects on a
grant basis. SAU contributions would be mainly in respect of land acquisi-
tion and management overhead.
65.       The costs of the project would comprise:  (a) expenditures made in
the five years 1978-1983 on the implementation of subprojects that would be
determined in the course of project implementation and (b) the costs incurred
by ICAR in administering the project in the same period. Since ICAR would be
approving subprojects throughout the project period, and generally subprojects
will cover a five year period, the completion of many subprojects will extend
beyond the expected project closing date. To ensure these subprojects would
be completed, a GOI assurance to provide ICAR with fun,ds to complete any
subproject approved during the project period was obtained (see Section 3.02
of draft Development Credit Agreement). Assurances were also obtained from
ICAR that its annual budget submission to GOI would be based on the require-
ments of already approved subprojects and of subprojects expected to be
approved during the year (see Section 2.01(b) of the draft Project Agreement).
Procurement
66.       All civil works would be relatively small and consist of research
facilities, housing and farm development, mostly located at some distance
from major cities, and undertaken by different universities scattered through-
out the country. On the basis of subprojects reviewed by the appraisal mis-
sion, civil works per subproject are unlikely to exceed US$1 million, even
for a major zonal research station. It would neither be feasible nor economic
to group such works into large contracts for international competitive bidding
(ICB). Awards for construction works would instead be made after local com-
petitive bidding, the procedures for which would be reviewed by PFC when ad-
mitting the university. The procurement procedures would be satisfactory to
IDA and would be based on those in use at the three universities which were
reviewed by the appraisal mission and were found satisfactory.
67.       Procurement of equipment would be undertaken by the participating
universities and would be distributed over time. A great diversity of labor-
atory, office and farm equipment would be required. Orders will be small in
size and existing servicing and spare part facilities would be of crucial
importance. The total value of equipment items per subproject is not ex-
pected to exceed US$140,000. These items would thus not be suitable for ICB
but would be procured by standard university procedures which would be satis-
factory to IDA and would be reviewed by PFC as a condition of the university's
eligibility. Procedures in use by three universities visited by the appraisal
mission were found to be satisfactory.



- 20 -
Disbursements
68.       IDA disbursements would be over five years and would be made against
ICAR certified statements of expenditure incurred by participating SAUs and
by ICAR. For ease of administration, disbursements would be against 50% of
eligible expenditures. Supporting documents would not be submitted to IDA
for review, but would be retained by ICAR and SAU and be available for
inspection by ICAR and IDA during project supervision. Since most SAU have
insufficient resources of their own to pre-finance major investments under
ICAR schemes, ICAR currently advances funds six months ahead of expenditure
on the basis of budget estimates, less amounts unspent from the previous
period according to a certified statement of expenditures. IDA would, how-
ever, disburse against actual SAU expenditures as summarized at six-monthly
intervals by ICAR.
Project Benefits and Risks
69.       The main project benefit would be to help farmers increase produc-
tion of crops in the different ecological regions within participating states.
In particular, yields of crops grown under rainfed conditions, which are the
basis of subsistence and an important source of income for a majority of
India's farmers, have shown little change over the period spanning the Green
Revolution. The proposed project would focus on research on higher yielding,
more resistant varieties, and on improved cropping patterns and agronomic
practices. The proposed project would focus on soil and water conservation
techniques which could provide farmers in arid or semiarid zones with tech-
niques to avoid soil erosion and with a minimum secure base from which to
consider investment in new inputs. Also, by concentrating expenditures on
applied, problem-oriented research, the project would help in taking advantage
of a vast capital of research knowledge within and outside India and adapting
it where possible to the special circumstances prevailing in a particular
region.
70.       It is impossible to quantify these benefits in precise terms, not
only because the exact nature of the subprojects to be submitted to the PFC
is unknown at this stage, but also because the nature of research defies
averaging between success and failure. Even within research programs of more
limited scope, uncertainties as to supplementary services and lags in farmer
adoption rates increase the scope for error. However, ex-post evaluation of
individual crop programs in Latin America during the late 1960s yielded inter-
nal rates of return in the range of 35%-90%, while similar research in the
U.S. and South Africa gave lower but still strongly positive results.
71.       More recent studies of returns to agricultural research in India
have been based on aggregate production function analysis, usually involving
estimation of the change in output between two relevant periods not statis-
tically explained by conventional inputs such as water, fertilizer, or labor.
The most recent and complete study of this type (Punjab Agricultural Univer-
sity, 1977) compares data on 16 states before and after the Green Revolution.
Returns per rupee invested in research ranged from 5 to over 50 rupees, which
with lags of between 5 and 7 years yield internal rates of return of between



- 21 -
35% and 112%. At the All-India level, the same authors obtained a rate of
return of 72%. Methodological issues aside, all studies point to the high
payoff of applied agricultural research in developing countries.
72.       The project is designed to achieve substantial indirect benefits
by improving the institutional channels responsible for location-specific
agricultural research. Project research is closely linked to and supplements
the reorganization of agricultural extension which IDA is supporting in six
states with projects in an additional four states being appraised. At the
state level, it would entail a systematic reassessment of research priorities
and organization, a strengthening of SAU research administration staff and
intensive training for SAU and state extension department specialists. At
the Center, it would create in ICAR a permanent specialized mechanism for
thorough preparation, appraisal and supervision of regional research projects
and special facilities to provide technical assistance to less developed
institutions.
73.       The most serious risk in an agricultural research project is that
research results may not be responsive to farmers' needs or, if they are,
that they are not adequately conveyed to farmers. However, this project has
been specifically designed to ensure that regional research programs would be
based on local needs, monitored in terms of usefulness and acceptability to
farmers, and corrected regularly in the light of field testing on farmers'
fields in constant liaison with extension services. The ability of Indian
farmers to adopt and even improve new technologies when these are shown to
involve a clear and dependable economic advantage is now beyond dispute.
74.       Another project risk is that the participating institutions and
staff may not have an equal capacity to prepare, appraise and implement sound
research subprojects. This aspect of risk was closely investigated during
appraisal. Although there is no foreseeable shortage of highly trained agri-
cultural research scientists and technicians in India as a whole, SAU cur-
rently experience difficulties in attracting talented personnel to remote
stations since they are not able to offer sufficiently attractive benefit
packages for such posts. Under the project, this handicap would be reduced
by providing senior staff with adequate housing and transport facilities as
a matter of priority, and research buildings, equipment, and operating
materials of a high standard. ICAR would also place reasonable restrictions
on internal and inter-state transfers to ensure continuity in key posts.
Both before and during appraisal, several SAU produced agricultural research
reviews (see paragraph 63 above) and subprojects for financing. This work
was carried out in a reasonable time and was of good quality. There is little
doubt that other SAUs will be able to do the same, although some may require
assistance from ICAR, which has been strengthened to provide such assistance
under the project. ICAR has a wealth of talented and motivated people who
would participate in project implementation. All aspects of project imple-
mentation have been carefully discussed with ICAR and other parties concerned.
The risks are reasonable in relation to the benefits that are expected to be
achieved.



- 22 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
75.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the ICAR and the Association
and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d)
of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
76.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
77.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
78.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
September 21, 1978



ANNEX I
Page 1
INDIA               - SoClAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
-AND AREA I(HOU KM2)                 -----       -''
_      __-___                                  INDIA                                REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAt     3290.5                                       MOST RECENT
4GRIc.    1797.5                      1'S6       1970   ESTIMATE           INDONESIA      PHILIPPINES   BRAZIL**
GNo-  .R CAPIFA (US$)                    60.0      MM. a      so.o              130.0       230.0       550.0
., , -_ _ -- _ I----------
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION iMID-YR. MILLION)          434.9     547.6    620.4 /a             117.6        36.9        92.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                      133.0     167.0     189.0                62.0       123.0        11.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      247.0      308.0     345.0               411.0       375.0        49.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         43.2      41.0       37.0               45.9        44.2        38.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THoU,AV)          23.9       19.0      17.0               20.6        13.2         9.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       139.0/a      .       130.0                          81.0        110.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT 1IRTH (YRS)      41.7       47.2       49.5                 ..        55.6        59.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2       2.9        2.8                3.2         3.3         2.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 2.0       2.3        2.1                2.0         3.0         2.9
URBAN                                 2.5jb     3.2        3.1                3.7/a       4.0         5.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          17.9       19.9      20.6                17.5Lk     27.6        56.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       41.0      41.6       40.1               44.0        45.6        42.0
15 TO 64 YEARS                      55.9       55.3       56.7               53.5        51.6        55.0
65 TEARS AND OVER                     3.1       3.1        3.2                2.5         2.8         3.0
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.8                                     0.9 0.9                 0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               '.' 1.     1.1/a     l.'L/                ,,         .5         1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)         71.0   14585.0   37658.0               259.3      320.0        250.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..         ..      18.7                            2.0         1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)       175000.0  218000.0 261000.0/a                        12400.0    29400.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)         71.0      69.0       69 n5 5s.0/a                               40.4
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)          4.8 /d   4.4 /b    4.4/c,d                           7.6         7.5
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RICOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS            26.7      25.0 .c                                     , ,        s  /a
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            S                                                               37 53.1/  .  54-0  62 .0i
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             4.1       4.7 7R'                                     6a
LOWEST  40X OF HOUSEHOLDS            13 6      13 1                                                   3   17  i -
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS             ..         ..         .                  .           ..       45.0
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..         ..         ..                 ..         ..         1.5
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             5840,0 .L!  4890.0    4220.0           26370.0          ..      1910.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        5310.0.&5i220.0/d  3680.0/e             7630.0/c                3220.0Lb
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          2s90.0/h  1610.0 .7                     1640.0'      850.0       260.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         95.0      92.0       89.0               91.0        93.0       109.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              55.0      53.0       48.0               43.0        45.0        64.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         19.0jL    16.0      12.6                14.0        22.0        39.0
DEATH RATE (/THDU) AGES 1-4            44.0         *-         *                  *-        6.6
EDUCATION
AD,USTED ENROLLMENT RATIO                         3         6                  7              0        97.
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      41.0       6         60                 75.0       l13.0         87.0
SECONDARV SCHOOL                    23.0       30.0       29.0               15.0        49.0        98.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             12.0      12.0       11.0               12.0        10.0        11.0
VOCATIONAI ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                      8.0        .-         ..               29.0         6.0 /b    17.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE I%)                24.0       33.0      36.0               59.0           ..       64.0
.OIJS I NG
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                2.6        2.8         ..                 ..         2.1         1.0
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                        ..         ..         ..                 ..       76.0        73.0 /c
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
kX OF ALL DWELLINGS)                    .         ..        ..                  ..       23.0        4B.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY 1%)                     ..         ..        ..                  ..        7.0         8.0
CONSUMPT ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          5.0       21.0      25.0               114.0       39.0        60.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           0.7        1.0        1.0                2.0         8.0       25.0
E. CTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           46.0      114.0     143.0                20.0       235.0      491.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               0.2        0.3        0.3                0.3         2.0         2.7
_SE -----------------------AND---------DEFINITIONS---------------------------ON-------RE--------ERSE--------
SEE vaTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2
NCrrE1
OUlees otherwise noted, date for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1969 end 1971, and for Most Recen t Estimate between
19 73 a nd 1976.
.. brazil baa been eclected as en objective country because of its sloe end cmparable problems, of regional inequality.
INDIA           1960     /   1951-61 average;         /b  1951-60t      Ic  Retto of population under 15 and 65 sod over to labor force age 15 and over;
Id Eatimatad by National Sample Survey, in trerun of the average number of p.ersn/weeka of onemployment as percentage
of total pera on/weeksa in the labor force;          Is  1962;      If  Regiatrerd, not oIl practicing in the country;              /A  Including
maidwives;    lb  1958;    /1  1960-62.
1920    L   Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor -forcs age 15 and over;                    lb  Estimated by Nationel Senple
Survey, in terms of the average number of pereon/weeka of unemployment as percentage of total prson/weeka in the total
labor force;      /c  1967-68;       /d  Including midwives.
MOAT RLECENT ESTIMATE:       /a  197R mid-year population and labor force estimated at 640.4 end 261 millions respectively;                      /b  Ratio of
population under 15 and 65 and aver to total labor force;               Ic  1977;    Id  Estimated by National Sample
Survey, in terms of the average number of person/weeks of unemployment as percentage of total peroon/weeke
in the labor forte;        I.  Including midwives;         If  Population 10 years and over.
INDONESIA       1970    /a  1961-71;        lb  1971;      /c  Including midwives.
P'HILIPPINES   1970      /a  As percen tage of aploymnot;           lb  Not including private vocationa Ischoolo.
BRAZIL          1970      I   Econoically active population;           lb  Hospital peraonnel;         Ic  insids only.
R13, May 2, 1978
DOFDbITIIRIS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Area ;rbou ma2)                                                                            Ppnulation per nurs1ing person   Population divided by number of practicing
Total-  Total aurfeca area comprising land ares and inland watrers                                 male and feels graduate nurses, "trained" or "certified" nurses,. an d
Aeric.- Most recent estima te of agricultural area uasd toaporsrily or Pare-                       auniiry personnel with training or aeperience.
nently for cropa, pastures, macbat & kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.                        Population oar hospital bad - Population divided by .,oker of hoepira1 beds
available is public and private genera and specialised hoapita1 and
GNP per ..Pita (US$S) - GNP per capita ae-timte  at currant market pricss,                         rehabilitation cestere; secldes nuraig hones. and aatablihalmets for
calculated by sam  conversion method as World Sank Atlas (1974-76 basis);                       custodial and preventive care.
1960; 1970 sod 1976 data.                                                                     Per capita supply of calories it of renuiremuats) - Computed from energy
equivalent of mast food supplies available in coutry, per capita par day;
Population, and vital statistics6                                                                  availablo supplies canprisa damestic production , Imports lass amporrs, and
Population (mid-year million) - As of July first:  if not aveilable, average                       changes in stock; net supplies eaclude animal feed, seeds, quantities used
of two and-year estima tes; 1960, 1970 and 1976 data,                                            in food proce.ssing and busses in distribution; requirements were estimated
by PAO based on physiologics1 needs for norma activity and health conaid-
Population density- per enuare     - Mid-year population, per squars bilomeaer                     acing enviraeontal tmeperature, body nights, age and eex distributions of
(IDO hentares) of total area.                                                                   population, and allowing lOt for waste at household level.
Population density   p ar square ma of earic. land - Computed as shows for                       Per capita supply of protein Isreas, oar day) - Protein content of per capita
agricultural lend only,                                                                          oar supply of food per day; net supply of food is defined as shows; require-
nenat for all countries established by USDA Econmic Research Services
Vital statistics                                                                                   provide for a mimimas  allowance of 60 groats of total protein par day, and
Crude birth rats oar thousand. average - Anmusl live births per thousand of                        20 grae of animal end pulse protein, of which ID gra, should he an-Ima
mid-year population ; teo-ymar aritintic averages ending in 1960 and 1970,                       protein; these standards are l1nr than thuse of 75 grass of total protein
and fiv-ysa  average ending in 1975 for nest recant estimate.                                    and 23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by FA0
Crude death rate per thouaand. average - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-year                    in the Trhird World rood Survy.
population ; ten-year erithmeatic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 end five-                  Per capita protein supply frum  animal and polse - Protein aupply of food
year average endIng in 1975 for mast recent estima te,                                           derived from  animas  en d pulses So gras per day.
Infant mortality rats I/thou)- Annual deaths of infants under one year of age                   Death rate I/thou) ages 1-b - Annual deaths per thousan.d in age group 1-4
Per thousand live births.                                                                        years, to children in this age group; suggested as en indicator of
Life apoactancy at birth lyre) -Average number of years of life remaining at                       malnutrition.
birth; usually fiv-yea  averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for davalop-
ing countriesa.                                                                               Education
Gross reproductiont rate  - Average number of live daughters a weans  will hear                  Adjusted anollant ratio - primary school - Enrollment of all ages .a per-
in her normal reproductive period if she seperiencas  present age-specific                       centage of primry school-age population; includes children  gagd 6-11 years
fertility rate.; usually five-year  avrages ending ine 1960, 1970 and 1971                       but adjusted for different lengths of primary education; for countries with
for developing countries,                                                                        universal education, enrollment may emceed 101 since seme pupils are below
Population growth rate It) - total - Compouncd annualI growth rate  of mid-year                    or sabve the official school age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                                   Adiusted enrollment ratio - secondary school - Computed as above; socondary
PPopultio -cowtb rats (t) - urban - Computed like growth rate of total                             education requires at least four years of approved primary inatruction;
population; different definitions of urbon arees may affect comparability of                     provide general, voca.tional or teac.her training instructions for pupils
data among co,,triee.                                                                            of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence coura  are generally seclded.
ir,ban population I  of total) - Ratio of urban to totel population; different                   Years of schooling provided (first end second levels) - Total years of
definitions of urban areas may affect comparability of data among coutries,                      schooling; at secondary level, vocational instruction may he partially or
completely secluded.
As, atrucrur  (percent) - Children (0-14 yeare), working-age (15-64 years)                       Vocational  -mrllmemt it of secondary; - Vocational institutions  include
and retired (65 year. and aver) es percentagee of mid-year population,                           technical, industrial or other pragres which operate independently or a
Axa dependency ratrio - iatio of population under 15 and 65 and ovr to those                       departments of secondary institutions.
of ages 15 through 64.                                                                        Adult literacy rate It) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as per-
Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to                        centage of total adult population  gagd 15 years end over.
the labor force in age group of 15-64 year..
Family Plamnning - acceptors (c,am,lattive  thou) - Cumulative number of acceptors               Housing
of birth-control d-vi.a. under auspices of national faily planning program                    Persons oar room (urban) - Average nuber of persona per rou  in occapied
since inception,                                                                                conventio_na  dwellings in urban areas; dwellings seclude non-permanet
Paily plsnning - ucers It of married women) - Percentages of married wume  of                      structures ad unoccupied parts.
child-hearing ugs (15-44 yeara) who us  birth-control devices to all married                  Occupied dwellixgs without piped waterI)- Occupied conventional dwellings
wmnin sa-  age grop.                                                                         in urban and rurel areas without inside or outside piped werer facilities
as percentage of all occupied dwellings.
DEployment                                                                                       Access to electrIcity It of all dwellings ) - Conventional dwellings with
Total labor force (thousan,d) - Economically active persons, including armed                       electricity in living quarters as percen.t of total dwellinga in urben and
forces and onemployad hut excluding housewives, students, etc.; definitions                     rural areas.
in various countries are nor comparable.              .                                       Rural dwellings connected to electricityi)- Computed as abone for rural
Labor force in  xorioultuon It) - Agricu1ture1 labor force (in farning, forestry,                  dwslliga only.
hunting and fishing) as percentage of total labor force.
Unempioyed It of labor force) -Unemployed are usually defined  as persons who                    Consuption
are able and willing to take aJob, out of a Job on a given day, reamed out                    Radio receivers (oar thou pop) - All types of receivers for radio broadcasts
of a Job, and see king work for  paepcIiaid  icimon period nor s...eeding one                    to general1 public par thousa.nd of population; secludes unLicensed recei-ern
webk; may nor be comparable between coun tries due to different definitions                      in coutrisa and in year. when registration  of radio seta was in affect;
of unemploysd and aource of data, e.g. , employment office stetlatice, sampls                    data for recent years may nut be comperable since e-et countries abolished
survys, compoloory uneploymet i rne                                                              licensing.
Psa..enger cars (per thou pop) - Passenger care comprise motor cars sea ting
Incume  distribution - Percentage of private incume (both in cash and bind)                        l.ees than eight persons; secludes aebua-ces, hear.ses and military
recei ved by richest 5t, richest 20t, poorest 207%, and poorest 401 of house-                    vehicle..
holds,                                                                                         Electricity (khblyr oar cap) - Annual comseoption of industrial. coer-ciel.
public and private enectrinity in kilowatt hours per capita, gene.rally
Distribution of land ownership - Percen.tages of lend ownd by wealthiest lIt                       based on production data, without allomance for losses in grids b:,t allow-
and pooreat 101 of land owners.                                                                  ins for Imports and amprta of electricity.
Neeserint.ikjf/.yr er cap) - Per capita annual conatpris  in bilograma
Health end Nutrition                                                                               esiaedfo  donestic production plus net imports of n-wprint,
Population per physician - Population divldcd by number of practicing
phyalciana qualified from a medical school at univerity level.



ANNEX I
Page 3
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1976 -4 USS 150
GROSS NATIDNAL PRODUCT IN 1976/77                                                              ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
USS Bln.       .t                                               1960/61-1964/65      1965/66-1969/70      1970/71-1975/76
GNP at Market Prices             86.04       100.0                                                    3.9                  3.8                  2.9
Gross Domestic Investment        16.62        19.3
Gross National Saving            18.18        21.1
Current Account Balance           1.56         1.8
Resource Gap                      0.95         1.1
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975/76
Value Added (at facto  cost              Labor Force                 V.A. Per Worker
US$  BlnNil.                                                                % a of National Average
Agriculture                      30.2                43,                179.0       69                169           63
Industry                         16.7                24                  33.9       13                494          193
Services                         23.4                33                  48.0       18                488          133
Total/average                    70-3               100                 261        100                277          OO0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government C/ Central Government
TRS. _Bin       _     %ofGBP                                      (RsBn)                   of GRB
1976f77       1976/77    1974/75-1976/77                           1976/77        1976/77    1974/75-1976/77
Current Receipts                   147.46          19.1            17.9                                 83.78          10.9          10.4
Current Expenditures               140.18          t8.2            16.2                                 84.29          10.9           9.6
Current Surplus/Deficit              7.28           0.9             1.7                                - 0.47            -            0.8
Capital Expenditures  e/            59-05           7.6             7.1                                 40.39          5.2            5.0
External Assistance (net)           11.21           1.5             1.7                                 11.21           1.5           1.7
MONEY, CREDIT AM  PRICES          1970/71      12/73        1975/74        1974/75    212i       1976/77       September 1976      September 1977
(Billion Rs outstanding Pt end of period
Money and Quasi Money              105.7        142.2        169.0       186.9        215.0       262.6            238.2              284.8
Bank Credit to Pablic Sector(net)  56.9          82.5         92.9       102.6        109.1        117.3           112.7              130.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector       56.7         76.0         90.1       109.5        127.5        161.0           144.0              170.0
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                             January 1977        January 1978
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDR  24.3          27.3         26.4        25-5         27.6        31.3
Wholesale Price Index
(1970/71 = 100)                 100.0        116.2       139.7        174.9       173.0        176.6            178.8              183.3
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                7.7         10.0         20.2        25.2         -1.1         2.1              7.5                2.5
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)  8.6          19.6         12.6        10.4          6.3         7.5              4.71!             15.8 V/
Bank Credit to Private Sector        17.3        18.0         18.5        21.5         16.4        26.3             24.9 S             11.9Sf
a/  The per capita GIIP estimate is at market prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the World Atlas.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
*f Quick Estimates.
g/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one
observation after last year of listed period.
4j/ Transfers between Center and States have been netted out.
ef All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
tf Net bank credit to Government Sector.
j/ Bank credit to Commercial Sector.



ANNEX I
Page 4
BALANCE CF PAyxMETS                     1974174/75       '1-36?i i1?1                                                   UCIbIIS1  XTS (AVEACE 1974/75 -  476/17)
-I-S  Nillic-nF                  .                                                       U MI            l
Exports of Goods                          4,174         4,665          5,760          6,400                             Engineering Goods            515            11
ICp-rte of Goods                         -5,665        _6,084         -5,950         -6,600                              Sugar                       379             8
Trade balnoe                            -1,491        -1,419         -  190         -  200                             Tea                          296             6
es  (net)                                    215          310            405            500                              Jute Manufactures           294             6
Leather and Leather
Recoulrse Gap                            -1,278        -1,109            215              0                                      Products            268             5
Clothing                    257             5
Interest Payments (net)                  -  198        -  216         -  135         -  130                              Iron Ore                    238             5
Other Factor Paycents (net)                  -             -              -                                              Cotton Textilee             225             5
Net Transferse   /                           257           470          7T1            1,000                             Others                     2396            49
Total                      4866           100
Balance on Current Account               -1,217        -  855            810          1,170
Offioial Aid                                                                                                             EXTERNAL DMET. RANCE 51. 1977 _/
Diaburse,ente                         1,761         2,341         1,953           1,840                                                                   us$ Biion
Anortization                           -515          -531          -560          -  630                             Outetanding and Disbursed                  13.6
Transactions  ith DI'                        522           242         -536          -  330                              Undisbursed                                3. 2
All Other Item                             -589          -403          -292               23                             OutstandIng, including Undisbursed        16.8
Incr a"e in Reserves (-)                      38         -794        -1,575          -2,073                             DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1976/77            14.4   percent /i/
renes RNoes-se (end year)                  1,378        2,172         3,747           5,820
Net Reserves (end year)  Jst                 758        1,365         3,276          05,67                               INRD/IDA LENDING. December 31, 1977  (US$ mcn.)
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                                                                                  IRD          IDA
I.ports                                   1,451         1,417         1,580         1,800                               Outstanding and Disbursed          489.0      3,560.5
of .hloh: Petroleumc                   1,451         1,417         t,5SO         t,800                               Undiebursed                        674.9      1,257.0
of  hiah: P.trole-  1,451  1,417      1,580        i'800                                Q~~~~~~Otstanding, including
Exports                                       26           43            37          n.a.                                     9ndisb-rsed                1,163.9      4,817.5
of which, Petroleum                       17            22            21          n.a.
BATE OF EXCHIANGE
Prior to mid-Deoember 1971           us51.00 = Rs 7.5                                                                   After end June 1972    1    Floating Rate
Re 1.00 =      *US$0.13333                                                         Spot Rate January 31, 197S
Mid-Deseaber 1971 to                 NSt1.00 = Re 7.27927                                                                          approx. US$1.00 a Rs 8.063
end June 1972                     Re 1.00 = lSt0.137376                                                                         approx. Rs 1.00 -  S10.124
h/ Estinated.
i/ Figures given cover all investment income (net). Major payments are interest on foreign loans and
ciharges paid to IMF, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
j/  Figures given include workers' remittances but eaclude official grant assiette, whioh is included
within official aid diobursenente.
/  Excludes net use of DIE credit.
I/ Amortisation and interest paymnts on foreign leans an a percentage of netchandise exports.



ANNEX I I
Page I of 15
THE STATU'S OF BANK GROUP OPERAT[ONS IN INDIA
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of July 31, 1978)
us$ Million-/
o or                                                                                           (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.       Year       Borrower                 Purpose                             Bank        IDA      Undisbursed
40 lo.ans!                                                                            1,100.6
't (redits fully disbursed                                                                        2,884.6
2hs-IN           1971        India         Wheat Storage                                  --           5.0         3.2
294-SN           1972        India         Bihar Agricultural Markets                     --          14.0         7.6
312-IN           1972       India          PopulatLon                                    --          21.2          4.9
342-lN           1972       India          Education                                     --          12.0          8.4
356-IN           1972        India         TnBI                                          --          25.0         10.0
377-IN           1973       India          Power Transmission III                        --          85.0          1.5
37Y-IN           1973        India        Mysore Agricultural Markets                    --            8.0         6.8
9102-IN          1973        ICICI         Industry DFC X                                 65.6       --            3.9
390-IN           1973        India         Bombay Water Supply                            --          55.0        19.7
427-IN           1973        India         Calcutta. Urban Development                    --          35.0         6.9
440-RN           1973        India         Bihar Agricultural Credit                      --          32.0        13.3
456-IN           1974        India         HP Apple Processing & Marketing                --          13.0         8.8
181-IN'          1974        India         Trombay IV                                     --          50.0        10.0
SOll-IN           1974        India         Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD                        52.0        --          32.5
482-IN           1974        India         Karnataka Dairy                                --          30.0        23.6
502-IN           1974        India         Rajasthan Canal CAD                            --          83.0        46.6
520-IN           1974        India         Sindri Fertilizer                             --           91.0        11.5
521-IN           1974        India         Rajasthan Dairy                                --          27.7        24.9
522-IN           1974        India        Madhya Pradesh Dairy                            --          16.4        13.3
52s-IN           1975        India         Drought Prone Areas                            --          35.0        20.5
1079-IN           1975        IFFCO         IFFCO Fertilizer                              109.0        --          56.7
1097-IN           1975        ICICI         Industry DFC XI                               100.0        --          20.9
532-IN           1975        India         Godavari Barrage Irrigation                    --          45.0        19.3
541-IN           1975        India        West Bengal Agricultural Development            --         34.0         23.6
562-lN           1975        India         Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD                   --          24.0        14.9
572-IN           1975        India         Rural Electrification                          --         57.0         44.1
582-IN           1975        India         Railways XIII                                  --         110.0         6.2
585-IN           1975        India         Uttar Pradesh Water Supply                     --          40.0        34.7
598-IN           1975        India         Fertilizer Industry                            --         105.0        84.9
604-IN           1976        India         Power Transmission IV                          --         150.0       128.4
609-IN           1976        India         Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.                   --           4.0         3.5
610-IN           1976        India         Integrated Cotton Development                  --          18.0        17.6
1251-IN(TW)       1976        India         Andhra Pradesh Irrigation                     145.0        --         136.9
1260-TN           1976        India         IDBI II                                        40.0        --          35.8
1273-IN           1976        India         National Seed                                  25.0        --          25.0
1313-IN           1976        India         Telecommunirations VI                          80.0        --          28.4
1335-IN           1976        BMRDA         Bombay Urban Transport                         25.0        --          17.9
680-IN           1977        India         Kerala Agricultural Development                --          30.0        30.0
682-IN           1977        India         Orissa Agricultural Development                --          20.0        19.5
685-IN           1977        India         Singrauli Thermal Power                        --         150.0       137.0
687-IN           1977        India         Madras Urban Developsent                       --          24.0        21.8
695-IN           1977        India         Gujarat Fisheries                              --           4.0         4.0
1394-IN(TW)       1977        India         Gujarat Fisheries                              14.0        --          14.0
690-IN           1977        India         West Bengal Agricultural Development           --          12.0        12.0
712-IN           1977        India         Madhva Pradesh Agricultural Development    --              10.0        10.0
715-IN           1977        India         Second ARDC Credit                             --         200.0       151.8
720-IN           1977        India         Periyar Vaigai Irrigation                      --          23.0        22.3
728-IN           1977        India         Assam Agricultural Development                 --           8.0         7.8
1473-IN           1977        India         Bombay High Offshore Development              150.0        --          87.1
736-IN           1977        India         Maharashtra Irrigation                         --          70.0        70.0
737-IN           1977        India         Rajasthan Agricultural Extension               --          13.0        13.0
740-IN           1977        India         Orissa Irrigation                              --          58.0        58.0
1475-IN           1977        ICICI         Industry DFC XII                               80.0        --          74.9
747-IN           1978        India         Second Foodgrain Storage                       --         107.0       105.9
756-IN           1978        India         Second Calcutta Urban Development              --          87.0        79.5
761-IN           1978        India         Bihar Agricultural Extension & Research    --               8.0         8.0
1511-IN           1978        India         IDB  Joint/Public Sector                      25.0        --          25.0
1549-IN*          1978        TEC           Third Trombay Thermal Power                   105.0        --         105.0
788-IN*          1978        India         Karnataka Irrigation                           --         126.0       126.0
793-IN*          1978        India         Korba 'Chermal Power                           --         200.0       200.0
806-IN*          1978        India         Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture                     --          14.0        14.0
808-IN*          1978        India         Gujarat Irrigation                             --          85.0        85.0
815-IN*          1978        India         Andbra Pradesh Fisheries                       --          17.5        17.5
816-IN*          1978        India         Second National Seed                           --          16.0        16.0
1592-IN           1978        India         Telecommunications VII                        120.0        --         120.0
824-IN*          1978        India         National Dairy                                 --         150.0       150.0
842-IN*          1978        India         Second Bombay Water Supply & Sewerage-    --              196.0       196.0
Total                                                                2,236.2    5,738.4
of which has been repaid                                             883.8        39.8
Total now outstanding                                                 1,352.4    5,698.6
Amount Sold                               113.3
of which has been repaid                111.5                         21.8    _
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                        1,330.6    5,698.6
Total undisbursed (excluding *)                                         559.0    1,369.3
* Not vet effective.
1/  ?ric,r to exchange adjustments.                                                                            Augo.t 1978



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 15
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of July 31, 1978)
Fiscal                                                    Amount (US$ million)
Year                   Company                         Loan     Equity      Total
1959        Republic Forge Company Ltd.                 1.5       -          1.5
1959        Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                 0.9        -          0.9
1960        Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                      1.4       -          1.4
1961        K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                          0.2        -          0.2
1963-66     Precision Bearings India Ltd.              0.7        0.3        1.0
1964        Fort Gloser Industries Ltd.                0.8        0.4        1.2
1964-75     Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.              11.8       1.0       12.8
1964        Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                  1.0       0.3        1.3
1967        Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                     1.0       0.1        1.1
1967        Indian Explosives Ltd.                     8.6        2.9       11.5
1969-70     Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                 15.1        3.8       18.9
1976        Escorts Limited                            6.6         -         6.6
1978        Housing Development Finance
Corporation                               4.0        1.2        5.2
TOTAL                               53.6       10.0       63.6
Less:  Sold                                  6.0        1.6       7.6
Repaid                              14.5         -        14.5
Cancelled                            6.2        0.7        6.9
Now Held                            26.9        7.7      34.6
Undisbursed                          6.5        1.2        7.7



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 15
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding rea-
sonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below. The
level of disbursements was US$496.4 million in FY78 or 39% of Bank Group com-
mitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$1,928 million
as of July 31, 1978, corresponds roughly to commitments over the preceding
two-year period and reflects the lead time which would be expected given the
mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 902    Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented. Loans
902-IN and 1097-IN are fully committed and disbursements are slightly ahead of
schedule. Disbursements under Loan 1475-IN (US$5.1 million) are also ahead of
schedule.
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
This Credit was originally intended to provide three years'
support for a lending program for 50,000 tubewells and pumpsets in the Tirhut
Division of Bihar. Because of slow disbursements caused by a lower-than-
estimated Dollar/Rupee exchange rate and by low unit investment costs com-
pared with appraisal estimates, IDA agreed to extend the closing date and
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 15
and to extend the project area to cover the whole State of Bihar. Disburse-
ments are expected to accelerate, and the physical targets should be achieved
by the revised closing date.
Cr. No. 715    Second Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$200.0 million credit of June 1, 1977;
Effective Date: August 24, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
This project is designed to provide long- and medium-term credit
to farmers through credit institutions, for on-farm investments, primarily
in minor irrigation. As of July 31, 1978, disbursements amounted to about
US$48.2 million, of which some 87% have been for minor irrigation and 13% for
diversified lending. The proportion of disbursements to small farmers is
estimated at about 60% compared with the appraisal target of 50%. Training
programs for staff of the financing institutions are progressing satisfactor-
ily. Preparation of a third line of credit is underway and the preparation
report is expected to be submitted to the Association by September 1978.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23,
1971; Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Credit 267-IN, which is being co-financed with Sweden, finances
(i) the construction of bag and bulk grain storage and handling facilities,
(ii) staff training, and (iii) an All-India Grain Storage Study. The
government-owned Food Corporation of India is responsible for the storage
construction. All the nine 10,000-ton-capacity bag warehouses envisaged under
the project as revised became operational in 1975. The construction of five
grain silos is progressing satisfactorily after delays due to cement shortages.
The training component is being implemented. The All-India Grain Storage Study
was completed in October 1976 and proved useful in formulating the proposal
for Credit 747-IN, which is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 806    Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date (expected): October 17, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Credit 456 includes grading and packing centers, cold storage
facilities, a juice processing plant, road improvements and cableways. It
also includes cold storage facilities and a pilot project to promote oak
mushroom production. The project encountered initial delays due to managerial



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 15
and technical problems; however remedial measures have been taken to overcome
these difficulties. Land has been acquired for 8 of the 10 packing and grad-
ing sites, and procurement and construction activities are well underway. The
Project Preparation Report for the juice processing plant has been completed,
and the equipment is being ordered. The road improvement program is progres-
sing satisfactorily, and the feasibility reports on aerial cableways at the
packing/grading sites have been completed.
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Ln. No. 1592   Telecommunications ViI Project; US$120.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date (expected): September 19,
1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Loan 1313-IN is progressing satisfactorily; disbursements reached
US$51.6 million as of July 31, 1978.
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit of
May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 28, 1973; Closing
Date: September 30, 1978
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The drawdown of Credit 377-IN was slow initially and as a conse-
quence it has been necessary to postpone the Closing Date by one year. How-
ever, an amount of US$83.5 million had been disbursed by the end of July 1978
and the balance should be disbursed before the revised Closing Date. Under
Credit 604-IN, contracts aggregating about US$50 millioni had been awarded by
March 1978 and disbursements as of July 31, 1978 were US$21.6 million. This
Credit included a supplementary Credit of US$30 million to meet increased
costs of equipment scheduled under Credit 377-IN; all but US$4 million of
this amount has also been committed.
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91.0 million credit of December 18,
1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109.0 million loan of January 24,
1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975; Closing Date: March 31,
1979



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 15
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Trombay IV project is now being commissioned, about 18 months
behind schedule due to longer-than-expected delivery times for critical equip-
ment. The Sindri project is also being commissioned. The IFFCO project was
delayed by about a year as a result of a change in feedstock from fuel oil to
naphtha and delays in completion of engineering contracts. However, project
construction is now proceeding satisfactorily.  Mechanical completion of the
entire plant should result in August 1979. Credit 598-IN is designed to
increase the utilization of existing fertilizer production capacity. The
project has encountered delays in sub-project preparation and investment
approvals by the Government. Further, some of the sub-projects identified
earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration by the Central and
State governments. IDA has agreed to a list of sub-projects to replace the
ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the project is
likely to be delayed by 6-12 months.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date:  July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date:  September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under the
Bihar project has generally been satisfactory. The project includes training
of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) staff and evaluation
of the project's economic impact. Development plans have been completed for
53 market yards to ensure the project target of 50 markets is met. As of
March 1978, appraisals had been completed for 50, and loans approved for 47
markets. Construction had been completed for 16 and was in progress for 23
markets. Farmers and traders served by the 8 market yards now in operation
report more efficient marketing activities and improved farmers' terms of
trade. Progress under the Karnataka project is improving. As of June 1977,
when the project was last reviewed, construction was underway for 36 of the
39 project markets. Plans and land acquisition are nearing completion at
the remaining sites. Both projects are expected to be completed by their
respective closing dates.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 15
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning. To allow adequate time for the Population Centers to
complete their evaluation of family planning strategies and the introduction
of management information and evaluation systems, the closing date has been
extended by one year.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project involves the development of the agricultural uni-
versities in Assam and Bihar. An initial lag in implementation on account
of late appointment of project staff has been overcome. Campus plans
have been approved, and construction has started in both Assam and Bihar.
Disbursements, which have been slow because of initial delays, should
accelerate now that construction and equipment procurement are under way.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1978
Loan No. 1260  Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1511  IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The first IDBI Project had a slow start mainly due to institutional
problems in the participating State Financial Corporations. However, the
credit is now fully committed, and disbursements had reached US$15.0 million
by the end of July 1978. In order to continue the Bank Group's involvement
in assisting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening the
State Financial Corporations involved, a second operation (Loan 1260-IN) was
approved in 1976, and disbursements have reached US$4.2 million by the end of
July. Loan 1511-IN is designed to encourage the pooling of private and public
capital in medium-scale joint ventures. The project will also assist IDBI in
carrying out industrial sector investment studies and in strengthening the
financial institutions dealing with the state joint/public sector.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns caused
by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), redesign of
major project components and the addition of a supplementary study on sewage
disposal, the project is now progressing relatively well. All of the major



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 15
contracts for the water supply components have been awarded end it is forecast
that works will be sufficiently advanced to permit the supply of additional
water (455 mld) in the last quarter of 1978; completion of water treatment
works for the whole supply by the end of 1979 is realistically forecast.
Completion of additional sewage disposal studies (August 1977) has allowed
engineering design of the project sewerage components to proceed, so that
completion of construction of these works is now scheduled for 1980, two years
later than originally forecast. Financial performance of the project entity
is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements are being
made to appoint a full-time management adviser to closely supervise and
coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
For the first of these projects, following considerable increases
in project costs, GOI and IDA finalized a project redefinition in April 1976.
It is now expected to be substantially completed by March 1979. Credit 756-IN
is designed to expand and upgrade the capabilities of Calcutta's administra-
tive authorities, to strengthen the city's fiscal base, and to rehabilitate
and extend its urban service system.
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
The project is designed to develop and promote low-cost solutions
to the problems of providing improved services to the urban poor in the
Madras Metropolitan Area (MMA) and to strengthen metropolitan planning.
Project components consisting of sites and services, slum improvement, small-
scale and cottage industry, and maternal and child health are designed to
benefit directly some 250,000 persons in low-income areas of the city. The
water supply and sewerage, road and traffic, bus transport and technical
assistance components are designed to eliminate bottlenecks in water supply
and transport. Project imple'rcnta.i,on is proceeding satisfactorily, and
disbursements are slightly ahead of appraisal estimates.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 15
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824    National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of June 19, 1978;
Effective Date (expected): September 19, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coop-
erative scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Project, which got off to a
slow start, has begun to show considerable improvement under new management
appointed recently. Farmer response has been good and over 600 dairy coop-
eratives with small farmer participation are functioning effectively. All
four dairy unions envisaged under the project have been established and
are functioning satisfactorily. In Madhya Pradesh good progress has been
made. About 310 new dairy cooperatives societies have been established.
Detailed design studies for plant construction are complete. The response
of small farmers to the project is excellent. GOMP has plans to cover all
districts in the State. Technical services investments are being made.
Contracts have been placed for livestock imports. The Rajasthan project is
also doing well. Four milk unions have been formed and excellent progress
has been made in organizing the servicing of nearly 450 dairy cooperatives
at the village level. Plant designs are ready, and procurement is making
adequate progress. Based upon the good results experienced, GOR is planning
to expand the form of dairy development to all other districts of the State.
Karnataka's decision to procure plant equipment jointly with Rajasthan and
Madhya Pradesh on the same tender should lead to a recovery of considerable
time lost earlier in the Karnataka project.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is in progress and is proceeding
satisfactorily. Disbursements stood at US$25.7 million on July 31, 1978.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 15
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0 mil-
lion credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 30,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)         Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788    Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 11, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808    Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date (expected): October 17, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides financing over four years mainly for minor
irrigation investments but also for development of markets, agro service
centers, and support of related government extension services. Although dis-
bursements have been slower than anticipated, there has been a considerable



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 15
improvement in project organization and administration and disbursements are
expected to improve considerably. The physical progress of shallow tubewells,
and of deep tubewells for the Minor Irrigation Corporation, is satisfactory.
IDA, GOWB ard ARDC are combining efforts in order to solve difficulties such
as organizational problems at the farm level; lack of demand for agro service
centers; and completion of designs for water distribution systems and irriga-
tion schemes. Positive results, particularly for the redesigned water distri-
bution systems have been achieved.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$13.0
million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2,
1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
These projects, totalling US$71 million, finance the re-organization
and strengthening of agricultural extension and the development of adaptive
agricultural research services with the objective of achieving early and
sustained improvements in agricultural production, particularly foodgrains.
Arrangement for monitoring and evaluation of project progress and impact is
an essential feature of these projects. The Orissa and Assam projects also
provide funds for laying the basis for longer term improvements in ground-
water development in the States.  The projects' components include provision
of additional staff, training facilities, housing, offices, laboratory
facilities, equipment and transportation.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Overall physical progress of the Drought Prone Areas project (DPAP)
continues to be satisfactory. The rate of disbursement is improving and



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 15
implementation of most components is proceeding, by and large, according to
schedule. However, progress may be affected by possible changes in thinking
at the national level. GOI is presently reviewing all national rural develop-
ment programs, including the DPAP, in order to determine ways to improve over-
all performance in the rural sector. The Government's review is being fol-
lowed closely to determine whether any recommendations would have an impact
on the ongoing project and require changes.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This project would improve tree crop production in Kerala and has
particular emphasis on increasing benefits to small farmers. It comprises
rehabilitation of 30,000 ha coconut and 10,000 ha pepper and 2,240 ha cashew,
and new plantings of 5,000 ha coconut and 1,500 ha cashew. About 25% of the
coconut area would be irrigated for intensive intercropping. Funds have been
provided for development of a seed garden for tree crops and for strengthening
tree crops research. Ten crumb rubber factories would also be established to
process smallholder rubber. Project implementation started slowly due to
initial staffing and funding delays but has recently gained momentum. Proj-
ect actions for 1978/79 have been rephased and advance action planned so
as to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Credit 572 consists of a tranche of rural electrification schemes
which, at about Rs 5 million each, would cover about 140 schemes. There are
now thirteen States eligible for onlending (compared with six at the time
of appraisal). The project got off to a slow start, due principally to the
need to adapt the specifications and tendering procedures to international
competitive bidding, but the position has now improved and the full amount
of the Credit has been committed.
Cr. No. 582    Railways XIII Project; US$110.0 million credit of August 26,
1975; Effective Date: October 10, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
The project was designed to cover most of the foreign exchange
requirements of Indian Railway's (IR) investment program for two years, from
April 1, 1975, through March 31, 1977. However, since the approval of the
project, increased production of steel products in India and further develop-
ments in IR's indigenization program slowed down the rate at which IR requires
foreign exchange. Therefore, the Closing Date was extended for one year in
order to complete implementation of the project. Disbursements as of July 31,
1978 were 94% of the total credit amount.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 15
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project will identify a sound resource base for pulp and paper
manufacture and related industries, develop suitable logging systems, and
undertake a feasibility study to determine optimal use of the existing wood
resources in the Bastar District of southern Madhya Pradesh. It also includes
a study of ways to integrate the area's tribal population with future develop-
ment.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project finances equipment, civil works and crop production
credit to support programs for cotton research and cotton production increase
in three states. The project also provides credit for improving cotton gin-
neries, new ginneries, cotton seed oil extraction plants and vegetable oil
processing factories. Effectiveness was delayed by slow appointment of
consultants, but the cotton extension services program was started without
delay and has now been in operation for two years. Disbursements have been
small mainly due to poor demand to date for project credit. A recent super-
vision mission, working with technical consultants, has made detailed recom-
mendations for more appropriate pest control practices and more adaptive
research to identify and introduce better varieties. These measures are
under discussion with GOI, and when agreed to and implemented, should speed
up project disbursements.
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816    Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date (expected): October 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loan 1273-IN supports the first phase of India's national seed
program, consisting of: seed industry expansion in the public and private
sectors, improvements in seed quality control, strengthening of breeding and
seed technology research, and development of a reserve stock scheme. Insti-
tutional development and managerial arrangements, particularly at the state
level, have proceeded fairly satisfactorily. Project implementation, however,
slowed down after loan effectiveness mainly due to organizational problems.
Project progress is now being made since endorsement of the project by the
new Government in September 1977 and is expected to gain further momentum
as GOI has filled the two top posts of the National Seeds Corporation, which
were vacant for several months and adversely affected the project. A project
supporting the second phase of India's national seed program (Credit 816-IN)
was signed July 17, 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 15
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Contracts for bodies and chassis for 325 single deck and 175 double
deck buses have been awarded and some 144 buses have been delivered. Bids for
an additional 200 buses are being evaluated. Civil works contracts have been
awarded for 8 bus facilities, and 13 traffic engineering schemes. Delays are
expected in implementing some BMC traffic engineering schemes and the BEST
workshop schemes although steps are being taken to minimize such delays.
Consultants in organization, administration, financial management systems,
accounting and development planning are at work assisting the Borrower, the
Bombay Metropolitan Regional Development Authority. Other beneficiaries of
the loan, the Bombay Municipal Corporation and the Bombay Electric Supply and
Transport Undertaking, have selected consultants in traffic engineering and
operations and management assistance, respectively.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and        million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 815    Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date (expected): September 19,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1984
Progress on Gujarat Fisheries project is good. All project imple-
mentation units appear to be competent and enthusiastic and the project is
progressing as anticipated at appraisal.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793    Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985.
Ln. No. 1549   Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date (expected); September 19,
1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
Credit 685-IN assists in financing the first stage of the 2,000 MW
Singrauli development which is, in turn, the first of four power stations in
the Government's program for the development of large Central thermal power
stations feeding power into an interconnected grid. The second such station,
at Korba, is being financed through Credit 793-IN. It is proposed that the
Bank Group will have a continuing involvement in this development program.
The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) has been formed to construct
and operate these power stations, and the development program has gotten off
to a good start. Organization and staffing of NTPC is proceeding satisfac-
torily, and the Singrauli project is proceeding on schedule. Civil works are



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 15
in progress and contracts have been awarded for major plant (turbogenerators,
boilers, transformers). Loan 1549-IN is supporting the construction of a 500
MW extension of the Tata Electric Companies' station, in order to help meet
the forecast load growth in the Bombay area.
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Gas and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore have been laid and were commissioned in June 1978.
Disbursements stood at US$62.9 million on July 31, 1978.



ANNEX III
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
2 years
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
Indian Council for Agricultural Research.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date
of the first mission to consider the project
Bank Resident Mission was closely involved in
project preparation efforts by ICAR from inception
of project preparation.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
March 1978
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
August 1978
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
December 1978
Section II      Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III    Special Conditions
(a) ICAR to prepare proposals for upgrading IARI and
ICAR Staff College facilities (para 55);
(b) Appointment of Key Project Unit staff (para 57);
(c) Subproject proposals would be appraised by the PFC
on the basis of criteria agreed with IDA (para 58);



ANNEX III
Page 2
(d) GOI to ensure provision of finance to complete
all subprojects approved during the project
period (para 65);
(e) ICAR to base its annual budget submission on
requirements of subprojects expected to be
approved during a given year as well as those
already approved (para 65).






i   .\> S.    J   70o  J U.S S.RZ   . S  50                                           gOr                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IB RD 13650Ci
'   , '  \                                              ~~~~~~NATIONAL AGRICULTURAl RESEARCH PROJECT
j '- X v >n ,7 ~~~~~~~~~~~Agricultural Universities and Reseach Institutes
'sAPD-Otimat Li.. Of Contrp
AFGHANISTAN  /   ,.o.   ./  .          J                                             |    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGRICLLTURtAL UNIVERSITIES
|  ;   <_                                                   *     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ICAR RESEARCH INSTITUTES
!                 s          C  ~~~~~~               ~        ~       ~~~H  I N  A  U NIVERSITY CAMPUSES
j /''\ 8 -= --- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~STATEBEOUNGARIES AN DNAMES
f,5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .                                            1     01 2010  300      400
-30- ~ ~      ~            r*                             Lrdu                                                    10|0  200il 300   4G0   500                      3P
P A   K  I S  T  A  N       j                                ntNsilGf                       .         
/ Bikner g llaNa9a 30 _                                                                                              ARUNACiA. v
/   lJsdhpur   B lv:'                       ^                 4   l           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~S KKIM5.  BHUTAN j            ;
t.    ut,~ ~ ~~~~~~~~Cl.                         N K..,.         F.Wb                                    i)-AA ASSA, ,              1,  AL
>                                             R~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tw    H A k             AL Dt;4A'Ij:
. Iongrh     (                  sidNm                                                                                                        B U  R  MS A
_,r \ DhuIs , . lFNatpur 3 Re;Esr * r a >,
DW.              JB 
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a    ol   Bengalmfr<                           
;   MIhap-ur   Hyd r.b.d                                                                       .                            ?~
w7=17=  m=.1h                                                        hm-;r :3 M.d
tft~ &BIPu                                                           h
Th d~1"l  -tdf
b" ~        ~         :t        _       11 'Dkwa  
0                                                                                                                                            LAD



