Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2083a-IN
F.LE COAY
INDIA
STAFF PROJECT REPORT
APPRAISAL OF THE
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
September 21, 1978
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture Division C
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 = Rupees (Rs) 8.60 1/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
GOI    =   Government of India
IARI       Indian Agricultural Research Institute
ICAR       Indian Council for Agricultural Research
ISP        Interdisciplinary Scientific Panel
NARP   =   National Agricultural Research Project
PFC        Project Funding Committee
PU     =   Project Unit
SAU    =   State Agricultural University/State Agricultural
Universities
CROPPING SEASONS
Kharif    -   June to September
Rabi      -   October to February
Summer    -   March to May
FISCAL YEAR
SAU and GOI April 1 to March 31
1/   Until September 24, 1975, the Rupee was officially valued at a fixed
Pound Sterling rate. Since then it has been fixed against a "basket"
of currencies. As these currencies are floating, the US Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this report have
been made at US$1 to Rs 8.60.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LA
I.   BACKGROUND .............................................               I
Project Genesis ...............,                                 1
Agriculture in India.                                            1
Agricultural Research.                                           2
ICAR.                                                      3
Agricultural Universities.                                 4
Scientific Achievement and Potential.                            5
Agricultural Extension.                                          7
II. OBJECTIVES.                                                              7
Types of Rese$rch.                                               7
Linkages to Extension.                                           9
Reform of University Research .11
III. THE SECTOR CREDIT .11
General .11
Detailed Features .12
Research Subprojects .12
Research AdministratiDn Subprojects .13
IARI/Staff College Training Facilities                    14
ICAR Administration .14
Project Costs .14
Financing .15
Procurement .16
Disbursements, Accounts and Audit .16
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT    ..17
A. ICAR Administration .18
Project Unit Tasks .19
Eligibility Review .19
Preparation and Appraisal .22
Supervision .24
Civil Works .24
Equipment .25
Project Unit Staffing .25
B.   Administration of University Research .26
V.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS .27
The Benefits of Agricultural Research .27
Institutional Impact .28
Impact on State Government Funding of SAU .28
Project Risks .29
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
LIST OF ANNEXES
1. Terms and Conditions for Administration of NARP
2. Supporting Tables and Charts
T-1.   List of Agricultural Universities in India
T-2.   List of ICAR Institutes
T-3.   List of All-India Coordinated Projects
T-4.   Estimate of Fund Disbursements 1978-83
T-5.   Estimated IDA Disbursements
T-6.   Composition of the Interdisciplinary Scientific Panel
T-7.   Composition of Project Funding Committee
T-8.   ICAR Administration Cost Summary
C-1 University Research Administration (World Bank 19011)
C-2 ICAR Project Administration (World Bank 19012)
3. Material in Project File
MAP
IBRD 13650 Agricultural Universities and Institutes



INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
Project Genesis
1.01      The project was developed as a result of meetings and discussions
involving the Government of India (GOI), the Indian Council of Agricultural
Research (ICAR), a number of state governments and State Agricultural Univer-
sities (SAU), and IDA. The earliest proposals for a National Agricultural
Research Project (NARP) were concerned mostly with filling identified re-
search gaps at the national level, particularly at ICAR's own institutes. In
the course of examining the scope of a project of that type, it became evident
that a gap was developing between the research programs organized centrally by
ICAR and the needs of the extension services and farmers for new technologies
thoroughly tested and proved locally. The need for more applied research
that built upon the results of research organized by ICAR on an All-India
basis to address specific localized constraints to agricultural production
led the Planning Commission, with the agreement of ICAR and IDA, to switch the
emphasis of the project to assist the SAU to carry out such applied research.
The SAU were established for this purpose and have the organization and
necessary statewide institutional links to deal efficiently with applied
and farming systems type research, but are constrained by lack of funds.
Strengthening of SAU applied research would be of crucial importance for the
success of the reorganization of extension services being promoted by GOI
and IDA (para 1.21).
1.02      The project was prepared by ICAR and IDA with the assistance of a
number of SAU between October 1977 and February 1978. This report is based
on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of Messrs. B. Nekby,
A. Pritchard, and A. Rogerson (IDA); and consultants R. Cummings (Research
Administration) and D. Shoesmith (Architect/Planner) which visited India in
March 1978.
Agriculture in India
2
1.03      The area of India is 3.27 M km  of which 49% is cultivable and about
11% irrigated. India's population of over 630 M is growing at an annual rate
of 2.1%. National income has grown at nearly 4% per annum since 1950, and the
per capita GNP reached US$150 in 1976. Although average per capita income has
increased, in general there has been little change in the living standards of
the vast masses of urban and rural poor, conservatively estimated at 250 M
people with incomes below the poverty line of US$70 per capita per year. Thus,
GOI's development plans give priority to alleviating poverty and creating
employment, especially in rural areas.



- 2 -
1.04      Agriculture is the dominant sector of the Indian economy and con-
tributes about 45% of GNP. It engages about 70% of the labor force and
provides the base for about 60% of India's exports. During the last decade,
GOI development plans have emphasized agriculture and sought to raise food-
grain production by increasing the use of irrigation, fertilizers, plant
protection chemicals, and seeds of improved varieties. In support of this,
GOI has modernized and expanded its agricultural credit institutions and
accelerated the development of irrigation. More recently, increasing atten-
tion has been given to the improvement of extension services and upgrading
the research capabilities needed to support this extension effort.
1.05      Despite these endeavors and the impressive results of the Green
Revolution in some areas--primarily in the wheat-growing northwestern states--
the annual overall growth in foodgrain production over the last 15 years has
been only about 2.3% or approximately equal to the population growth. Fur-
thermore, India's agriculture continues to be particularly susceptible to the
vagaries of weather, and foodgrain production can vary as much as 20% between
successive years. Although expansion of irrigation facilities to reduce this
variation remains a priority, and GOI plans to develop a further 17 M ha of
irrigation in the current Plan period (1978 to 1983), there is a lack of water
and currently about 25% of the land area is irrigated. GOI estimates that at
best 50% of the cultivable land can be irrigated if all resources are developed.
GOI recognizes, therefore, that much of India's cropped area and over half of
its farmers, cannot, in the foreseeable future, benefit from the water-intensive
agricultural technologies developed since the 1960s. Moreover, yields under
rainfed conditions have shown little or no improvement over the last two
decades, a fact which prompts this project's emphasis on improving dryland
farming technology.
Agricultural Research
1.06      In absolute terms, public expenditure on agricultural research has
increased rapidly, from some Rs 10 M (US$1.2 M) in the First Plan to a pro-
visional Rs 1,090 M (US$126 M) in the Fifth Plan ending March 1978. This
expenditure, as in most of the countries neighboring India, is less than a
half of 1% of the value of agricultural production. In North America and
Europe, it is 1.3%. In the draft current Plan (1978-83), total expenditure by
ICAR on agricultural research and education is placed at Rs 4,250 M (US$494 M),
(approximately 30% being earmarked for education and 70% for research). This
represents about 2% of total designated outlays for agriculture, rural devel-
opment and irrigation, an acceptable proportion.
1.07      India has made notable progress in recent years toward the develop-
ment of a highly competent, professional, and effective agricultural research
system. When fully developed, this system should be capable of generating
the scientific and technological advances required for a sustained and rapid
growth in agricultural productivity. It has already demonstrated its worth
and effectiveness in several very important areas, notably with wheat, rice
and maize (paras 1.16-1.18).



1.08      ICAR.  The Indian agricultural research system is a joint coopera-
tive program of the central government and the several states. ICAR is the
agency responsible for the central government's contribution to both agricul-
tural research and education. It is not only active in managing central
research but also serves as the apex national coordinating and supporting
agency for much of the research carried out through state agencies. It
functions by:
(a) Providing financial and technical support for the develop-
ment of, and setting appropriate standards for, education
and research at SAU, now operating in almost all states
of the nation (Annex 2, T-1 and Map 13650);
(b) Managing and financing its 34 centrally controlled agricultural
research institutes and project directorates which have been
set up to ensure needed in-depth research on a wide range of
commodities and production and problem areas (Annex 2, T-2
and Map 13650);
(c) Organizing and financing more than 50 national coordinated
research schemes on commodities or problems of widespread
interest and concern which are carried out through the
central institutes and SAU or other state research agencies
(Annex 2, T-3);
(d) Conducting operational research projects in selected areas
and on important applied subjects in various parts of the
country;
(e) Supporting a limited number of ad hoc research projects
conducted by individual institutions; and
(f) Ensuring linkages between the central and state governments and
cooperation with international agricultural research institutes 1/
and other international organizations and bodies for exchange
of information, genetic materials and technical consultations.
1/   India has established effective working relationships with the inter-
national agricultural research centers, notably CIMMYT, IRRI, CIP,
ICRISAT and IBPGR, has utilized genetic materials and scientific infor-
mation emanating therefrom, and has made substantial contributions to
these centers and to tho international community generally in terms of
genetic materials, scientific and technological information, and talent.
Further cultivation of such external contacts will be essential.



- 4 -
1.09      Agricultural Universities.  Responsibility in the states for re-
search and higher education in agriculture is, with very few exceptions, 1/
now vested in the SAU. The SAU have assumed responsibility for almost alT
research and experimental stations within their respective states. Par-
ticipation in national coordinated research schemes sponsored by the ICAR
has opened access to wider ranges of genetic materials, has contributed to
greater exchange of information and experience between scientists, both
within the states and among states, and has helped to improve the quality
of experimentation and to extend confidence and knowledge as to the breadth
of applicability of their results.
1.10      The present system of agricultural universities in India (21 univer-
sities in 16 states plus IARI which awards postgraduate degrees) has evolved
over the past twenty years. These universities were developed with the ob-
jective of creating a system of scientific education which would serve the
needs of the farming community. They were designed to be involved in both
teaching and applied research, with their students expected to get a prac-
tical orientation to agricultural problems.
1.11      The basic objectives of the agricultural universities were similar
to those set by the philosophy of the U.S. Land Grant College System and
several U.S. colleges provided teams of technical advisors to assist in the
planning and development of the first six SAU established. The develop-
ment of the SAU has been uneven, resulting from differences in political
environment, the strength of initial leadership, the support accorded by state
governments, etc. The SAU of Uttar Pradesh (since G.B. Pant University of
Agriculture and Technology) and the Punjab SAU (since divided into Punjab SAU
and Haryana SAU) became pace setters in recruitment of well-trained staff,
assumption of responsibility for agricultural research within the state, and
liaison with the farming community. Other SAU developed more slowly and
some have not yet had time to reach full maturity.
1.12      The agricultural universities are state institutions.  They receive
their basic financial support through the state governments and are provided
grants from ICAR for various development activities 2/ and for a very substan-
tial number of research projects. Annex 2, T-l identifies the 21 state universi-
ties. Some details on their composition, facilities, faculty strength and
training, admission and output of students at the B.Sc. and M.Sc. levels (many
are now also providing training to the Ph.D level), and the magnitude and
source of financial support are given in the Project File (item 1).
1/   State Departments of Agriculture still retain responsibility for agri-
cultural research in West Bengal and some of the smaller states which
do not have agricultural universities, for some of the districts in Tamil
Nadu, for sugarcane research in Uttar Pradesh and for research in certain
irrigation command areas in Rajasthan.
2/   During the first five years ICAR financed almost all capital develop-
ment, plus a high proportion of improved UGC salary scales for which
staff became eligible.



- 5 -
1.13      The Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), still remains
the premier institution in the country for Ph.D and postdoctoral training in
the agricultural sciences and in more fundamental, but mission oriented,
agricultural research. The recently established Central Staff College for
Agriculture at Hyderabad is presently concerned with orientation and instruc-
tion of new recruits to ICAR. In the future, it may have a larger role in
refresher training courses for scientists engaged in the central and state
research programs.
1.14      The SAU are all involved with both instruction and research and
most of them over the past five to ten years have been given statewide
responsibility for this latter function. The assimilation of the staff and
facilities involved in this transfer has posed serious administrative and
organizational problems for SAU, especially those more recently established
which must initially devote considerable effort to the development of the
central educational and research organization. Time and assistance are
required to enable the SAU to absorb the large number of field experiment
stations and to develop a well-planned, balanced and coherent research program
directed squarely to the major problems limiting agricultural progress in the
various agro-ecological zones of the state. Most of them are now addressing
this problem seriously and are analyzing the agro-ecological conditions and
cropping patterns of the different zones of their states in order to identify
major zones and plan the creation of zonal lead experiment stations at which
they can establish a critical mass of staff and facilities to address the
problems of that zone on a continuing basis. Other smaller substations will
still be required, closely linked to the zonal situation, for adaptive and
verification work.
1.15      The agricultural university system has now progressed to the point
at which it can address the real agricultural problems of the different agro-
ecological zones, but substantial assistance will be required to enable the
universities to develop the facilities, deploy the necessary staff, and
provide the initial operating support required for their zonal stations to
be effective.
Scientific Achievements and Potential
1.16      One of the first major achievements came through the coordinated
maize improvement scheme instituted by ICAR in cooperation with the states
in 1957. This helped to set the pattern for more effective national plan-
ning of research on a commodity or problem basis, for international collab-
oration, and for effective center/state cooperation in research. The scheme
provided for a national coordinator, based at IARI, four main centers and
nine smaller substations. This scheme was able, within four years, to develop
(out of a combination of genetic characteristics coming from lines obtained
in India, South America and the United States), test and prepare for release
four highly productive maize hybrids, with wide adaptability in the Gangetic
Plp in, the Tosri ; qnd thp. Deccan. It further led to the development of
plans for the National Seeds Corporation which would arrange for production
and distribution of foundation and certified seeds of these hybrids and



-6-
improved varieties and hybrids of other crops for use by the farmers through-
out the nation. The National Coordinated Maize Improvement Scheme served as
the model on which the ICAR subsequently developed a large number (now 51) of
national coordinated schemes on other crops and farming problems of national
significance.
1.17      Central, state, and international cooperative research has achieved
major advances in wheat and rice production during the past fifteen years.
The basic genetic materials with high yield potential, short stature, high
tillering capacity, lodging resistance, and fertilizer responsiveness were
imported from abroad--wheat from Mexico and rice through the International
Rice Research Institute in the Philippines. These initial introductions
were further developed to incorporate the desired grain quality, broad based
resistance to pathogens and pests, and better adaptation of the variety (with
an adjustment in cultural practices) to the ecological conditions prevailing
in the country. Since the early 1960s, wheat production has increased 2-1/2
to 3 fold and total rice production in the country has gone up by more than
50%. Wheat production is now moving into the northeastern part of the country,
where it was previously of minor importance but shows promise of adding a
second productive harvest on substantial areas of land in that region. In
rice production, however, there are many ecological situations in which depend-
able and profitable technology for substantial improvement is still elusive
and has not yet been achieved.
1.18      Initially, hybrids of pearl millet promised a breakthrough similar
to that achieved with wheat and rice. However, while production advanced
rapidly, two diseases, downy mildew and ergot, subsequently attacked the
hybrids. Now it has become necessary to revert to seeking new sources of
resistance to these diseases and develop new varieties which will resist
attack, a task which is now well underway.
1.19      The above examples illustrate the fact that the nation has capable
agricultural scientists and has been able to make very substantial progress
in many fields. It has become apparent, however, that this capability is not
nationally developed to an adequate degree.   Technology which is applicable
under one ecological situation may have to be modified substantially before
it is useful under another quite different environment. This requirement is
of particular importance in a country as large and ecologically diverse as
India. There is an urgent need to develop the capability to extend scientific
advances from the relatively few major research centers and adapt them to other
ecological situations. The development of strong, well-staffed, equipped and
financed research stations in each of the major agro-ecological zones of the
states quite obviously needs high priority attention.
1.20      Some attempts have been made toward consolidation of staff and
facilities, systematic planning, and direction of resources towards the major
problems limiting agricultural progress in the said ecological and geographical
zones or regions.  A regional fo-- in rpocprch planning is only jiust develop-
ing, however, and needs further strengthening. The development of strong
regional stations to represent the major ecological zones of states and the
development of well-thought out research programs focussed specifically on



the agricultural development needs of the zone, with a well-qualified inter-
disciplinary staff, furnished with the tools and resources required for
meaningful research, is an urgent need. This is especially needed for serving
the small resource-poor farmers in rainfed areas.
Agricultural Extension
1.21      The reorganization of the agricultural extension services to employ
the "Training and Visit System," which is vigorously promoted by GOI, is
creating an increasing demand for location-specific research results. IDA has
assisted the introduction of the new extension system in six states and is
considering a proposal to extend the system to four others. 1/ The projects
in the initial five states have an applied research component in order to
generate technology, but more recent extension projects assume that the
National Agricultural Research Project, the subject of this report, would help
to strengthen the research capabilities. The impact of extension efforts will
to a large extent depend on the success of research and the effectiveness of
the linkages between the SAU (research) and the State Department of Agricul-
ture (extension) in assuring a well-oriented research program and the rapid
transfer of technology (paras 2.04-2.08).
II. OBJECTIVES
Types of Research
2.01      The objective of the National Agricultural Research Project (NARP)
would be to strengthen permanently the capability of Agricultural Universi-
ties to conduct zonal research. It would achieve this through a reform of
existing university based agricultural research and would concentrate, in
particular, on research oriented towards the needs of local agro-ecological
zones (see para 4.08 and Project File, item 2), with special emphasis on
foodgrains (cereals and pulses) and oilseeds. Particular attention would
be paid to foodgrains grown under rainfed conditions, and to the integration
of cropping patterns and animal husbandry practices. The following activities
would be supported under the project:
(a) At SAU campuses. Provision of resources, including infrastruc-
ture, needed to initiate, strengthen, or accelerate basic re-
search by outstanding scientists on topics which are crucial for
the long-term agricultural development of the State;
1/   The six previous projects are described in the Assam Agricultural Devel-
opment Project Report (No. 1535a-IN), Bihar Agricultural Extension and
Research Report No. 1754a-IN), Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension
Project Report (No. 1442a-IN), Orissa Agricultural Development Project
Report (No. 1301a-IN), Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research
Project Report (No. 1443a-IN) and West Bengal Agricultural Extension
and Research Project Report (No. 1288a-IN).  The main principles of the
proposed extension reform are described in Agricultural Extension: The
Training and Visit System (World Bank, 1977).



- 8 -
(b)  At SAU main stations.  Provision of resources, including
infrastructure, needed to (i) strengthen ongoing research,
(ii) pursue new applied research aimed at alleviating or
removing constraints on the production of commodities for
which the station performs a lead function, (iii) verify
research results for other major commodities produced in
the station's service area, and (iv) identify farming con-
straints to determine the reasons for differing adoption
rates by farmers of recommendations made by the SAU;
(c)  At SAU substations.  Provision of resources, including
infrastructure, to verify research results for commodi-
ties of importance in the substations's service area;
(d)  Ad hoc research.  Provision of funds for individual applied
research activities on priority topics emerging or being
identified during project implementation and not covered
under (a), (b), and (c).
2.02      The project would supplement existing GOI/ICAR support of SAU
through the All-India Coordinated Research Projects, ad hoc projects and
university development grants. 1/  It is expected that no less than 75% of
NARP resources would be devoted to applied research (particularly the devel-
opment or strengthening of main stations) and not more than 10% devoted to
basic research. The project would not support general university development,
university instruction, seed multiplication, extension programs (other than
activities of the type described in paras 2.04-2.08 below), food processing
or similar activities in which the SAU may be involved. Subprojects could,
however, include provision to address serious deficiencies in university com-
mon services (e.g. library, instrument repair facilities), lack of which could
hamper the progress of a certain research activity. It is expected that such
instances would be rare, since these needs can be met through ICAR's university
development grants which are expected to be substantially increased during
the current Plan.
2.03      The success of the research programs supported under the project
will be positively influenced by the close association which has developed
between SAU, ICAR and the international research institutes. The SAU
maintain their contact with these institutes through ICAR which, as repre-
sentative of the agricultural research community in India, has a Memorandum
of Understanding with all of them. This has led to collaboration in research
between institutes and SAU (e.g. the upland rice project, the sorghum downy
mildew project), the free flow of genetic material into SAU research programs,
the exchange of staff and information, and the regular attendance by SAU staff
at research seminars and conferences. This cooperation is strong and effec-
tive, and adequate for the support of the agricultural research to be tackled
under NARP.
1/   IDA, through Credit 342-IN, supports the development of the agricultural
universities in Assam and Bihar.



-9-
Linkages to Extension
2.04      It is expected that the overwhelming emphasis in the first National
Agricultural Research Project will be devoted to the establishment or strength-
ening of zonal main stations. The initial formulation of a research program
for such a station will need to draw on the experience available within the
university and the Department of Agriculture, but it will be important for
the station continuously to improve its knowledge of the problems and oppor-
tunities in the influence area. For this purpose it is proposed that the
following features be incorporated in the program for a zonal main station.
(a)  Field tests of research results in 2-3 villages to allow
the scientists themselves to work with farmers in different
resource situations, assess their problems, study their con-
straints in adoption of recommended practices and to investi-
gate ways and means to overcome these constraints;
(b)  Appointment of an agronomist at the main research station to
collaborate with the Department of Agriculture in the design,
supervision of execution and analysis of the field testing
program carried out by the Department, and in the analysis of
feedback from the extension work in the influence area of the
station;
(c)  Conducting a small number (10-20) of observation trials on
DOA seed farms and farmers' fields (besides substations) to
allow the scientists themselves to verify the impact of
research recommendations under varying soil, climatic and
topographical situations;
(d)  Appointment of agricultural economist(s) at the zonal main
research station to study farming situations and constraints,
analyze adoption patterns, determine the economic viability
and risks of research findings and to review alternative
farm plans for major situations in the influence area.
2.05      More important than the formulation of an initial research program
for the zonal main station will be the establishment of a permanent mechanism
for review and improvement of the program. It is proposed that a seasonal
zonal workshop between the University and DOA subject matter specialists
(active in the zone in question) would be the main forum for this review.
Research topics may be proposed by (i) individual scientists, (ii) University
Department Heads responsible for statewide programs in their disciplines,
(iii) heads of multidisciplinary research teams working on a particular crop
or subject, (iv) the Associate Director in charge of research in the zone in
question (para 4.09) in response to his analysis of farming constraints,
(v) extension staff whose daily contact with farmers will reveal important



- 10 -
gaps in existing knowledge, 1/ and (vi) through interaction between research
and extension staff at the seasonal zonal workshop.
2.06      Apart from generating research ideas, an optimal arrangement would
be for the seasonal zonal workshop to review the objectives of all research
proposals and recommend priorities in relation to the research needs of the
zone as a whole. The workshop would be under the chairmanship of the Asso-
ciate Director of Research and would include zonal research staff, selected
university crop coordinators and Heads of Departments, the Divisional Joint
Directors and Deputy Directors of Extension and selected DOA subject matter
specialists in the zone. Most of the deliberations would take place in sub-
groups for certain crops and disciplines. Apart from reviewing the zonal
research program, the workshop would also make recommendations on the zonal
extension and field testing programs. Summaries of research and field testing
results from the previous season together with the results of possible studies
on farming constraints and adoption patterns would be provided as a basis for
the deliberations. A research scientist, appointed by the Associate Director
of Research, would, in consultation with colleagues, be responsible for for-
mulating an appropriate research project indicating objectives, methods,
duration, resource requirements and persons responsible. Comments from
appropriate specialists, crop coordinators, etc. and endorsements from
Department Heads would be obtained as soon as possible. Following the zonal
workshop, the Associate Director would forward all projects together with
his assessment of priorities in terms of zonal research needs to the Director
of Research for processing and approval according to the procedures of the
respective university. Most projects would be expected to be small enough
to be handled with existing resources or with resources released from projects
which have been completed. Where the support required is substantial the
project could be prepared as a NARF ad hoc subproject (para 2.01) or be
posed for financing through other State or ICAR sources.
2.07      A clear definition of responsibilities between the Department of
Agriculture and the Agricultural University is now emerging in most states.
GOI is promoting a policy whereby the university is made fully responsible
for the development of new techn'ology 2/ while the State Department of Agri-
culture is in charge of the transfer of technology to farmers, including wide
spread testing of research recommendations on farmers' fields. The estab-
lishment of close linkages between the two services is, however, of vital
importance and this would be promoted through informal contacts, exchange of
staff, workshops, courses and collaboration in the DOA field testing program.
1/   The District Technical Committee, meeting seasonally, may play a
crucial role in formulating such ideas.
2/   The National Commission of Agriculture recommends in its report on
research (Vol. XI, p. 100): "The State departments should confine
themselves only to adaptive research such as varietal testing, ferti-
lizer recommendations based on soil analysis, water duties, etc. and
must not use this freedom to develop parallel research organization
in competition with the universities."



- 11 -
Under the Training and Visit System, DOA subject matter specialists are allo-
cated a substantial amount of time (1/3) for liaison with research. Appro-
priate research staff at the zonal station would similarly be required to
allocate a certain proportion of their time for participation in DOA extension
work. To further increase the interface, it is suggested that the university
and DOA should promote efforts to exchange a certain number of staff for
periods ranging from 6-24 months. To bring together the subject matter
specialists in the two services, the university will be expected to arrange
seasonal workshops at the zonal stations (as discussed above) and statewide
workshops for staff working on a particular crop and for staff working in a
particular discipline. Zonal stations would be equipped to arrange courses
for DOA subject matter specialists in the influence area.
2.08      Satisfactory proposals as to linkages between the Department of
Agriculture and the university would be a condition for NARP assistance
(para 4.06) and would be an important criteria in the review of subproject
proposals (para 4.19). State government and university agreement to imple-
ment these proposals would be required in connection with the acceptance of
a NARP grant (see proforma, item 10 of Project File).
Reform of University Research
2.09      It is recognized that university research has developed through a
series of ad hoc decisions and presently may not reflect the optimal utili-
zation of existing resources. One of the main objectives of the project is
to undertake a detailed review of the total research effort in the SAU in-
fluence area and to promote the recommendations from this review (para 4.11).
Each university would thus be required to participate in such a review, the
conclusions of which would be available within one year from the approval
of the first subproject. The alternative of requiring such a review as a
condition for participation has been rejected since this would jeopardize the
launching of the project and delay implementation. Sufficient information
would be available (para 4.08) to allow the identification of a few priority
subprojects before the review.
III. THE SECTOR CREDIT
General
3.01      The proposed credit would finance disbursements during the current
Plan period ending March 31, 1983 for the following items:
(a) Research subprojects submitted by eligible SAU and approved
by the Project Funding Committee (PFC);
(b) Strengthening of research administration at participating SAU;
(c) Facilities for training of university staff at IARI and the
ICAR Central Staff College for Agriculture, Hyderabad; and
(d) ICAR administration of NARP.



- 12 -
Detailed Features
3.02      Research Subprojects.  The types of subprojects that would be eligi-
ble for financing are described in para 2.01 above: the standards of prepara-
tion of these subproject proposals with respect to research objectives and
estimated resource requirements are illustrated by the four examples given in
the Project File (items 3-6). NARP would finance civil works, equipment, and
incremental staff and operating funds for a period of up to five years.
3.03      The civil works component typically could include items such as
laboratories, office space, seminar rooms and accommodation for visiting ex-
tension staff, farm buildings, staff housing and on-farm development (fencing,
roads, irrigation, land shaping, drainage, etc.). Housing would be provided
for operational staff who will need to reside at the station and for other
staff, if justified on the basis of a detailed survey of accommodation avail-
able in neighboring towns, rents there and commuting requirments. Irrigation
facilities would be provided if in accordance with the long term needs of the
station, but a major part of the farm would be set aside for research on
rainfed farming. Guidelines for design and planning of the civil works items
are provided in the Project File (item 7). Housing provided would be in
accordance with either each SAU's standards (see illustrations in Project
File, items 3-5) or the standards set by the relevant state government, which-
ever are appropriate.
3.04      The cost of basic scientific, office and farm equipment items cost-
ing above Rs. 5,000 each would be specified and a lump sum (not to exceed 25%
of the cost of basic equipment) provided for minor items (below Rs 5,000) and
for supplementing the equipment list when the research program has been worked
out in detail and staff recruited. Where only a relatively small sum is re-
quired for major items of equipment, the university may opt to submit an
itemized list of all equipment required irrespective of unit cost.
3.05      The full salaries and applicable allowances for the additional
scientific and supporting staff required to complete the subproject would be
eligible for NARP finance 1/. A lump sum allowance per incremental scientist
would be determined to cover recurring costs of vehicles, other travel costs,
laboratory and office supplies and temporary labor and inputs required for
field experiments in excess of normal cultivation costs (which would be
covered by the income from the research farm which would be retained by the
university).
3.06      The costs of acquisition of additional land, building maintenance,
utilities and similar station overhead costs would form part of the subproject,
but would be met by the university/state.
3.07      Costs of the three major subprojects reviewed by the appraisal
mission and which are described in detail in items 3-5 of the Project File
can be broken down as follows:
1/   Existing staff and operating costs would continue to be borne by
present sources.



- 13 -
Main       Main         Sub-
Station     Station      Station
Bijapur     Tirupati      Bawal
…--------…Rs '000…-------------
Civil Works                      7,398        5,591        3,088
Equipment                        1,763          980          872
Incremental Staff                4,751        3,402        2,539
Incremental Operating Costs    1,512            688          555
Land Acquisition                 1,500          150          140
Normal Cultivation                 734          388          302
Overheads                          522          402          280
Total Cost                    18,180       11,601       7,776
This includes price contingencies estimated at 10% for Civil Works throughout
and 7% 1978, 6.5% 1979, 6% 1980-83 for other components. Foreign exchange
costs are estimated at about 10% and duties and taxes are negligible.
3.08      The number of subprojects that will be approved under the project
cannot be estimated accurately at this stage. Nine universities had submitted
draft background papers by the end of April 1978 and it is estimated that 15
universities will become eligible during the project period. The allocation
of funds to each university will be determined by the size of its influence
area, the diversity of farming conditions covered and its capacity to develop
a viable and appropriate research program. The commitment of NARP funds is
expected to be about Rs 700 M during the project period and NARP disbursements
about Rs 400 M. The total number of research subprojects per university may
well be four on average. A schedule for preparing, appraising and supervising
subprojects by the Project Unit of ICAR (para 3.11) for 1978/79 was reviewed
at negotiations. In each of the following years of the project, ICAR will
furnish this schedule (work program) to IDA for comments by March 31 of each
year.
3.09      Research Administration Subprojects.  The university may request,
and the PFC approve or prescribe at the time the university's eligibility is
reviewed, certain strengthening of its research administration. The components
of such an "administrative" subproject that could be supported by NARP could
include:
(a) Incremental staff to plan and monitor the total research
program, administer the zonal programs, and provide central
university administrative support for subproject implementa-
tion; equipment (office, transport); and operating costs for
these staff;
(b) The cost of organizing zonal-, commodity- and discipline-
oriented workshops for subject matter spccialists in the
university and the Department of Agriculture; and
(c) The cost of sending staff to advanced centers Qf research
within India for non-degree training.



- 14 -
An illustration of an administration subproject is given in the Project File
(item 9). The cost per university for strengthening research administration
amounted to about Rs. 1 M in the three cases reviewed by the appraisal mission.
3.10      IARI/Staff College Training Facilities.  IARI is the most advanced
agricultural research institution in India and the ICAR Central Staff College
for Agriculture is the only institution that offers training in research
administration. The Staff College presently does not have the resources to
train SAU staff, and the capacity of IARI to accept university trainees is
limited. ICAR has therefore agreed to prepare for separate IDA appraisal
two NARP subprojects that would enhance the capacity of these institutions
to accept university trainees. The main component of these subprojects is
expected to be buildings for the accommodation of the trainees. Their com-
bined cost is presently estimated at Rs 20 M (US$2.3 M). An assurance was
obtained at negotiations that the preparation of these subprojects would be
completed and the proposals submitted to IDA for approval before March 31,
1979.
3.11       ICAR Administration.  A unit will be established within ICAR to
administer the project. The resource requirements in terms of incremental
staff consultants, equipment and operating costs are summarized in Annex 2,
T-8, and Project File, item 15, and amount to Rs 8.7 M (US$1.0 M) for the
project period.
Project Costs
3.12       The costs of the project would comprise:  (a) expenditures to be made
in the five years 1978-1983 on the implementation of subprojects that would
be determined in the course of project implementation and (b) the costs in-
curred by ICAR in administering the project in the same period. While, as
discussed in para 3.08, it appears that 15 SAU will qualify and participate
in the project, it is impossible to estimate either how many subprojects they
will generate that are suitable for NARP support in the five-year project
period or the nature and cost of these subprojects. A precise estimate of
project costs is thus impossible. Following the examination of the needs and
capabilities of the three SAU examined by the appraisal mission, however, it
has been agreed with GOI/ICAR that, as a planning target, an upper limit of
Rs 50 M would be set on commitments made under NARP to individual SAU in the
five-year project period, a total of Rs 700 M after allowing for the effects
of subproject phasing which causes four subprojects to fall outside the project
period (see Annex 2, T-4). Actual expenditures in the five-year period would
be considerably less, since the life of the majority of the subprojects initi-
ated would extend beyond the end of the five-year period; for example, sub-
projects approved in 1983 could continue into 1988. Using the phasing of in-
vestments in the subprojects appraised by IDA as a guide, and using the assump-
tions on the numbers and phasing of subprojects detailed in Annex 2, T-4, it
is estimated that if total commitments of Rs 700 M are made to SAU for approved
subprojects and Rs 15 M for research administration subprojects in the project
period, actual expenditures of funds would amount to only about Rs 400 M. To-
gether with costs incurred in the five year period by ICAR in administering
NARP, the costs of the IARI and ICAR Central Staff College for Agriculture
subprojects, and concommittant costs incurred by the SAU in implementing



- 15 -
subprojects but not to be financed by ICAR (see para 3.13), total project
costs of Rs 465 M (US$54 M equivalent) are indicated as shown in the following
table:
Project Costs             Total Commitments
(Expenditures 1978-1983)  (Expenditures 1978-1987)
Foreign                    Foreign
Exchange                   Exchange
Rs M    US$ M      US$ M    Rs M    US$ M    US$ M
Research Subprojects
Infrastructure, staff,
vehicles, plant and
equipment                 386       45        5.0      700       81     8.7
Land acquisition, routine
cultivation and SAU
overhead                   40        5        0.2       70        8     0.3
Subtotal               426       50       5.2       770      89      9.0
SAU Research Administra-
tion Subprojects           10        1        0.1       15        2     0.1
IARI and Staff College
Subprojects                20        2        0.2       20        2     0.2
ICAR Administration           9        1        0.1        9        1     0.1
TOTAL                  465       54       5.6       814       94     9.4
It is expected that the foreign exchange element of expenditures made under
the project would average 10% of total costs or about US$5.6 M, and that taxes
and duties would be negligible. Estimates take account of expected price
inflation.
Financing
3.13      An IDA credit of US$27.0 M is proposed to cover 50% of total project
costs, excluding duties and taxes, and would be equivalent to the foreign ex-
change costs of the project, estimated at US$5.6 M, and 44% of local costs
amounting to US$21.4 M. GOI would provide 41% of project costs and state
governments and SAU would meet the remaining 9% of project costs. Basically,
these remaining costs would be the expenses of land acquisition, routine
cultivations and management overhead. GOI would make the proceeds of the IDA
credit and its own contribution available to ICAR as a budgetary allocation.
ICAR would use part of these funds for administration of NARP and the remainder
would be channeled as grants to SAU, IARI, and the Central Staff College for
Agriculture to finance approved subprojects. Given the nature of the project,



- 16 -
there is a possibility that funds will remain in the credit account at the end
of the five year project period; it is proposed that in such an event IDA
should consider applying these funds to expenditures incurred in subsequent
years.
3.14      Since PFC would approve subprojects throughout the project period
and since these subprojects would ofte.. cover a five year period the comple-
tion of many, if not most of them, will extend beyond March 31, 1983 into the
subsequent Plan period (1983-1988). GOI may at this stage approach IDA with
a request for a follow-up NARP project, but as there can be no guarantee that
subsequent IDA credits would be made, a GOI assurance to complete any sub-
project approved during the project period was obtained at negotiations.
Assurances were also obtained from GOI that its annual budget allocation to
ICAR would include specific provisions for already approved subprojects and
subprojects expected to be approved during the year; that the grants to the
SAU would be subject to the terms and conditions outlined in Annex 1; and
that approval of any subproject would be subject to written acceptance by
the SAU and the State Government of their undertakings according to those
terms and conditions. (Proforma in Project File, item 10).
Procurement 1/
3.15      All civil works would be relatively small and consist of research
facilities, housing and farm development as illustrated in para 3.07 and
Project File, items 3-6. The works would be mostly located at some distance
from major cities, and undertaken by different universities scattered through-
out the country. Consequently, it would neither be feasible nor economic to
group them into large contracts for international competitive bidding (ICB)
following procedures satisfactory to IDA. Consequently, awards for construc-
tion works would instead be made after local competitive bidding (LCB). The
procedures for LCB will be reviewed by PFC to ensure that they are satisfac-
tory. The LCB procedures of three universities were reviewed by the appraisal
mission and were found satisfactory.
3.16      Procurement of equipment would be undertaken by the participating
universities and would be distributed over time. A great diversity of labora-
tory, office and farm equipment would be required as illustrated in para 3.07
and Project File, items 3-6. Orders will therefore be small in size and ex-
isting servicing and spare part facilities will be of crucial importance.
These items would thus not be suitable for ICB but would be procured by stand-
ard university procedures which will comprise LCB, and for smaller amounts,
prudent shopping. Such procedures would be subject to IDA approval. PFC would
review the procedures of each participating SAU and compliance with approved
standards would be a condition of the university's eligibility. The procedures
were found satisfactory in the case of the three universities visited by the
appraisal mission and would be used as guidelines in subsequent subprojects.
Disburzcments, Accounts and Audit
3.17      IDA disbursements would be made againt ICAR certified statements
of expenditure incurred by participating SAUs and by ICAR. For ease of
1/   ICAR supervision of procurement - (see paras 4.21-4.22).



- 17 -
administration, disbursements would be against 50% of eligible expenditures.
Supporting documents would not be submitted to IDA for review, but would be
retained by ICAR and SAU and be available for inspection by ICAR and IDA
during project supervision. A schedule of estimated IDA disbursements is at
Annex 2, T-5. The statements of expenditure and supporting documents will be
included in the periodic audit of ICAR by an independent auditor.
3.18      Since most SAU have insufficient resources of their own to pre-
finance major investments under ICAR schemes, ICAR currently advances funds
six months ahead of expenditure on the basis of budget estimates, less amounts
unspent from the previous period, according to a certified statement of ex-
penditures. IDA would, however, disburse against actual SAU expenditures as
summarized at six-monthly intervals by ICAR. (see Project File, item 12).
3.19      ICAR would be subject to normal government control and auditing
procedures which are satisfactory. The accounting and auditing procedures
and standards at each university would be reviewed by PFC as a condition of
eligibility for NARP assistance. These standards and procedures were found
satisfactory at the three universities visited by the appraisal mission.
During negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(a) GOI, through ICAR, would cause SAU to maintain separate
accounts for each subproject, as is the case at present,
and keep records not only of expenditures submitted to
ICAR for reimbursement, but also of the university's
agreed contribution for land (if any), cultivation and
station overheads;
(b) GOI, through ICAR, would cause SAU to submit to ICAR an
audit report or grant utilization certificate prepared
by independent auditors acceptable to PFC for each
subproject within nine months of the end of the financial
year as a condition of continued NARP support of that
subproject;
(c) GOI, through ICAR, would reserve the right to inspect SAU
premises and records with its own internal audit staff
at its own discretion;
(d) ICAR would maintain separate accounts for project expendi-
tures on each component (para 3.01) and subproject; and
(e) ICAR would submit annual accounts and audit reports to IDA
within nine months of the end of each financial year.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
4.01      The overall organization and supervision of the project would be
the responsibility of ICAR. For this purpose and to provide a secretariat
to PFC and the Interdisciplinary Scientific Panel (ISP) (para 4.04) a Pro-
ject Unit (para 4.22) would be established in ICAR with the existing Deputy



- 18 -
Director General (Education) as its head. He would be designated Project
Administrator and would be directly responsible for the project to the
Director General who would be chairman of PFC (para 4.04). The implementation
of specific subprojects would be the responsibility of the recipient SAU,
through the Office of its Director of Research.
A. ICAR Administration
4.02       ICAR was originally established in 1929.  In 1966, following the
recommendations of a review committee on agricultural research and education,
a major reorganization and consolidation was put into effect under which all
centrally supported research and higher education in agriculture, animal
sciences and fisheries, including the various central agricultural research
institutes and research previously conducted under the commodity committees,
was placed under the responsibility and direction of ICAR. The Council was
also made responsible for providing the coordinating and guiding leadership
and central financial support to the SAU and colleges. The Council was
placed under the chairmanship of the Union Minister of Agriculture. Its
governing body was placed under the chairmanship of the Director General, who
was chief executive of the Council. Since 1973, the Director General has been
designated as Secretary to the Government of India for the Department of
Agricultural Research and Education, Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation,
thus ensuring appropriate liaison with Government.
4.03      The Director General is assisted by four Deputy Directors General
(crop sciences; animal sciences; soils, irrigation and agricultural engineer-
ing; and education), a secretariat, and additional staff as required. Fifteen
scientific panels in various subjects have been set up for considering the
various research schemes and projects to be supported by the Council, for
advising the Governing Body on technical matters, and for drawing attention
to gaps in current research and training efforts. The annual budget for the
ICAR (plan and non-plan) for the current Plan period has been tentatively
estimated at Rs 525 M (US$61 M), approximately 25% above the previous level of
budgetary allocation. As of August 1976, the ICAR had a staff of approximately
5,500 scientists, 40% of whom were on the rolls of the Agricultural Research
Service (principally in the Central Institutes) and 60% of whom were engaged
in ICAR-supported projects and coordinated schemes throughout the country.
4.04      A Project Funding Committee (PFC) has been constituted by ICAR
(Annex 2, T-7) as the executive authority and has power to admit SAU, to
approve or reject subprojects and research reviews and to supervise the
execution of the project. The Committee is chaired by the Director General
of ICAR and has as members the Agricultural Commissioner, GOI; the Chief
(Agriculture), Planning Commission; two SAU Vice-Chancellors (appointed by
Minister of Agriculture); and the Project Administrator. An Interdiscipli-
nary Scientific Panel (ISP) of eminent scientists in different fields has
been set up to provide technical advice to PFC. The membership of the panel
is described in Annex 2, T-6. The Deputy Director General (Education)



- 19 -
has been appointed Project Administrator and will head the Project Unit (PU)
which will serve as a secretariat to the Committee. The unit will be an
integral part of ICAR and is presently being established.
Project Unit Tasks
4.05      The tasks of the ICAR Project Unit will be the following:
(a)  Advise on and process background papers and SAU submissions
for participation in NARP;
(b)  Assist in preparation of and appraise subprojects, and
organize and participate in detailed research reviews;
(c)  Assist and monitor subproject implementation by:
(i)  reviewing seasonal reports on scientific achievements
and, subsequently, scientific completion reports against
the research objectives of the subproject;
(ii) reviewing six-monthly SAU reports on physical
implementation in order to prepare a summary
report for IDA;
(iii) reviewing statements of expenditure to ensure
authenticity and eligibility, keeping accounts,
claiming reimbursement from IDA, processing
budget requests, reviewing annual statements of
audited accounts;
(iv) advising on and supervising construction;
(v)  advising on and supervising procurement of equipment;
(vi) assisting in organizing training of SAU staff; and
(vii) visiting annually each participating SAU and reporting
on progress and problems in implementation of NARP
supported subprojects and recommending such remedial
actions as may be needed.
(d) Provide a secretariat for ISP and PFC.
The PU will prepare an annual work program which will be furnished to IDA
for comments (para 3.08).
4.06      Eligibility Review.  All SAU would be eligible to receive support
from the National Agricultural Research Project provided that, to the satis-
faction of the PFC, they:



- 20 -
(a)  Complied with GOI/ICAR standards regarding salaries, recruit-
ment and administrative procedures (para 4.07);
(b)  Produced a background paper containing a critical analysis
of the SAU and its research responsibilities (para 4.08);
(c)  Possessed, or were willing to recruit, adequately experienced
staff and were willing to establish adequate mechanisms for
research administration (para 4.09);
(d)  Established satisfactory linkages with state extension
services (para 4.10); and
(e)  Agreed to participate in a review of the research effort
in the SAU service area (para 4.11).
These criteria are further explained below. A proforma for PFC eligibility
review is given in the Project File (item 8).
4.07      To allow it to compete for and retain competent staff, the SAU will
be required to apply the pay scales recommended by GOI's University Grants
Commission. Scientific staff would be recruited on an All-India basis.
Scientific and senior administrative staff recruited under the subproject
would be required to sign a commitment not to apply for or accept another
position for at least two years and the SAU would be requested not to transfer
staff during the operation of the subproject. The SAU procedures for audit,
accounting and procurement would be reviewed by PFC to assure standards
comparable to those of ICAR and to provide sufficient decentralization of
administrative powers for efficient subproject implementation.
4.08      The required paper on the SAU and its research responsibilities
would provide the background information needed for the consideration of the
first set of subprojects and will also be the starting point for the detailed
research review (para 4.11). It would be based on the model outline given in
the Project File (item 2) and thus provide a brief introduction to agriculture
in the state, identify the agro-ecological zones in the influence area and
analyze their characteristics and research needs, describe the existing orga-
nization and management of research, and, with reference to NARP objectives,
propose possible modifications of research administration and linkages with
extension as well as priority subprojects. The number of zones recognized
will depend on climatic, soil and topographical variations, distances between
stations and resources available 1/. Each zone will be equal to the influence
area of a main station and may be an amalgamation of smaller discrete subzones
which initially may be served by substations for verification work but which
in some cases may be raised to zonal status at a later date.
1/   In the states visited by the appraisal mission the number of zones
were suggested to be 10 in Karnataka, 7 in Andhra Pradesh, 2 in Haryana
and 5 in Madhya Pradesh.



- 21 -
4.09      To help focus the research effort on zonal needs it is proposed
that an Associate Director of Research would head the total research effort
within each zone. His tasks would include improving the existing knowledge
of farming constraints, promoting close collaboration with the State Depart-
ment of Agriculture, arranging regional workshops and courses for research
and extension staff, formulating amendments to the research program and super-
vising and reporting on the regional research effort. The Office of the
Director of Research would similarly be responsible for planning, directing,
monitoring and evaluating the research effort of the university as a whole.
The SAU would be required to satisfy the PFC as to the adequacy of its methods
and capacity to bring about an increased emphasis on location specific research.
4.10      Research results must reach the farmers if the program of applied
research is to be justified. The SAU must, therefore, be prepared to estab-
lish a system of linkages between SAU research stations and the State Agri-
cultural Extension Service which is acceptable to the PFC (paras 2.04-2.08).
Where applicable, these linkages should take into account the requirements
and characteristics of the Training and Visit extension system now being
adopted by many states with the support of IDA.
4.11      It is recognized that university research has developed through a
series of individual research projects, many of which were conceived in
isolation and developed to address a particular problem at a particular
time. The long term strategy should be for a planned development which in-
tegrates all agricultural research within the state, avoids duplication and
ensures maximum staff involvement with the most pressing research problems.
The SAU would be required, therefore, to participate in a detailed review of
the total research effort of the SAU service areas, the conclusions of which
would be available within one year from the date of approval of the first
subproject. The review team would be appointed by the ICAR Project Unit and
would consist of representatives of SAU (Directors of Research), ICAR and
State Departments of Agriculture and one eminent scientist recruited from
outside the state with a knowledge of research organization. The review would
be comprehensive and would include a consideration of the number and location
of stations, division of labor with ICAR institutions, utilization of existing
staff and resources, and organization and administration of research.
4.12      The report of the SAU research review team would be processed by
*       PU and reviewed by the ISP and PFC.  IDA would also be furnished with a copy
of the report. The report would contain recommendations for:
(a)  Such rationalization of the SAU agricultural research effort
in the service area as may be needed, taking into account
the work of other agencies such as ICAR institutions. 1/
(Importantly, such a review would examine the justification
for existing research stations and substations, their staffing
and functions, and the need for any new stations in the service
area;
1/   ICAR plans a study to review which ICAR centers and subcenters should
be transferred to the agricultural universities.



- 22 -
(b) The general program of agricultural research and campus and
station development (for research purposes) that should be
followed by the SAU over the medium term, say next five
years, in order to meet the needs of the service area; and
how this may need to be supported and complemented (as in
most cases it will) by work carried out directly by ICAR
institutions;
(c) Such basic research as may be required to be carried out
by the SAU in support of its applied research effort; and
(d) Estimates of the costs of the programs under (b) and (c)
with indications of the sources of the funds required.
4.13       In view of the research component of the existing IDA-supported
Extension and Research Projects, in the case of Madhya Pradesh, Orissa,
Rajasthan, Assam and West Bengal, the detailed review would be completed
before any subprojects were supported under NARP. 1/
4.14      Preparation and Appraisal.  The responsibility for preparing back-
ground papers and subprojects rests with the SAU, but their capacity to
shoulder this task will vary. The PU would, on request, lend all possible
assistance for an adequate and timely preparation and give particular atten-
tion to the weaker universities. Subproject proposals would be cleared by
the university board and endorsed by the state government before being
formally submitted to ICAR.
4.15      Subprojects proposed for financing by a SAU would be received by
ICAR in two series:
(a) Those developed prior to the comprehensive review of the
agricultural research effort in the service area of the
SAU; and
(b) Those developed subsequent to the review and which can be
related to the findings and recommendations of the com-
prehensive review of agricultural research to be made in
the SAU service area.
Group (a) proposals would be limited to two in number and a total cost not
exceeding 50% of the maximum SAU allocation (see para 3.08). Group (b) pro-
posals would be submitted at any time between the end of the review and the
termination of the project.
4.16      The proposals would be processed by PU and the ISP would be respon-
sible for the initial review within ICAR. During this review, the estimates
of the resources needed and the appropriateness of the research program to
the research abilities and aims of the SAU and the station would be considered.
Some research on topics of national importance is better conducted centrally
1/   With the exception of the three subprojects in Madhya Pradesh which
-    were prepared as test cases for NARP.



- 23 -
under the aegis of ICAR. The panel would also ensure that the proposals were
original and did not involve unnecessary duplication of other work (completed,
existing or planned); either within the zone or in similar agro-ecological
situations in other states or countries.
4.17      Following its review of the proposed subprojects, the recommendation
of the ISP would be forwarded to PFC together with a memorandum that would be
prepared by the Project Administrator and the PU staff. The memorandum
would summarize the findings of the ISP and make observations and recommen-
dations on the SAU proposal, determined to be of consequence and value to PFC
in its deliberations.  In particular, the memorandum would inform the PFC of
the status of actions agreed to be taken by the SAU as a condition of parti-
cipation in NARP.
4.18      The PFC would consider the observations and recommendations made by
the ISP and the Project Administrator and the information provided in the SAU
background paper. Its decision would be guided by:
(a) The importance of the proposed station/basic research topic
for the agricultural development of the state;
(b) The research program of the station being geared to problems
of high priority (major crops, major constraints) in the zone;
(c) The research program being of such a nature that it can be
suitably handled at the station in question (not requiring
massive resources and elaborate equipment at a zonal main
station or substation or being of national importance);
(d) The research at zonal main stations and substations being
of applied nature and likely to yield results within a five
year period;
(e) The research being original and not involving unnecessary
duplication of other work (completed, existing or planned)
either within the zone or in similar agro-ecological situa-
tions in other states or countries;
(f) The research program being within the capacity of the SAU
to implement (given the competence of existing staff and
existing commitments) and requested resources being adequate
for effective execution;
(g) The research program being responsive to the main objectives
of NARP (para 2.01) and giving particular emphasis to research
on foodgrains, oilseeds and pulses grown under rainfed farming
conditions; and
(h) The arrangement of linkages to the extension service being ade-
quate (paras 2.04-2.08).



- 24 -
Following the comprehensive review of SAU research, the PFC would also safe-
guard that subproject proposals would conform with the recommendations of the
review team. The Project Administrator would report to the PFC on the degree
to which the SAU was implementing these recommendations.
4.19      PFC would either reject, approve or defer a decision on the sub-
projects. Those in the latter category would be returned to the SAU concerned
either for specified amendments or for extensive modification. Close liaison
would be maintained with IDA which would receive copies of all relevant infor-
mation and documents relating to subproject preparation and appraisal. During
negotiations, an assurance was obtained that where the total cost of a pro-
posed subproject was higher than Rs 12 M (US$1.4 M), the subproject would be
sent to IDA for review after obtaining the views of the ISP and the Project
Administrator, but before final approval by PFC. The aim would be for IDA to
review about 20% of all subprojects and the limit could be adjusted by mutual
agreement in light of experience.
4.20      Supervision.  Assurances were obtained at negotiations that:
(a) ICAR would each year submit to IDA a six-monthly and an
annual report on the physical implementation of approved
subprojects, inter alia, listing new proposals received
from SAU and the decisions of the PFC (see proforma in
Project File, item 12);
(b) ICAR would make an annual on-site supervision visit to
each participating SAU and subproject site and that the
results of this visit would be communicated to IDA;
(c) ICAR would furnish IDA with the annual work program of
the Project Unit; and that
(d) ICAR would prepare a Project Completion Report to be sub-
mitted to IDA on or before March 31, 1984.
4.21      Civil Works.  The terms and conditions for administration of NARP
(para 3.14 and Annex 1) will require the PU:
(a) To prepare, with the help of a consulting team consist-
ing of an experienced scientist and architect, a detailed
architectural brief (see Project File, item 14) for all
laboratory buildings in approved subprojects;
(b) To approve a master plan (see Project File, item 13) for
each research station subproject;
(c) To approve for subprojects where the construction work,
excluding housing, is estimated to cost more than Rs 400,000
(US$46,000):



- 25 -
(i) the nomination of the architects;
(ii) final design drawings and cost estimates;
(iii) list of proposed prequalified contractors;
(iv) bid evaluation and proposed contract awards; and
(v) proposed construction supervision arrangements.
In order to assist PU in dealing with large civil works programs, IDA would
review the PU recommendations with respect to (b), (cii) and (cv) above for
the first five subprojects having a civil works component (excluding housing)
estimated to cost more than $200,000. Suitable assurances were obtained
during negotiations.
4.22      Equipment.  The PU would review equipment lists attached to the
subproject submission and assist the university in the preparation of speci-
fications and cost estimates as well as indicate suitable suppliers when
prudent shopping would be merited. Purchase of items likely to cost more than
Rs 5,000 (US$600) and not already specified in the approved subproject would
require ICAR approval. Awards to other than the lowest bidder would require
ICAR approval for contracts of more than Rs 50,000 (US$6,000).
Project Unit Staffing
4.23      Apart from the Project Administrator, the aim would be to build up
the PU gradually so that it would contain the following permanent staff (see
Annex 2, C-2): 2 Project Coordinators; 1 Deputy Coordinator/Controller; 8
experienced Project Officer/Scientists; 1 Architect; 1 Building Engineer; 1
Procurement Officer, and 2 Accounts Officer/Auditors. For preparation assist-
ance, appraisal, supervision as well as preparation of architectural briefs,
these forces would, however, be supplemented by the hiring of consultants
drawn from the ICAR institutes and SAU or recruited from the cadre of retired
scientists. The need for such consulting services is estimated to increase
from about 20 man-months at the beginning of the project to about 45 man-
months annually at full development and there is some doubt as to the possi-
bility of finding sufficient competent consultants at the times required.
Should these fears be proven correct, ICAR intends to use some of the consul-
tancy funds to finance permanent positions at the ICAR Central Staff College
for Agriculture and to assign increasingly the task of preparation assistance
to the college. This would have the added advantage of separating more
clearly the preparation assistance (Staff College) and the appraisal (Project
Unit) tasks. At negotiations an assurance was obtained that the appointment
of a skeleton staff of 2 Project Coordinators, the Deputy Coordinator/
Controller, 2 Scientists, the Architect and one Accounts Officer would be
completed not later than January 31, 1979.



- 26 -
B. Aministration of University Research
4.24      The existing organization of research varies somewhat from one
university to another, but would in general terms have the following character-
istics. Under the Vice-Chancellor, the Director of Research is responsible
for the planning, monitoring and administration of the research program. His
office is generally small and his activities often, by necessity, focus on
administration rather than planning and monitoring. In spite of the land
grant college philosophy of integration of research and teaching, university
staff are often single purpose, but belong to a subject matter department
which is responsible for both functions. Research projects, even if multi-
disciplinary, are guided by a particular department from which the team leader
is drawn, while members of the team may belong to other departments. The Dean
is responsible for interdepartmental coordination at the campus. At a multi-
campus university, the Dean and department heads at the main campus do not
always appear to be able to influence their colleagues at the subsidiary
campuses. The university may have coordinators for research on particular
crops or groups of crops or problem areas when such research is conducted at
several locations. Research staff at non-campus research stations are usually
affiliated with the departments at a neighboring campus. Such stations may
be subordinated to a particular department or may come directly under the
Director of Research. The influence area of main and substations are gene-
rally undefined and there is no explicit ambition to tackle the priority
problems in the neighborhood of the station. Research proposals are often
generated from within the departments (but may in some cases result from con-
tacts with progressive farmers) but may be conceived centrally (e.g. ICAR All-
India projects). Research proposals are reviewed by the University Research
Committee/Council before being submitted to the University Board.
4.25      The NARP involvement with university administration would help in:
(a)  Strengthening the planning and monitoring function in
the office of the Director of Research (para 3.09) 1/;
(b)  Identifying major agro-ecological zones (para 4.08),
supporting the development of main stations to serve
these zones (paras 2.01-2.02) 2/ and supporting the
appointment of the Associate Directors to be responsible
for research in relation to each zone (para 4.09); 2/ and
(c)  Promoting a system of feedback from and linkages to exten-
sion to assure that the research program becomes increasingly
responsive to farming problems in the zone in question
(paras 2.04-2.08) 2/.
1/   See also illustration in Project File (item 9).
2/   See also illustration in Project File (items 3 and 4).



- 27 -
The organizational arrangement that might result from adding the zonal research
dimension to commodity and discipline oriented applied research is illustrated
in Annex 2, C-1.
4.26      The Director of Research will be responsible for the preparation
and implementation of subprojects and for compiling the following reports
for ICAR:
(a)  Seasonal reports on scientific results under each subproject;
(b)  Six-monthly report on physical progress of all NARP sub-
projects recording staffing, works, equipment, and showing
expenditures to date and advances requested for the fol-
lowing period (see Project File, item 11);
(c)  Audited accounts for all subprojects within nine months
after the end of the financial year; and
(d)  A report showing the scientific achievements at the com-
pletion of each subproject in relation to the research
objectives that were established at the outset.
V. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
The Benefits of Agricultural Research
5.01      Rainfed arable crops (foodgrains, pulses, oilseeds) constitute the
basis of subsistence and an important source of income for a majority of
India's farmers, both large and small. The yields of major crops under
rainfed conditions have, with a few exceptions, remained relatively unchanged
over the period spanning the Green Revolution. Consequently, even after
allowing for the gradual expansion of irrigation facilities and the dramatic
yield improvements obtained on many irrigated farms, overall production of
staples is barely keeping pace with population growth. The main justifica-
tion of this project is in its expected contribution to breaking the bottle-
neck to the achievement of higher yields of rainfed crops.
5.02      In addition to research on more productive and/or resistant varie-
ties, improved cropping patterns and agronomic practices, the proposed pro-
ject would focus on soil and water conservation techniques which could pro-
vide farmers in arid or semiarid zones with techniques for avoiding depletion
of basic resources and a minimum secure base from which to consider investment
in new inputs. By concentrating research expenditure on applied, problem-
oriented programs, the project would draw on, and put to efficient use, a vast
capital of research within and outside India which is not immediately rele-
vant to the special situation prevailing in a particular region.
5.03      It is impossible to quantify these benefits in precise terms, not
only because the exact nature of the subprojects to be submitted to PFC is
unknown at this stage, but also because the hit-or-miss nature of research



- 28 -
defies averaging between success and failure. Even within research programs
of more limited scope, uncertainties as to supplementary services resulting
in lags in farmer adoption increase the scope for error. However, ex-post
evaluations of individual crop programs in Latin America during the late 1960s,
yield internal rates of return in the range of 35%-90%, while similar research
in the U.S. and South Africa gave lower, but still strongly positive results.
5.04      More recent studies of returns to agricultural research in India
have been based on aggregate production function analysis, usually involving
estimation of the change in output between two relevant periods not statis-
tically explained by conventional inputs such as water, fertilizer, or labor.
The most recent and complete study of this type (Punjab Agricultural University,
1977) compares data on 16 states before and after the Green Revolution. Re-
turns per rupee invested in research ranged from 5 to over 50 rupees, which,
with lags of between 5 and 7 years, yield internal rates of return of between
35% and 112%. At the All-India level, the same authors obtained a rate of
return of 72%. Methodological issues aside, all studies point to the un-
usually high payoff of applied agricultural research in developing countries.
Institutional Impact
5.05      The project is designed to achieve substantial indirect benefits
by improving the institutional channels responsible for assessing the need
for funding and implementing location-specific agricultural research. There-
by, in an important way, it supplements the reorganization of agricultural ex-
tension which IDA is supporting in six states, with projects in an additional
four states being appraised. At the state level, it would entail a systematic
reassessment of research priorities and organization by strengthening of SAU
and state extension department specialists. At the national level, it would
create in ICAR a permanent specialized mechanism for thorough preparation,
appraisal and supervision of regional research projects and special facilities
to provide technical assistance to less developed institutions.
Impact on State Government Funding of SAU
5.06      Sixty-seven percent or on average about Rs 20 M of the average SAU
annual budget of Rs 30 M (excluding internal income) is contributed by the
state government. About one third of the total budget, or Rs 10 M, is spent
on research. In the subproject proposals reviewed by the appraisal mission,
about 10% of total subproject cost would be borne by the state government and
the remainder by NARP. A total expected average commitment by NARP of Rs 50 M
per university would require an additional state contribution of Rs 5 million,
or one million annually during the project period (a 5% increase of the state
contribution). The effect is, in actual fact, likely to be considerably smaller
since the implementation will extend over more than five years. The NARP
assistance would tend to increase the average university research budget for
the five year period from Rs 50 M to Rs 83 M, or by 60%.
5.07      At the completion of the subproject, the state government, accord-
ing to the terms and conditions guiding NARP (para 3.14 and Annex 1), will be
obliged to continue paying the salaries and operating costs of incremental
staff and maintain and replace equipment and civil works financed under the



- 29 -
subproject. In the subproject proposals reviewed by the appraisal mission,
this annual commitment at the end of the subproject will amount to 10% of
total project cost. If the commitment during the current Plan (1978-83 =
project period) is Rs 50 M per university this means that the state govern-
ment will, during the subsequent Plan, gradually need to increase its annual
contribution to the university and that the increase by the end of the
subsequent Plan in constant terms will amount to Rs 5 M (25% above present
average level of funding). In determining the allocation to a particular
university, the PFC will clearly need to keep in mind the ability of the
state to continue financing research at the suggested level.
Project Risks
5.08      The most serious risk in an agricultural research project is that
research results are not responsive to farmers' needs or, if appropriate,
are not adequately relayed to farmers. However, this project has been spe-
cifically designed to ensure that zonal research programs would be based
on local needs, monitored in terms of usefulness and acceptability to farmers
and corrected regularly in the light of field testing on farmers' fields in
constant liaison with extension services. The ability of Indian farmers to
adopt and even improve new technologies when these are shown to involve a
clear and dependable economic advantage is now beyond dispute.
5.09      Although there is no foreseeable shortage of highly trained agri-
cultural research scientists and technicians in India as a whole, SAU cur-
rently experience difficulties in attracting talented personnel to remote
stations since they are not able to offer sufficiently attractive benefit
packages for such posts. Under NARP subprojects, this handicap would be re-
duced by providing senior staff with adequate housing and transport facilities
as a matter of priority, and research buildings, equipment, and operating
materials of a high standard. ICAR would also place reasonable restrictions
on internal and interstate transfers to ensure continuity in key posts
(para 4.07). Under these circumstances, the risk of incurring some delay
in subproject implementation is judged acceptable.
5.10      The number of universities admitted and subprojects submitted could
fall below the expectations (para 3.08 and Annex 2, T-4) but this can be
partly influenced by ICAR and remedial steps planned in connection with the
annual review of the Project Unit work program (para 3.08).
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      At negotiations, assurances obtained from GOI and ICAR included that:
(a) Preparation reports for the subprojects concerning the IARI
and the ICAR Central Staff College for Agriculture would be
submitted for IDA appraisal on or before March 31, 1979 (para
3.10);



- 30 -
(b) Subprojects, the completion of which extend beyond March 31,
1983, would continue to rective adequate support during the
subsequent Plan (1983-88) (para 3.14) to allow execution in
accordance with the originally approved schedule;
(c) ICAR annual budget allocations would include sufficient pro-
vision for already approved subprojects and of subprojects
expected to be approved during the year (para 3.14);
(d) Grants to the SAU would be based on the terms and conditions
given in Annex 1 (para 3.14);
(e) GOI, through ICAR, would cause SAU to maintain separate accounts
for each subproject and keep records not only of expenditures
submitted to ICAR for reimbursement, but also of the university's
agreed contributions (para 3.19);
(f) GOI, through ICAR, would cause SAU to submit to ICAR a grant
utilization certificate prepared by independent auditors
acceptable to PFC for each subproject within nine months of
the end of the financial year as a condition of continued
support of the subproject (para 3.19);
(g) ICAR would maintain separate accounts for project expenditures
on each component and subproject (para 3.19);
(h) ICAR would submit annual accounts and audit reports to IDA
within nine months from the end of each financial year
(para 3.19);
(i) Subprojects would be sent to IDA for review with the recom-
mendations of ISP and the Project Administrator, but before
final approval by PFC in cases where the total cost estimates
exceed Rs 12 M (US$1.4 M). The aim would be for IDA to review
about 20% of all subprojects (para 4.19);
(j) ICAR would arrange for annual on-site supervision visits to
each participating SAU and all subproject sites (para 4.20);
(k) ICAR would submit to IDA six-monthly and annual reports on
the physical implementation of approved subprojects and the
decisions of PFC, and on or before March 31, 1984, the Project
Completion Report (para 4.20);
(1) ICAR recommendations concerning master plan, final design
drawings, initial cost estimates, and proposed construction
supervision arrangements would be submitted to IDA for ex ante
approval in case of the first five subprojects having a civil
works component (excluding housing), estimated to cost more
than US$200,000 (para 4.21). This review of large civil
works components of subprojects is independent of the overall
examination of 20% of all subprojects referred to in (i) above.



- 31 -
(m) A skeleton staff of 2 Project Coordinators, the Deputy
Coordinator, 2 Agricultural Scientists, the Architect
and one Accounts Officer would be appointed to PU not
later than January 31, 1979 (para 4.23).
6.02      With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable
for a sector credit of US$27.0 M on standard IDA terms.
September 21, 1978






- 33 -                            ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Terms and Conditions for Administration of NARP
1.        Eligibility of SAU for participation
All SAU would be eligible to receive support from the National
Agricultural Research Project provided that, to the satisfaction of the
PFC, they:
(a) Complied with GOI/ICAR standards regarding salaries,
recruitment and administrative procedures;
(b) Produced a background paper conforming with the model
outline (Project File, item 2) and containing a critical
analysis of SAU and its research responsibilities;
(c) Possessed, or were willing to recruit, adequately exper-
ienced staff and were willing to establish adequate
mechanisms for research administration;
(d) Established satisfactory linkages to the state extension
services; and
(e) Agreed to participate in a review of the research effort in
the SAU service area.
2.        Criteria for approval of research subprojects:
The PFC decision would be guided by:
(a) The importance of the proposed station/basic research
topic for the agricultural development of the state;
(b) The research program of the station being geared to
problems of high priority (major crops, major constraints)
in the zone;
(c) The research program being of such a nature that it can
be suitably handled at the station in question (not
requiring massive resources and elaborate equipment at a
zonal main station or substation or being of national
importance);



- 34 -                               ANNEX 1
Page 2
(d)  The research at zonal main stations and substations being
of applied nature and likely to yield results within a
five year period.
(e)  The research being original and not involving unnecessary
duplication of other work (completed, existing or planned)
either within the zone or in similar agro-ecological sit-
uations in other states or countries;
(f)  The research program being within the capacity of the SAU
to implement (given the competence of existing staff and
existing commitments) and requested resources being adequate
for effective execution;
(g)  The research program being responsive to the main objectives
of NARP and giving particular emphasis to research on food-
grains, oilseeds and pulses grown under rainfed farming
conditions; and
(h)  The arrangement of linkages to the extension service being
adequate.
3.        Eligible expenditures
NARP would for a period of at most five years finance on a grant
basis the following expenditures under approved subprojects:
(a)  Incremental Staff:  The full salary and applicable allowances
for the additional scientific and supporting staff specified
in the subproject, based on current pay scales. Applicable
allowances will include dearness allowance, contributory pro-
vident fund contributions (subject to the provision of
Article 11 of "Terms and Conditions Governing Grants-in-Aid
from the Council") and the housing allowance sanctioned by the
SAU for all staff at the relevant duty station. However, no
housing allowance will be financed for such staff if they are
provided with housing by the university.
(b)  Research Operating Funds:  A lump sum allowance, determined on
the basis of the number of scientific staff required under the
subproject, to be allocated by the officer-in-charge of the
subproject to cover:
-    running costs of vehicles used by research staff;
-    other travel expenses;
laboratory and office supplies;
temporary labor and inputs required for field experiments,
in excess of "normal" or "commercial" cultivation costs
(see 4(b) below).



ANNEX 1
- 35 -                            Page 3
This lump sum will normally be applied only to the incremental
scientific staff referred to in (a) above, but in special circum-
stances existing staff may be granted the difference between their
present allocation and the approved lump sum per scientist.
(c) Equipment: The cost of basic scientific, office and farm
equipment (Rs 5,000 and above) on the basis of an approved
list.  In addition, a lump sum (not to exceed 25% of basic
equipment) may be provided for minor items (below Rs 5,000)
and for supplementing the basic equipment. Where only a
relatively small sum is spent on major items, a comprehensive
list of all equipment may be provided. Purchase of items
costing over Rs 5,000 from the supplementary list will require
prior ICAR approval as will any change in the basic equipment
list.
(d) Civil Works: The cost of laboratory and office space and
related fixtures, housing, and farm development on the basis
of the approved civil works program. Land development may
cover minor farm structures, roads, land shaping, fencing,
and supplementary irrigation works in accordance with the
long term needs of the station, provided a major part of the
farm is set aside for research on rainfed farming. Housing
will be provided for staff who need to live on the station
and for other staff on the basis of an analysis of accommoda-
tion available in neighboring towns, rents asked and commuting
required. If proposed housing exceeds the proportion provided
at existing zonal stations, the evidence presented must be con-
clusive. Housing would be provided in accordance with either
university standards or those of the relevant state government
depending on which result in lower costs. The design of build-
ings should be guided by the observations in item 7 of the
Project File.
(e) Training: Cost of organizing workshops for extension and
research staff and for providing non-degree training for SAU
research staff at advanced centers of research in India and
at the ICAR Central Staff College for Agriculture.
4.        Costs to be defrayed by the university
The following costs will form part of the subproject submitted to
ICAR and of the budget-allocated to the officer-in-charge of the subproject,
but will be met 100% by the university/state:
(a) Acquisition of additional farm land for research purposes;
(b) Normal or commercial costs of cultivation for the research
farm, including land preparation, estimated on the basis of
the expected cropping pattern. The university/state will,
on the other hand, retain the gross income from the farm.



- 36 -
ANNEX 1
Page 4
(c) Building maintenance and security, utilities, and similar
station overhead costs.
At the end of the project period (5 years) the university/state
would also be responsible for the cost of:
(a) Incremental staff;
(b) Research operating funds;
(c) Maintenance and replacement of equipment (10%); and
(d)  Maintenance of completed civil works (1-1/2%).
5.        Price Escalation
Resource requirements for each category of expenditure (university
and NARP-supported) should be calculated on the latest available salary
scales, unit costs and catalogue prices, and phased over the life of the
project depending on the expected timing of construction, recruitment and pur-
chasing. The base cost for any financial year so obtained should be
adjusted by using an appropriate price escalation factor (usually between
5 and 10% compounded annually depending on local circumstances). Civil works
base estimates may include physical contingencies of about 10%. The adjusted
costs for a given period will become the basis for the approved budget
allocation under each head.
6.        Accounting, Disbursement and Audit
(a) The university will maintain separate accounts for each sub-
project and each head of expenditure (NARP and university)
under the subproject.
(b) For each subproject the university will submit (with its
progress report; see para 9 below) to ICAR every six
months a budget request including:
(i)  the estimated requirements under each of the above
heads of expenditure for the succeeding six months;
(ii)  a duly authorized certificate of expenditure showing
amounts spent to date and available balances under
each head from previous advances; and
(iii)  the additional advances required.
(c) Savings under one head of expenditure may not be reallocated
to supplement other heads of expenditures without ICAR's
prior approval.



37                                 ANNEX 1
Page 5
(d) ICAR may reasonably determine that completion of certain
transactions by the university, such as acquisition of
land, be an additional condition of disbursement against
civil works expenditure.
(e) Independent SAU auditors acceptable to PFC, within nine
months of the end of the financial year, will submit to
ICAR an audit report for each subproject (or Grant
Utilization Certificate) covering all heads of expendi-
ture (ICAR and university financed) for the preceding
financial year.  This would be a condition for continued
NARP support of the subproject in question. In addition,
ICAR reserves the right to carry out an independent audit
of subproject accounts and have reasonable access to
university property and records for this purpose.
(f) The project period may, in exceptional cases, be extended to
allow completion of civil works and equipment procurement.
Possible savings on scientific staff and operating funds
would be cancelled at the end of the project period.
7.        Procurement
Procurement of civil works and equipment would follow standard
university procedures as reviewed and approved by PFC (para 1 above) and
be subject to the following:
(a) ICAR approval of master plan for each research
station subproject;
(b) ICAR specialist consultants preparing detailed
architectural brief for all laboratory buildings;
(c) For subprojects where the construction work, excluding
housing, is estimated to cost more than Rs 400,000, ICAR
approval of:
(i) the nomination of the architects;
(ii) final design drawings and cost estimates;
(iii) list of proposed prequalified contractors;
(iv) bid evaluation and proposed contract awards; and
(v) proposed construction supervision arrangement.
(d) In case of equipment costing more than Rs 50,000, ICAR
approval of awards to other than the lowest bidder.



- 38 -                              ANNEX 1
Page 6
8.        Recruitment
(a) The university will recruit subproject staff according
to its own procedures which will have been approved by
ICAR as a condition of the university's eligibility;
(b) In the case of senior staff, and specifically the officer-
in-charge of a subproject, the SAU would invite an ICAR
representative to serve on the Selection Committee;
(c) Scientific and senior administrative staff recruited under
the subproject would be required to sign a commitment not
to apply for or accept another position for at least two
years, and the university agrees not to transfer staff
during the operation of the subproject.
9.        Reporting requirements
The university will submit to ICAR the following progress reports:
(a) A six-monthly progress report, attached to the request for
funds, described in para 6(b), containing details of
physical implementation, recruitment, etc. to date in
accordance with proforma provided in the Project File,
item 11.
(b) A seasonal summary of research results would be prepared
for each subproject;
(c) A completion report at the end of the project examining the
scientific results obtained in relation to the research
objectives that were established at the outset.
The six-monthly reports should normally reach ICAR by March and September of
each year, seasonal summaries of research results by February and August and
the completion report by twelve months after the approved closing date.
10.       Remedies of the ICAR
The ICAR may, at its discretion and after due notification to the
university, discontinue advances under any or all heads of expenditure for a
subproject, and if necessary deduct from available balances under other sub-
projects financed by it, if it reasonably considers that the university, in
incurring expenditure, has seriously breached the guidelines contained above.
Specific circumstances which could justify such action include failure on the
part of the university to submit satisfactory expenditure statements or audit
certificates, improper procurement practiccs, failure to obtain ICAR approval
for reallocation of funds or changes in specifications, failure to implement
the research program, etc. Should such cases come to the notice of ICAR, the
university will be given reasonable opportunity to rectify the situation.



39                             ANNEX 2
T-1
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
List of Agricultural Universities in India
1.   Govind Ballabh Pant University of Agriculture and Technology,
Pantnagar (U.P.)
2.   Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana (Punjab)
3.   University of Udaipur, Udaipur (Rajasthan)
4.   Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology, Bhubaneswar
(Orissa)
5.   Andhra Pradesh Agricultural University, Hyderabad (A.P.)
6.   University of Agricultural Sciences, Bangalore-24 (Karnataka)
7.   Jawaharlal Nehru Krishi Vishwa Vidyalaya, Jabalpur (M.P.)
8.   Bidhan Chandra Krishi Vishwa Vidyalaya, Haringhata, Kalyani
(West Bengal)
9.   Konkan Krishi Vidyapeeth, Dapoli (Maharashtra)
10. Mahatam Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri (Maharashtra)
11. Punjabrao Krishi Vidyapeeth, Akola (Maharashtra)
12. Assam Agricultural University, Jorhat-4 (Assam)
13. Haryana Agricultural University, Hissar (Haryana)
14. Rajendra Agricultural University, Pusa (Bihar)
15. Kerala Agricultural University, Mannuthy (Kerala)
16. Himachal Pradesh University, Agricultural Complex Simla (H.P.)
17. Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore (Tamil Nadu)
18. Marathwada Krishi Vidyapeeth, Parbhani (Maharashtra)
19. Gujarat Agricultural University, Ahmedabad-4 (Gujarat)
20. Chander Shekar Azad University of Agriculture and Technology,
Kanpur (U.P.)
21. Narendra Deva Avam Prodyogik Vishwa Vidyalaya, Faizabad (U.P.)



- 40 -                            ANNEX 2
T-2
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
List of the ICAR Institutes
1.   Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Delhi
2.   National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal
3.   Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar, Uttar Pradesh
4.   Central Rice Research Institute, Cuttack
5.   Jute Agricultural Research Institute, Barrackpore
6.   Jute Technological Research Laboratory, Calcutta
7.   Central Institute of Cotton Research, Nagpur
8.   Cotton Technological Research Laboratory, Bombay
9.   Central Tobacco Research Institute, Rajahmundry
10. Central Plantation Crops Research Institute, Kasargod, Kerala
11. Central Tuber Crops Research Institute, Trivandum
12. Central Potato Research Institute, Simla
13. Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Bangalore
14. Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Coimbatore
15. Indian Institute of Sugarcane Research, Lucknow
16. Central Arid Zone Research Institute, Jodhpur
17. Central Soil Salinity Research Institute, Karnal
18. Central Soil and Water Conservation Research and Training
Institute, Dehradun
19. National Bureau of Soil Survey and Land Use Planning, Nagpur
20. Central Institute of Agricultural Engineering, Bhopal
21. National Bureau of Plant Introduction, Delhi
22. Central Sheep and Wool Research Institute, Avikanagar
23. Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute, Barrackpore
24. Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute, Cochin
25. Central Institute of Fisheries Technology, Cochin
26. Indian Grassland and Fodder Research Institute, Jhansi
27. Institute of Agricultural Research Statistics, Delhi
28. Vivekananda Parvitheya Anusandhan Shala, Almora
29. Indian Lac Research Institute, Ranchi
30. Central Staff College for Agriculture, Hyderabad
PROJECT DIRECTORATES
1.   Dryland Research Project, Hyderabad
2.   North East Himalayan ICAR Research Complex, Shillong
3.   Oil Seeds Research Project Directorate, Hyderabad
4.   Pulse Research Project Directorate, Kanpur



ANNEX 2
- 41 -                             T-3
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
List of All-India Coordinated Research Projects
*   (i)   FOOD CROPS:
1.   Rice
2.   Wheat
3.   Barley
4.   Maize
5.   Sorghum
6.   Millets
7.   Pulses
8.   Forage Crops
(ii)      COMMERCIAL CROPS:
1.   Sugarcane
2.   Sugarbeet
3.   Cotton
4.   Jute
5.   Oil seeds
6.   Soybean
7.   Tobacco
(iii)     HORTICULTURAL CROPS:
1.   Fruits
2.   Tuber crops
3.   Potato
4.   Vegetables
5.   Medicinal and aromatic plants
6.   Floriculture
7.   Spices and cashew nut
8.   Coconut and areca nut
(iv)      SOILS, AGRONOMY AND AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING
1.   Water management and soil salinity and new cropping pattern
2.   Use of saline water
3.   Water management in high rainfall areas and temperate
hill zones
4.   Correlation of soil test with crop responses
5.   Micronutrient research
6.   Measurement evaluation and improvement of soil structure



- 42 -                            ANNEX 2
T-3
Page 2
7.   Microbiological decomposition and recycling urban and rural
wastes
8.   Dry farming research
9.   Agronomic research
10. Operational research (including national demonstration
and integrated pest control project)
11. Research and development of farm machinery, implements,
production of prototypes and their evaluation
12. Optimization of ground water utilization through open
wells and pumps
13. Energy requirements in I.A.P. Programme
14. Post harvest technology
(v)       ALL INDIA COORDINATED RESEARCH PROJECTS (ANIMAL SCIENCES)
1.   Cattle breeding
2.   Buffalo breeding
3.   Sheep breeding
4.   Poultry breeding
5.   Goat breeding
6.   Pig breeding
7.   Agricultural by-products and industrial waste materials
8.   Specialized dairy farming (economics of milk production
under intensive dairy farming conditions)
9.   Epidemiological studies on foot and mouth disease.
(vi)      ALL INDIA COORDINATED RESEARCH PROJECTS (FISHERIES)
1.   Composite culture of Indian and exotic fisheries and
riverine fish seed production
2.   Propagation of air-breathing fishes in swamps
3.   Ecology and fisheries of fresh water reservoirs
4.   Utilization of trash fish and transportation of fresh fish
5.   Brackish water fish farming



INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Estimate of Fund Diabursements 1978-83
GOI Fiscal                                              Total                                                   Total
1978/9     1979/80      80/81     81/82     82/83  Current Plan    83/84       81/85      85/86     86/87 Subseoueat Plan
Applicant Universities (No.)                         3          4           5         2         1          15
Eligible for Phase II                                -          3           4         5        2           14
Phase I Research Subprojects Begin (No.)             6          8          10         4         2          30          (Commitment authority expires, disbursements continue)
Phase II a!                                                     3           7         9         7          26
IOTAL                                        6          11         17         13        9           56
Administrative Subprojects                           3          4           5         2         1          15
- -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  Rs   M    -   -   -   -   -   -    -  -     -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -  _
NARP Comaitmentst/                                  78.0      141.5       217.5     164.5    t13.5        715.0          -         -          -          -
NARP Disbursementstv
On Subprojects committed in 78/9                  8.10      15.60       23,10     23.10      8.10       78.0          -         _          _          _          -
79180               -          14.55      28.30      42.05    42.05       126.95      14.55        -          -         -           14.55            4
80/81               -           -         22.25      43.50    64.75       130.50      64.75      22.25        -         -           87.00
81/82                -          -           -        16.65    32.90        49.55      49.15      49.15      16.65       -          114.95
82/83               -           -           -         -       11.45        11.45      22.70      33.95     33.95      11.45        102.05
TOTAL                                        8.10       30.15      73.65    125.30   159.25        396.45     151.15    105.35       50.60     11.45        318.55
ICAR Disbursement                                     .94       3.51        8.56     14.57    18.52        46.10       17.58     12.25       5.88      1,33         37.04
IDA Disbursement                                      .47       1.75        4.28      7.29      9.26       23.05         -         -          -          -          -
a/  The assumption ts that each University begins half Qf its pbase 2 prgJects in the year of the review, half the year after.
b/ At Rs 12.5M per research subproject on average and Rs 1M per administrative subproject.
c/ Estimated rate (based on subproject illustrations): 10%-20%-30%-30%/-107 (research) 20:20:20:20:20 (administrative)



ANNEX 2
-44 -                            T-5
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Estimated IDA Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year and Semester            Cumulative Disbursements (US$M)
1979           lsta/                                  -
2nd-                                  0.9
1980          1st                                    2.1
2nd                                   3.8
1981           1st                                   6.1
2nd                                   9.2
1982           1st                                  13.1
2nd                                  17.5
1983           lstb/                                22.3
2nd-                                 27.0
a/ Estimated effectiveness date Jan. 1, 1979
b/ Estimated closing date March 31, 1983



- 45 -                             ANNEX 2
T-6
Page 1
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Composition of the Inter-disciplinary Scientific Panel
1.   Dr. T. R. Mehta,                                      Chairman
Advisor,
Rajendra Agricultural University,
Patna
2.   Dr. D.N. Borthakur,                                   Member
Director,
ICAR Research Complex for
North-Eastern Hill Region,
Shillong
3.   Dr. B. P. Ghildyal,                                   Member
Dean,
G. B. Pant University of
Agriculture and Technology,
Pantnagar
4.   Dr. Ch. Krishnamurthy,                                Member
Project Director,
All-India Coordinated Research
Project for Dryland Agriculture,
Hyderabad
5.   Dr. N. S. Randhawa,                                   Member
Addl. Director,
Punjab Agricultural University,
Ludhiana
6.   Dr. S. K. Banerjee,                                   Member
Plant Protection Advisor,
Government of India,
New Delhi
7.   Dr. H. K. Saxena,                                     Member
Professor and Head of Deaprtment of
Entomology
Chander Shekar Azad University of
Agriculture and Technology
Kanpur



ANNEX 2
- 46 -                       T-6
Page 2
8.   Dr. B. S. Pathak,                                       Member
Dean,
College of Engineering,
Punjab Agricultural University,
Ludhiana
9.   Dr. V. N. Madhava Rao,                                  Member
Dean,
Tamil Nadu Agricultural University,
Coimbatore
10.  Dr. S. C. Choudhary                                     Member
Ex Additional Secretary
Department of Statistics
Cabinet Secretariat
New Delhi
11.  Dr. C. B. Shah,                                         Member
Director of Research
Gujarat Agricultural University,
Ahmedabad
12.  Dr. K. K. Iya,                                          Member
645, West of Chord,
Stage II, Rajajinagar,
Bangalore - 560010
13.  Dr. 0. P. Gautam,                                      Member
Dean,
College of Veterinary Sciences,
Haryana Agricultural University,
Hissar
14.  Dr. V. R. P. Sinha                                     Member
Project Coordinator (Fisheries)
Officer-in-Charge,
Freshwater Aquaculture Research
and Training Centre,
Dhauli of CIFTI, 624, Saheed Nagar,
Bhubaneswar
15.  Dy. Director General (E)                                Member
16.  Dy. Director General (AS)                               Member
17.  Dy. Director General (CS)                               Member
18.  Dy. Director General (S)                                Member
19.  Member Secretary



-47 -                           ANNEX 2
T-7
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH{ PROJECT
Composition of Project Funding Committee
1.   Director-General, ICAR                           Chairman
2.   Two Vice Chancellors                            Members
State Agricultural Universities
3.   Agricultural Commissioner                       Member
Department of Agriculture,
Ministry of Agriculture & Irrigation,
Government of India, New Delhi
4.   Chief (Agriculture), Planning                   Member
Commission, New Delhi
5.   Deputy Director-General (Education)
I.C.A.R. (Project Adminstrator)                 Member/Secretary



- 48 -                      ANNEX 2
T-8
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
ICAR Administration Cost Summary
…_______--- Rs '000 ---------… --
Project Year:      1       2        3       4        5       Total
ICAR Staff and Travel Expenses   173       523      691     828      900      3,115
Consultant Fees & Expenses         142     247      379     341      313      1,422
Vehicles and Equipment             100     250       93      -        -         443
Office Rental                      125     250      250     250      250      1,125
Other Operating Costs              100     200      300     300      300      1,200
Subtotal                    640   1,470   1,713   1,719   1,763         7,305
Price Contingencies a/              22     148      287     409      550      1,416
(19%)
TOTAL                       662   1,618   2,000   2,128   2,313         8,721
…---------Us$ '000…
77     188      232     247     269       1,013
a/ 7% calendar 1978, 6.5% calendar 1979, 6% thereafter. Factors calculated
on subtotals by compounding half the increase in a given year with the
full increases in previous years.



ANNEX 2
c-1
49
UNIVERSITY RESEARCH ORGANIZATION
An example:
B}   ------ Vice Chancellor
Director of Research
I~ _ 
Planning and               Administration              Evaluation and
Monitoring                                              Publication
I                                    I1
Campus and                           Main Station
Main Station                           Zone B
Zone A
Dean
I                                    I
- _.Associate Director                - _ Associate Director
I
Dprmnt Heads_ -  -  -  -  -  -  -l
Coordinator Rice ---n--             L eadnfunc       ---_---           Verification
Coordinator Wheat-----             Verification ----- -               - Lead function
Coordinator Pulses          ---------- - -  - Verification
Coordinator Rainfed farming- -  -Verification  ------                    Verification
Coordinator Irrigated farming- - - Lead function
II
Substations for                      Substations for
Verification                         Verification
World Bank - 19011



ANNEX 2
50                                                     C-2
ICAR PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
Director General (x)   -__       hairman                 Project Funding
Committee
II .                                     -(GO/DA)
! ~~~~~~~~~~~~- -- --|- -- -- - -- - -  - -  --S-- -- ------ -, -----
Project Unit
Scientific Panel  ~Project                         1
Scientific Panel                      ,      Administrator (x)
| Deputy Coordinator/ |              CooProject Coordinator 2
Controller (x)
- Architect                       - 4 Project Officers            - 4 Project Officers
- Engineer                        - 9 Support Staff               - 9 Support Staff
- Accountant
- Auditor
- Procurement Officer
- 14 Support Staff (5x)
(x) Existing posts                                                              World Bank - 19012



-51 -                              AANNEX 3
INDIA
NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Material Available in the Project File
1.   Details on the State Agricultural Universities of India
2.   Outline of University Background Paper
3.   Research Subproject:  Main Station Bijapur, Karnataka
4.   Research Subproject:  Main Station Tirupati, Andhra Pradesh
5.   Research Subproject:  Substation Bawal, Haryana
6.   Research Subproject:  Weed Control Research, Haryana
7.   Research Subproject:  Brief Notes on Design and Planning of
Research Stations
8.   Proforma for PFC Eligibility Review
9.   Administrative Subproject:  Haryana Agricultural University
10. Proforma for State Government and SAU Acceptance of NARP Grant
11. Proforma for Six-Monthly SAU Report to ICAR on Physical Progress
12. Proforma for Six-Monthly and Annual ICAR Report to IDA on Physical
Progress
13.  Research Subprojects:  Development Master Plan for Civil Works
14.  Research Subprojects:  Architectural Brief and Room Data Sheet
15. The ICAR Project Unit






_,<S.s FLr,J 70D i U.S.S.Rf ,>>_) goo 90° ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBRD 13650
'  , '  \                                              ~~~~~~NATIONAL AGRICUlTURAl RESEARCH PROJECT
Y ;-- \ v >n P ~~~~~~~~~~~~Agricultural Universities and Reseaciri Institutes
rI'                 Approximaf LIn. Ofotro
AFGHANISTAN z   1o   /                J                                            Z    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AG R ICULTU RAL UN IVERSITI ES
t t .:: sA,X!0i, and Kushrsair * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ICAR RESEIARCH INSTITUTES
\ , -              (         ~~~~~~C   H   I N    A                   a      UNIVERSITY CAMPUSES
[   s- x    *z_ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l                                       *~~~A    SUBPROJECT I LLLUSTRATIONS
t                     d      ,sFi,MAChAL"tt9                                                            STATE9OUND3AR IE3AND .AIES
<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ITI.T.A j L   EoltO   Miim
,,>   W  )  ,    <\                                 T       ~~~ ~~~~ ~~~~~100  200  3?00  4100
30-                                                                                                               0    I ?spB  ,*rxru 0o 200Mi 300  4100  500 r
P A  K  I S  T  A  N        j       -?FA         xf       PnNaO/<Klmtng
t ?  RAtSfi'i    MIpls             , XWa rg           Kapu         l 1N-9 D.1                             ;S A        ,8       ARUACHAL
UTTA  IR /9ESS  </
r-~~    ~~~                                                                                             SIKr~      BHUT,rR       ao  <AN PU
.               ,         <.    ' ,r _ P a NW-               KG-Uabvl    F.           anc    ~                             b AS AM 7LAAM
/    OAhamd      >~        DlndpG       ssADFiYA   PRADESH                 4     l2                      J        l             x
X2Janqllrh  7  H  \ 7   < ~~~~>_  1          g                     <        ^                    '\ ~B U  R  ME A
< t >e E I Dhu~~~~~~~~l                             e      l   u t RaD O R I SS A,
f   *u          0          )_           2< PR7DcSH
gmbv~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bno PANDAMAN p<  1
a  M.A[44RaSt-I-RA  '   R (   )    /            '                                                  X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SLND
A    lPn            ,aN'a                           (,,, '0
Z,w ,      , f                                        RAE5
db~~~ Mx;Ba t   BepVW;+S"
W.mO0nOr                                                       SRg         A                                                                             ISLANDS



