CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 855 IN
Project Agreement
(National Agricultural Research Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INDIAN COUNCIL OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
Dated December 7, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER' 855 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 7, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
INDIAN COUNCIL OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (hereinafter called ICAR).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty seven million dollars
($27,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that ICAR
agee to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are
he..einafter set forth; and
WHEREAS ICAR, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) ICAR shall carry out the Project described
in the Schedule to the Development Credit Agreement with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural research
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation on the generality of Section 2.01
(a), ICAR shall ensure that its annual budgeting request for


﻿- 2 -
funds includes adequate provision for Sub-projects expected to
be approved by it during the relevant year.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) ICAR undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, any imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transpor-
tation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installa-
tion, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by ICAR to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, ICAR
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) ICAR shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) ICAR: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and the benefits, where appropriate, to be derived from it),
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between ICAR and


﻿-3-
the Association, ICAR shall prepare and furnish to the Associa-
tion a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by ICAR and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Credit
Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 2.05. (a) ICAR shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
(b) ICAR shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by ICAR of its obligations under
this Agreement.
Section 2.06. In order to carry out Part C of the Project,
ICAR shall furnish, by March 31, 1979, proposals for two Sub-
projects for review by the Association.
Section 2.07. (a) ICAR shall establish and maintain PFC
to carry out the functions specified in Section 2.08 of the
Project Agreement.
(b) Unless the Association and ICAR shall otherwise agree,
PFC shall consist of the following members:
(i) the Director General of ICAR, who shall serve
as Chairman of PFC;
(ii) the Borrower's Agricultural Commissioner;
(iii) the Advisor/Chief of Agriculture from the
Borrower's Planning Commission;
(iv) not exceeding two SAU Vice-Chancellors dosignated
by ICAR;
(v) the Member, Finance of the Governing Body of
ICAR; and
(vi) the Project Administrator appointed by ICAR under
Section 2.13 (b) of the Project Agreement.


﻿Section 2.08. ICAR shall cause PFC to:
(a) apply criteria acceptable to the Association in PFC's
appraisal of: (i) a SAU's eligibility to participate in a Sub-
project; and (ii) a Sub-project to be financed under the Project;
and
(b) approve a grant to finance a Sub-project on terms
and conditions consistent with the Development Credit Agreement
and the Project Agreement, and acceptable to the Association.
Section 2.09. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
ICAR shall furnish each Sub-project estimated to cost in excess of
the equivalent of $1,400,000, together with the views of its
Interdisciplinary Scientific Panel, for review by the Association
before such Sub-project is approved by PFC.
Section 2.10. ICAR shall, in respect of each of the first
five Sub-projects having civil works (excluding housing) in excess
of $200,000, furnish its recommendations on the civil works to the
Association for comments by the Association with respect to the
following features:
(a) proposed master plan;
(b) proposed final design drawings and initial cost esti-
mates; and
(c) proposed construction supervision arrangements.
Section 2.11. ICAR shall ensure that each Sub-project
is reviewed on site at least once a year and completed in accor-
dance with an implementation schedule approved by ICAR.
Section 2.12. ICAR shall promptly prepare (i) an annual
report, and (ii) a six-month report covering the physical pro-
gress of Sub-projects in accordance with a proforma mutually
agreed between the Association and ICAR, and furnish the said
reports to the Association as soon as they are available.
Section 2.13. (a) ICAR shall establish and maintain PU
through which ICAR shall carry out its obligations under the
Project Agreement, including the provision of secretariat and
other services to PFC in order to assist PFC to carry out PFC's
functions.


﻿-5-
(b) Unless the Association and ICAR shall otherwise agree,
PU shall include the following staff:
(i) a Project Administrator who shall be ICAR's Deputy
Director General (Education) and who shall be
the head of PU;
(ii) two project coordinators;
(iii) one deputy coordinator;
(iv) two agricultural scientists;
(v) one architect; and
(vi) one accounts officer.
(c) The staff enumerated in Section 2.13 (b) (ii) to (vi)
above shall be appointed by not later than January 31, 1979 or
such later date as the Association and ICAR may agree.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ICAR
Section 3.01. ICAR shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ICAR shall in respect of the Project maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 4.02. ICAR shall: (i) have the accounts and financial
statements for each grant and categories of expenditures under
each grant, and statements of expenditures under Section 2.02 (d)
of the Development Credit Agreement, for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;


﻿-6-
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than nine months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of the financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning the said accounts and financial
statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. ICAR shall cause a SAU in receipt of a grant:
(a) to maintain separate accounts which would record in
respect of a project for which the said grant is made, amounts
receivable or received under the grant and also amounts contri-
buted or agreed to be contributed by the SAU for the said Sub-
project; and
(b) to furnish to ICAR a grant expenditure certificate
prepared by independent auditors acceptable to PFC, for each
Sub-project for each financial year, as soon as said grant expen-
diture certificate is available but not later than nine months
after the end of the SAU's financial year.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of ICAR thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph


﻿-7-
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
ICAR of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any suspension,
in whole or in part, or any cancellation in part, under the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For ICAR:
Indian Council of Agricultural Research
Krishi Bhawan
Dr. Rajendra Prasad Road
New Delhi 110001
Cable address:                     Telex:
AGRISEC                            ND 3701
New Delhi


﻿-8-
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of ICAR may be taken or executed by
the Secretary of ICAR or such other person or persons as he shall
designate in writing, and ICAR shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is! W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia
INDIAN COUNCIL OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
By Is! S. S. Dhanoa
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   Civil Works
Contracts for civil works shall be awarded on the basis
of local competitive bidding in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
B.   Equipment and Materials
Equipment and materials shall be procured in accordance
with the local competitive bidding and other procedures of
SAUs acceptable to the Association.


