Docunent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8069
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1279-PNG)
SEPTEMBER 19, 1989
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department V
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency UnAt - Kina (K)
1982 (Project Appraised):     Kl  =  US$1.48
1988 (Project Completed):     Kl =  US$0.86
ABBREVIATIONS
BCF   - billion cubic feet
bbl   - billion barrels
DME   -  Department of Mineral and Energy
ESMAP -  Energy Sector Management Program
FDB   -  Flower Doery Pty. Ltd.
GOPNG - Government of Papua New Guinea
km    - Kilometers
mbbl  - million barrels
MCF   -  1000 cubic feet
OPEC  - Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PAB   -  Petroleum Advisory Board
PDL   -  Petroleum Development License
PPL   -  Petroleum Prospecting License
PRAG  -  Petroleum Resources Assessment Group
RRA   - Robertson Research Associates (Australia/UK)
TCF   - trillion cubic feet
WEC   - Worldwide Exploration Consultants (USA)



,Ot C.MML USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washngnto*r. DC 20433
USA
Office no Ogetcgv.CEEwQI
Opea4an £wAkuAsrnn
September 19, 1989
MEHORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Papua-New Guinea
Petroleum Exploration Technical Assistance Project
(Credit 1279-PNG)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on Papua-New Guinea - Petroleum Exploration Technical
Assistat.ce Project (Credit 1279-PNG)' prepared by the Asia Regional Office.
No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation Department
at this time.
Attachment
This documnent has a friete dist ibution and may be used by meipients only in the perfonnin=
of their official dutiesa Its contents may not otherwise be discbsed without World Bank authotition.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1279-PNG)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paae
Preface ........................................................... 
Basic Data Sheet .........................................                             ii
List  of Abbreviations ............. .....oo...............                            iv
I.    INTRODUCT0N. e* *-o ...                                          .ooo....        ............................ 1
Institutional Aspects .........   ..o.. ... ......     ...... .                  2
PNG's Petroleum Geology .....   * * * ...... . . ... .... . . . . . . .          2
Project Background........  . .......  . .... ... ....... . 3
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL .......                           5
Project Origin and Approach .......... o.................                        5
Project  Preparation, Appraisal and Negotiations.....                            5
III.         IMPLEMENTATION .......                               .............................. **..  8
Institutional Arrangements.....   ..o ............ o....                         8
Basin Studies.. ..........o..o......                    .......o.o.              9
Exploration Promotion...... ......... .............. ..                         11
Provision of Technical  Data Base  in PRAG....... .....                         12
Other Studies ... ooooo .............. o....................... o... o.         12
Extensions of Closing Date..........................                            13
Project Costs ...... ... o.... *6 *.o.**o*o.......                             ..................... 14
Procurement .... ooee# ..............................                           15
Disbursement ..... o.... o.......................... o ...... ..o .... o.       15
Performance of Consultants.... .....................                            15
IV.   PROJECT  RESULTSo.o...... o. ooo....oo........                     o......       15
Basin Studies ................ - o..o ... o  ........                           15
Exploration Promotion....... ... ooo..**&*.     . . . . . . . . . . . .         16
Evaluation of Potential  of Oil and Gas Discoveries..                           16
V.    INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND PERFOR.ANCE ....  ..... .                          17
Organization and Management...... . ..................                          17
Training .... ... oo ... o ... o.o.................. o.........                 18
Complianca with Credit Covenants.....................                           18
VI      BANK GROUP'S PERFORMANCEo*oooo.s o  ................. .                        18
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED....o...............                               18
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont.)
ANNEXES
1. DME's Petroleum Operations .......................                   20
2. PNG Petroleum Handbook ...........................                    21
3. Status of Professional Staff in PRAG/Petroleum...
Division .................................................. . 39
ATTACHMENT
1.  Comments from Co-financier ......... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  ....... .  41
MAP - IBRD 16390



EROECT COXMPLETION REPORT
PAPUA NEW GIn
PETROLE'UN EXPLORATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 1279-PNG)
PREFACE
1.        This Project Completion Report reviews the Petroleum
Exploration Technical Assistance Project in Papua New Guinea for
which an IDA Credit (Credit 1279-PNG) of SDR 2.7 million was
signed on November 5, 1982. Although the Original Closing Date
was December 31, 1986, it had to be extended by one year and half
(to June 30, 1988) to complete the ongoing and additional
activities.
2.        This report was prepared on the basis of the findings
of a mission that visited Papua New Guinea in October 1988, a
project completion report prepared by DME, and documents and
reports available in the project files.
3.        This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower and Cofinanciers for comments and they
are attached to the Report (Attachment 1).



- ii -
PROJBT COMPLETIQN RBT
PETROLEUM EXPLORATIO11 TECHNICAL ASSISTANC PROJECT
(CREDIT 1279-PNG)
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal                   Actual as % of
Expegtation    Aa        A aisal   timate
(US$ million)
Total Project Costs        5.6         n.a. (*)
Loan Amount                3.0          3.0
Cofinancing-Total          2.0          1.7              85
OPEC Fund             2.0           1.7             85
Date Physical Components  12/31/86   12/31/88           133
Completed
Economic Rate of Return   n.a.         n.a.               -
Institutional Performance          Satisfactory     Satisfactory
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(SDR million)
FY83    FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87   FY88  FY89
Appraisal Estimate   1.1      1.9     2.7       -        -      -      -
Actual               0.2      1.5     2.2     2.4      2.5    2.7    2.7
Actual as % of       18.2    78.9    81.5    88.9    92.6   99.2   100
Appraisal (%)
Date of Final Disbursement  12/30/88
PROJECT DATES
Original
_Plan       Revisions      Actual
First Mention in Files          -            -           05/00/80
Negotiations                                 -           05/00/82
Board Approval                  -            -           07/01/82
Signing (Credit Agreement Date)              -           11/05/82
Effectiveness                08/00/82        -           04/08/83
Closing Date                 12/31/86     12/31/87       06/30/88
(*) The Borrower did notprovide local costs. Total foreigncosts were
USS 4.6 million (92% of the appraised estimate (PARA 3.24)).



- lii -
STAFF INPUTS
(staff weeks)
FY81 .ua       a  UP8    zm ZFY8   F8 Y6Y87 FY88    Total
Identification/
Preparation    4.0   3.0                                            7.0
Appraisal              22.5                                          22.5
Negotiations            2.3   2.2                                     4.5
Loan operation   2.1   7.4   0.5                                     10.0
Supervision                   7.5  17.9   14.4  2.6  3.6  7.3        53.4
Completion Report                                              6.6   6.6
Project Administration        0.9   0.1               0.4             1.4
Cofinancing                                           0.3             0.3
Total            6.2  35.1  11.0  18.0   14.4  2.6  4.3  7.3 6.6  105.6
MISSION DATA
Date        No. of      Performance
lission           (Mo.  P. !   Prsons         Ratina        Trend
Pre-Appraisal           2/81            2            -
Appraisal               2/82            2            2              2
supervision I           2/84            3            1              1
Supervision II          9/84            4            1              1
Supervision III         5/85            3            1              1
Supervision IV          3/86            2            1              1
supervision V           8/86            2            1              1
Supervision VI          7/87            2            2              1
Supervision VII        11/87            2            2              2
Supervision VTII       10/88            1            2             2
Other Data
Borrower: Government of of Papua New Guinea (PNG)
Executing Agency: Petroleum Division, Department of Minerals and Energy
Follow-On Proj2cts: None



- iv -
PROJECT COMPLETION .REPORT
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PETROLUM  EXPLORATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJE
(CREDIT 1279-PNG)
HIGHLIGHTS
Project Objectives
1.       The project was the Bank Group's first lending operation
in the petroleum sector of Papua New Guinea (PNG). The primary
objectives of the project were: (a) to generate an integrated
picture of PNG's petroleum potential and identify new exploration
leads;  (b) to assemble past exploration data and organize a data
bank; (c) to srrengthen the capacity of the Government to offer
exploration acreage to international oil companies and to improve
the monitoring of company activities; and (d) to evaluate the
potential for commercial development of known gas reserves. The
project was specifically designed to include: (a) a geological and
geophysical reassessment; (b) strengthening of geological survey;
and (c) studies.
Proiect Implementation
2.       The project was implemented by the Petroleum Resources
Assessment Group (PRAG), now Petroleum Division, of the Department
of Minerals and Energy. A Project Manager provided professional
project management, while the administrative and financial aspects
of the project were managed by the Chief Geologist through the
officer in-charge of PRAG.
3.       Foreign consultants were engaged for carrying out a review
and interpretation of all existing open file geological and
geophysical data pertaining to hydrocarbon exploration in PNG and
preparing geological reports on its four main sedimentary basins,
namely: Papuan Basin, North New Guinea Basin, Cape Vogel Basin and
Bougainville Basin. The planned commencement and completion dates
for these studies were January 1, 1983 and January 1, 1985.
However, due to delays in obtaining the release of data and files,
insufficient staff support, and possibly due to underestimation of
the work involved, the studies could not be completed until
December 1988.
4.       The exploration promotion of PNG's sedimentary basins was
conducted in two stages involving: (a) full-fledged promotion
seminars, held in the second half of 1984, for the Papuan Basin,
which had by far the greatest potential and (b) mini-presentations,
in the second half of 1985, for Cape Vogel and Islands Basins,
which had limited potential. Both the promotions were undertaken
after the completion of the relevant studies.
5.       The acquisition of technical data commenced with the



project preparation in 1982 by the consultants. All data was
microfilmed, digitized, recatalogued, computerized and stored in
the PRAG building bv late 1985. Additional studies were undertaken
by consultants and PRAG staff both during project preparation and
project implementation. In September 1986, the Government
requested the extension of the Credit Closing Date by a year (from
December 31, 1986 to December 31, 1987) to complete ongoing and
additional studies and project activities. The Government also
requested another extension of the Credit Closing Date to June 30,
1988, which was agreed.
Zroject Results
6.       Through high quality analysis, integration and
interpretation of all available data, the basin studies provide a
very credible, and indeed the best possible, b4sis for exploration
promotion of PNG's sedimentary basins. The promotion of the Papi:an
Basin was highly successful, resulting in 15 bids on 14 blocks
totalling about US$30 million in work commitments over the first
two-year period. The exploration promotion of Cape Vogel and
Island Basins tresulted in 14 enquiries but no exploration contracts
have been signed so far. The exploration promotion of North Guinea
Basin could not be undertaken in this project. The consultants'
reevaluation of past gas discoveries was reviewed by the Bank Group
staff and discussed with the Government. None of these discoveries
appeared susceptible to commercial development. Based on
recommendations durizig project preparation, an institutional review
leading to reorganization and consolidation of DME's petroleum
responsibilities resulted in the creation of a Petroleum Division
within DME and training of national staff.
Conclusions and Lessons Learned
7.       The project revitalized exploration in PNG at a time when
international oil industry's interest in PNG's petroleum prospects
were flaF;ing. Its core component, the extensive work to improve
the organization and quality of geologic information on PNG's
sedimentary basins, has given PNG an excellent reputation as a
region which companies can explore efficiently.
8.       Significant lessons learned from the project include:  (a)
when technology transfer is a project objective, the constraints to
the availability and development of indigenous professional
manpower should be examined during project appraisal; (b)
exploration is the first phase of "prospecting to production"
sequence.  The second phlase involves commercial development of
discoveries. For efficient dove-tailing of the two phases, it is
desireable to identify the major issues of the development phase at
the outset of the exploration phase; (c) where the implementation
agency is still to be organized, the Borrower's interim
arrangements for keeping project accounts should be specified.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (CR. 1279-PNG)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     The project under review is the Bank Group's first lending operation
in the petroleum sector of Papua New Guinea (PNG). Petroleum products account
for about 90Z of the commercial energy consumption in the country, all of
which (about 5.1 mbbl in 1987) are imported as there is currently no domestic
source of supply. In 1932, when this project was appraised, petroleum
products import amounted to US$198 million, a three-fold increase since 1978,
largely due to increased mining operations and oil price escalation. As a
percentage of total imports it had increased from 7.5% in 1978 to about 19Z in
1982. Although the share of this import has since fallen to 11% (in 1987),
due to falling oil prices, it still affects significantly the overall balance
of payments (deficit increasing from US$0.2 million in 1986 to an estimated
US$90.7 million in 1988). While the hydrocarbon exploration in the country
has been oriented toward finding oil, so far all the discoveries, except for
Iagifu field, have been of gas and condensate, with total in-place reserves
estimated at 6-7 TCF natural gas and 35 mbbl condensate. The depressed market
for LNG an.. relatively small size of reserves has discouraged che development
of export-based projects for natural gas, and the remote location of the gas
finds, combined with the small size of domestic market (the country's total
consumption of petroleum products amounted to 5.1 mbbl in 1987, equivalent to
about 30 BCF natural gas), has constrained its development for local
consumption. The oil reserves of Iagifu field and its commerciality are beirg
evaluated. According to preliminary indications a recoverable reserve of
250-300 mbbl would establish the commerciality of this discovery based on
crude export. This venture would involve field development, construction of a
crude oil pipeline to the coast and an oil loading terminal at an estimated
cost of US$750 million. The base case for this development assumes a
conservative reserve estimate of 250 mbbl and current Bank oil price
forecasts. Under these assumptions it could produce a peak year direct state
revenue of US$250 million and a lifetime (10 years) revenue of US$1,500
million. With a GDP of about US$2.5 billion, export earnings of about US$1.2
billion and. central government receipts of US$705 million (all 1987 figures),
even a single commercially exploitable discovery of 300 mbbl oil would make a
substantial contribution to the government revenue and to the economy in
general.



- 2. -
Institutional Aspects.
1.02     The broad responsibility for the assessment and development of PNG's
energy and mineral (including :iydrocarbons) resources is vested with the
Department of Minerals and Energy (DME), which is equivalent to a Ministry in
some other countries. It is organized in four sub-departments namely, Mineral
and Energy Policy, Geological Survey, Mines, and Finance and Administ,ative
Services. DME is headed by a Secretary who reports to the Minister. Each
sub-department is supervised by an Assistant Secretary. Petroleum exploration
is controlled and monitored by the Petroleum Division, which is one of the
four divisions in the Geological Survey. The Petroleum division is headed by
a professional entitled Chief Petroleum Geologist who is also the Chief
Petroleum Inspector of the Government of Papua New Guinea (GOPNG). Its
functions are, Petroleum Exploration Administration, Resource Assessment,
Drilling Control and Supervision, Reservoir Engineering and Evaluation, and
Petroleum Geophysics.
1.03     All petroleum exploration acti` !es are performed by the oil
companies holding petroleum prospecting 1  !nses from the Government.  The
Petroleum Act of 1977 governs petroleum e ploration and development in PNG.
Any area in PNG can be the subject of an application for a Petroleum
Prospecting License (PPL).  All applications are received by tCe Principal
Petroleum Registrar of the Petroleum Exploration Administration and, after due
processing, are submitted by the Chief Petroleum Geulogist to the Petroleum
Advisory Board (PAB) for clearance and advice to the Minister. The decision
for the grant of PPL is made by the Minister after hearing PAB's
recommendation:.. The PAB is a statutory body established under the Petroleum
Act of 1977. It is made up of five members; three from DME (the Secretary,
who is also its Chairman, the Assistant Secretary Mines and the Chief
Government Geologist) and one each from the Dep rtm-. ..1 of Finance and
Provincial Affairs. A PPL is granted for six years. .%n initial two-year work
program and expenditures commitment is agreed upon pi-or to the issue of a PPL
and, at two-year intervals, the licensee haq to submit an additional work
program satisfactory to the Government. In the event of a commercial
discovery the licensee has the right to obtain a Petroleum Development License
(PDL) for 25 years. The State has the option to obtain a "carried interest"
of upto 22.5Z through both exploration and development with the "carry"
repayable from the State's share of future production. The licensee pays
1.25? royalty, a 50Z petroleum income tax and an additional profits tax
payable after the investor has recovered his investment and a predetermined
return on capital.
PNG's Petroleum Geology
1.04     Papua New Guinea comprises 461,691 km2 on the eastern half of the
world's largest island lying at the east end of the Indunesian archipelago,
cojuncturing with Australian continental and 'acific ocean plates. It has
endured a stratigraphic and structural history conducive to the generation
and entrapment of hydrocarbons. Its five main sedimentary basins are: Papuan
basin (212,000 km2), North New Guinea basin (93,000 km2), Cape Vogel basin
(26,000 km2), Bougainville basin (4,400 km2) and New Ireland basin (56,400
km2). The Papuan basin, the most explored of all, is the largest sedimentary



-3-
basin in the country (about the same size as Syria in the Middle East). It is
effectively the continuation of the Capentaria basin in North Queeensland,
Australia. All the elements necessary for the generation and entrapment of
hydrocarbons are present in most areas of this basin. These include, a wide
range of structural and stratigraphic traps, good source rocks at sufficient
burial depths, good to excellent reservoir rocks, and suitable cap rocks. A
total of 146 wells have been drilled since 1913. All of PNG's hydrocarbon
discoveries are located in this basin. The North New Guinea basin is actually
made up of three smaller basins. A limited amount of exploration has taken
place, with only seven wells drilled to date, and sparse seismic survey
coverage. There is up to 5 km of sedimentary section in some parts of the
basin. The oil generating potential of this region is suggested LV the
presence of numerous oil seeps. The Cape Vogel basin is largely offshore and
has been only partially explored. Shallow bores drilled on the Cape Vogel
peninsula (in 1928) did have some shows of hydrocarbons but only two deep
exploratior wells have been drilled (in 1973) and there are few seismic data
available. Large structures are known to exist in the subsurface offshore but
have not been tested by drilling. There is a thick section of tertiary
sediment in the basin but much of the sequence cannot be identified from the
existing data, which include only limited offshore exposure. It is likely,
however, that reservoir sand stones and shaley source rocks occur at depth.
The basin is adjacent to the tectonically active Solomon trench, which may
also be a source for hydrocarbons. The Bougainville basin is located offshore
on the western side of Bougainville island. Very little exploration work has
been done in this region. Only one fell has been drilled. It is very much a
'frontier area". There is up to 5 sm of sedimentary section in parts of the
basin and several large drillable structures have been recognized from
existing seismic data. It is believed likely that suitable fine grained
source and carbonate reservoir rocks will be intersected at depth. The New
Ireland basin is the least explored of all. In fact it was not recognized as
a basin with resource potential until a research vessel cruised the waters to
the northeast of New Ireland in early 1980s. The only available data that
give clues to the potential of this basin are the results of the research
cruise seismic survey and mapping of onshore sequences of New Ireland. From
this limited information it is possible to say that there is some potential
for hydrocarbon accumulations off the coast of New Ireland. Much of the basin
is in deep water so it will likely be necessary to look for structures near
the shore. Suitable source, reservoir and cap rocks have been recorded in the
onshore sedimentary sequence and are believed to extend offshore where there
is probably more than 4 km of sediment. In addition to these basins, there
are large areas of Bismark and Solomon Seas under which the thickness of
sedimentary section is virtually unknown, although they have been partially
covered by separate seismic surveys.
Project Background
1.05     Oil exploration in PNG was first attempted between 1913 and 1920 when
six bore holes were sunk in Gulf province (Papuan basin) yielding small
amounts of crude considered commercially unattractive. During the next fifty-
five years (till independence in 1975) about 125 wells were drilled, almost
all the Papuan basin, resulting in small gas discoveries at Kuru, Barikewa,
Iehi, and Bwata in the southern highlands of Gulf province and a condensate



- 4 -
discovery at Pasca offshore Gulf province. By 1977, no significant oil
discovery had been made and the international oil industry was not showing any
interest in accelerated exploration of PNG's petroleum prospects. The
inhibitions to accelerated promotion were in three areas, (i) the basins
appeared to be gas prone rather than oil prone, (ii) most of the identified
structures i7ere either complex or small, (iii) the cost of exploration was
very high due to remote environment and lack of suitable infrastructure.
Taking stock of the situation, the Government concluded that, while the
exploration in the country should still be conducted through private sector
participation (to ensure efficient operations and deployment of latest
technology), its promotion should no longer be left to the oil companies
alone. A good understanding of the country- petroleum geology and results of
past exploration efforts leading to organized and institutionalized promotion
of PNG's petroleum prospects by the Government would be necessary to
accelerate nd broalen participation by the international oil industry. Also
the Government's technical and contractual expertise would have to be enhanced
to maximize the benefits to the country.
1.06     Accordingly, in 1977, a Petroleum Act was promulgated to govern
exploration and, in 1978, a Petroleum Resources Assessment Group (PRAG) was
created within the Geological Survey to promote and control this activity.
PRAG's terms of reference included, (a) collection and synthesis of all
available information to obtain a good understanding of PNG's petroleum
geology and the results of past exploration, (b) establishment of a data bank
and information service to encourage private sector exploration under
appropriate concession terms, and (c) acquisition of adequate expertise to
advise the Government on petroleum exploration technical matters and
resources. Under the PRAG project (as it was then called), a team of
petroleum geologists and geophysicists, on full-time basis for seven years,
was to strengthen the Government's technical capabilities in the area of oil
exploration with a view to (a) increasing the level of exploration activities
in PNG, and (b) by effectively monitoring the activities of oil companies
under contract, ensuring that their activities met the best interest of PNG.
This approach turned out to be infeasible as suitably qualified PNG nationals
were not available for staffing the PRAG and expatriate experts could not be
engaged due to inadequate salaries allowed under the prevailing Government
rules. In 1980, the Government requested the Bank Group's assistance in
undertaking a program leading to the fulfilment of aforementioned objectives,
which was provided through the Petroleum Exploration Technical Assistance
Project. Financing for this project was provided by an IDA Credit (Cr.
1279-PNG) for SDR 2.7 million signed Nov. 5, 1982 and an OPEC loan (No. 312 P)
for US$1.7 million signed January 19, 1983.
This report is based on the findings of a mission that visited PNG in
October 1988, a project completion report by DME, and documents and reports
available in the project file.



II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
Project Origin and Approach
2.01     Although institutional reform resulting in the creation of PRAG had
been initiated by the Government in 1978, no progress was made towards the
implementation of the PRAG project till 1980. The group was initially to be
made up of three expatriate petroleum geologists and one petroleum
geophysicist and was expected to start functioning in 1979. It could not be
constituted due to reasons mentioned in the foregoing para 1.06, and in May
1980, the Government sought the Bank Group's assistance in the implementation
of this project.
2.02     As the DME did not have any staff experienced in petroleum matters,
the Bank Group suggested a two phased approach using the services of
consultants (to be procured under Bank Group guidelines) for project
preparation, implementation, and management. The first phase (approx 3-4
months) would involve review of past exploration data and the formulation of a
2-3 year work program. The second phase would involve implementation of the
recommended work program. The consultant's services for the first phase would
be financed through a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) as no financing was
available from altprnative sources. These suggestions were accepted by the
Government in November 1980.
Project Preparation, Appraisal, Negotiations and Approval
2.03     The project was prepared, during the second half of 1981, by a
consultant (Robertson Research of Australia/UK) engaged under Bank Group
guidelines. The consultant's services were financed through a US$250,000
advance under PPF. The consultant carried out an overall review of all the
past exploration data available in Port Moresby, Canberra and Sydney, covering
approximately 90 well records, 350-400 geologic and geophysical reports, about
7,500 sheets of seismic data including sections and shot points covering some
50,000 line-kilometers, gravity data covering about 40,000 stations,
aeromagnetic data consisting of 120,000 line-kilometers, air photos, regional
maps of surface geology, well cuttings and cores, stored in Port Moresby; a
duplicate set of data (acquired prior to independence in 1975) stored at
Bureau of Mineral Resources in Camberra; and the raw geophysical data
including about 30,000 seismic tapes (about 27,000 analog and 3,000 digital)
stored in Sydney. Following this, the consultant submitted a report
summarizing the findings and recommending a work program and budget for the
project.
2.04     The project was appraised by a Bank Group mission in February 1982.
It was defined on the basis of Robertson Research's review and recommendations
and discussions of Bank Group staff with PNG officials. Its objectives were
outlined as follows:
(a) to generate an integrated picture of PNG's petroleum potential and
identify new exploration leads;



- 6 -
(b) to assemble all past exploration data in Port Moresby and organize
a data bank to enable the Government to design oil exploration
strategies based on a continuous review of past and current
exploration data. Such a facility will also facilitate the
familiarization of new oil companies interested in exploring PNG's
potential;
(c)  to strengthen the capacity of the Government to offer exploration
acreage to international oil companies using competitive bidding and
to improve the review and monitoring of company activities and
negotiating satisfactory work programs; and
(d)  to evaluate the potential for commercial development of known gas
reserves, both for domestic power genelation and for gas based export
projects.
2.05     The project approach differed from the Government's initial plan
(for the PRAG project) in:  (a)  the means of implementation, ie consultants
services were to be used instead of PRAG's regular staff as timely
recruitment of adequate staff for PRAG did not appear feasible; (b) the
implementation period, which was reduced by half to abcut 3 1/2 years through
faster mobilization of expertise using consultants' services; and (c) the
project objectives, which now included studies to re-evaluate the potential
for commercial development of known gas/condensate reserves. Two kinds of
consultant services were to be employed for project implementation: (a) for
conduct of studies for geological and geophysical reassessment of PNG's
hydrocarbon potential, evaluation of development potential of known
hydrocarbon deposits, and supervision of discrete exploration activities; and
(b) for project management. Employment of consultants for project management
was deemed necessary as there was no likelihod of obtaining the services of
an experienced professional to head PRAG at the level of emoluments allowed
under the prevailing Government rules (see para 1.06). Therefore, during
project preparation it was agreed that a Project Manager from an experienced
firm of consultants would be employed to: (a) supervise, on behalf of the
Government, the geological/geophysical reassessment ccmponent; (b) to build-
up the PRAG unit; (c) to advise the Government on exploration strategy in
general and during negotiations in particular; and (d) to help promote PNG's
petroleum prospects. He would be appointed on a retainer contract with a
commitment to visit Port Moresby 4-6 times a year for periods of 1-2 weeks.
In view of Project Manager's key role in the implementation of the project,
an appropriate covenant (Section 3.01 (c;) was included in the Loan Agreement
requiring the Borrower to "employ a project manager whose qualifications and
experience shall be satisfactory to the Association," and it was made a
condition of loan effectiveness. Addition of (c) above to project objectives
was considered necessary, as due to lack of petroleum expertise the
Government had not been able to assess independently the scope for developing
these reserves (para 1.05) for domestic use, following large petroleum price
increases.
2.06     The project involved no technical or policy issues except IDA
eligibility. Until its appraisal (in February 1982), the proposed project
was in IDA category and a sum of US$250,000 for project preparation had been



-7-
advanced as a PPF under IDA, then due to graduation of PNG from IDA, the Bank
I             Group suggested IBRD financing to which the Government objected on the
grounds that an understanding for IDA financing of this project already
existed. In view of these special circumstances the Bank Group acceded to
the Government's request for IDA financing.
2.07     The DME's overall responsibility for the assessment and development
of PNG's hydrocarbon resources was shared (down the line) by two of its
divisions, namely, the Geological Survey Division and the Mines Division.
The Geological Survey Division was responsible for collection and review of
past exploration data and providing technical advice to the Petroleum
Advisory Board. The administration and processing of petroleum prospecting
licenses (PPLs) and the monitoring of safety aspects of exploration activity
were the responsibility of the Hines division. Apart from this split in
responsibility neither division had the staff and resources required to
negotiate and effectively monitor the termb and conditions of PPLs. To
accelerate the exploration and to ensure its adequate monitoring and
administration it was desirable to consolidate all petroleum related
activities into a separate unit. Therefore during negotiations the Bank
Group proposed and the Government accepted to include a covenant (Section
3.05) in the Loan Agreement for the Government to carry out, not later than
July 1, 1983, a study to (a) determine the optimal institutional framework
for the administration and monitoring of petroleum exploration activities in
PNG, (b) furnish the Bank Group with the findings and recommendations of such
studv, (c) and thereafter implement such recommendations as the Borrower and
the Bank Group may agree.
2.08     The project was defined to include the following:
Part A:  Geological and Geophysical Reassessment
1. Carrying out a review and interpretation of all existing data
pertaining to hydrocarbon exploration in the Borrower's territory
and preparing geological reports on the four mair sedimentary bains
in Papua New Guinea. Such a review to include inter-alia;
a. reprocessing of about 1,000 line-Km of existing seismic
survey to improve data quality;
b. interpretation of about 33,000 line-km of seismic data
and analysis and interpretation of existing geological
and aeromagnetic data, together with a limited number of
geochemical and polynological analysis of existing wells,
c. acquisition of additional geophysical and geological data; and
d. re-evaluation of six existing gas deposits and one existing
oil deposit to determine whether the exploration of such
deposits is commercially possible.
2. Integration and storage at Port Moresby of all data derived
from the carrying out of Part A.1 and Part C hereof.
3. Promotion of PNG's sedimentary basins for petroleum exploration
by interested enterprises.



-8-
Part B: Strengt:hening of Geological Survey
1. Carrying out a training program of GS staff at selected locations
outside PNG.
2. Provision of facilities for PRAG for storage of data and provision
of equipment, staff and technical assistance therefor.
Part C: Studies
1. Carrying out a study to determine the feasibility of developing
the offshore Pasca gas field to strip condensate from wet gas and supplying
natural gas to Port Moresby.
2. Carrying out of other high priority studies pertaining to the
energy sector.
2.09     Credit negotiations with the Borrower were held in May 1982 and
the Credit was approved by the Board on July 1, 1982. The Credit became
effective on April 8, 1983. after the three conditions of effectiveness
under the Development Credit Agreement were met, i.e.: (i) appointment of
a Project manager; (ii) execution and delivery of the Credit Agreement duly
authorized and ratified; and (iii) legal opinions.
III. IMPLEMENTATION
Institutional Arrangements
3.01     PRAG was constituted late 1982 as a sub-section of Regional &
Economic Geology section of Geological Survey with an expatriate senior
regional geologist (not a petroleum geologist) acting as its officer in-
charge. It was staffed with an expatriate petroleum geologist, an
expatriate mineral geologist (working as technical officer) and two
national geologists (one experienced in mineral geology and the other a new
graduate from the University of Papua New Guinea). A project manager, from
Worldwide Exploration Consultants (WEC) of USA was engaged (Feb. 1983
through Dec. 1987) as per terms of reference briefly described in para 2.05
of this report. The Project Manager provided professional project
management, while the administrative and financial control of the project
was exercised by the Chief Geologist through the officer in-charge of PRAG.
The PRAG staff was fully involved in the project implementation.
3.02     By early 1984, PRAG had 9 established positions (4 geologists, 2
geophysicists, 1 geochemist and 2 technical officers) and out of these, 5
positions (2 geologists, 1 geophysicibt, 1 geochemist and 1 technical
officers) had been filled. In terms of national and expatriate staff,
there were 2 national officers and 3 expatriates.



-9-
3.03     Prior to July 1. 1983, complying with the loan covenant (Section
3.05a), the Government had concurred with the Bank Group that the Bank
Group staff and the Goverro .t would undertake a review of the
institutional needs in the pe.zoleum sub-sector under the aegis of the
Energy Sector Management Program (ESMAP). The Bank Group mission visited
PNG in the second half of 1983 and carried out a detailed review of the
institutional arrangements of the whole energy sector (including the
petroleum sub-sector) with full cooperation from the Government. Its
report (PNG: Energy Sector Institutional Review Report] was submitted to
the Government in early 1984. Thereafter, the Government established a
Program Management Unit in 1985 to review the staff requirements and the
format for restructuring DME to make it more efficient and capable of
monitoring petroleum exploration activities. This evaluation was completed
in 1986 and petroleum operations of DME were reorganized along the lines
recommended in the Bank Group's report. A petroleum division was created
in the Geological Survey, headed by the Chief Petroleum Geologist (who had
been recruited in April 1986). All petroleum related activities were
consolidated into this Division. The organograms of DME's petroleum
related activities before and after the reorganization are given in Annex
1. The functions and responsibilities of Petroleum Division emerging from
this reorganization have already been described in para 1.02 of this
report. In terms of staffing, it has been provided with 18 established
professional positions (6 expatriate and 12 national) of which 15 positions
(6 expatriate and 9 national) have been filled.
Basin Studies
3.04     The consultants, Robertson Research Associates (RRA) and Flower
Doery Buchan Pty. Ltd. (FDB) were engaged in Jan./Feb. 1983 for carrying
out a review and interpretation of all the existing open file geological
and geophysical data pertaining to hydrocarbon exploration in PNG and
preparing geological reports on its four main sedimentary basins namely;
Papuan basin, North New Guinea basin, Cape Vogel basin and Bougainville
basin. RRA was to carry out the geological and geochemical component of
the studies and FDB was to conduct the geophysical component under RRA's
overall responsibility. This review and reassessment involved:
(a) reprocessing of approximately 1,000 line-km of existing seismic
data in an attempt to improve data quality;
(b) reinterpretation of approximately 33,000 line-km of seismic
data;
(c) analysis and reinterpretation of geological and aeromagnetic
data provided in the existing technical reports;
(d) analysis of several thousand well cuttings and core samples for
geochemical, sedimentological, micro-paleontological and
palynological information; and



-10-
(e) in the case of the Papuan basin study, assessment of six
previous gas discoveries (Bwata, Barikewa, Kuri, lehi, Uramu
and Pasca) and one previous oil find (Puri) and presentation of
results to encourage further exploration and possible
developments.
3.05    The planned commencement and completion dates for these studies
were Jan. 1, 1983 and Jan 1, 1985. Apart from initial delay in signing,
the agreements with RRA and FDB (signed Jan. 28, 1983 and Feb. 7, 1983
respectively), additional delays occurred in obtaining the release of data
and files from the Australian Bureau of Mineral Resources. The Papuan
Basin study (by far the largest) scheduled to be completed by Dec. 31, 1983
was finalized by August, 1984. In this study, RRA made a complete review
of the biostratigraphic section using well and outcrop data, and in-. epth
review of sedimentological facies using core samples and well cuttings, a
geochemical analysis of potential source beds and correlation with produced
hyrocarbons and seeps and, an analysis of regional plate tectonics. FDB
reinterpreted the available geophysical data, gravity, magnetic and seismic
and tied most of the deep wells to this interpretat+on. This was followed
by the completion of structure, facies and isopach maps, cross-sections and
maps indicating the area of principal oil and gas plays and, a series of
datumed cross-sections to demonstrate the geologic evolution of the basin
both in the structural and depositional sense, as well as burial history
plots of all wells with available geochemical data, enhancing the
discrimination between oil and/or gas plays which were presented as
established, indicated and postualted.
3.06    According to original planning, this study was to be followed by
the North New Guinea basin study. However, since by early 1984 all
prospective area within this basin had been licensed to Shell (in return
for a six well commitment), the need for this study was removed. Therefore
in consultation with the Bank it was decided to restrict the contract with
the consultants to the review of Cape Vogel and the islands (Bougainville,
New Britain and New Ireland) basins and a limited program of work on the
North New Guinea basin specifically to integrate the Shell data into the
regional geological frame. The Cape Vogel and Islands Basin study
commenced in Sept. 1984 and was completed by mid-1985. Compared with the
Papuan Basin study, it was limited, as relatively little data existed from
previous explorations. This study involved examination of Landsat imagery,
review of seismic data, interpretation of aeromagnetic data and some
geochemical analysis leading to synthesis of all available information.
3.07    In accordance with revised planning (discussed in the foregoing
para. ) a limited program of work on North New Guinea basin was undertaken
by RRA, in the second half of 1985, involving digitization of available
data and preparation of gravity and magnetic maps, which was completed by
end 1985, along with the conclusion of RRA contract for basin studies.
Following this, PRAG undertook an in-house study of the basin from early
1986 with the assistance and advise of WEC (the project manager) in



-11-
geophysical data preparaticn and interpretation. Upon Shell's
relinquishing the exploration acreage in 1986, additiornal data were made
available to PRAG and also the need for the preparation of a basin study
leading to exploration promotion was revived. Accordingly, WEC's contract
was extended till end-l287 to assist, inter alia, in the completion of the
study and to manage its presentation to the industry. However due to
insufficient staff support, possibly due to underestimation of the work
involved, the study could not be completed till Dec. 1988.  WEC remained
involved with the study till the completion of its management contract in
Dec. 1987. The synthesis of all data, their interpretation, and
compilation of the report were carried out by PRAG's (now Petroleum
Division's) expatriate staff with the full involvement of junior national
saologists.
Exploration Promotion
3.08    The exploration promotion of PNG's sedimentary basins was conducted
in two stages involving: (a) full-fledged promotion seminars, held in the
second half of 1984, for the Papuan Basin, which had by far the greatest
potential and (b) mini-presentations, in the second half of 1985, for Cape
Vogel and the Islands Basins, which had limited potential. Both the
promotions were undertaken after the completion of the relevant studies.
3.09    The Papuan basin promotion was initiated by advertising at the
annual conferences of the learned societies of Petroleum Explorationists
and Geologists in Australia, United States and Europe atid, in world
prominent industry journals and newspapers. This was followed by
presentation (by the Government) in the promotion seminars held in the
second-half of 1984 in, Sydney, Tokyo, Houston and London outlining:
geology and geophysics of the basin; hydrocarbon occurrence, plays, trends
and prospects; and legal, contractual and tax aspects. More than 100
international oil companies attended these presentations. The promotion
effort was further supported by the distribution of a brochure summarizing
the Government policies and a technical data package containing geological
maps, petroleum prospecting license map, exploration synopsis, petroleum
policy outlines, contractual and fiscal terms. In all 25 open license
areas in the basin (covering about 210,000 sq. km) were offered containing
a wide range of prospective plays both identifiable and prognosticated.
The invitations for submission of applications for grant of petroleum
prospecting licenses in the basin were formally gazetted Dec. 20, 1984.
3.10    The promotion of Cape Vogel and the islands (Bougainville, New
Britain and New Ireland) basins as well as the remaining open areas of the
Papuan basin involved mini-presentations to the industry in the second half
of 1985 in Sydney and Houston along similar lines as for Papuan basin
promotion but with considerably reduced Government and consultant
resources. About 100,000 sq. km exploration acreage of Cape Vogel and the
islands basins and also the remaining 4,400 sq. km of Papuan basin were
promoted.



-12-
3.11    The planning, organization and conduct of these promotions and
preparation of brochures and technical data packages was arranged by the
consultants (WEC & RRA) with full involvement of PRAG and guidance from the
Bank Group staff.
3.12    Although the need for North New Guinea basin promotion had been
revived with Shell's relinquishing of exploration acreage in second half of
1986 and the promotion efforts had been ter.tatively scheduled for mid-1987,
it could not be undertaken as the basin study was not comDleted till Dec.
1988 and the credit closed on Dec. 31, 1988.
Provision of Technical Data Base in PRAG
3.13    The acquisition of technical data commenced with the project
preparation in 1982 by the consultants (RRA). This was followed by sifting
and gathering of data, by the same consultants, for the basin studies. All
this data (from Australian Bureau of Mineral Resources and the Archives of
P1V's Geological Survey) was microfilmed, digitized, recatalogued, compu-
rized and stored in the PRAG building by late 1985. The construction of
PRAG building was delayed by about a year due to backlog in public works.
It was completed, equipped and fully occupied by Dec. 1985. Its
construction cost about kina 300,000.00 (US$350,000 approx.). Apart from
the data storage, all of the PRAG staff is housed in this building. By
late 1987, PRAG (now Petroleum Division) needed more space for data storage
which was arranged through purchase of additional storage facility (524 sq.
meters) for US$100,000 from the OPEC loan.
Other Studies
3.14    The study to determine the feasibility of developing offshore Pasca
gas/condensate field for stripping the condensate and supplying natural gas
to Port Moresby could not be undertaken as Pasca well A3 blew out soon
after its spudding in Jan. 83. In 1984, the licensee (Superior Oil)
relinquished all Pasca acreage and since then no new licensee for Pasca has
been found to conduct drilling operations.
3.15    During project preparation, RRA conducted the following studies
that were financed out of a US$250,000 advance under a PPF.
(i) North Delta Gas Reserves.
(ii) Reservoir Engineering Study of Pasca field.
(iii) Pre-feasibility Study for Pasca field development.
3.15     During project implementation, the following additional studies
were conducted by different consultants and were financed from the proceeds
of the Credit/OPEC loan.
(i)  Juha (Paupuan Basin) Gas/Condensate Field Reserves Estimates --
prepared in 1986 by WEC.



-13-
(ii) Detailed Cross-Sections through the Papuan Basin -- prepared in
1986 by WEC.
(iii) Toro Sandstone (Papuan Basin) Pressure Gradients (based on
Iagifu 2x and 3x wells data) -- prepared in 1987 by S. S.
Derrington.
(iv)  A Casing Program for Future Pasca wells -- prepared in 1287 by
S. S. Derrington.
(v)  Pipeline Alternatives for LPG mix from Iagifu Field (Papiari
Basin) to Offshore Loading Facility -- prepared in 1988 bv
Borcom Associates.
(vi)  Geological and Reservoir Engineering Study of Iagifu Field --
prepared in 1988 by Borcom Associates.
(vii) Domestic Use of Hydrocarbons in PNG (Irception Report) prepared
in 1988 by Coopers and Lybrand.
Extensions of Credit Closing Date
3.17     In Sept. 1986, the Government requested the extension of Credit
closing date by a year (from Dec. 31, 1986 to Dec. 31, 1987) to complete
the following ongoing and soon to be undertaken activities;
(a) the geologic study of North New Guinea basin and its promotion,
(b) the extended staff training program and,
(c) the evaluations of economic viability of different options for
the development of recent hydrocarbon discoveries.
3.18     The North New Guinea basin was essentially all under license by
1984. therefore, its promotion effort had been excluded from the project
scope. However, by 1986, a large portion of the licensed acreage had been
relinquished and its exploration data was made available to the Government,
reviving the need for geologic study and promotion.
3.19     The training program had been expanded to include;  (a) an
additional year for undergraduate studies in petroleum geology for a Papua
New Guinea national at an overseas university, (b) an in-house short course
for Petroleum Division's geologists in recognition and interpretation of
Carbonate Facies and (c) a similar course in Electric Log Interpretation.
3.20     The evaluation of economic viability of different options for the
development of recent hydrocarbon discoveries was essentially to be
focussed on Iagifu oil field, discovered in the first half of 1986 with
preliminary reserve estimates of about 150-250 mm bbls.  After accounting
for the ongoing and aforementioned planned expenditures, a residual amount
of US$170,000 in the credit was earmarked for the this purpose.



-14-
3.21     In view of above consideration, the Bank Group extended the credit
closing date to Dec. 31, 1987.  The contract for Project Manager (WEC) was
also extended by a year to Dec. 31, 1987.
3.22     The proposed options study was, however, not undertaken as
Chevron, the Iagifu field operator, decided to conduct a pre-feasibility
study of the discovery as a prelude to development license application.
Chevron presented this study to the Government in the second half of 1986,
whereafter the Government obtained Bank Group's clearance for geological
and reservoir engineering study of Iagifu field based on the information
provided in Chevron's study and as its complement, for a study of Domestic
utilization of PNG's hydrocarbons, both to be financed out of the credit
funds earmarked for the options study. To facilitate this undertaking, the
Government also requested another extension of credit closing date to June
30, 1988, which was agreed.
3.23     No further extension of credit closing date was requested
thereafter.
Proiect Costs
3.24     DME haf not provided the local costs incurred in project implemen-
tation. TherefLre a comparison of only foreign costs (financed from IDA
credit and OPEC loan) with the estimates is given below. 1/
IDA Credit                OPEC Loan
_______SDR'000-------   ------US$ '000------
Estimated     Actual      Estimated     Actual
Materials, Equip. & Printing      270,000       202,187.40      -       291,939.00
Consultants Services            1,600,000    1,643,203.23       -     1,390,601.12
Acquisition of Geophysical
Data                            205,000       232,891.44      -
Overseas Training and
Promotion                       130,000       408,672.27      -
Refunding of Advance Under
PPF 153                         225,000       206,224.49      -
2,700,000    2,693,178.83      1.7   1,682,540.13
Considerable overspending in overseas training and promotion (item 4) is
largely due to underestimation of these costs during project preparation.
The total foreign cost is very close (98-99Z) to the estimate.
1/ The borrower did not have arrangements for maintaining itemized accounts.
Therefore, a comparison with the heads of expenditures included in
Project Costs Estimates given in the President's Report is not possible.



-15-
Procurement
3.25     IDA's procurement guidelines were fully complied with.  No
d.fficulties were faced by the Borrowver in following these guidelines.
Disbursement
3.26     A comparison of actual disbursement with the appraisal estimates is
given in the following table.
Fiscal Year              Appraisal Estimate          Actual
---------SDR '000------------
1983                          1.1                  0.206
1984                          0.8                  1.302
1985                          0.8                  G.682
1986                          -                    0.245
1987                                               0.103
1988                          -                    0.148
1989                                               0.006
2.7                  2.692
The slow disbursement is on account of extended project execution
discussed in paras 22 and 33 thru 37.
Performance of Consultants
3.27     The consultant's performance in the geological and geophysical
study of Papuan basin has been commendable and formed a sound basis for
promotion of its exploration prospects. The work on the other basin study,
though not of the same quality (due to limited data availability), is still
exhaustive. Both the reports have been very well received by the industry
and have generated an upsurge in the sale of technical data totalling about
US$1.5 million. The project management consultant played a key role in the
preparation of technical reports and in the organization of promotion
seminars. The consultants expertise and experience of industry was
particularly evident during the promotional phase. The performance of
other consultants engaged on short studies/evaluations has been generally
satisfactory.
IV. PROJECT RESULTS
Basin Studies
4.01     Through high quality analysis, integration and interpretation of
all available data, these studies provide a very credible, and indeed _ne
best possible, basis for exploration promotion of PNG's sedimentary basins.
The Papual Basin Report, mainly due to availability of extensive data, is



-16-
by far the most comprehensive. Its identification of possible oil plays is
the single most important result insofar as the promotion of areas to
prospective oil companies is concerned. The Cape Vogel and Islands
(Bc gainville, New Britain and New Ireland) Basins Report provides a
complete reinterpretation of all available geological and geophysical data.
Both the studies have been very well received by the industry. About
US$1.5 million worth of technical data, largely on account of these
studies, has been sold to exploration companies. The North New Guinea
Basin Study though considerably delayed, has provided a valuable on-the-job
4           training opportunity to national geologists.
Esploration Promotion
4.02     The promotion of the Papuan basin was highly successful.  It
resulted in 15 bids on 14 blocks (out of 25 offered) totalling about US$30
million in work commitments over the first 2 year period. Only 5 petroleum
prospecting licenses (PPLs) were in existence prior to promotion. Since
then, 28 new PPLs have been negotiated and awarded and about 9 more
applications are being negotiated, covering almost all of the 210,000 sq.
km exploration acreage of this basin. The current 33 PPLs are operated by
22 separate groups of international companies.
4.03     The exploration promotion of Cape Vogel and the islands basins
resulted in 14 enquiries but no exploration contracts have been signed so
far.  As a result of general interest generated in PNG's hydrocarbon
potential, 4 PPLs have been signed for North New Guinea basin, following
the relinguishing of acreage by Shell in 1986. (See Annex 2 for maps and
license details).
4.04     The exploration promotion of North Guinea basin could not be
undertaken in this project as the basin geologic study (conducted in-house
by Petroleum Division staff) could not be completed till Nov. 1988 ie a few
weeks before the credit closing date.
Evaluation of Commercial Potential of Past Oil and Gas Discoveries
4.05     Puri (Papuan Basin) was PNG's lone oil find before Iagifu in 1986.
It was discovered in 1958 and a production rate of 1,600 bbl/day was
achieved from Puri 1 well but it was soon replaced with water. In 1959,
two side tracks (Pu.-i 1A & 1B) failed, further drilling was abandoned and
the exploration license was relinquished. A new PPL was granted (to Kundu
Exploration of Australia) in 1983 but the work program has so far not
included any drilling activity and in the absence of such data it has not
been possible to evaluate this field.
4.06     The consultants' reevaluation of past gas discoveries (Bwata,
Uramu, Kuru, Iehi, Barikewa and Pasca) was reviewed by the Bank Group staff
& PRAG in 1984. Discussions were also held with Elcom, the national
electric utility, regarding its needs for fuel gas and with some foreign



;
-17-
companies (notably Costain Process Engineering and Steamships) for export
based projects. None of these discoveries appeared susceptible to
commercial development. The depressed international market for LNG
discouraged export based projects and in view of very difficult access,
high development and transmission costs and fragmented domestic market no
economic development based on local use appeared feasible.
V. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND PERFORMANCE
Organization and Management
5.01     During project preparation two basic institutional problems in the
management of petroleum affairs of DME had been diagnosed: (a) insufficient
professional staff, and (b) fragmented responsibility (ref paras 2.02 and
2.07). The solutions adopted were (a) employment of consultants for
project implementation as well as its professional management and, (b)
institutional review leading to reorganization and consolidation of DME's
petroleum responsibilities, resulting in the creation of a Petroleum
Division within DME and training of national staff. While the employment
of consultants and institutional review were undertaken expeditiously, a
delay of two years was encountered in the implementation of recommendations
emerging from the institutional review due to involvement of lengthy
procedures.  (Although the review was completed by early 1984, the
Petroleum Division could not be created till early 1986).
5.02     The status of professional staff employed (since 1983) in
PRAG/Petroleum Division is given in Annex 3. Due to the acute shortage of
experienced national staff (only one was available during 1983-85 and none
since then), the employment of expatriates was resorted to, which was slow
in build-up due to insufficiently attractive emoluments offered. For the
saiLe reason, entry of national staff to the young professional cadre has
been severely limited. (It has lately imprGved, possibly due to enhanced
interest of international oil industry in PNG's petroleum prospects with
implicit promise of lucrative career opportunities in petroleum sector.)
5.03     Notwithstanding these constraints, the Petroleum Division has been
established, effectively consolidating all petroleum exploration operations
(see paras 1.02 and 1.03). It has been provided with 18 professional
positions, of which 15 positions have been filled with 6 expatriate and 9
national staff (Annex 4). Apart from processing new license applications,
it is monitoring 33 petroleum prospecting licenses (PPLs) operated by 22
separate groups of international companies, and manages a high quality data
base with an equally high degree of credibility in the international oil
industry. It continues to collect, reassess and publish technical data on
PNG's petroleum exploration prospects. (The latest PNG Petroleum Handbook
is attached as Annex 2).



-18-
Training
5.04     The training program for national professional staff was broadly
divided into two categories: (a) in-house training and (b) advanced
training abroad. All national professional st.ff have received in-house
training, through attachments with expatriate staff and consultants in
petroleum administration, resource assessment, data management, drilling,
reservoir engineering and geophysics. Additionally, a number of workshops,
seminars and in-house schools have been organized by the Petroleum Division
using video training programs in petroleum geology, geophysics and
engineering. Advanced professional education and training has been
received by 5 national staff (3 geologists, 1 engineer, 1 technical
officer) in Australian universities and professional schools.
Compliance with Credit Covenants
5.05     All covenants of the Development Credit Agreement have been
complied with except Art IV regarding the auditing of accounts. DME did
not submit the Audit Report each year as required under the Agreement.
The audited accounts for FYs 83/84 and 85/86 were submitted in 1986 and
1988 respectively. Final project audit is in progress and is expected to
be received by the Bank Group in FY89. Apart from furnishing the yearly
audited accounts, DME has complied with all other reporting requirements.
VI. BANK GROUP'S PERFORMANCE
5.06     A cooperative and productive relationship was maintained by the
Bank Group with DME and other concerned Government agencies throughout the
project cycle. The Bank Group's analysis of Borrower's problems in
petroleum exploration promotion and suggested remedial measures,
particularly the approach to project preparation and implementation, played
a key role in the successful implementation of the project. Through the
Energy Sector Institutional Review, the Bank Group established the need to
reorganize and consolidate DME's petroleum exploration operations,
resulting in the creation of a Petroleum Division within DME and thus
providing a sound framework for institution building. The Bank Group
undertook eight supervision missions between January 1983 and December 1988
which adequately covered the project needs and fallow-up actions.
VII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
7.01     The project revitalized exploration in PNG at a time when
international oil industry's interest in PNG's petroleum prospects was
flagging. Its core component, the extensive work to improve the
organization and quality of geologic information on PNG's sedimentary
basins, has given PNG an excellent reputation as a region which companies
can explore efficiently. This, supplemented by the project sponsored
promotional activities, has given PNG a high profile in the industry and



-19-
has attracted (and continues to attract) many good explorers to PNG. [The
exploration interest in PNG is now intense, with little open acreage
remaining in Papua basin and much interest is now being shown in the North
New Guinea basin.]
7.02     The institution building aspect of the project covered:  (a)
coneolidation of DME's petroleum exploration operations, which was achieved
through the creation of the Petroloum Division and establishment of a sound
geological data base; and (b) technology transfer, which was only
moderately successful due to limited availability of national graduates
with' adequate education in geosciences. There are two main causes for this
constraint: (a) inferior emoluments offered by DME, and (b) inadequate
curriculum and coaching provided at the University of Papua New Guinea,
both should be addressed as early as possible to accelerate the much needed
technology transfer.
7.03     Excessive time has been consumed in the North New Guinea basin
study. It seems that the decision to conduct an in-house study of the
basin was not based on a clear, analysis of the work involved and the
Petroleum Divisions' own available resources. While there is no doubt as
to the quality of the report, it could have been completed and promoted at
least two years earlier had consultants been employed along the same lines
as for other basins studies. To the extent that this may have been due to
inexperience of the Petroleum Division, guidance from the Bank Group, at an
early stage, would have been helpful. Nevertheless, the in-house conduct
of this study has provided excellent on-the-job training to national
geologists.
7.04     Significant lessons learned from the experience gained from this
project are:
(a) reference para 7.02 above, when technology transfer is a
project objective, the constraints (if any) to the
availability and development of indigenous professional
manpower should be examined during project appraisal so as
to provide remedial measures in the project design;
(b) exploration is the first phase of "prospecting to production"
sequence. The second phase involves commercial development
of discoveries. For efficient dove-tailing of the two phases
(to maximize the resource benefit) it is desirable to identify
the major issues of the development phase (such as organiza-
tional and regulatory framework, nature and level of required
expertise, extent of state participation, etc) at the outset
of exploration phase and address these issues, to the extent
possible, through the exploration technical assistance
project; and
(c) where the implementation agency is still to be organized, the
Borrower's interim arrangements for keeping project accounts
should be specified.



DME'S PETROLEUM OPERATIONS
BEFORE REORGANIZATION
SECRETARY FOR
MINERALS & ENERGY
r        -   '        I                 ~~~I                           I' I'm
POUCY&                                                             GEO LOGA
PLANIN1                                                              SURVEY
I                                      I
PE       MINES RPEOEEU
A EXPLORATION                                    ASSESSMENT
MONrORING                                       GROUP (PRAG)
DUES PETROLEUM OPERATIONS
AFTER REORGANIZATION
c
SECRETAY FO
MIERLS & ENERGY
POLICYa                       MDE                                  GEOLOA
I .
rTTT- ~~~~~I   I,  I  ' 
PETROEM
PETROLEUM    RFSURCES   AWcNE8   DRUM            EE N 
EXWPAflnJ    ASSESSMENT                          4IESERVOI    PETOLEUM
CD
:14
EEGW444OM~~



21 -                         ANNEX 2
ThiE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW  GUINEA    Page 1 of 18
DEPARTMENT OF MINERALS AND ENERGY
PETROLEUM HANDBOOK
- Geological Review
- PPL Application Guide
- Permit Map
- Current Permit Holders
Petroleum Division - Geological Survey
DEPARTMENT OF MINERALS AND ENERGY
APEA Conference - Brisbane



-22 -                               Annex 2
Page 2 of 18
PETROLEUM AND NATURAL GAS IN PAPUA NEW GUINEA
MARCH 1988
Introduction
The Geological Surney believes that Papua New Guinea has the potential to become one of the major
oil producing nadons of the world outside the Middle EasL There are five large sedimentary basins in
Papua New Guinea with petroleum potential (see page 5). Since Independence in 1975, the
Government has placed a high priority on the development of its potentially very large petroleur;a
resources.
In 1982, with the aim of encouraging increased exploration, the Department of Minerals and Energy
undertook to carry out comprehensiv technical suiies and produc reports on the petroleum potential
of the country. These studies were largely carried out by geological and geophysical consultants. A
series of promotional seminars and meetings foUowed release of the final Wports of the project. That
promotional activity resulted in many new exploration companies making applications for Petroleum
Prospecting Licences (PPLs).
Most petroleum exploration has occurred in the Papuan Basin where the existence of large oil and gas
deposits has been suspected since oil seeps were discovered in the Papuan Gulf in 1911. A number of
discoveries of gas and gas condensate and one minor oil discovery were made between 1950 and
1968. Exploration activity was quiet during the 1970's but has picked up considerably in recent years,
due to Departmental promotional activities. With the relatively recent development of helicopter
tansportable drilling rigs, drilling in the rugged Highlands region has become possible. Large and
possibly even giant hydrocarbon discovenes has r sulted from this drilling.
There are currently thirty-three separate Petroleum Prospecting Licences with five addidonal under
offer and four applications to consider. These Petrleum Prspecting Licences are opeated by twenty-
two separate groups.
There is little vacant acrage in the Papuan Basin but farmin opportuies ame available. Vacant acreage
is present in the other basin areas. Five weUs, Niugini Gulfs- lagifu 4, 5. SE Hedinia 1, BFs Hides
1 and Shell's Nopan 1 were drilled in 1987. Of these SE Hedinia 1 was a gas condensate and oil
producer. Hides 1 was a gas condensate producer. The other wells were dry. During 1987, 3856 kms
of offshore seismic and 886 kms of onshore seismic were recorded in the Papuan Basin.
Total possible producible reserves in Papua New Guinea Inown to date are 587 mmbbls (million
barrels) oil and 8.5 tcf (trillion cubic feet) gas (see Table 1 and following map). In the next five years
present operadng companies have a committment to carry out 11,000 km of seismic and drill 100
wells. Major prospects continue to be the Lower Cretaceous Toro Sandstone present over a wide area
in the Papuan Basin and the Miocene reef limestone also widely present along several trends. The
latter prospect is also present in the other basins. In the Papuan Basin the Miocene shelf limestone
which produced oil at Pun is also an exceLent prospect as well as the the underlying Eocene sandstone.
These other basins, North New Guinea. Cape Vogel Bougainville and New Ireland also have excelenft
prospects. There is a section of unknown thickmess under the Bismarck Sea.



- 23-                                      Annex 2
Petroleum  Prospects                                                              PaEge 3 18
The Papuan Basin is effectively a continuaton of the Carentaria Basin in North Queensland (Fig.
1). The simplified stratigraphy of the Western Papuan Basin is:-
Tetiry shelf limesone
Tertay sandstone
Cretaceous Ieru marine shale and minor sandstone
(Rolling Downs equivalent)
Lower Crtaeous-Jurassic Toro quartz sandstone
(Gilbert River sandstone equivalent)
Jurassic Imburu shale and sandstone
Jumassic Koi-lange sandstone
To the west the Toro and lower beds lap out at Lake Murray in similar fashion to the Carpentaria Basin
on its wst un side. To the north the Mesozoic section thickens and becomes volcanoclastic eventually
passing ato basement under the North New Gunea Basin. To the east the Papuan Basin thickens by
the addition of clastic Tertiay beds. In this area    also buried Tertary reefs including the Pasca gas-
condensate gas field. The northern and eastern extent of the Tor Sandstone, the main reservoir bed of
the Papuan Basin is a matter for surmise at present
The scture of the basin (see opposite) consists of an overthrust belt of Upper Miocene age in the
north and fold structure paralle to it to the south, signs of which can be seen as far south as the
Croydon-Smithbourne Ridge in the Carpentaria Basin. It is no certain how far north the thrusting
extends, but thrusting has been mapped in the South Sepik area by Papua New Guinea Geological
Survey geologists and noted on seismic lines in the North New Guinea Basin, though this was
disputed by Shell geologists.
Unfomnately, it is not possible to obtain usable seismic in the areas in those pars of the Papuan Basin
where Darai karst limestone outcrops. To date the most useful tool to elucidate suucture in those areas
has been SAR (sidelook radar) which penetraws the thick jungle cover. Elsewhere reflection seismic is
effective but costs about K10,000acm for onshore seismic. Dealing with some significant results:-
Iagifu Oilfield in PPL 100 has provided the most encouagemet with a possible producible
resource of 400 million bbls of 43 API sweet crude. Frie wells huve been drilled on the Iagifu
Structure. Iagifu 1 sliUhole did not reach Toro Sandstone. Ia ru 2 at 7973-8320 feet in Toro
obtained about 79 feet gascap and 230 feet oiL The oil sand was esimated to have a capacity of
16000 bopd ie. would produce about 8000 bopd. There was no water contact in.the sand; no
boundaries were found on production testing.
Iagifu 3 drilled 4 km NW intersected Toro Sandstone 880 feet lower. It was the same
thickness but there was only 108 feet of 43 API oil with a water contact. The well was
deepened to 10152 feet and three further sands were intersected with an additional thickness of
120 feet. At TD the well as stil in an oil sand with a water contact. Basement had not been
reached. Production testing indicated the well was close to boundaries in all sands. RFT data
suggest a fault between 2 and 3 wells at the Ton Sandstone level.
Iagifu 4 drilled 2kmSW of Iagifu 3 reached the Toro 400 feet higher than lagifu 3 but it
contained water. It was located on the Soro Thrur. getting a _eeated section and steep dips
lower in the well. Despite substantial oil shows therm were no lower sands considerd worth
testing. Iagifu 5 drilled 2 km E of number two well wached Toro at 8690 feet. below the oil
water contact. Sands lower in the well had no shows. SE Hedinia 1 was drilled 26km SE of
Iagifu-2 on a closure on Hedinia Anticline, the next stucture to the south of Iagifu. 240 feet of
very permeable Toro was penetrated and testing wet (to CS) gas. There was no water or oil
contact so a sidetrack was drilled in an attempt to prove an oil leg. However. despite
committing 7 inch casing, ciculation could not be maintained and the well was P&A. Hedinia
I is currently drilling and has tested wet gas from the top 30 feet of the Toro Sandstone.



- 24 -
Annex 2
Page 4 of 18
/                  ~~~~~~~CAPE VOGEL
tZ ! 4.      t   .   A
/R~~   ~~       4. -' @ ..              -4. .4.
+ + ++ +     (VW")~~~~~~   4
116;DAGAMAI  CRS  SECTION' rlm 
+A +                 N  CARPENTARIA         BASINS
W +             B  /EASIOING
DR 'B+I +OF GE
4 +4 4 ' F +        ( °         "       +                        0
-a0            .  .  +  n             A+   t+ 
I   ,                   1               n  +      >~~A, 
~~ -           ~DIAGRAMMATIC CROSS SECTIONB
600_==~~~~$t                                    CRETCEOUS
2003                ;      SHALEiusssc
+~~~~~~~ m F.OSON  Al  aSE    t +'  TXOsOt    w
A.C.M. Leine, 1866
PAPUAN & CARPENTARIA BASINS
SHOWING
DISTRIBUTION OF GILBERT RIVER SANDSTONE



-25-                             Annex 2
Page 5 of 18
The Niugini Gulf consortium has difficult drilling problems. All supplies have to be tansported by
helicopter 40hn from Poroma base which is 600kms by toad frmm the port of Lac.
The Darai Limestone which is about 4000 feet thick has to be drilled with air because of lost circulation
problems. The leru is overpressured but the underlying Toro is underpressured. Despite these
difficulties, they are just completing a prefeasibility study on a Iagifu development which includes a
pipeline to the Gulf of Papua.
In PPL 27 BP Petroleum recendy completed Hides No. 1 well in the Southern Highlands 80skm NW of
Iagifu 2. In the well, the Toro Sandstone from 2999-3053m produced gas at a rate of 15.9mmcflday
and 39.6bbls condensate per day. Negotiations are at present in progess for the sale of gas to Placer
for power generatton at Porgera gold mine. BP estmate the gas reserves as 1.5 trllion cubic feet.
In PPL 51 Kundu Petroleum Limited recently compleed a reflection seismic survey near the Puri No.
1 well which in 1958 produced oil at the rate of 1600 bopd for a few days before going to salt water.
The oil was produced from fractured Miocene shelf limestone in a subthrust block. The additional
seismic has located a substantial closed strcntre in a similar situation about 5km south of the Puri 1
well. The seismic also shows a distinct zone of decoUement at 3.00 seconds believed to be the top of
the Crtceous. This structure will be drilled in the second quarter of 1988.
In PPL 82 Intenational Petroleum Corporation have mapped a large ref structure, the Pandora
Stuctre, south of Pasca in the Gulf of Papus They propose to drill this structure in April 1988.
In PPL 79 Kelvin Energy also propose to drill in April 1988 on the Pasca A structure.
Mlany companies have shown interest in the prospects in the Gulf of Papua as wel as the flat Fly
River/Stickland River platform and the onshore region to the northwest of Port Moresby. AU of these
areas are much easier to eplore than the more mountainous HighlaJls, and may well contain sizeable
oil accumons.
The Papuan Basin covers a very large area (approximately 212,000 km square) but despite the long
histy of exploration, vast areas remain largely unexplored. To give some idea of the ateas involved,
the Papuan Basin is about the same size as Syria in the Middle East or the state of Nevada in the USA.
All of the offshore Gippsland Basin (which has supplied 60% of Australia's oil needs for 20 years)
would fit into one of the smaller existing Petroleum Prospecting Licences.
All the elements necessary for the generadon and entrapment of hydrocarbons are pesent in mo. t areas
of the Papuan Basin. These include a wide range of strucntral and statigraphic traps, good source
rocks at sufficient burial depths, good to excellent reservoir rocks (limestone and sandstone) and
suitable cap rocks.
The North New Guinea Basin is actually made up of three smaller basins and covers an area of
approximately 93,000 km square (or an area the size of Portugal). A limited amount of exploration has
taken place with only 7 wells drilled to date and sparse seismic survey coverage. The oil generating
potential of the region is suggested by the presence of numerous oil seeps, particularly along the
borders of the central mountain range. There is up to 5 km of sedimentary section in some parts of the
basin. The Petroleum Division has prepared a comprehensive report on the NNG basin which will be
available for sale shortly.
The Cape Vogel Basin is a largely offshore basin which has been only pardally explord. Shallow
bores drilled on Cape Vogel peninsula in 1928 did have shows of hydrocarbons but only two deep
exploration wells have been drilled (in 1973) and there is little seismic data over the basin's
approximately 26,000 km square. Large structures arc known w exist in the subsurface offshore, but
have not been tested by drilling. There is a thick section of Terary sediments in the basin but much of
the sequence cannot be identified from the existing data which includes only limited onshore exposure.
It is likely, however that reservoir sandstones and shaly source rocks occur at depth. The basin is
adjacent to the tectonically active Solomon Trench which may also be a source for hydrocarbons.



-26-                  Annex 2
Page 6 of 18
NORTH NEW GUINEA                 '. "
8ASIN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A$n~~~~~~~~~CP
SI
SEDIMENTARY BASINS IN PAPUA NEW GUINEA



-27-                            Ainex 2
Page 7 of 18
5.1   After one month a recommendation is made on the application by the Chief Petroleum
Geologist to the Petroleum Advisory Board. Often there will be discussion and modification of
the proposed work programme which is the main factor in the recommendation.
The financial resources of the applicant _e also checked. Clear evidence of sufficient funds to
cover the first two years of the PPL must be presert before a favourable recommendation can
be made.
5.2   The Petroleum Advisory Board will meet sometime after the last day for reciving objecdons to
*           consider the applications and make recommendt ons to the Minister.
5.3   After hearing the recommendations of the Petroleum Advisory Board the Minister will advise
*           the applicant
(a) he is prpared to gant the licence, or
(b) he will not grant the licence.
5.4  If the Minister is prepared to grant the licence, he will serve an instrument on the applicant
contaiing ,
(a) infonnadon he is prepared to gant the licence;
(b) the conditions of the licence (ie. a draft licence document);
(c) a bond to be executed by the applicant giving security for compliance with the licence
conditions, either in the form of a cash deposit or bank guarantee for the amount of
K50,OOO.
5.5   Within one month of receiving the above insaument (or up to four months at the Ministers
discretion) the applicant will;
(a)  request the Minister to gant the licence;
(b) lodge the security with the Director, and
(c)  pay the first annual fee.
5.6   After the applicant has conformed with 5.5 the Minister will gant the licence subject tO the
.            conditions contained in 2.4(b) or such other conditions as may be agreed.
5.7   Notice of granting the licence will be gazetted.
6.    Eligibility to hold Prospecting Licences
Petroleum Prospecting Licences may be held by:
(a) a natural peson,
(b) a corporation incorporated under the Companies Act; or
(c) a corporation registered as a foreip company under the Companies Act



-28-                             Annex 2
Page 8 of 18
The Bougainville Basin compnrses some 4,400 km square. offshore on the western side of the
island of Bougainvile. It is very much a "frontier" area in the very little petroleum exploration bas
occurred to date (only one weil has been drilled). Despite this shorage of data, staff e& the Petroleum
Division believe that the region has considerable potential. Theme is up to 5 km of section in pans of
the basin and several large drillable structures have been recognised from existing seismic data. It is
believed likely that suitable fine grained source and carbonate reservoir rocks will be intersected at
depth.
The New Ireland Basin is the least explored of the presently Imown basins in the county. In fact, it
was not recognised as a basin with resource potential until a research vessel cuised the waters to the
northeast of New Ieland in the early 1980's. The only data presently available which gives clues to
the potential of this basin are the results of a research cnrise seismiic survey and mapping of onshore
sequences of New Ireland. From this limited information it is possible to say that there is some
potential for hydrocarbon accumulations off the coast of New Ieland. Much of the basin is in rather
deep water so it will likely be necessary to look for structures near to shore. Suitable source,
reservoir, and cap rocks have been recorded in the onshore sedimentary sequence and are b.Iieved to
extend offshore where there is probably more than 4km of sedimenut.
In addition there are large areas of the Bisumarek and Solomort Se9s under which the thickness of
sedimentary secton is virtually unknown, although they have been covered in part by    r seismic
surveys. For this remason we are proposing to offer a specie1 category of offshore licence. This would
basically be a shooting option over a large area. Anyone interested should discuss it with us.
Discoveries such as the oil at PurL the gas/condensate at Pasca, the recent Juha gas/condensate and the
exciting and potentially very large Iagifu oil find, have generated much interest within the pefoleum
explomtion industry which iad labeled Papua New Guinea as "gas prone" and therefore unamactive as
an oil prospect Papua New Guinea Ls now seen as one of thefew remaning places in the world
where giant oil fields may still be discovered, as wel as being a country with a stable political climate
which enconrages explorers.
Further information on the petroleum potential of Papua New Guirea, including copies of the
consultants reports, are available from the Petroleum Division of the Geological Survey, P.O. Box
778, Port Moresby, Telephone 224200, Fax 224222, Telex NE23305.
The Geological Survey wishes to thank County NatWest Securities Ausalia Limited for their kind
assistance in the printing of this handbook.
Details of how to apply for petroleum prospecting licences follows:-
Petroleum Prospecting Licences
1.    Any area in Papua New Guinea can be the subject of an application for a Petroleum Prospecting
Licence.
2.    Under the Petroleum Act not more than 200 blocks (5xS minutes) can be applied for in one
application. Within the known basinal areas generally the limit is 60 blocks. Separate
arrangements will be acceptable within the Bismarck and Solomon Sea areas but would have to
be a series of 200 block applications.
3.    Petroleum exploration is controlled by the Petroleum Division of the Geological Survey of
Papua New Guinea. The Petroleum Division is headed by the Chief Pr,troleum Geologist who
is dIso Chief Petroleum Inspector. The Principal Petroleum Registrar is also in the Petroleum
Division.
4.    When applicaions are received a notification is put in tie government gazette and one month is
allowed for obiection%.



Annex 2
7.    Gcne                                                              Page 9 of 18
7.  It is reomeed that foreign companies enapge a firm of local solicitors or public
accountants to handle their affairs during the aipplication period, particularly if the
company requirs reg6smation in accordance with above.
7.2 The Minista responsible for ganting prospecting licences is the Minister for Minerals
and Energy and his Denarwnt is responsible for their administration.
7.3  The Secreutry of the Department is presently the chaimn of the Petroleum Advisory
Board and is the Durew appoitd i accordance with the Petoleum Act
7.4  The Pemleum Advisoy Board is made up of five membes: dthee      the Depanmt of
Minerls and Enrgy and one each from the Department of Finance and the Depanment of
Prvincial AUf&
It meets fom dime to time to make    d tons o     niste on mates relating to
percleum explcarmon. including vaiations to licence con.Ations and the approval of work
prgramms  at the end of the second and fourth yes of the L;cence periodL
8.    Details needed in Application
8.1  When Itng a pspecng licence the Minister for Minerals and Energy must be
satsfied the applicant has a coherent exploration strategy for the licence area as well as
aving the technical and finncial resources to carry out the requisite work programme.
The following infomation mnust therefore be included in an application:
(a)  the full nme of the individuals or companies who are to be the licence holder,
(b) if more than one individual or company is to hold the licence, the respective
paxticiparing inte   and 'who is to be the operator,
(c) the specific blocks being sought and a sketch map indicating their position;
(d) an outline of the technical resowCes of the applicant, pior expeienc in Papua New
Guinea and descriptions of similar exploration progmmes cairied out elsewhere as
well as the rsum  of key indiiduals to be involved in the prrposed propanme
(e) details of the financial and asset resources of the applicants including most recent
financial stanzn.
(f) detailed work and expenditure programmes proposed for the first two years of the
licence peiod;
(g) indicative work and expenditure prgrammes proposed for the final four years of
the licence peiod;
(h) a synopsis of the technical rationale used in developing the work programme
(i)   oal and telex addresses of the applicants;
() non-retumable application fee of K2.000Z, and
(k) any other mlevant information.
8.2  Applications to be delivered to the Director rire of Principal Petroleum Registrar,
Petroleum Division, Geological Survey of Paput- New Guinea, Elanese Steetm Newton,
Port Moresby - Papua New Guinea or posted to above Post Office Box 778. Port
Moresbv. Paoua New Guinea. There ic no nmqtal reliveiv in Prnnw  Jepw C,,i"-'



-30-                                Annex 2
Page 10 of 18
TABLE 1. RECENT PLTROLEUM DISCOVERIES, PAPUAN BASIN
We     : Nmgbmmjmml                                     Flowsi
Juba 1-X          3196 - 3225      1984     Gas at 14.81 MMSCFPD and condensate at mte 991
BPD.
Juha 2-X          3221 - 3265      1984     Gas at 24.11 MMSCFPD ad condensate at rate of
1680 BPD
Juha 3-X          3301 - 3322      1985     Gas at 13.29  MCFPD, and condensate at 1538
BPD on a 40/64 inch choke. Absolute open flow
poumdal is 46.8 MMSCFPD.
lagifu 2-X        2430 - 2542      1986     Gas at rates up to 10.5 MMCFPD and oil (43
degPI) at 2300 BPD duough a 1 inch choke. On
a 2 inch choke oil at 3400 BPD wasn easued.
agifu3-X         2585-2591         1986     OHl at 3668 BPD 46 degA4FI, 3.81 MMCPGPD,
1/4 inch choke.
3027 - 3042               3168 BOPD 46 degAPI, 7.85 MMCFGPD, 1 inch
Choke
3066 - 3071               322 BOPD 46 API, 0.82 MMCFGPD. 7/16 inch
choke
3076 - 3082                1231 BOPD, 4038 BWPD, 4.07 MMCFGPD, 1
inch choke
SE Hedinia 1.X  1861 - 1867        1987     Gas at 7.81 MMSCFPD through a 40/6A inch
choke.
2057.3-2062.2             Oil (44.4 deg.API) at 215 BPD and gas at 0.7
MMCFPD through a 20/64 inch choke.
SE Hedinia 2-X    '926 - 1988      1987     Gas at undeterained rate
Below 2124                 "          n
Hides 1          2999 - 3053       1987     Gas at 23 MMSCFPD on a 1/2 inch choke, and
15.9 MMSCEPD on 3/8 inch choke.
3248 - 3257               Gas at 1.15 MMSCFPD on a 1/2 inch choke, and
associated condete esmated at 23.5 BPD
3190- 3200                Gas at 7.89 MMSCFPD on a 3/8 inch choke, and
associated condensate at 217 BPD
3149.5-3162.5             Gas at rate of 12.07 MMSCFPD on a 3/8 inch
choke, and associated condensate at 408 BPD.



- 31 -
Annex 2
Page 11 of 18
4.
PL78                               / 5 AT  A 0 C X    5 I A
PPIL     PTROLEM PROSECTIN
.  1.  ~~~~1.
I PLITNEMENT  ADREV SITS OF
IPPL M                           12 } m.
l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O- b00bPItt w lil C
. /O~~SCet ~PPLI02 
/    PPL81  OOSIbV*<   "        p       O-52XXJ~~~OOO
{ r   ,,        ;zlL    L ~~~~~~~~~~~PP 5
rFO                             PPL63 tt  p$9 5 
_~~~~AP 1131t -APP 11                PL5 
w * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PPL66 9_o  
PEtROLEUMI PR08PEkCTING
TENEMENTS AND RESERVE ESTIMIIATES OF



4)Sp C& I                a4e'Wg4m
E.,~.uI g g                                    .LEGEND
U.eie.kO S8 BISMARCK   SEA                 a0 *_ 
*     *     1      P    ;       }X0                                   *  EinsCUI- g
@hIiI                                      U                           ee *    O I a   0
X          ~              oes anU
r~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ rA   *a6.,u0.m_
if                                         S               0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W160a OSWi
*^s ..aAa$~  cl T                                             MAP AREA
*~~~4.d ~~~~~' ~SOLOMON
=t;Xj   asac"a^+      0X,*||3< a1ulm
a       SEA      s o a O    A  s   Ie Xm
_*d os s    *                              <                &   OIL    WELLS
OilS                      LOCALITY MAP
CORAL SEA                ~~~OF OIL & GAS SEEPS
~~(a .-.~~  COSAESSEA& OIL WELLS



NEW IRELAND
BASIN
NORTH NEW GUINEA
1ISMA fC K         SEA
S  O L  O Al  O N    Sf A            BOUGAINVtLE
Z 14 t \ ~~~~~~~~CAFE VOGEL
IASIN   ~      ~        CUEENT f
PPL APPLKICAfON
rJ  ttolfclD ZONE        *      AOUAN IIAIN °O
0 -
.*|p fiErc.  _....... a se,__, __ .me.... _
(DO
co



- 34 -
Annex 2
Page 14 of 18
THE INDEPENDENTr STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PETROLEUM PROSPECTING LICENCE (PPL)
AS AT FEBRUARY 11, 1988.
Licence/    On/ Province    Dae    No.    Licences               Contact Addmss
Basin    Offshore           Granted   of        (%)
(expiv   Blocks  (oaM oaeauf
(LiceceBasin: A- Appicaion    E-Enuson. O-OQfer)
27(E) Papu  On  Souhen   14 Nov 86  47  BP Pet Dcv. (95) (op)  D. Balchin, BP Petroleum
E"ands  (14.11.91)        OilSesach(5)          DevelopmentAust LuL,
&                                               IVestcm  1 Albet Road, Vic. 3004
Ausraaa Ph:268 4397
30(E) Papuan On/ Gulf and   25 Sep 86  86  PeutoxCnada (79.17)   P. Kayo, PetroCanada
Off Centra    (25.9.91)        (opYK.Graham (18.33)  P.O.Box 2844,
Austin Oil NL. (2.5)   Calgary, AlbouaCanada
T2P3E3. Tlx3 821524
Ph:(403) 296 8734
31(E) North  On  West       25 Sep 86  81  Toun No 86 PL (op)   A. Kugler
New Guinea       Sepik     (25.9.91)       LCrtnhm (90)          Toutu No.86 Pty. Ltd.,
Austin Oil Nt ('10)    Building 8,5 00 Capital
of Texas Hwy, Norh Austin
Texas 78746
Ph:(512) 326 0878
Fax:(512) 328 5103
51 Papuan   Onl Gulf        29 June 83  60  Kundu Exploranon(100) RW. Evans
Off            (29.6.89)       (op)                  Kundu Explortion Pty Ltd
P.O. Box 6364.
Boroko PNG,
Ph:454101 Fax:213036
Sydney office:
Ph: (02) 964 4588
Fax:(02) 929 5467
36 Papuan   On  Gulf        12Dec 85  71  Base (97.5) (op)       Ademing,
(12.12.91)     Mounmins Wes Expl.  Giant Resources.
(2.5)                 17th floor,
141 Walker Seet,
North Sydney NSW 2060
Ph: 957 1054
Fax 922 5033
59 Papuan   On  Gul &       24 Feb 87  70  Overseas Petroum      Y.T. Lee,
Westen    (24 Feb 92)     Investment Corp (100)  Overss Petoleum
(op)                 Investment. Rwa Road.
Comtianon. 83 Chung



Annex 2
- 35 -                          Page 15 of 18
60 Papuan   On/ Gulf&      14 Mar 86  84  SE Oil & Gas (op)    See PPL 31
Off Conta    (14.3.92)       N mugi Mining 1 (45)
And  Kugler. Jr (25)
W.S. Newberry (25)
Austin Oil N.L.(5)
63Papuan   Off Gulf        14Mar86  64  PzueuOilfieldsof       D.MiJzer
(14.3.92)     NiugmiPAL(lOOXop)   PremierOilfieldsofNiugini
Pty. Ltd.,
Castrol House,
6 Hil View Road.
-  Fu:76080S5
Ph: 760 7711
Tlx 33581
66 Papuan  OCk  Gulf&      7 Aug 86   90  Toutu No 84 PAL (op)   See PPL 31
Off Cental   (7.8.92)         Andw Kuler Jr.(90)
Austin Oil Ni. (10)
68 Papuan   On  Westen    14Mar86  183 ANZPeroleum(100)   SeePPL51
(14.3.92)     KuExploraion(op)
49% F.L Pending
69 Papuan   On  Wesemn   14 Mar 86  200 ANZ Petroleum (100)   See PPL 51
(14.3.92)     Kundu Exploaion (op)
49% F.L Pending
72 Papuan   On  Gulf       27 Oct 86  64  Kelvin Ery (100) (op) B. Carter,
(27.10.92)                          2295-1055 W. Hasdngs St
Vancouver, B.C.
Canada V6E2E9
Tlx 04-50789
Ph:(604) 6815141
74 Papuan   On  Chimbu,   7 Nov 86   127 SE Oil & Gas (op)    See PPL 31
Gulf      (7.11.92)      Andrew Kugler, Jr (47.5)
Easten                   W.B. Newberry (47.5)
sghlands                 Austin Oil NL (5.0)
76 Papuan   On  Gulf &     21 Nov 86  53  Kundu Petroleum (50) (op)  See PPL 51
Southern  (21.11.92)     Base Resources (SO)
77 Papuan   On  Westen    1 Dec 86   48  Pabody Ventur P/L    I Larson
Gulf &    (1.12.92)      (60) (op) Gamet PNG   2425 S. Colorado Blvd.
Southem                  Venwres (40)         Denver Colorado 8022)
Highlands                                     USA
Fax 303 756 6755
Ph: 303 758 1231



-36-                             Annex 2
Page 16 of 18
7 North    Ot  West Sepik 24 Nov 86 10   Toutu No 86 P/L (op)   See PPL 31
New                      (24.11.92)     K. Graham (67.5)
W.B. Newberry (11.25)
Andrew Kugler, Jr. (11.25)
Austin Oil N.L. (10.0)
79 Papan   Off Gulf        21 Nov 86  80  Kelvin Energy (100) (op) See PPL 72
(21.11.92)
S1 Papuan   On  Southan   I Mar 87   200 Santos Ltd (100) (op)  R. Causebrnook
Highlands, (1.3.93)                            Santos indtitd
Westen                                         39 Grenfell SL.
& Gulf                                         Adelaide, S.A. 5000
AumliaTx 82716
Fax:(08) 218 5357
Ph:(09) 218 5854
82 Papuan   Off Gulf       20 Feb 87  124 Ineainal Petiotm   A. Lundin,
(20.2.93)      Cation (1OG) (op)  lantrnadonal Petaleum
6 rue de Rive 1204,
Geneva, Switzerland
TIx: 428 744
Ph:(022) 217488
85 Papuan   Off Gulf        1 Feb 87  32  Prer Olfelds of       See PPL 63
(11.2.93)      Niugini (100) (op)
86 Papuan   On  Enp &      31 Jul 87   135 BP Pet Dev.(100) (op)  See PPL 27
Southern  (3 1.7.93)
87 Papuan   Onl Wesm       31 Jul 87   60  Papun Gulf Pemleum   A. Rintoul
Off            (31.7.93)      (100) (op)            EDS Pty. Ltd. 8th floor
169 MillerStreet
North Sydney 2060
TIx-: 70238
Fax: (02) 957 5368
Ph: ~J2) 957 6932
89 Papuan   On  Southem   31 Jul 87   18  Lakes Oil (PNG) Ltd    R. Annels
Highlands  (31.7.93)     (50) (op)/Marieba     Lakes OiL 4th floor
& Enga                    Imenational (Qld) Pty.  60 Albert Road.
Ltd. (50)            South Melboume 3205
T:x.:136149
Ph:(03) 321 4011
93 Papuan   On  Southem   31 Jul 87   46  Rigg Exploradon (100)  T.L. Reiner
Highlands  (31.7.93)      (op)                 Rigg Exploration Pty Ltd
CP- PO Box 904
Port Moresby PN.G



-37-
Annex 2
Page 17 of 18
94 Papuan   On  Westen &  13 Nov 87  96  Bosavi Exploration (100) W.A. Forster
Southern  (13.11.93)     (op)                 GPO Pox T17265
Highlands                                     Perh WA 6001
Fax: (09) 325.8560
Tel:.(09) 325.8866
95 Papuan   Off Gulf       31 Jul87   17  InrnadonalPetoleum   See PPL 82
(31.7.93)      Corporaton(10O)(op)
96(A)           North
Bougainville Off Solomons            95  As above              As above
98 Papuan   Off Cental    29 Doc 87  9   Papuan Gulf Petroleum   See PPL 87
(29.12.93)    (100) (oP)
99Papuan   On  Gulf        29 Dec 87  5   As above             As above
(29.12.93)
100 Papuan  On  Southern   3 Aug 87   49  Niugni Gulf Oil (25)   E. Robins,
Highlads  (3.8.93)       (op)/BP (25)/Picon Pet. Niugimi Gulf OiL
& Gulf                   Inc(14.98)/BHP (12.5)  Port Moresby PNG
Oil Search (10.017)/   TLx NE22205
Merlin Pet (12.5 FO)Y   Fax: 211102
Bond Corp (5 FI)     Ph: 211088
Ampol Ex (5 FI)
101 Papuan  On  Westem    3 Aug 87   98  Niugn Gulf Oil(25)(op)   As above
(3.8.93)       BP(21.0;)/Ampol (13.99)
Picon Pet Inc (13.99)
Merlin Pet (12.5 FO)
BHP (7-5) / Oil
Search (6.01)/Bond (5 Fl)
102 Western On  Western   29 Dec 87  111 Gedd Inc (100) (op)    J.H. Harmon
(29.12.93)                          Gedd Inc., 2000
N.Woodward Avenue
Suite 200, Bloomsfield
lls Michigan 48013
USA Ph(512)991 9232
103 North   On  Madang    29Dec87  60  PapuanGulf Petoleum  See PPL 87
New Gunea                  (29.12.93)     (100) (0P)



- 38 -                          Annex 2
Page 18 of 18
105 North   Onl East &     15 Feb 88  84  Armadale One Pry Ltd   B. PhilUips
Guinea      Off West       (15.2.94)      (100) (op)            Peroleum Securities
Sepik                                          Australia Limited.
PO Box R204, Royal
Exchange NSW 2000
18th floor, 56 Pitt Street,
Sydney NSW 2000
Ph: (02) 27 4605
TLx. 71999
Fax: (07)251 2410
106 Papuan  On  West       1 Feb 88   85  Highland Petroleum P/L  J. Mulready
Sepik.    (1.2.94)        (33.3)/Victoria      Mulrady Consulting
Western &                 Exploration (PNG) Pty  Serices,
Southem                   Ltd (33.3)/Fist      11 Norman Street,
Highlands                 Ausian Resources    East Doncaster,
(PNG) Pty. Ltd. (33.3)  Vic. 3109
Austalia
Ph:(03)848 3660
Fax:(03)848 5934
108 Papuan  On  Chimbu    10 Feb 88  60  TMOC Reources Ltd   H. Gordon
Gulf,     (10.2.94)       (op)/Nowra No. 49 P/L  23rd floor,
wesm                      (55)/Flind   PAL (25)   12 Creek Street
& Soudtern                Pagini Oil & Gas (20)   Brisbane Qld. 4000
Highlands                                      Ph: (07) 221 8288
Tlx: 41040
109 Papuan  Onl Gulf        13 Nov 87  1   Toutu No 86 PAL (op)   See PPL 31
Off            (13.11.93)      NiuginiMining(45)
Andrew Kugler JR (25)
WD. Newberry (25)
Austin Oil N.L. (5)
112(0) Papuan On Westen               73  Cahill Pty Ltd (10) (op)  P. Lavers
/Off                           Bamabata No 47 Co.(50) Pan Pacific Petroleum
Cochin Pty Ltd (40)    5th floor, Norplaza,
169 Miller Seet
North Sydney NSW 2060
TLx 70238
Fax (02) 925 0564
113(0)      OW  Westrn                163 Continental Oil N.L.    RJ.S. Hollingsworth
Papuan      Off                            (50) (op)/Batabata No.  Continenmal Oil Expl.
90 (50)              Pty. Ltd., 44 Greenhill
Road, Wayville SA 5034
Australia
Ph: 2121 377
TIx: 88909
116(A)      Off Gulf                  35  Inernation'il Petroleum   See PPL 82
Papuan                                     Coporation (100) (op)



- 39-                             Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF PROFESSIONAL STAFF IN PRAG/PETROLEUM DIVISION
No. of Experienced                 No. of Young
Professional Staff             Professional Staff
Year         National   ExPatriate                 National
1983             1            2                         1
1984             1            3                         1
1985            1 a/          3                         2
1986             -            4                         6
1987             -            5                         6
1988             -            6                         9
'/ Transferred out of PRAG on promotion.



Pkl'ROLWUM DIVISIoN
Ctlief Petroleum Geoloqist
Expatriate staff-I
I                I          i i .,III0 -'
Petroleum          Resource      Archives   Drilling    Reservoir        Petroleum
Exploration       Assessment                              Engineering   Geophysics
Administration
Expatriate Staff              I                1             1           1             I         Vacant
National Staff as             2                 1            2          2             2          Vacant
Understudies
0
IN 



ZCZC OERP0302 UWU1029
OEDD2
.TCP D.S.
ATTACHMENT 1
*OEDD2*                       -41 -
COMMENTS FROM CO-FINANCIER
WBW1029 SUSPECTED DUPLICATE
89.08.21.0820 1029 89.08.21.0822
197688 WORLDBANK
131734 FUND A
REFNO. 5656/21
AUG. 21. 89
FROM: OPEC FUND, VIENNA
TO: MR. ALEXANDER NOWICKI7 CHIEF. POLICY-BASED LENDING INDUSTRY
PUBLIC UTILITIES AND URBAN SECTORS DIVISION, OPERATIONS
EVALUATION DEPT., WORLD BANK, WASHINGTON D.C.
RE - PNG - OPEC FUND LOAN NO. 312P. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN THE
ENERGY SECTOR7 URLET AUG. 1.
PLSD TO ACKNOWLEDGE WITH THANKS RECEIPT OF ABOVE LET WITH ATTACHED
DRAFT PCR ON AFORESAID PROJECT. WE WENT OVER THE REPORT AND APPRE-
CIATE ALL THE EFFORTS U TOOK IN COMPILING INFO THEREIN, AND ARE
PLSD TO INFORM U THAT WE HAVE NO COMMENT ON THE DOCUMENT. WOULD
LIKE TO SEIZE THIS OPPORTUNITY TO EXPRESS OPEC FUND'S APPRECIA-
TION FOR THE UORLD BANK'S ADMINISTRATION OF THE FUND'S LOAN FOR
THIS PROJECT AND LOOK FORWARD TO STRENGTHENING OUR COOPERATION
IN THE FUTURE.
BEST REGARDS
HASSAN OSHAFU
OPERATIONS OFFICER
OPEC FUND
131734 FUND A
197688 WORLDBANK
=O821O825
NNNN



IBRD 16391
|14X                                                    147                                                    15D                                                     153'                         PAPUA   NEW   GUINEA                       APRIL 1982
PETROLEUM POTENTIAL STUDY
!UPETPDL5UMPNEONDA                 PAN -C -TI-TD AND
|:                                                                                                      c-4.           D _,  A.IX                                                                                                                               ISLA _,,  PNGDP EXPLORATIONALOANE ETA LIMITED Ae    D U
! <S, .S                                                                                                                                   /)                                        .         AUSTRALASIAN TPFAU8FTPAI IA PIY LID A8D 8'UGN'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-I-IT A5TALA TY .  DAl  T
|)                                                    DEAELA NDFISE   A 5AtAID PE-XLT SMD TALGIAN
'4 6           '  '                                                                                                                                                                                       2 5  -..                                             D A L~F E   O IL   E TAN e O P A H A M LO I L T E DV A N Y P
,19 5   4*0   44                                                                                                                                                                         A                                                               ASERSPA_N EF ALEW DOI ETA CLTDM  A N YA9D 5J
,P' °  o A '1                                                        PUREALAIAN TETEDLEAN AD ETA LTD AND
IN  PETROLEDET TEE LIE L
._    4   ....    494_,!   <,   ............. - . i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TITPISIN EPOE.   .  T'I. N
4                                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NEW  IXELANTt            IUOINI GALL AlL PTED LIMITED
0,9,,.  WN                                                                                                                                                                              ADNADAN ODELDIAX DIL IADOTI ETA LTD AND~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CAAOANSUE.OR-    ST ~l T.AN
4'DD>A  ,                                                                                                                                    5.~~~~~~~~~~~                             ADASAEL TAEAA NEW ADINNA EDELDEATISE ISA.~~~~~~~%  OASALPADA  EWGU-A~0-TII NC
'______   NEM-ONT NEW AUINEA AIL CAROMDN ANN AS LAN
-OoboN                            -  ~~~~~~~~PETNOLEXM IPAPUA NEW GUINEAI CORPOATDO0OT
ADERILLERA PAPUAD NEW AINA INA
'Et                               A         '\ ai                                                                                                                            .i La                   ,
>4~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~1,, ~~~~~~~~~~~~,                                                                                                                           EAWN~~~~~~~~~~~~OMOIC NADE-REN
L |       -                (3@erAPmparS   Ye/                                                                                                                                                          KILOMETERS OIL WELLD                  IG0
6~~~~~~~~~~  2>                                                                                                                             ROXN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ASDWNLLSDET
it§ |OIN |>                                                                                  timol m¼>_mt                                        =     =NIXTE!RNATIONAL GOUNOAPIES                           O    G   40   80   80N100
MO(WMN                                                                                                                     '    NEW  BRITAIN _                                                                                      /
-                                                                                            90009~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OCINVILLE/
<A                      RAXIE                                      'R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
2                '~~~~"    '9                              -     \8Z'XER7               TMCXPS~~~~~~~~~~~~r,8RAND  SLDP  WX'
____  .  -                                                                      3           c                                           X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OOOX,IAXW  SUB8AS
-'  -                                                                                                                                                                    I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OCETP       C S  o 16
S    \>~~~~~~~~~-  ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~      ~    ~     ~    NT.NTON -O NA<S -ES~
½                                                                                                                                             -                 S~~~~~~4  1-IF13



