Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3238-PNG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FOR A
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
JTune 14, 1982
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Kina (K)
KI     =  US$1.48
Kl     =  100 Toea (t)
US$1   =  K 0.676
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)             =  2.20 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)          =  2,205 pounds
1 kilometer (km)            =  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq km) =  0.38 square miles
1 barrel                    =  159 liters
1 US gallon                 =  3.78 liters
MW                          = Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
GWh                         =  1,000,000 kilowatt-hours
ABBREVIATIONS
BCL    -  Bougainville Copper Limited
DME    -  Department of Minerals and Energy
ELCOM  -  Electricity Commission
LPG    -  Liquefied Petroleum Gas
OPEC   -  Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PAB    -  Petroleum Advisory Board
PDL    -  Petroleum Development License
PPF    -  Project Preparation Facility
PPL    -  Petroleum Prospecting License
PRAG   -  Petroleum Resources Assessment Group
RR     -  Robertson Research (Australia/UK)
GOVERNMENT OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Credit and Project Surmmary
Borrower:           Papua New Guinea (PNG)
Beneficiary:        Department of Minerals and Energy (DME)
Amount:             US$3.0 million (SDR 2.7 million)
Terms:              Standard
Project
Description:      The proposed Project aims at accelerating petroleum
exploration in Papua New Guinea by: (i) collecting and
reassessing past exploration data with a view to identify-
ing new exploration leads; (ii) strengthening the govern-
ment entity in charge of petroleum exploration; and
(iii) setting up an appropriate data base on PNG's
petroleum geology and prospects. The proposed Project
will also re-evaluate the commercial potential of past
discoveries of natural gas reserves. Specifically the
Project would comprise: (i) a geological/geophysical
reassessment of past exploration data with the objective
of preparing reports designed to generate interest in
PNG's prospects by the oil industry; (ii) strengthening
of the Geological Survey Division of the Department of
Minerals and Energy by the provision of technical
assistance, the acquisition of essential office
facilities where all past exploration data would be
assembled, and the training of PNG nationals; (iii) a
promotional effort aimed at inducing oil companies to
seek exploration licenses in PNG; (iv) a prefeasibility
study of the development of a small gas-condensate field
in PNG and a re-evaluation of the gas reserves from five
earlier discoveries; and (v) other studies, the scope of
which remains to be determined.
Benefits:           The main benefit of the Project is that, by acquiring
adequate knowledge of its petroleum potential and pros-
pects, PNG will be in a position to organize and accelerate
the oil exploration effort on a rational basis to meet the
Government's interest and objectives in the sector.
Another benefit of the Project is that, through the
re-evaluation of past gas discoveries and the training of
key staff, PNG would be better able to plan the
development of its energy sector.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Risk:               The main risk of this Project is that it would not lead
to an acceleration of the exploration effort by the oil
industry. In view of the interest expressed by the
international oil industry in exploring PNG, this risk is
considered to be small. In any event, PNG would acquire,
through this Project, a basic appreciation of its
petroleum exploration potential, which is not available
at present.
Local Foreign Total
Estimated Cost:/a                                                 (US$'000)
Refinancing of Project Preparation
Facility (PPF)                          -      250      250
Geophysical/geological reassessment    -    2,140   2,140
Strengthening of geological survey   320         750   1,070
Promotional effort                        -      100      100
Gas development study                    20      100      120
Other studies                           150      570      720
Project base cost                       490    3,910   4,400
Physical contingencies                    -      330      330
Price contingencies                      90      760      850
Total Project Cost                580    5,000   5,580
Local  Foreign  Total
Financing Plan:                                                   (US$'000) -  --
IDA                                       -    3,000   3,000
OPEC Fund                                      2,000   2,000
Government                              580        -      580
Total                             580    5,000   5,580
Estimated           Bank Group FY                             FY83   FY84   FY85
Disbursements:                                             -- ($ million) --
Annual                                     1.2    0.9    0.9
Cumulative                                 1.2    2.1    3.0
Rate of Return:    Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:           No Staff Appraisal Report has been prepared.
Map:                IBRD No. 16390
/a  The Project is exempt from customs duties and taxes.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE INDEPENDENT STATE OF
PAPUA NEW GUINEA FOR A PETROLEUM EXPLORATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Independent State of Papua New Guinea for the
Petroleum Exploration Technical Assistance Project for the equivalent of
SDR 2.7 million (US$3.0 million) on standard IDA terms. The OPEC Fund has
made a preliminary commitment to provide joint cofinancing in the amount of
US$2.0 million.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report, "Papua New Guinea:  Development Policies
and Prospects for the 1980s" (Report No. 3544a-PNG), was distributed to the
Executive Directors in December 1981. This report reflects the findings of
an economic mission which visited PNG in February/March 1981; the following
discussion of the economy of PNG is based on this work. Details of recent
economic data can be found in Annex I.
Structure of the Economy
3.        Papua New Guinea is a land of rugged and sometimes impenetrable
mountains, rich valleys and coastal plains, and numerous widely scattered
islands. It is favored with abundant rainfall, considerable mineral
resources, and forestry and fishery resources of good commercial potential.
The capital city, Port Moresby, with a population of about 134,000, is an
enclave, with no road links to other parts of the country, and is the
largest urban settlement in what remains an overwhelmingly rural society.
Per capita GDP in 1980 was US$780. The modern sector of the economy is
dominated by the Bougainville copper mine and by the nonnational community
which was previously part of the Australian administration and which still
contributes significantly to both the public administration and the private
sector. Mining contributes about 15% of GDP, and the government sector and
a variety of small manufacturing and service establishments contribute about
half of GDP. Agriculture, forestry, and fisheries, which employ about 85%
of the labor force, largely in the rural areas, provide the rest of GDP, with
about 40% of the sectoral output coming from subsistence agriculture.
4.        PNG faced a critical period before and immediately following
independence when, for three consecutive years (FY75-77), the economy failed
to grow significantly. This resulted from the international recession as
well as from acute uncertainties regarding the political future of PNG and



- 2 -
these factors compounded the difficulties faced by an emerging nation. In
1978 and 1979 GDP growth averaged over 4.4% p.a. in real terms, but the
growth was weaker in the second year than in the first, and a small decline
took place in 1980. Preliminary information suggests little or no recovery
in 1981. The terms ot trade effect was strongly negative in 1978, but not
in 1979, and over the two years gross domestic income averaged nearly the
same growth rate as GDP. Terms of trade fell again in 1980 (while remaining
above their 1979 levels); and preliminary data suggest a further decline in
1981. Because ot the political uncertainties of the mid-seventies,
mismanagement of the plantation agricultural sector and economic management
policies which strove to preserve stability, per capita income growth
stagnated over the decade. While the growth rates are likely to improve
somewhat as the Ok Tedi copper and gold mine comes on line, there is still a
need to improve economic performance, particularly in the agricultural
sector, which has lagged behind the rest of the economy. Investment appears
not to have picked up in this sector as it has in the economy generally.
Since agriculture is the major source of employment and income for the bulk
of PNG's population, its failure to grow would result in a deterioration in
the income and living standards of many people.
5.        The large fluctuations in the performance of PX's economy result
in part from its vulnerability to international economic conditions. The
marginal propensity to import is very high, and international inflation is
quickly passed on. Exports are dominated by four commodities - copper
concentrate, coffee, cocoa, and copra - which contribute about 85% of total
export earnings. Price fluctuations, particularly if they occur simulta-
neously, as in 1980, can thus have a substantial impact on the economy. In
addition, PNG runs a large structural deficit on its current account, the
counterpart of the large budgetary grant from Australia, equivalent to about
one-third of exports.
6.        The Government has taken a number of steps to reduce the impact of
variations in the international economy. A Mineral Resources Stabilization
Fund smooths the impact of fluctuating copper prices on the budget, and
stabilization funds for coffee, cocoa, and copra are designed to reduce the
oscillations in prices received by producers. This has the effect of damp-
ening price-induced supply responses and contributing to the stability of
the economy, although it also has inevitable destabilizing effects on the
balance of payments. To date the management of these funds has been very
disciplined and has reduced the fluctuations in government spending that
might otherwise have occurred. With the establishment and strengthening of
the Minimum Wage Boards between 1972 and 1976, real minimum wages more than
doubled in that period, making PNG the highest wage economy of the develop-
ing countries in the region. Since then, two three-year wage agreements
have limited the rise of both public and private sector wages to that of the
consumer price index, subject to a present maximum of 11.75%, thus ending
the sharp upward spiral of real wages that occurred during 1972-76. The



- 3 -
hard currency policy followed by the Government has helped to cut down
inflation to an average of 8% p.a. in the last three years. At the same
time this policy, by putting pressure on domestic profits and farm incomes,
may have been in part responsible for the slow growth of the economy. In
the area of foreign aid, the Government has worked out the principle of
multi-year agreements with Australia, the major donor, which guarantee a
steady, though declining, flow of grant aid.  These agreements have helped
the Government to proceed in an orderly manner with its budget planning.
7.        The energy sector in PM is an important one, with per capita con-
sumption being approximately 350 kg of oil equivalent per annum. Commercial
energy consumption accounts for approximately 60 percent of total energy
consumption. Ninety percent of commercial consumption is accounted for by
oil imports; Bougainville Copper Ltd. alone took up 40 percent of this
total. Domestic noncommercial consumption on the other hand, accounted for
roughly half of total oil products imports of 646,600 tons (K144 million, or
roughly 20 percent of merchandise imports). The bulk of this was consumed
by expatriates; energy consumption by the Papua New Guinean population, 80
percent of whom live in rural areas, has been preponderately in the form of
traditional fuels - wood charcoal and crop residues. As the latter becomes
increasingly urbanized, however, consumption patterns are likely to shift to
more modern forms of energy.
Development Strategy and Planning
8.        In the post-independence period a concerted effort was made to
define a set ot economic and social policies according to which government
resources were to be allocated. However, more weight has been given to
developing a viable economic strategy and a decision-making process for the
budgeting of government resources than to the preparation and implementation
of a comprehensive development plan. While a "National Development
Strategy" has been defined and strategic objectives identified as the basis
for resource allocation, these have not represented a basis for a growth-
oriented development strategy as such.
9.        The National Development Strategy instead places a high priority
on improving the quality of life of the rural population, focusing on rural
development in the less developed areas of the country. A second objective
is the development of a few large natural resource projects aimed at
reducing the present very heavy reliance on aid and leading towards economic
self-reliance. The first objective recognizes not only the agricultural
potential of the country, but also the fact that the agricultural sector
will be for quite a few generations the main source of income generation and
employment. The second objective, while not directly benefitting the vast
majority of the population, is intended to provide a resource base, thus
allowing the implementation of development programs. The implementation of
the second objective clearly entails the importing of foreign capital and
expertise, for which PN has been very open, at least with respect to
minerals investments.



-4 -
10.       To carry out its development strategy, the Government established
the annual National Public Expenditure Plan (NPEP), a rolling four-year plan
for the public sector which focuses political decision making on nine
strategic objectives and the tradeoffs between them. While the basic aims
of the NPEP are to link the planning process with overall economic policy
and to direct public spending to the activities that have the highest
national priority, its impact is constrained by the limitation of its
coverage to new projects as well as by the fact that forward planning is
only carried out for one year. The first NPEP accounted for only 4% of the
1978 expenditures (K 20 million), but subsequent plans have been covering
increasing portions of the budget as government revenues have grown, ongoing
projects are being completed and a continuing review of existing
expenditures leads either to their elimination or their reformulation and
inclusion in the NPEP. In the 1981 budget, the NPEP encompassed nearly
one-quarter of total expenditures. Implementation of NPEP projects has been
delayed by lack of staff and experience, but the record is gradually
improving. In effect, the NPEP process emphasizes the management of
recurrent costs associated with capital projects - no mean achievement - but
the NPEP is not, strictly speaking, geared to development.
Development Issues
11.       The major factors which will affect the Government's ability to
promote economic development are the decentralization of government
activities, the ability to achieve self-reliance in both staffing and
tinancial resources, and the willingness to take new initiatives in policy
formulation and investment in the agricultural sector.
12.       Decentralization, which gives the provinces greater control over
spending, reduces the central government's ability to pursue its priorities,
while inadequate staffing interferes with the ability of the provinces to
develop their own plans. PNG's topography has made it a country of
scattered tribes, with no great sense of national unity, and a degree of
political decentralization was a necessary response to secessionist
pressures. Provincial governments are gradually assuming regulatory and
financial control in some areas and will share power with the central
Government in others. Provincial governments are financed through central
Government conditional and unconditional grants, central government refunds
of certain revenues, and to a very limited extent their own taxation
measures. Unconditional grants, which allow provinces to spend according to
their own priorities, are by far the most important source of finance; but
while in the 1982 budget they comprised over 70% of the total receipts of
the provinces, they amounted to less than one-quarter of total central
government revenues. One of the most serious problems facing provincial
governments is the shortage of trained and experienced staff, and the most
urgent priority of the provinces is to develop the capability for budgeting,
planning, and project identification and preparation. The central
Government and other organizations assisting the provinces must make a
concerted effort to orient inputs toward that goal.



- 5 -
13.        Self-reliance in PNG involves both availability of skilled
manpower and financial resources. On the staffing side, the Government has
made substantial progress in replacing expatriates with nationals,
especially considering that the University of Papua New Guinea produced its
first graduates as recently as 1972. However, the country still relies
heavily on expatriates for many necessary services. In the public sector,
localization has reached an overall level of 90%, compared to 80% in 1971,
but at the higher levels of skill requiring post-secondary education, the
proportion of nationals is still only around 40%. This situation has
created a relatively high cost government and a dependence on the Austra-
lian grant (now equal to about 10% of GDP) to help meet these costs.  The
shortage of qualified staff is reflected in the existing vacancies in
government, and in some departments the shortages of professionals are
critical. The establishment of provincial governments is adding to the
pressures on existing staff, and the policy of localizing positions held by
expatriates adds to the demand for trained Papua New Guineans. While various
training programs have been established to fill these needs, they have thus
far proved inadequate.
14.        The Government's efforts to attain financial self-reliance
emphasize modest but steady and sustainable growth in real public
expenditure accompanied by a reduction of reliance on foreign aid from
Australia. Domestic revenue accounted for only about 36% of government
receipts in FY68, 60% of the total in FY76 (immediately after independence);
and 68% in 1981. Over the past seven years, the Bougainville copper mine
has been a major source of domestic revenue, averaging 18% of the total and
reaching a peak of 27% in FY76. While mineral revenues have since fallen,
they should be restored to their former levels when the Ok Tedi mine begins
production in 1984.
15.        Capital expenditures have grown faster than current expenditures in
the last two years, and the estimated share of capital expenditures in the
1980 budget is about 20%. In any event, the Government recognizes that the
level of current expenditures (over 40% of which is for wages and salaries),
high at 28% of GDP, must be contained. However, the availability of the
Australian grant and substantial revenues from copper exports has made it
somewhat difficult to impose financial discipline in this area. A sharp drop
in 1981-82 export earnings induced a budget providing for a 3% real
reduction in outlays.
16.        While economic management has been sound and a framework for
planning economic development has been evolved, the country's growth perfor-
mance has been disappointing, averaging little more than the rate of
population growth over the 1970s. Of particular concern is a lack of growth in
the agricultural sector, which will have to absorb the bulk of the additions
to the labor force in the foreseeable future. Despite a great potential for
agricultural development, investment in the sector remains low, and its
prospects for the coming decade are not bright unless steps are taken to
bolster its growth. The major constraints are inadequate extension services



-6-
for smallholders, a lack of finance, land laws which prevent the consolidation
of holdings too small for economic redevelopment, a shortage of managerial
talent, and legislation designed to encourage the transfer of foreign-owned
plantations to Papua New Guineans, which has been a serious disincentive to
reinvestment. The Government recognizes the gravity of the situation and has
taken some initiatives to improve it, including suspension of the plantation
redistribution legislation, measures to supply management skills to Papua New
Guinean-owned estates, and preliminary discussions on a reorganization of
extension services. Conservative economic management of all sectors of the
economy, together with exchange rate policies emphasizing internal price
stability and a heavily regulated economic environment more suited to a
developed country, have not helped Papua New Guinea resolve the above problems
in such a way as to achieve a growth path more in line with its potential.
External Sector
17.       PNG experienced huge trade deficits prior to the introduction of
copper exports in FY73. The current account deficit was around one quarter
of GDP in the early 1970s.  Imports wgere over 50% of GDP, whereas exports
were only about one-third as high. Since FY73, however, earnings from
copper exports have dwarfed those from other commodities, and, except for
small deficits in FY75/76 when copper and copra prices fell, the balance on
current account, which includes the large Australian grant, remained
positive despite large service payments, and reserves of foreign exchange
reached ten months' worth of imports in mid-1979. However, falling
commodity prices, a decline in the copper content in the output of the
Bougainville mine, as well as rising imports and import prices all
contributed to a large deficit in the current account in 1980. Reserves are
still at a healthy level, but they can be expected to decline further.
18.       The current account deficit in the balance of payments is likely
to grow for the first few years of the decade, as the requirements for the
construction of Ok Tedi cause imports to grow faster than exports, and as
PNG's terms of trade remain adverse. By mid-decade, however, the growth
rate of imports should fall below that of exports. The country is likely to
require an average net capital inflow of over US$200 million p.a. (in 1981
prices) through 1990, but the bulk of it will come in 1981-86, when the
copper sector will finance over half of the inflow through direct foreign
investment and borrowing. If the rest of the capital requirement is met by
concessional loans and through official borrowing on terms similar to those
recently obtained by the Government in world capital markets, the result
would be a small increase in debt service requirements, especially on
account of present high interest rates. Assuming a small improvement in
growth rates (to 3.5% p.a.), debt service ratios would rise to 6.5% by mid-
decade (the 1981 level was 5.2%) to fall to around 3% in 1990. Total
external public debt outstanding as of December 31, 1980 amounted to US$617
million, of which US$162 million (26%) was owed to the Bank Group. Debt
service payments to the Bank group are only 9% of total debt service
payments.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
19.       As of March 31, 1982, Bank Group assistance to Papua New Guinea
consisted of seven loans, nine development credits, and two loans/credits,
totalling US$201.7 million. The first operation was a telecommunications loan
of US$7.0 million approved in 1968; the most recent, a rural development
project of US$8.0 million approved by the Board in April 1982. Project imple-
mentation has been satisfactory, though the first rural development project in
the Southern Highlands is experiencing some difficulties with recruitment of
essential expatriate staff.  The rapid turnover of expatriate staff and the
transitional problems of recruiting and training their replacements have led
to delays in project monitoring and auditing but physical implementation has
progressed approximately on schedule. As of March 31, 1982, six credits and
six loans were fully disbursed and the effective loans and credits to Papua
New Guinea held by the Bank and IDA amounted to US$173.8 million. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits as well as notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.
20.       In more recent years Bank Group lending has emphasized agriculture
with strong support in education and transport. Two loans for hydroelectric
power were made prior to 1976, and represented the first attempt to support
the energy sector. The Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) 11 for the
first power loan (Loan 737-PNG) indicated the project had generally achieved
its objectives. The more recent Project Completion Report for the second
power loan (Loan 999-PNG) indicates that physical implementation was satisfac-
tory but that the national power company (ELCOM) was performing poorly as an
institution because of a attempt at rapid localization of technical staff.
The Bank Group has been requested to reenter the energy sector and assist with
resolving the long-term problems facing PNG not only in the hydropower sub-
sector but in the energy sector as a whole. The first step in this direction
has been an energy assessment mission financed by the joint UNDP/IBRD energy
assessment program for the region which has served as the background for the
next section of this report. The second step has been the technical
assistance project proposed herein for the petroleum and gas subsector. A
possible third step will be a comprehensive energy sector loan, building on
the experience of a specific lending operation and improved sector knowledge.
21.       Disbursement performance on Bank Group projects has been extremely
varied. Shortly before and just after independence, disbursement rates were
unusually high, reflecting the relatively small and simple pre-independence
projects and the fact that they were managed by an experienced expatriate
civil service. While the disbursement rates for FY77-81 averaged 38.5%,
almost double the regional average of 22.2% for the same period, the figures
reflect periodic disbursements of substantial amounts against particular large
projects rather than steady disbursements for all projects. This situation is
the result at least in part of the move towards more complicated projects and
the expected decline in civil service quality following independence.
22. Past Bank Group operations have averaged about one and a half per year
which has been increased to two operations per year as from FY81. This level
of activity will allow continuous emphasis on agriculture, education and
training, transport, and energy.
/1 Report No. 2687, October 5, 1979.



- 8 -
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Background
23.       PNG's annual overall energy consumption is currently estimated at
about 1.1 million tons of oil equivalent (toe) or approximately 350 kg of oil
equivalent per capita per annum, which is about the average for developing
countries.  Commercial energy consumption accounts for approximately 60% of
total energy consumption and is made up of oil products (about 90%) and
hydroelectricity (about 10%); noncommercial energy accounts for the balance of
40%, and includes mostly firewood, charcoal and crop residues. In recent
years, consumption of petroleum products has been increasing at the relatively
high rate of 5.5% p.a., in part because of the growth of the economy, but also
because of a temporary increase in diesel-based power generation. In 1981 oil
imports at approximately 646,600 tons amounted to K 144 million (US$213
million), which is roughly equivalent to 24% of merchandise exports and 20% of
imports.
24.       Against this background, PNG is currently undertaking a serious
effort to develop its indigenous energy resources, particularly hydroelectric
power and wood-based energy. However, the lack of adequate infrastructure
in much of the country's interior, together with the relatively small size
and dispersion of consumption centers renders the development of indigenous
energy resources particularly costly and is therefore often uneconomic.
Although petroleum has not yet been found in commercial quantities, PNG
remains attractive for petroleum exploration, and even a modest commercial
discovery would have a beneficial impact on the economy. Furthermore,
following the large oil price increases, previously uneconomic gas-condensate
reserves may now be worth developing.
Energy Consumption and Resources
25.       Traditional fuels (wood, charcoal and crop residues) are the main
sources of energy for the rural population (approximately 80% of PNG's total
population of 3.1 million). On the basis of limited studies carried out in
certain areas, firewood consumption has been estimated at 1.2 kg/capita/day
equivalent to 1.2 million tons annually.
26.       Imported petroleum products totalled about 646,600 tons in 1981 or
about 90% of commercial energy consumption in PNG. The breakdown by product
is as follows:
Product                       Thousand tons
LPG                                  4.0
Gasoline                           88.5
Aviation fuel                       51.7
Kerosene                            18.3
Diesel oil                        260.1
Fuel oil                          224.0
Total                        646.6



- 9 -
Over 1976-81, overall consumption increased on average by 5.5% annually; the
increase was particularly high for diesel oil (12.5%) as a result of increased
thermal power generation and a shift from gasoline to diesel oil in the trans-
portation sector. On the other hand, consumption of fuel oil and gasoline
increased at a slower rate (1.5% and 1.1% p.a., respectively). A single
consumer, Bougainville Copper Limited (BCL), accounted for almost 40% of total
consumption of petroleum products in 1981 (250,000 tons), including virtually
the entire consumption of fuel oil (217,000 tons). There is no oil refinery
in PNG, and a feasibility study carried out in 1980 concluded that it was not
an economically viable proposition in view of the structure and size of the
market, when compared with importing products from refineries in Australia and
Singapore, as at present.
27.       Electricity consumption in 1981 was approximately 1,200 GWh, of
which 70% was used by BCL. ELCOM, the public utility, operates 2 major grids
(Highlands and Port Moresby), in addition to 16 small systems. In the island
of Bougainville, ELCOM buys electric power from BCL for public supply. In
1981, ELCOM supplied 388 GWh to 41,000 consumers of which 111 GWh were for
domestic use and the balance commercial/industrial. As there are only 33,000
domestic connections, less than 5% of PNG's population currently has access
to electric power. A large number of small diesel sets are operated in
isolated areas by the Government and the private sector.
28.       The energy resources of PNG have not been accurately inventoried.
PNG has vast forestry resources, and use of firewood has not so far had any
appreciable impact on these. The hydroelectric potential is significant, and
has been estimated at about 14,000 MW. However, because of the
characteristics of the sites, and the small size of the market, much of this
potential would not be economic to develop in the foreseeable future. At
present the hydroelectric power stations have a combined installed capacity of
about 100 MW, and an additional 22 MW are to be developed by 1984. In
addition, minor low-grade coal deposits have been identified in PNG, but they
have not yet been investigated in detail. The Papuan basin in the south of
PNG is generally believed to have good potential for petroleum, and although
no commercial discovery has yet been made, several wells had interesting oil
and gas shows and oil seeps are widespread. PNG's petroleum potential is
discussed in more detail in paras. 37-42.
29.       Prices of oil products are based on the c.i.f. cost of imports to
which a 3.5% import levy on all products, and an ad valorem duty (32% for
gasoline and 20% for diesel oil) are added. In addition, a provision is made
for storage and distribution costs (up to K 0.16/liter or US$0.89/gallon) as
well as a profit margin. Should the actual distribution cost from a main
port exceed KO.16/liter, the Government subsidizes the difference. In 1981,
the Government collected approximately K 28.6 million (US$42.13 million) in
taxes, and paid K 0.65 million (US$1.0 million) under the subsidy scheme so
that there was no net subsidization of oil products in PNG. Prices are
revised monthly, on the basis of submissions made by the distributing



- 10 -
companies (British Petroleum, Shell and Mobil) to the Ministry of Finance.
Prices for the main products in Port Moresby in January 1982 were as follows:
International
Domestic price       c.i.f. price
K/liter  US$/US gallon US$/US gallon
Gasoline            0.37         2.07          1.14
Kerosene            0.31         1.74          1.18
Diesel oil          0.33         1.85          1.12
In the case of electric power, new tariffs were introduced in January 1982;
instead of a "declining block" type tariff, which reduces the unit cost as
consumption increases, flat rate and "lifeline" rates have been introduced;
the latter provide that the first 50 kWh are sold at a lower price
(K 0.11/kWh or USc17.0/kWh) and any consumption exceeding 50 kWh at a higher
price (K 0.16/kWh or US¢23.2/kWh). The new tariffs are expected to improve
ELCOM's financial performance which has not been satisfactory in recent
years, inter alia, because of the increased reliance on thermal generation.
Institutional Aspects
30.       The Department /1 of Minerals and Energy (DME) has broad respon-
sibilities covering the assessment and development of PNG's minerals and
energy resources (so far mostly copper and gold), the monitoring of mining and
petroleum companies under license, land surveys, water resources, mapping and
cartography, geological surveys as well as the formulation of the national
energy policy and the implementation of certain renewable energy projects.
Under the Minister, a Secretary supervises five divisions in charge of:
(a) Policy and Planning; (b) Geological Survey; (c) Meteorology; (d) Mines;
and (e) Water Resources. No functional distinction is made between mining and
petroleum activities. ELCOM, the national power company, comes directly under
the responsibility of Minister of Minerals and Energy, but is a semi-
autonomous public enterprise whose policies are formulated by a Board of
Directors.
31.       Responsibility for energy planning comes under the Energy Planning
Unit of the Policy and Planning Division of DME; the Unit was established in
1978. The Unit so far has mainly provided advice on key energy projects, has
initiated the collection and compilation of sector data, and promoted the use
of renewable energy resources.
/1 Departments in PNG are equivalent to Ministries elsewhere.



- 11 -
32.       The responsibility for petroleum exploration falls under two
Divisions of DME. The Geological Survey (headed by the Chief Government
Geologist, an Assistant Secretary rank) is responsible for the collection and
review of past exploration data and provides technical advice to the Petroleum
Advisory Board (PAB - see para. 33). The supervision of ongoing contracts is
a responsibility of the Mines Division, which also monitors the safety aspects
of the oil exploration activity.  This division of duties has not created
special problems in the past, but neither the Mines Division nor the Geolo-
gical Survey have the staff and resources required to negotiate and monitor
*        effectively the terms and conditions of the Petroleum Prospecting licenses
for which they are responsible (paras. 34-35). It would be desirable in the
future to consider merging the functions of the Mines Division and the
Geological Survey, when it comes to oil exploration, under one unit. During
negotiations, the Government agreed to carry out a study on the optimal
institutional set-up for the administration and monitoring of petroleum
exploration activities not later than July 1, 1983 and to implement those
recommendations agreed upon by Government and the Association (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.05).
33.       The Petroleum Advisory Board (PAB) has been established under the
Petroleum Act of 1977, and is constituted by the Secretary of DME, the
Assistant Secretary of Mines of DME, and representatives of the Departments
of Finance, Community and Family Services (representing provincial government
interests), and NIDA (the National Investment Development Authority); the
Department of Justice and (until recently) the Chief Government Geologist act
as advisers to PAB. PAB is responsible for the review of applications for
Petroleum Prospecting Licenses (PPL), and advises the Minister of Minerals
and Energy on appropriate terms and conditions (including work commitments)
for the award of licenses. The Petroleum Agreement which is negotiated
usually at the time of award of the Petroleum Prospecting License is
negotiated by an informal group chaired by the Secretary of DME, which also
includes representatives of the Departments of Finance and the National
Planning Office. The Chief Government Geologist is the main source of
technical inputs on exploration on the PAB; he handles all overseas contacts
and supervises the operations of the Petroleum Resources Assessment Group
(PRAG) (para. 34). At the appraisal mission's recommendation the Government
has upgraded the position of the Chief Government Geologist from advisor to
full member of the PAB.
34.       Until recently, DME had virtually no staff familiar with the
various technical and business aspects of petroleum exploration because of:
(a) higher priority given to the large mining projects in the country (in
particular BCL and Ok Tedi); (b) budgetary constraints in the recruitment of
new expatriates; and (c) the impossibility of accommodating petroleum
personnel within the official salary scales. In 1978 DME suggested the
creation of a Petroleum Resources Assessment Group (PRAG) under the Chief
Government Geologist, consisting of two petroleum geologists, one petroleum
geophysicist and four support staff. Although this initiative was approved
by the Government, recruitment of qualified staff proved impossible because
of inadequate salaries and the absence of active petroleum activity in PNG.



- 12 -
35.      In view of the scarcity of trained nationals, and the attractive
salaries offered by the mining companies operating in PNG, DME has serious
difficulties in hiring and retaining local staff, particularly geologists,
therefore its reliance on expatriates will have to continue in the
foreseeable future until a sufficient number of nationals gain appropriate
experience to fill the key posts.
Hydrocarbon-related Geology and Status of Oil Exploration
36.       The Petroleum Act of 1977 governs petroleum exploration and
development in PNG. Companies initially obtain a Petroleum Prospecting
License (PPL) for a six-year period over an initial area of about 5,000 sq km.
An initial two-year work program and expenditure commitment is agreed upon
prior to issue of the PPL, and at two-year intervals the licensee has to
submit an additional work program satisfactory to the Government. In the
event of a commercial discovery, companies have the right to obtain a
Petroleum Development License (PDL) for 25 years. The Government has a
carried interest (which in recent contracts has been 22.5%) through both
exploration and development with the "carry" repaid from the State's share
of future production. The license pays a low 1.25% royalty, a 50% petroleum
income tax and an additional profits tax payable after the investor has
recovered his investment and a predetermined return on capital. Taking into
account PNG's modest prospects and the high cost of exploring in PNG, the
fiscal framework is satisfactory since it provides good incentives to
develop small or high cost fields while ensuring that a larger share of
profits accrue to the State from highly profitable fields.
37.       There are basicalty fniir prinLcipal sedimentary basins in Papua New
Guinea (see map attached, IBRD No. 16390). The largest and most explored thus
far is the Papuan Basin occupying the area south and west of the Central
Highlands/Owen Stanley Range. About one half of this basin lies in Papua
New Guinea, the remainder in Irian Jaya, Indonesia. The smaller North New
Guinea and Cape Vogel basins lie north and east of the Central Highlands.
These basins have a common history and thus are similar in many respects.
Minor sedimentary basins are associated with the New Britain/New Ireland
basin in the Bismarck Archipelago and the North Solomons.
38.       The Papua New Guinea portion of the Papuan Basin covers about
250,000 sq km, of which some 200,000 sq km are onshore and 50,000 sq km
offshore, a small portion of which is in a water depth greater than 200 m.
The NW-SE trending Papuan Basin has an asymmetric configuration with a
broad, gently dipping southwest flank and a steep, partly overturned
northeast flank in the foothills of the Central Highlands. The depositional
axis of the sedimentary section occurs at or near the highly structured



- 13 -
northern flank. The basement fill consists of northward thickening Jurassic
and Cretaceous clastics (sands and shales) overlain by a primarily limestone
Tertiary section (principally Miocene). Total sediment thickness exceeds
10,000 m in the folded foothills belt. The thick Jurassic shale section has
good source rock characteristics and prospective reservoirs include the
thick, porous Upper Jurassic Toro Sandstone and the massive Miocene limestone
sections. The northeast basin rim is highly structured with overturned
folds and accompanying thrust faults. The southern flank is essentially
unstructured as the amplitude of folds diminishes rapidly south of the
disturbed belt.
39.       The North New Guinea and Cape Vogel basins of northern Papua New
Guinea are poorly defined. Thick Tertiary volcaniclastics and carbonates
infill down-faulted grabens separated by NW-SE trending upfaulted blocks.
The New Guinea basin occupies an area of 110,000 sq km, mostly onshore,
while the Cape Vogel basin to the east lying between the Owen Stanley Range
and the d'Entrecasteaux Islands has a size of about 45,000 sq km, mostly
offshore. The basins appear to be structured but lack of data precludes as
yet a determination of the size or amplitude of structures or the existence
of mature source rocks and/or good reservoirs.
40.       Past exploration has focussed very largely on the Papuan basin.
Prior to 1942, some 41 shallow wells were drilled in the basin, all to depths
of less than 1,000 m and all close to surface oil seeps. Since then an
additional 60 exploratory wells have been drilled, many of them to test
deeper levels.  This work has resulted in seven noncommercial discoveries -
five gas, one gas condensate and one very small oil deposit. The gas
discoveries have not been fully evaluated but are estimated to contain
possible reserves of 1-3 trillion cu ft.  Despite the fairly extensive
exploration history, the potential of the basin has not yet been adequately
evaluated since: (a) there have been no valid tests in the complex foothills
area where most recent data indicate source and reservoir rocks are likely
to be juxtaposed; (b) drilling density in the region of lower amplitude
structures has left many features untested; and (c) follow-up drilling
around discoveries has been minimal to non-existent.
41.       The North New Guinea and Cape Vogel basins have had very little
exploration - the former because of the extreme difficulty of access.  The
existence of oil seeps, structures and the possibility of mature source
rocks makes the petroleum potential moderately interesting. To date only
four wells have been drilled in these basins.
42.       Since Independence nine prospecting licenses have been signed in
the Papuan basin and two in the New Guinea and Cape Vogel basins. Another
six licenses have been applied for, all in the Papuan basin. The areas
presently under license include only one third of the Papuan basin and
about 10% of the other basins. Six exploratory wells will be drilled over
the next two years (all in the Papuan basin) and about two wells a year



- 14 -
thereafter based on current work commitments. Despite this, there are good
prospects for increasing the areas under license and the rate of exploration
if an effective promotion program is implemented.
43.       The fact that discoveries have been made plus the presence of
hydrocarbons in other wells and at the surface, demonstrates that oil and
gas generation has taken place in the Papuan basin. The same is likely for
the northern basins although based on less substantial evidence. Both traps
and reservoirs are also known to be present. Scores of known structures
remain to be tested and the Government of Papua New Guinea is offering
licenses on reasonable terms. The inhibition to accelerated exploration
lies in four areas: (a) the structural environment is very complex
(especially in the Papuan foothills); (b) knowledge of the basins outside
Papua is very limited; (c) the cost of exploration is very high due to the
remote environment, which is also harsh onshore, and the lack of suitable
infrastructure; and (d) discoveries and shows to date indicate the basin to
be gas-prone. In spite of this, there is a good prospect that, given
sufficient exploratory drilling, Papua New Guinea will become at some point
a producer of oil and/or natural gas.
Exploration Strategy and Role of the Bank Group
44.       The initiative to explore in PNG has come from the oil industry as
minimal expertise was available within the Government in the oil exploration
field (para. 34). While the Government is keen to maintain the key role of
private oil companies in exploring PNG's prospects, it would like at the
same time to be in a better position to negotiate firm work commitments and
to monitor their activities from a technical and financial standpoint, as
well as to promote greater interest in oil companies taking exploration
concessions in open areas. This is not possible without: (a) a good
understanding of the petroleum geology and the results of past exploration
efforts; and (b) staff knowledgeable in the technical and contractual
aspects of oil exploration.
45.       The absence of petroleum expertise in PNG has also meant that the
Government has not been able to assess independently the scope for
developing proven gas and condensate reserves for domestic use, following
the large petroleum price increases of recent years.  The Pasca
gas-condensate field in the Gulf of Papua, discovered by Phillips in the
late 1960s and relinquished in 1975, was estimated to contain possible
reserves of one trillion cubic feet of gas and up to 50 million barrels of
condensate. Commercial development may be possible and gas production could
provide a viable source of power for ELCOM in Port Moresby. Similarly,
attention is being given to the possible utilization of the onshore gas in
Papua as a source of power to supplement the Ramu hydro system in the
Highlands. PNG recognizes that it does not have the expertise to evaluate
the potential for development of these petroleum resources and is anxious to
obtain technical assistance in these areas quickly since ELCOM must soon
make major decisions regarding power system expansion.



- 15 -
46.       The Government's objectives are worthy of support, and the proposed
Project will constitute a first attempt to provide high-level expertise to
the Government in oil exploration, as well as a good grasp on PNG's prospects
through a detailed re-examination of past exploration data. It will also
permit a preliminary evaluation of the possibilities for domestic utilization
of known gas reserves. The project would represent the first lending opera-
tion in the petroleum subsector of PNG.  By financing this Project, the Bank
Group would be in a position to provide much needed support in the
subsector, and in particular provide essential advice as results from
*         ongoing exploration activities become known.  So far, the Government has
been particularly responsive to suggestions formulated by the staff on
exploration strategy in general, and the conceptual preparation of the
project in particular.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
47.       The proposed Project was identified by the Government in 1978,
prepared by consultants in the second half of 1981, and appraised in
February 1982. Negotiations were held in Washington on May 3-6, 1982, and
the Government delegation was led by Mr. Eliakim ToBolton, First Assistant
Secretary, Department of Finance. Supplementary Project Data are given in
Annex III. No Staff Appraisal Report was prepared.
Project Preparation
48.       In order to prepare the Project, the Government retained the
services of Robertson Research (consultant, Australia/UK, referred to as
RR), which was recruited in accordance with normal Bank Group guidelines.
The services of RR were financed through a US$250,000 advance under the
Project Preparation Facility (PPF).
49.       During the second half of 1981, RR carried out an overall review of
past exploration data available in Port Moresby, Canberra and Sydney, follow-
ing which it recommended a program aimed at accelerating oil exploration in
PNG. The Project was thus defined on the basis of RR's recommendations, and
subsequent discussions of Bank Group staff with PNG officials and RR
representatives.
Project Objectives
50.       This Project has four major objectives:
(a) to generate an integrated picture of the petroleum potential and
identify new exploration leads;



- 16 -
(b) to assemble all past exploration data in Port Moresby and organize
a data base to enable the Government to design oil exploration
strategies based on a continuous review of past and current
exploration data; such a facility will also facilitate the
familiarization process of new oil companies interested in
exploring PNG's potential;
(c) to strengthen the capacity of the Government to offer areas for
industry using competitive bidding and to improve the review and
monitoring of company activities and negotiating satisfactory
work programs; and
(d) to re-evaluate the potential for commercial development of known
gas reserves, both for domestic power generation and for gas-
based export projects.
Project Description
51.       In addition to the preparatory study, the Project would include
the following components:
(a) A geological/geophysical reassessment component consists of a
detailed review, to be carried out by consultants, of the four main
sedimentary basins of PNG, with the objective of preparing basin
studies designed to identify new exploration targets and hence
enhance industry interest. This component includes the reprocess-
ing of approximately 1,000 line-km of past seismic data, interpre-
tation of 33,000 line-km of seismic data and the analysis and
interpretation of past geological and aeromagnetic data, together
with a limited number of geochemical and palynological analyses of
past wells. No new geophysical data acquisition is proposed,
except for a short airmag survey (3,000 line-km) and a single
offshore seismic line (80 km) both in the Cape Vogel basin, which
would permit a more thorough understanding of basin characteristics.
However, this data acquisition would normally be carried out when
the necessary survey equipment was already mobilized in PNG by a
foreign oil company so that, by avoiding payments of the high
mobilization/demobilization costs, the data could be obtained
cheaply. This component will also include a re-evaluation of six
gas discoveries judged up to now as noncommercial.
(b) The strengthening of Geological Survey component includes training
of two nationals (a geologist and a geophysicist /1) at the
facilities of the consultants referred to above, a building
facility for the Petroleum Resources Assessment Group (PRAG),
/1 Nationals to fill both posts have been identified. The geologist is
completing his schooling and the geophysicist is to be transferred from
the Mining Section of DME.



- 17 -
basic equipment for that facility, the services of a Project
Manager and, as required, technical assistance for negotiations.
PNG has successfully recruited two young (expatriate) petroleum
geologists who would constitute the nucleus of PRAG. The Govern-
ment has also agreed that appointment as Project Manager of a
senior explorationist with the appropriate experience in the
business side of oil exploration would be essential for the
successful implementation of the Project. The Project Manager's
role would be, inter alia: (i) to supervise, on Government's behalf,
the geological/geophysical re-asssessment component; (ii) to build
up the PRAG unit; (iii) to advise Government on exploration
strategy in general and during negotiations in particular; and
(iv) to help promote PNG's prospects. He would be appointed on
a retainer contract with a commitment to visit Port Moresby 4-6
times a year for periods of 1-2 weeks.
(c) The promotional efforts component provides for promotional trips
of the geological/geophysical consultants, PNG officials and the
Project Manager to Europe and North America in an effort to draw
oil industry interest to PNG's prospects and thus accelerate the
pace of oil exploration activities.
(d) The gas development study component provides for a consultancy to
undertake a prefeasibility study of the economics of developing the
offshore Pasca /1 field to strip condensate from the wet gas and,
possibly, to supply natural gas to Port Moresby. This study has
high priority for the Government, as negotiations with Superior
Oil, the current concession holder, are scheduled for mid-1982. It
will be carried out by a specialized consultant in parallel with
the reservoir studies on Pasca and five other discoveries, which
are part of the geological/geophysical re-assessment.
(e) The other studies component represents a provision for high
priority studies related to the energy sector and which are not
defined at this time, but for which the need may arise in the
next two years; in particular, there could be a need, subsequent
to the Pasca gas reservoir and development studies, to carry out
a gas utilization study. These studies will only be initiated after
the Association has agreed to their scope and terms of reference.
Project Cost
52.       The total cost of the proposed Project, including the refinancing
of the advance under the PPF used to prepare the Project, is estimated at
US$5.6 million, excluding duties and taxes from which the Project is exempt.
/1 The offshore gas/condensate Pasca field was discovered in the 1960s by
Phillips (US), and is currently in a concession held by Superior Oil
(Canada and Australia).



- 18 -
The foreign cost is estimated at US$5.0 million. Details of project costs for
each component and the financing plan are given in the Credit and Project
Summary.  The estimate is given in early-1982 prices, on the basis of the cost
of international consultancy services in petroleum exploration. Physical
contingencies at 15% were provided for the geological/geophysical reassessment
component. Price contingencies for both the foreign exchange and local costs
are at 8.5% for 1982, and at 7.5% for 1983 through 1985.
Financing Plan
53.       The proposed IDA Credit of US$3.0 million and the OPEC Fund loan of
US$2.0 million would finance the full foreign exchange cost of the Project,
equivalent to about 90% of the total Project cost. The local costs totalling
US$0.6 million would be funded by the Government; appropriate provisions to
that effect have already been made in the government budget. OPEC has made a
preliminary commitment to cofinancing for this project but is not expected to
present the project to their Board until November 1982. In the case that OPEC
funds do not materialize, the Government has also agreed to finance the
additional US$2.0 million from its own resources (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.01(b)). In view of the urgency in appointing the Project
Manager, and initiating the reservoir and development studies on Pasca (para.
51), it is proposed that up to US$275,000 of expenditures incurred after March
1, 1982 on those items be reimbursed on a retroactive basis.
Consultant Services
54.       The Project includes approximately 60 man-months of consulting
services in the geological/geophysical reassessment component, as well as 25
man-months of services by the Project Manager and other technical specialists
needed on a short-term basis, for the strengthening of the geological surveys
component. The average cost per man-month is estimated at US$16,000 for the
first category, and US$18,000 for the second one, including travel,
subsistence and direct overheads. These rates reflect the high level of
petroleum industry costs as well as the high cost of living structure in PNG.
Project Organization and Management
55.       The PRAG unit of the Geological Survey Division of DME would be in
charge of Project implementation. It would be assisted in its work by the
Project Manager (para. 51(b)). The geological/geophysical reassessment is
expected to require approximately two years beginning in July 1982 while
the assignment of the Project Manager would cover, intermittently, a three-
year period. The early appointment of the Project Manager is considered
essential for the successful implementation of the Project in general, and
the geologist/geophysical re-assessment in particular. Appointment of the
Project Manager is a condition of effectiveness (draft Development Credit
Agreement, Section 6.01).



- 19 -
56.       At present, no adequate office facilities exist for the PRAG unit,
but at the end of the second year of the geological/geophysical reassessment,
much of the collected data, reports, samples, etc., are to be transported to
Port Moresby for permanent storage. The Government has recently decided to
provide such a facility in the vicinity of the offices of the Geological
Survey Department. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that an
adequate facility will be provided to the PRAG unit by January 1, 1984 (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.06(a)).
Procurement
57.       Consultants will be selected in accordance with Bank Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants, and employed under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association. For computer processing, quotations are to
be obtained from several firms. The acquisition of new geophysical data
(para. 51(a)), will only be executed if attractive offers can be obtained
from contractors already operating in PNG for foreign oil companies. Such
services are not expected to cost over US$250,000 with a ceiling of
US$150,000 on each contract. Equipment for the office facility will be
procured on the basis of standard government procedures, which were examined
during appraisal and found satisfactory. In view of the amounts involved, and
the procedures proposed, the above arrangements are acceptable to the Bank.
Disbursement
58.       Since it is expected that the IDA credit will become effective
before the OPEC loan has been approved, the intention is to begin to disburse
first against the IDA credit. Upon effectiveness of the OPEC loan,
disbursements will be made on a pro-rata basis, according to the amount
remaining in the IDA credit account. Disbursement would be made against 100%
of foreign expenditures for consulting services, geophysical surveys, acquisi-
tion of data and directly imported equipment and materials, printing services,
and 100% of total cost for overseas training and promotional activities, which
would be fully documented.
Accounts and Audits
59.       It is expected that, during Project implementation, the DME will
receive monthly progress reports from the consultants under contract. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that during Project implementation the
Bank will receive quarterly technical progress reports from the DME and a
Completion Report towards the end of project implementation (draft Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.04(c) and (d)(i).
60.       The accounts of government entities in PNG are examined annually
by the Auditor General whose report is submitted about seven months after
the end of the fiscal year. A separate account has already been established



- 20 -
for the PRAG unit. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the
Auditor General will carry out an audit of the Project Accounts, and his
report will be submitted to the Bank not later than nine months after the
end of the fiscal year (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
4.01(b)). These arrangements are satisfactory.
Project Benefits and Risks
61.       The main benefit of the Project is that, on its completion, PNG
will: (a) have a well-equipped unit better able to monitor oil companies'
activities on a sound technical basis; (b) have a petroleum geology data
base, thus enabling the Government to have a good understanding of PNG-s
prospects, and be in a better position to attract oil companies to take
exploration licenses; and (c) have an assessment of past discoveries, and
the potential for domestic gas utilization clarified so that their develop-
ment could be integrated within PNG's development programs.
62.       As the Project is essentially a technical assistance Project, there
are no significant physical implementation risks attached to it. The main
operational risk associated with it is that the consultants may not perform
up to expectations. Therefore, special care will be given to the selection
of consultants. The Project Manager is expected to provide essential
support to the PRAG unit in supervising the consultants in charge of the
geological/geophysical reassessment. In view of these precautions, this
risk has been minimized.
63.       Another possible operational risk of a longer-term nature is that,
following project completion, recruitment constraints would prevent the PRAG
unit from functioning up to expectations. In order to provide continuity,
the Chief Government Geologist intends to recruit two more nationals to be
trained to assist the local geologist and geophysicist (para. 51(b)). In
the event the latter should leave for private industry, they could be
replaced by the former. It is expected that towards the end of project
implementation the Government will submit, along with the Project Completion
Report, an evaluation report assessing the PRAG unit, outlining its future
role and the nature and extent of Government's support towards the
continuation of PRAG's activities (draft Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.04(d)(ii).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Independent
State of Papua New Guinea and the Association and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1(d), of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association, are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.



65.       A special condition of effectiveness is that the Project Manager
will have been appo-nted (para. 55).  Special conditions of this project are
listed in Section III of Annex III.
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
June 14, 1982
Washington, D.C.



- 22 -                                             ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
PAPUA NEW GUINEA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAPUA NEW GUINEA                   REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND S   Kt.)                                                              - MUST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TUTAL            461.7                                  MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
ARKICULTUKAL        4.7              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b          ASIA 6 PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA b CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (LSU)                   18U.u       360.0      780                   1136.1                  1616.2
ENEKL,Y CONSUMPTION PER GAPITA
(KILUGRANlS uF CUAL EQUIVALENT)      51.0        146.0     299.0                 1150.6                  1324.1
PUPULAIIUN AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MlD-YEAR (THOUSANDS)  1932.0        2394.0    2939.0  *
UREAS POPULATUON (PERCENT UF TOTAL)  2.7           9.8      17.0                   40.9                    64.2
POPULATIUN PRUJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 200U  (MILLIUNS)                        4.0
STALIUARY POPULATlUN (MILLIONS)                            9.0
YEAR STATIONARY PUPULATIUN IS REACHED                   2125
PUPULAIIUN DENSITY
PFR sQ. KM.                         4.2          5.2       6.4                  373.1                    34.3
PER bQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    sus.4         544.1     617.6                 2382.8                    94.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YKS.                          40.5         42.0      42.0                   39.8                     40.7
1b-U4 YKb.                          56.6        55.0       54.8                   56.7                    55.3
U) YR.. AND ABUVE                    2.9          3.0       3.2                    3.5                     4.0
PUPULAIION GROWTH KAIE (PEKCENT)
IuOAL                               1.6          2.2       2.3/c                  2.3                     2.4
URBAN                              15.3         15.2       8.7                    3.8                     3.7
GhUDE sITHli RAIE (PEh IHOUSANU)     44.0         41.3      37.2                   29.7                    31.4
LKUED DLAIh KAIE (PER THOUSAND)      22.8         17.9      15.4                    7.5                     8.4
.RUSb REPRODUCTION RATE                ..          2.9       2.6                    1.9                     2.3
PAAMILY PLANNlNG
ACLEPTUKR, ANNUAL (IHoUSANS)         ..           ..        .
USERS (PERGENI oF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..       3.0                   44.1
FOOD AS. NUITRIIuIO
INDEX oF FOUO PRUDUCTION
PEh CAPIIA (19N9-71-lUU)         I1O.0         100.0    I16.0                   123.7                   108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
LALORILS (PERLENI OF
RLOQUIRUENTS)                    76.0         83.0      85.0                  112.6                   107.6
PRUILINb (CKAMlS PEK DAY)          40.u        46.0       46.0                   62.5                    65.8
Ut WH1GH ANIMAL AND PULSE        22.0         20.0      20.0                   19.7                    34.0
CAlLS (AGEb 1-4) MUKTALlTY RATE      28.5         2U.9       1b.3                   4.8                      7.6
HEAL1H
LIFE tXPECIANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    4U.6          46.6      50.5                   64.0                    64.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THoUSANU)                           159.0        106.0        ..                   50.2                    70.9
ALLEbS TO bAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TUTAL                                ..           ..      20.0                   45.9                    65.7
UKBAN                                ..           ..      30.0                   66.0                    79.7
RURAL                                 .           *-      19.0                   34.4                    43.9
ACLESS TI  XLCRETA DISPOSAL (PLRCENI
UF PvPULAIOUN)
TOTAL                                ..         14.0      18.0                   53.4                    59.9
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                   71.0                    75.7
RKRAL                                *-          5.0       5.0                   42.4                    30.4
PUoPLATION PER PHYSICIAN          14J90.0/d   11630.0   14040.0                  4428.7                  1728.2
POPULAIION PEK NURSINC PERSuN      2450.02/d    2370.0    1934.0                 2229.7                  1288.2
PUoULAtloN PEK HuSPIrAL bED
TOUAL                             I 7.U'Ld     150.0/e   214.9                  588.5                   471.2
URbAN                                ..           ..     101.1                  579.6                   558.0
RURAL                                                    270.5                 1138.S
ADIlbblUoNS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..           ..        ..                   36.7
HUUSlNLI
AVEKAGL SlBE uF HOUSEHULD
TOIAL                               3.1           ..       5.0
UKbAN                                ..           ..
kURAL                                ..           ..
AVLRAGE NUMbEK UF PESUONb PEK KROUM
IOTAL                               0.7           ..
URBAN                                .-           *         *
RURAL                                ..           ..
ACLUSS To ELETRKILITY  (PERCENT
U0 OWELLINS)
IOIAL                              8u.0           ..        .
UKBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                * '          * *          '



- 23 -                                                        ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
PAPUA NEW GUINEA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAPUA NEW GUINEA                 REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIHATE /b          ASIA 6 PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMUARY:    TOTAL                  32.0         52.0       60.0                   99.8                     101.7
MALE                  59.0         64.0       70.0                  100.6                     103.0
FEMALE                 7.0         39.0       49.0                   98.8                     101.5
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   1.0          8.0       13.0                   53.5                      35.3
MALE                   2.0         11.0       18.0                   58.4                      34.9
FEMALE                 0.5          4.0        8.0                   48.6                      35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY)  16.0           19.0       26.0                   21.1                      30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             35.0         30.0       30.0                   34.2                      29.6
SECONDARY                           18.0         23.0       23.0                   31.7                      15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         29.4         32.1       32.1                   86.5                      80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.0          7.3       6.2                    12.7                      42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..      44.5                   174.1                    215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..         ..                   50.6                     89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..           ..        8.9                  106.8                      62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            1.0        ..                     4.3                       3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1058.4       1244.9    1464.6
FEhALE (PERCENT)                    41.4         41.3      41.0                    37.4                     22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               89.0         86.0      82.4                    50.2                      35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   4.3          5.8       7.5                    21.9                     23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 54.8         52.0       49.8                   40.2                      31.8
MALE                                  61.2         58.5       56.7                   49.8                      49.0
FENALE                                47.7         44.9       42.5                   31.1                      14.6
ECONCMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.8          0.9        0.9                    1.1                       1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOHE
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..             ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     400.0                   248.6
RURAL                                 ..           ..     275.0                   193.7                   187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..                  249.8                   513.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..                  234.3                   362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      10.0                    21.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..      75.0                    32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Indigenous population growth rate is 2.8Z;  /d 1964;  /e 1966.
*  The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population                                               ay, 1981
estimates to be shown in the 1981 World Bank Atlas are $780.0 (at 1978-80 prices)
and 3,007.O thousands.



ANNEX 1
-24-                                                                               Page 3 of 5
DIFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes:  Although the data ere draw  fro  souce  geealyjde  the most autholtatile a-d reliable,  In shoul  also -he  orod that they may  -c  he ine--
rentovallyoem1Pataie becueo  the lac  ct sonduedlsad dfnIInsod  ..n.ept  use  by.j  differetI                     I roat sin toleotleg the futa.  The dano are, none-
The.te so g:I:      s ar  (1)1 the same.ountr  gry_ouy ofIctsujctcutry ad Il  a  -oatly 9rcoy oith soeewhet higher  -venef  Income than the oouotny stoop
ofthf   rh enh     ontybecrt  or'aptaturruyIlIrotee'gruohre"tidlfarsoNot  At oucd   idl  letI  oesr'Iaue  fstone
secto-culnueai1 afftnitiee)- to the toferecce grouph dta the averges etc ?poyaation oeighted  nithnalonn  for eso  tdicutor and sho.n Illy ehee
aoityofthe  ontIsin a otoup hoe data for than jadioseor.  Sie-  thed, ......g cI conie  oog she  niaosdynao   h   oistipo  data
adis roe uniform,  -aai-at  ut he earrited in relatiegaueae  of Ins irdi.er. cc eotee.  Those.. avrages a,renl                       :aeu    noeuieg the vau  of
an .ldicanor at a ti.e .aeco  the --ury and  rfrnegtoape.
LANt AREA )thrusnnd eq.hm..                                                                        fopl onptfsruOd- total, rhor, and rue ..                      foyuljr i-  (tocal,
Total - Tonal  urfsoe area cmpritieg lardarea end inled waesra,and tutuIll ivided hy thler ne-yrotine ecehe  of hosPital bnd
Aatculnuai -isniats  f oginicreerend rsyoarl  nepeommantly                                  avIalei   uio enpivat  ge-Ia end rspcahie-d hosyijtol unI re
foe oops,pserree,seht rdkitchen gordens or re lie fallool 1979 dane.                     bcIreinenea                opirttesecohI                t.nn  poeuatyece
GNP PER  WITA                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~by an least ore Phystie.i Italiherr   yoidttg pye.ipnyliyousno-I
00PtCAIA(US$) - GSP pr repino estimates on content mother prices, -ul-                      dial Iern are not irtluded.  uRal  nslt1       s hpi eenst. -, in-lode hos1e
uiadby some noveeinehed as Oo.rld Bark Atlas (1977-79 As-ial; 1960.                           and  edira,    ..nt  n- lor PermaIetly staffed hy a phyaioitr (bun by
1970, and 1979 dots                                                                               neIetasinr, ruse ideifo,  tr.) whiob oflre In-poniernaor
EIgRCY CONSIfTTIgN PER CuPITA - Aanoas-l .. crepalon of coeece   rrylcltclyroe   re    optl  isioefil pIIneplgrrslhaia
erd lignite, Petrleum., ratara1 gasadhdo,  ule.n  gstheea  ee-:                                   uId ruplheiagiolerua    eptl   r    eical"  F' eete
eticiy) irkilegems o  o-a  equiairPer rapine; 1960, 19700  and 1979                        caese        poilodrsitale ar .InIue   ryudrtnl
date.                                                                  Adetes~~~~~~~~Irn  pn  esita1 Bsd-   _aa   uber ef edm Isseet   rdshre
?OPMATION AIZD VZTAL STAIISIICS ~~~~~~~~from  hoepitala divided bY the rumber of bede..   -d-h1
Total Ponuantior. Kid-Tear ithoasa..da) - As of July 1; 19ff, 1970, ard 1909                  ffU9IN1
difrtdeta.      iAreneeef  ra of .o..ehotdtooerIorern hoasehtIdl-oe.  .r....d arl
eenPnuainCletment of oretel r    ai   fuhnn  oa   oaeir                                    A he..s.bold norette of a groUp of ledoidoals vhs share ljinigqatr
diffenee t dfticos 19   ofI urban    ..sa. may. afaatepn       e   n   aaad their main   Ala   kbhoader er lodger maY or may net he imoladed II
amongti. oruen   tias   91,il    n   97   aa                                                      the boueheid for ertienloel. puepasee.
1eruati   i   cr byil       Curen   pouueo  prtenir  one baedo  1980he  of Parrnsprteiealub,aderaonpad oneiel
total Ppoylne   yaoadeeadtereraiyadfriiyers                                                   deline  raetidy.IeIig  eous  a-peare srutre   e
Prejeon.IoParame.ters for mortalitY rants cemprise of theta  aetardm-urouied  -porte                               -y..1t                       - 
nglif drernya   ith iceee In wI abutt75y'e pe xaita inoosa                                A-o..n.    letioi ternr  ofdetot)-tei   rhn   n   ual -
aeratefor fatilityrune lec 1:Jhave nheae 1-sl  oe igr dcIne ir                          of  tanal  udha1,iand oce   wei      ranaehte
fetilitY ea..oedine no  Iroe  level1nd pot iieip p.mniegperfomance
...b oatey yisthanatige  oeof thea. tieoeiatere. of an,toltty                         EDUCATION
and fetilit 2P.tiende foe  rjoirpanyeee.                                                     Adrocted Es-loent  tintr
Stanienary pnyolanion-lnasnoninnory  poplder  ther  len rth  h aico                  lmry shool. F  ..eal, j moead fml  -, Iromstea,I           ml        fml
the birth rote it eqoej 00 the death rar, and lso theegeiano.ru-th e                            nrler  o   l   gr   teepemr   eela   eoargsoIreee
mtrcntn.This is achieved only after fertility  rates decline to                        prmrIeolaeppltoe   omlyioue  chl e1                               ae    t
th   elu etleve  ofuitIIerrdaeo   rate, ehee each ganreinYears bun edj-nnd for dff o eghye ofprimary educa tion; for
ofnmnmlneislf   euty   Teaninaypplainsa  catinoun_lenjit                                                                   if,eea  edctio  enelarmy  eee   00pofe
lothe Year hOC, and the  atun  of declin  of forniliny rtet to relc-'eodr                                    piho -tnl moead  eae      opte   nakn;eI odr
eert levol.                                                                   oducatinorequ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1..Ieeat las  footy 'ae o  aproe  phlorinetcutto
leer noani ...ry            Iouat . it  rohed - The Ysun ohen annnoypoplari_t                     pdr..idee feree,   vcaira   o  tace  training. Pntrcoi                 o   oi
-ir  ba   e  rechd.usaly of 17 no 17 years of age; cropretecueate genemally
PePua    h.-r tdyuepplainpr   qor   toetr(licctra   f                                            oaioaInrlmnt-e1onr  aoead)-looind                                 otluie
tonal ara  196, 1970 and 1979ie.dcld    arenolol.  nutil   rote   eg_ooih  prt                                                                                           eed
ye e.  m.a -uc  -1na  land - Computed so oboes foII.unrlladotyo   adpetot   fecndr   netto
,r,Y;  96hI, 1970 and 1979 data.                                                                o     Y Pc-iorher rap.tin-pmay and.eeonaocf II  totlsu n  e ooled-i
Po-lto   Ss Innatnue  iper.oet) - Children  (0-14 Yearn), -eking-age (17-                    yr~imaycdnrooylnl  dNiedd hy oumb-e  of t-ah-ve in thn
64 yeae, and ratined (65 yerned  -rr) at pe-hntagdt ofmid-yearpopo-dcotsepondig levels
1enion; 1960, 1970, and 1979 data.                P-o9- f   d,- t,                              Aduljtitnrnnoeoeot)-leaeadts(beoradndwt)
torlaio  iooh Oars fpre ..t -tonal- -anul   grth rates If e-tol red-                          aarcnaeo   oa   dl   eoeinae   5rstadom
ymryPalatiols for 1911-hI1, 690-7, Aed1970-79.--a   -Lttt    ol.(b~t   -    l    i.
Poultin lrwn tre(rerene  -  r. ueoAo..ua  grownh rtate  of -rha  poyc-                  CLOIfTO
laP"tion   fortlat 95-1,Ik-,ed 1970-~t....  906   6T -d 79                                     r _NUanIOtrCne  ytnoan   evein                   eaae   aennre    oo
Cudo Bir-th- Ru.. fPer thouond) - An....ulln  bitthn pe  nhcoa...d of nid-y...er   eriglntet  e,ighd  penmon;                                    ... gnouds  mblacr,i. .nosesen
pyano;90,1971  an  1979 daaPilrv-ila
Cade DeathEn   re huad      unaldah   ertesnao  mdya                                               i teoe2~ies (no  th-a ghnd orrulnio lo - Altpeo                  h-e-vrfor radi
popaItlanion:.P--th...d 1960, 1970, sad 1979data.                                               hncdcase  o  e tha pulcpr..uad.fpy.air   ncuo   n
Ires Sproceno   ot-1-Average  -ube- of duuhtebw.a.wllbet n                                    ienrdecivrnicuont    edinl yeArsoo  regatr titofrdio
tiiyrtes   sally  fir-year av...ugra ening In 19k6019,     no  179.n                                  _ncooniea:  aoished. ..Iiorreieng.itt,iI  1   dl
ohIrabc         IIro  deve  uder  uAa...i_oa           of naioatfmlyplnie   roga.               feea   uioytnhouaanl            ouunnlcids  oteedT   eenr
Indroof rod Peductor or  Capta (1h9-7riad   P- r-ten  offe caytuon-o Cibeianuc                        l r Atenaneo.rd C.ontr  ToerTa-     fsd on the n,o,hcf
is on c-hinduebyerhai .   omdiccoepnargodi.f -ieugrdnn  noi_euie
insted nf  agar  ehuc  are5dibl  and- chontiotien    egacfe   n
noina _vragepodeepirwita  191-i, t 1971, and 1979 dan.otlabr Pot  (nhyusondn - - Iconomicol  aciepetr,ifidr
Pe  ain   npy  fcleit(enenoieoiemnd                           Caue  fo                         rndfrenadarmlyd  o   u_uighusmns,auet f r.
nttryoqcnoencof  on  oodauplin  avilale  n contr  pe  cainaccvnio  poulaionof  ll ttn.-I tdfiputtions in..  thrco    -orrta, ur
ou   e   iciulo    f                    pyl io,en   lotfi   ererfrocea                         and  AlonntAty,cnncdgna  peocctag  of. nvekth luhor foc;f
Per         d. ocyirabmunyl  vfprtetIcmeprda)-Pecl  cteod ofper caita                         totoyto   ae(ecet     oa,ml,edfeae-Prli                                    vo
nrc  epyl  od  ood  oo  ay.   et npplyof  ood  n dnicodta boveIdn-dnIiinyi-nmrdiopund annoni, mae, ad fenleiabr  fore-o
tllewance of hI   A-gra    ftono proti.teIn per dayIf and 70. ortay  of anima  no          L    9AB   170OR      17Fan.OeRCntbodErlOnpricynnnao
puinIprtei , ofehch11grm -ihtold he on5islyrei. 197eadt. stn-rfetngag-e   nuouoo   h   opino,adbebiened 
arda are loacet thu   -hn   i7  nn        oa   rti  and ljP- groin  offo  aionar   rmdoloa-nucn
anmlpoei   t  nnrg    o   hocl,pore bdh   oooTrdOooi eedoc   oi       ui  of di ho.elnune   iad  I i0e
gool  Poo  luney;19(-45,197  and1077det.                        rohecrul  alu  dPvrcn.... ~`ld
Pe  ait'poSenenoof a          ciat  Ped polar -  rofein nu_pl  of food  In
niPred finn    h,oimale an tplemisk rase  day; 194--tr,b170 a1d619779dat.                                                    . l1979lditI
Childt(aaa 14      nlt tniN.rtho PPcid)  1-1anuldeah  te  thuad  In                            ertnog  of  Friv Io  lavebothf,, ivcn   n   ld     hroo    yih
agIIc   -   eoe   ooide .dp-,in9 thi  age- grup  fo.rimn  deroping con-               I penr,oIcen1pron,oton0pron,adprrtIyron
n   -rndra  eie:  rmlf   alm    91   90ad17  dbri.                                          of h..unehoIdo.
I hiA ITh                                                                              P7gi10Tha.dTa_ LO 000101                  i
ofao bo;hvon   .iofbrnn                   Pha-lne poertydncomeleve i.t1  thban inome loya~,Jl beinwhih9 niint
hero, ynl  (J_ al  Pran  cdroal,             t r easonable occeen to talc                      affordable.
watrnubnthntopoecd her6ho65n, 1                   pr7ngdat an  ani yellat 05                     cta itrelative poeancm   ee                                   L.oetido   veaeprcpt
perentge  ofpl their  etyrcie yopandt.1   lnrhn9raa  ulI                                       ernal im   oftoconrd                 ra  lene f in     a dented feom te nro
foedoe   a  ea  efeinreatoahi  accen  oftathua.             rrlRra
Numbe Pr tc  i pyof (total,    tar u  hhon,  bn rual  ev d by earena   isycal a
necleton anrdsosl.        wt o r olcou  traon,orua   net                                                                        ovncadOca  aaInno
clnIulfedfe      eiula cItunvr  c   e d.                         3at                                      t
PoclaIN nor- norir~alPrsn Pp puanir_- d-Ira   by't nu             PP1Y of practicin
tal  ae  fealegra uae nrac, pacnoolnures,en  esis do 197urtnIeu.                    DSRITO



ANNEX 1
- 25 -                                 Page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - PAPUA NEW GUINEA /a
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980 lb                        ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
(at current prices)
1960-        1970-        1975-
US$                     1969         1974         1980
Million        %         ------(Constant prices) --------
GNP at Market Prices       2,513.9      100.0         6.5/c        5.2/c        1.4/c
Gross Domestic
Investment                 684.5       27.2        19.2          8.1          6.0
Gross National Saving        571.7       22.7
Current Account Balance   -280.5        -11.2
Exports of Goods, NFS    1,127.4         44.9         9.9         25.3          0.3
Imports of Goods, NFS    1,329.0         52.9        16.5         -2.9          4.0
OUTPUT, EMPLOYMENT AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1979
Value Added /d           Employment          V.A. Per Worker
US$ Million      x        '000      %        US$    % of National
Average
Agriculture            771.1        34.9       996    87.6        774         39.9
Industry               678.8        30.8        27     2.4    25,141       1,295.3
Services               752.7        34.3       114    10.0      o,642        342.2
Total/Average       2,207.1        100.0    1,137   100.0       1,941        100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(K Million)                    % of GDP
1980                1979          1976-1978
Current Domestic Receipts                 347.8                17.5            19.7
Current Expenditures                      475.3                32.7            32.2
Current Deficit                           127.5                15.2            12.4
Capital Expenditures                      123.2                 5.1             4.5
External Assistance (net)                 175.5                10.7            13.5
/a  As of January 1, 1978, PNG changed its fiscal year from July 1 - June 30
to January 1 - December 31. All data have been adjusted to a calendar year
basis.
/b National accounts and balance of payments figures differ, since the first is
on a flow and the second on a payments basis.
/c Growth rates are calculated in line at end-points.
/d At factor cost.
/e Preliminary.
not applicable
April 1982



ANNEX I
"26 -                                           Page 5 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - PAPUA NEW GUINEA
March    March
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                         1977      1978      1979     1980        1980      1981
(Million K outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Mbney                          428.5    449.0    571.7    553.1         611.6    545.7
Bank Credit to Public Sector, net                 3.3     13.5      35.0      15.0       74.0      55.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector, net             136.7    193.8    227.5    301.9         246.5    308.0
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                29.5     31.4      35.3
Consumer Price Index (1977 - 100)              100.0    105.8    111.9    125.4         121.0    134.3
Annual Percentage Changes in:
Consumer Price Index                           4.4       5.8       5.8      12.1       11.8      11.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector                 22.4      41.8      17.4      32.7       24.7      24.9
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                       MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1978-1980)
1978    1979    1980 /a                                  US$
(US$ Million)                                        Million    %
Exports of Goods, NFS           764.8 1,058.6 1,038.9   Coffee                           168.2    18.8
Imports of Goods, NFS           878.7 1,028.5 1,288.4   Cocoa                             80.2      9.0
Resource Gap (Deficit - -)  -113.9    30.1  -249.5   Copra & Copra Products               68.3      7.7
Timber & Timber Products        52.1      5.8
Factor Services (net)           -64.6  -109.8  -175.7   Copper Concentrates              226.7    25.4
Transfers (net)                 184.6   157.9   162.0   Gold                             212.1    23.8
Balance on Current Account        6.1    78.1  -263.3   All Other Commodities             85.2      9.5
Private Capital (net)           -28.3    15.7    27.9   Total                            892.7   100.0
Public MLT Loans (net)           -7.8    37.5    68.9
Errors and Omissions /b          27.5   -21.7    85.7   EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1980
Increase in Reserves             -2.5   109.6   -80.7                                             US$
Million
Imports of fuel and related                               Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed          505.6
materials                      65.3   76.4   108.7       Nonguaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding & Disbursed         505.6
PUBLIC DFEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1980 /c
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Public Debt, incl. Guaranteed           7.2
1977                             1980                     Nonguaranteed Private Debt
US$1.00 = K 0.79                 US$1.00 - K 0.67         Total O,itstanding & Disbursed           7.2
K 1.00 = US$1.26                 K 1.00 = US$1.50
1978-1979                        1981, Jan.-May           IBRD/IDA LENDING (AS OF  3/31/82)
US$1.00 - K 0.71                 US$1.00 = K 0.67                                           US$ Million
K 1.00 - US$1.41                 K 1.00   US$1.50                                           IBRD   IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed          81.8   107.9
Undisbursed                      28.8    43.4
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed 110.6   151.3
/a Preliminary.
7W Including capital n.e.i.
7c  Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and noafactor services.
not available
Auglust 1981



- 27-                                    ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PNG
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of March 31, 1982)
Loan or                                                   Amounts (US$ millions)
Credit                                                     (less cancellations)
Number       Year     Borrower       Purpose            Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Six credits and six loans fully disbursed                58.5    29.2         -
1333-PNG    1976        PNG      Agriculture             12.0                 5.81
677-PNG    1977        PNG      Roads                            19.0        1.12
841-PNG    1978        PNG      Rural Development                20.0       10.89
1856-PNG    1980        PNG      Third Highways          17.0                17.00
1030-PNG    1980        PNG      Third Highways                   13.0       4.44
1934-PNG    1981        PNG      Primary Education        6.0                6.00
1087-PNG    1981        PNG      Primary Education                12.0/a    12.00
1149-PNG /b 1981        PNG      Agriculture Credit               15.0/c    15.00
Total                                       93.5   108.2        72.26
of which has been repaid                    11.7      0.3
Total now outstanding                       81.8   107.9
Amount sold                 8.1
Repaid                      7.1              0.9
Total now held by Bank
and IDA                                   80.9   107.9
Total undisbursed                           28.81   43.45       72.26
/a  Credit amount is SDR 9.4 million.  Its equivalent of US$12.0 million is
expressed here.
/b  Not yet effective.
/c  Credit amount is SDR 12.3 million.  Its equivalent of US$15.0 million is
expressed here.



- 28 -                              ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Loan No. 1333    Popondetta Smallholder Oil Palm Development Project;
US$12.0 Million Loan of November 19, 1976; Effective
Date: January 6, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project is designed to establish 9,600 ha of oil palms with
processing facilities around Popondetta. It includes 4,000 ha nucleus
estate and a factory to serve both estate and smallholder production,
developed as a joint venture between the Government and the Commonwealth
Development Corporation. The Bank-financed portion of the project includes:
5,600 ha of oil palm plantings, subdivided into 1,400 smallholder plots;
long-term credit facilities for smallholders to be provided through the
PNGDB; extension and visiting inspection services; and technical assistance
for project management; social infrastructure and improvement of the road
network.
Project roads and most buildings have been completed. While most
of the 1,400 participating smallholders are on site, it is expected that
completion of the planting of 5,600 ha of smallholder oil palms will take an
additional year. The nucleus estate area of 4,000 ha has been completed one
year ahead of schedule.  The mill is operating satisfactorily with the pre-
sent extraction rate of 20-22%. Disbursements are behind annraisal estimates
due in part to a slowdown in smallholders' subloan applications due to low
crop prices and to delayed claims for the transport company component. The
revenue sharing formula is being reviewed to make it more equitable for
smallholders, especially in periods of low prices.
Credit No. 677   Second Highlands Road Improvement Project; US$19.0
Million Credit of January 28, 1977; Effective Date:
March 29, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project has improved and paved 68 km of the Highlands Highway.
It also provided detailed engineering and feasibility studies of the same
highway; rural development studies of the Enga and Chimbu Provinces, and
technical assistance to domestic road construction contractors. All detailed
engineering and feasibility studies have been completed. The rural
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -                                 ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
development studies and the technical assistance component have also been
completed. Except for minor items and settlement of claims, civil works
have been substantially completed.
Credit No. 841   Rural Development Project I; US$20.0 Million Credit of
November 7, 1978; Effective Date:  March 7, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Within the Southern Highlands Province, the project would provide
for research into subsistence crops, nutrition and health of the people,
expand coffee, tea, silk and cardamom production, build roads, schools and
health subcenters; support adult education and agricultural extension
services; and contribute to the general development of the province's people
and economy.
Except for the tea roads, civil works are nearing completion. The
development of the council coffee and tea blocks is satisfactory but
establishment of coffee clan blocks and smallholdings shows little progress.
Recruitment of qualified staff (both national and expatriate) remains a major
problem and is seen to affect adversely several project components, notably
nurses training. Disbursements are only slightly behind schedule.
Loan No. 1856    Third Highway Project; US$13.0 Million Credit
and               and US$17.0 Million Loan of May 27, 1980;
Credit No. 1030  Effective Date:  September 30, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
The project will assist the Government in completing its program
to improve and pave the Highlands Highway from the main port at Lae through
the Highlands region up to Togoba. It will, further, help strengthen
central and provincial governments by assistance in formulating, through the
help of consultants, a strategy for maintenance of national, provincial and
village roads. The project also provides additional assistance for transport
planning and project identification, preparation and implementation at the
national and provincial levels. The civil works have been successfully
tendered and construction is underway. Civil works are now about 40%
complete with the work scheduled to be completed in August 1983. Due to the
contractor's slow beginning, completion is likely to be delayed about six
months. The consultants' work on rural transport studies is about 75%
complete. Terms of reference for the improvement of road maintenance
procedures and practices have been drafted by Government and are under
review by the Bank. Tribal fighting, social unrest and poor security
continue to cause delays and difficulties in the area.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Loan No. 1934    Primary Education; US$6.0 Million Loan
and               and US$12.0 Million Credit of May 11, 1981;
Credit No. 1087  Effective Date:  August 28, 1981;  Closing
Date: December 31, 1987
The project is designed to assist the primary education system
through (a) improving education management; (b) raising quality through
improved textbooks, materials and teacher training; and (c) increasing
access by assisting the provinces to expand and improve existing schools
and to establish new schools.
Initial implementation in civil works and recruitment of experts
is progressing satisfactorily. Activities have commenced to strengthen
provincial education planning in preparation for implementation of the
provincial fund. No applications for reimbursement have been submitted due
to the delay in recruitment of a project accountant.
Credit 1149       Second Agricultural Credit Project;  US$15.0 Million Credit
of May 21, 1981; Effective Date: Not yet effective;/l
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The project would finance over a period of three years a share of
PNGDB's planned agricultural lending and also support the expansion of
related agricultural services. The project has two principal components:
(a) field development of about 8,000 ha of coffee, cocoa, oil palms and
rubber, and establishment of piggery and poultry enterprises through
subloans made by PNGDB; and (b) expansion of hybrid coconut planting
materials supplies, and of other support services to agriculture, such as
crop development teams, consultants and studies. Credit was signed on
December 7, 1981.
/1 This project became effective on May 26, 1982.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
PAPUA NEW GUINEA
PETROLEUM EXPLORATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Supplemental Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time required to prepare project:  1 year
(b)  Project prepared by:                    Dept. of Minerals and Energy
(c)  First presentation to IDA:              May 1980
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:    February 1982
(e)  Completion of Negotiations:            May 1982
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:          August 1982
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Condition of effectiveness:
The Project Manager will have been appointed (para. 55).
(b) Other special conditions:
(i) By July 1, 1983, a study will be carried out on the optimal
institutional set-up for oil exploration and recommendations
agreed upon by Government and the Association will be
implemented (para. 32);
(ii) The building facility for the PRAG unit will be provided by
January 1, 1984 (para. 56); and
(iii) Government will submit, towards the end of project implemen-
tation, an evaluation report assessing PRAG (para. 63).



DEPARTMENT OF MINERALS AND ENERGY
Organization Chart
Minister
Geological                    M CA                       Policy and                Water Resources              National Mapping
Survey Division                                         Planning Division                Division
Petroleum Resources
Assessment Group                                          Energy Planning
(PRAG)                                                     Unit
World Bank-23939
Z
m
c



IBRD 16390
-4                                                     14                                                       15L                                                 153'                          PAPUA   NEW   GUINEA                      APRIL 1282
PETROLEUM POTENTIAL STUDY
AA1  _PLAI A   ROLC'/P PD CL Sr E JJXEVAP L   UCA
#                                                    O        O                                         _,                                                                         L        15L aD txPLOrAT;r N COrUPANE eTE L UITE2 aNL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PA, 1/ATFOl ODI   DI
49 U    ;-r7V_rXmo                                         .      g                 L   .                                    L      j  A O EVEO P NA   T     DUTP L   A/ 'PT D  L ET O t 1A1
FAA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   A i     ::EDt>EE  - : - Mr M A        LA  NpT  tC   TY AT AND N0/
ACL A* PN   PETPOLEU 4L  V      TED Y
CN IETCALEAA IETA 1L/A-
AL -NAADIANE,    O S  r T l P-EE AE I A E
14   6 -  LH    3,Y1A-    |                  1\                                                                                                                                                                             \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIA~U 1-"     _ >'~1  I
ILA~                                                            'I 0 fl CAL ElI C-I A M      TTE
a ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~      ~    ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~11A j____  C,,NAIAC NAE D/ 6E E ALA   , ED  AC ,:
1/ A, A II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I P A
COASTAL EAFOA NEA AO L-A EAPLDRADIQA I'C
NDEWMDT Nr/I CA AA AILA CDATNY AM, IT ICE
'I         ''DPDSAM IPAPLA 'D Al/El \AR                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             E j  H    d  A   C e  I
I C I L . A IA A  OA NEW AU AlA NA
ECONOMIC AASI-EUT
. X, >  1   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~ .s                                                                                                                           I                            / I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ L" 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IA WZ'r L,, LSi 
U)                                                                                                                                         K- .                                                                                          A
i  M. saf P~~~~~~¢nC f f r15e '¢k1 "' °r~~~~~''                                                                                                                                      7
L ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
z ~~~~~~~~~~~! yy6                                              d/  
AX A9 144  1417       130-                                                  I T3                                                   156'
Ao~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-,
A'                                                                                                                                           PA'C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4'10  A/D53D/S1D5/6 



