Document of
The World Bank    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
te.rt No. P-2895-GUI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR A
FIRST POWER PROJECT
December 1, 1980
This document bus a retricted dibution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornace of
their dllcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autboriatlon.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
The official monetary unit is the Syli.
Syli 1           -          US$0.053
US$1             -           Syli 19.00
MEASURE AND EQUIVALENTS
gram (g)                  =          0.0022 pounds
kilometer (km)            =          0.62 miles
meter (m)                 =          39.37 inches
kilovolt (kV)             =          1,000 volts
kilowatt (kW)             =          1,000 watts
kilovolt-amperes (kVA)   =           1,000 volt amperes
Megawatt (MW)             =          1,000 kilowatts (kW)
Gigawatt hour (GWh)       =          1 million kilowatt hours (kWh)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BGCE         -   Banque Guineenne du Commerce Exterieur
CCCE         -   Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
DEG          -   Direction des Eaux de Guinee
KfW          -   Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
MINEK        -   Ministere de l'Energie et du Konkoure
MIP          -   Management Improvement Program
OCOFI        -   Office de Coordination Financiere de l'Industrie
SNE          -   Societe National d'Electricite
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   -  December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FIRST POWER PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Revolutionary People's Republic of Guinea
Beneficiary:   Societe Nationale d'Electricite (SNE).  The proceeds of the
Credit would be transferred as a grant from Government. While
the state holding company (OCOFI) would be the owner of the
assets created under the project, SNE would operat the assets.
Amount:         SDR 22.1 million (US$28.5 million equivalent).
Terms:          Standard.
Project
Description:  The project would be part of the Government's 1980-84 Re-
inforcement Rehabilitation, and Expansion Program for the
power facilities serving the capital, Conakry, and the
surrounding areas. The objectives of the project would be:
(i) to rehabilitate, reinforce and expand power distribu-
tion in Conakry; (ii) to strengthen the Societe Nationale
d'Electricite (SNE), the power sector entity. The project
would include: (i) the rehabilitation of part of the Conakry
distribution network; (ii) a training program implemented
through constructing, equipping and operating a new training
center and through scholarships abroad; (iii) technical
assistance to improve the management, organization and finance
of SNE; (iv) constructing and equipping a repair shop and a
laboratory for SNE and houses for key personnel; (v) consulting
services for the feasibility study of the rehabilitation works,
for a sector organization study and for preparation of a
follow-up project to include identification of hydro-sites and
feasibility studies for those sites that could be developed to
meet an increase in demand; and (vi) the carrying out of an
action program designed to improve SNE's management and opera-
tions.
Benefits and
Risks:         The principal benefit would be the increase in power consumption
from the 1980 level of about 100 GWh to about 260 GWh in 1985,
a growth of about 13 percent per annum. This increase would
serve the needs of the industrial and newer residential areas
of Conakry. The Government is keenly interested in this
project and there are no special technical risks. The longer-
term success of the project depends on achieving the institu-
tion-building objectives, notably, the improvement of SNE's
operations. The provisions in the project for technical
assistance and training would reduce such a risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



- ii -
Estimated
Project Cost: The cost of the proposed project (net of taxes), including
refinancing Cr. S-22-GUI and advances under the Project
Preparation Facility, is estimated at US$32.5 million
equivalent. Foreign costs are estimated at US$28.5 million
(about 88 percent). A summary table of cost estimates is shown
below:
Local      Foreign      Total
---------US$ million--------
Rehabilitation of Conakry II
distribution network                       1.2           8.2         9.3
Scholarships                                  -           1.0         1.0
Technical Assistance                        1.0           4.8         5.8
Civil Works and Equipment for
training center, repair shop,
laboratory and housing                    0.6           3.3         3.9
Consulting services                         0.2           1.8         2.1
Base Cost                               3.0          19.1       22.1
Contingencies:
Physical                                 0.3            1.9        2.2
Price                                    0.8           6.3         7.1
Total Cost 1/                          4.0          27.4        31.4
Refinancing Cr. S-22-GUI                    -           1.1         1.1
Total Project Cost                     4.0          28.5        32.5
Financing Plan:                        Local            Foreign         Total
------------US$ million------------
IDA Credit                          -              28.5           28.5
Government                         4.0             __               4.0
Total                        4.0             28.5           32.5
NB. Totals may not add due to rounding.
1/ Including items financed under Project Preparation Facility advances.



- iii -
Estimated Disbursement:
FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84    FY85
Annual                 2.6      4.4      9.5     9.2      2.8
Cumulative             2.6      7.0    16.5    25.7    28.5
Rate of Return:  The economic rate of return on the entire Program is
estimated at 6.7 percent at current tariff levels and about
23 percent at the tariff levels to be introduced during
project implementation.
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 3055-GUI dated November 25, 1980.
Maps:              IBRD Nos. 14974R and 14975
Charts:            IBRD No. 21517






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FOR A FIRST POWER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Development Credit to the Revolutionary People's Republic of Guinea for
SDR 22.1 million (US$28.5 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help
finance a First Power Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        Since 1976 Guinea has been reexamining its development policies,
institutions and relations with the outside world, while making an effort to
adjust to rapidly changing economic conditions. This process has broadened
the opportunities for Bank involvement in Guinean development efforts and
has permitted a more fruitful dialogue on some development policy issues.
Economic missions have identified the major structural constraints to the
growth of output and income and have provided a basis for planning an ex-
panded Bank group involvement in key sectors. The latest mission took place
in February 1980 and its findings and those of earlier missions are re-
flected in the following assessment of the state of the economy and its
prospects. An Economic Memorandum is now being prepared and is.expected to be
discussed with Government in early 1981.
Background
3.        Guinea is well endowed with arable land, water, and mineral re-
sources. Its broad range of eco-climatic zones allows diversified crop
production in addition to cattle raising, forestry and fishing. Before
Independence, the country was a major exporter of bananas, coffee, pineapple
and palm oil, and was practically self-reliant in basic foodstuffs. With
respect to mineral resources, bauxite reserves are estimated at 6.5 billion
tons, or 29 percent of the world's known reserves in 1979. Considerable
high-grade iron ore deposits have been identified and there are good
geological prospects for uranium and offshore oil. Numerous rivers provide
significant potential for hydroelectric power.
Past Performance (1958-73)
4.        Notwithstanding Guinea's resource endowment, economic performance
from the time of Independence until 1973 was disappointing. Real growth of
GNP during this period was estimated at less than 2.5 percent annually, lower
than the rate of population growth. Agricultural exports practically vanished
1/   The text of this section is largely unchanged from that in the Pre-
sident's Report for the Livestock Project, which was distributed to the
Executive Directors on August 20, 1980.



- 2 -
and Guinea became a net food importer of even its staple food, rice. The
years following independence were characterized by a comprehensive reorganiza-
tion of all economic and social activities in Guinea with a view to building a
socialist economy. This entailed a sharp curtailment of the private sector
and the establishment of Government trading companies operating at controlled
prices, the creation of numerous other public enterprises in manufacturing,
transport and other sectors, and extensive State investment in industrial
transport and social infrastructure. The success of many projects was limited
by managerial inexperience and planning inadequacies, and public enterprises
absorbed high and rising amounts of Government resources. The capital costs
and recurrent expenditure of the public sector exceeded budgetary savings
and the Government resorted to heavy foreign borrowing and Central Bank
advances to finance them. Foreign borrowing from Western and centrally
planned economies was carried out on an ad hoc basis and soon resulted in
unmanageable debt obligations that could not be met by the declining export
earnings. At the same time the liberal policies of the Central Bank led to a
rapid increase in money supply, high inflation and an overvalued exchange
rate for the Syli. Consequently the public trading enterprises could neither
obtain adequate supplies of local goods at official prices nor distribute them
widely enough, and an active parallel market developed with prices substan-
tially higher than official levels. The lack of foreign exchange also
caused sharp reductions in imports of raw materials and intermediate inputs,
which constrained production in manufacturing, agriculture and consumer goods.
The economy thus stagnated in a mutually reinforcing cycle of foreign
exchange shortages, poor incentives, and declining investments, output and
exports.
5.        While the lack of foreign exchange sharply limited the supply of
imported goods, and indirectly of local products as well, excess money
supply strongly stimulated local demand. As a result of 15 years of deficit
financing, money supply reached a high level of 44 percent of GDP in 1973,
or about twice the level attained in most other West African countries.
Most of this money overhang was concentrated in the urban areas where it
reinforced excess demand and absorbed much of the limited supply of goods
that would otherwise have been available to the rural areas. Meanwhile,
official prices were substantially below adequate levels and the result was
widespread parallel transactions in the markets for goods, labor and foreign
exchange.
6.        These trends created considerable difficulties for the population.
The rural population, about 80 percent of the total, operated principally at
a subsistence level, selling as little as possible on the official market,
and was largely excluded from the official distribution of imported consumer
goods. On the other hand, the urban population had to compete for the limited
supply of goods it could buy through official channels with rationing cards,
and was forced to supplement its needs in the unofficial market at high
prices.
7.        Foreign debt reached 75 percent of GDP in 1973, and public debt
service approached 72 percent of export earnings. Arrears on debt service
accumulated rapidly and foreign reserves dwindled. In 1972/73 the current
account deficit exceeded US$170 million or 18 percent of the GDP.



-3-
Recent Trends (1973-79)
8.        The productive and financial bases for a more dynamic economy have
been strengthened since 1974, although the country's economic development
is still hampered by structural problems. This improvement in underlying
conditions, brought about initially by new bauxite mining operations, was
further encouraged by the gradual adoption since 1978 of more outward-looking
policies towards Western nations and neighboring countries, notably the
Ivory Coast and Senegal.
9.        Development of two large bauxite mines raised GDP growth to an
average of 3.2 percent per annum between 1973 and 1979 in real terms, while
GNP increased at 3.4 percent per annum. By 1979 per capita GDP of Guinea's
5.3 million inhabitants reached US$292 and per capita GNP US$274. The rural
sector has continued to dominate the economy, its share in GDP in 1979 re-
presenting 41 percent compared to 58 percent in 1973, while the mining
sector's contribution more than quadrupled, from 4 percent to 18 percent over
the last 6 years.
10.       Increased gross domestic output, especially for exports, and a
stricter control of aggregate demand allowed Guinea to record a balance-
of-trade surplus of about US$25 million per annum on average between 1976-78.
However, the current account recorded a deficit of US$61 million per annum on
the average during this period or about 4 percent of the GDP. The overall
balance of payments remained in deficit at about US$94 million per annum.
This deficit was due to increasing factor service payments mainly related to
the mining operations, and to relatively low capital inflows. The balance of
payments deficit has been financed in about equal proportions through an
accumulation of debt arrears and by a decrease in gross foreign exchange
reserves. At the end of 1978 foreign reserves covered only one month of
imports compared to almost three months at the end of 1975.
11.       About 60 percent of gross export earnings has been used to pay
for both direct foreign exchange costs of mining operations and mining
related debt service, leaving only 40 percent to pay for increased imports
of essential raw materials, foodstuffs and consumer goods, hardly enough to
provide necessary current inputs for manufacturing and agriculture, and
adequate incentives to producers. In the agricultural sector, Government
has attempted to stimulate production through an increase in public invest-
ment and efforts to improve distribution of consumer goods in the hinter-
land. Investment, however, has been concentrated on mechanized collective
farms whose output has been disappointing. Furthermore, inadequate producer
prices and poor supply and distribution of goods to rural producers through
official trade channels remain serious obstacles to sectoral development.
Private trade has been tolerated since 1977. Its legalization in 1979, a
step towards lessening restrictions on the circulation of goods and people
internally and across national borders, has led to improved supply of
consumer goods and foodstuffs through imports by private traders using their
own foreign exchange.



12.       Higher bauxite exports and favorable world market conditions have
greatly increased Government revenue through taxation and sharing of profits.
Since 1973 Government current revenues and, in particular, tax revenues
have thus increased markedly faster (19 percent p.a.) than GDP (7.2 percent
p.a.), while public recurrent expenditures have increased at a moderate 11.5
percent per year. Part of this additional revenue has been turned over to
the Central Bank for amortization of accumulated Government debt. Though
Government domestic borrowing declined from US$189 million in 1973 to US$62
million in 1979, this reduction was more than compensated by an increase in
credit extension to public enterprises, from US$359 million in 1973 to
US$990 million in 1979 required in part by the transfer of their profits to
Government as discussed in para 13. Total credit to the public sector thus
expanded from US$548 million in 1973 to US$1,052 million in 1979. At the
same time, the Government reduced the amount of currency in circulation,
while the deposits of the private sector decreased, and those of public
enterprises increased at a much slower pace than their sales. The money
supply has thus been kept relatively stable in absolute terms and has
declined in relative terms to 33 percent of the GDP at mid-1979. These
deflationary measures, together with trade liberalization and the influx of
private foreign exchange assets converted into import goods, led to a fall
in prices and exchange rates on the parallel market, and probably to some
improvement in the real purchasing power of most of Guinea-s poorest popula-
tion.
13.       Net transfers from public enterprises to the Government have
increased substantially in recent years, due mainly to a growth in commer-
cial profits of trading enterprises having access to undervalued foreign
exchange (provided by the mining and agricultural sectors), and insufficient
expenditure by public enterprises for both replacement investment and
current maintenance. However, Government has demonstrated a desire to
better maintain and fully exploit existing capital assets and has begun to
allocate a larger proportion of its recurrent budget for much needed mainte-
nance expenses and spare parts. Importantly, it is also undertaking serious
examination of the viability of public enterprises; a few of the least
successful ones have been closed down, while others have embarked on rehabi-
litation programs, some with external assistance. The Government's objec-
tive is to make these enterprises self-sufficient and it has therefore
recognized the need to revise pricing policies to enhance cash flows, to
ensure adequate credit to maintain working capital and stocks, and to call
upon foreign technical assistance (including post-rehabilitation management
assistance) to strengthen operational efficiency.
14.       Most investment in Guinea is of a public or parapublic nature.
The third and most recent development plan covered the period October 1973 to
December 1978. Its original forecasts called for public and parapublic
investment outlay of US$2.9 billion or about 45 percent of the GDP, of which
US$1.8 billion, or 65 percent of total investment, was to be in semipublic
joint ventures with foreign investors (mainly in the mining sector). The plan
was later scaled down to US$1.7 billion (of which US$870 million for Central
Government investment per se) to take into account delays in the implementa-
tion of iron ore projects at Mount Nimba and Simandou, and of bauxite mines



at Dabola and Tougue. Actual investment by the central Government (including
that for public enterprises) is estimated at US$478 million during the plan
period, or 55 percent of planned expenditure. Two-thirds of central Government
investment was financed by foreign assistance. Foreign borrowing was particu-
larly heavy between 1973-76, when it covered over 70 percent of financing
requirements. Large outlays in connection with mining operations, purchase
of equipment for rural production brigades, as well as for the transport
sector, were the main components in the high investment levels in the 1973-76
period, which were over US$100 million per annum. In 1977-78, partly because
of reduced availability of foreign financing, investment outlays of the
central Government fell to less than US$74 million per annum. In addition to
this, the central Government disbursed about Sylis 9.7 billion (almost US$500
million) in financial assistance to public enterprises over the 1976-79
period.
Prospects
15.       Guinea's long-term development prospects are good on the basis of
its mineral resources and agricultural potential. However, the Government
has not yet defined its development priorities for the next Plan period,
other than the customary major projects in need of foreign financing. Based
on Bank analysis and projections, it appears that Guinea's short- and
medium-term economic development prospects will hinge mainly on the rate of
growth in the mining sector, while long-term prospects will also be affected
by rural development. Mining exports increased from US$61 million in 1973
to over US$360 million in 1979 and are likely to reach US$400 million in
1980.
16.       Despite this favorable farecast, the foreign exchange situation will
remain critical unless new major sources of foreign exchange are identified in
the near future. This is because of: (a) the high foreign exchange element in
the operating costs in mining projects; (b) increasingly high debt service
obligations, including substantial arrears; and (c) import requirements for
the manufacturing, transport and other sectors as well as for minimum needs
for foodstuff, consumer goods, and services. Guinea will therefore need large
amounts of external assistance to support its balance of payments until at
least 1985.
Foreign Assistance and External Debt
17.       Over the past few years, Guinea has been diversifying its sources
of foreign assistance through renewed ties with the Western industrialized
countries, expanded relations with such OPEC countries as Algeria, Iraq,
Libya, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and with multilateral sources. During this
process, Guinea faced a rather difficult transition period between 1975-78. at
which time increased reliance on private financing (particularly suppliers
credits) hardened external borrowing terms and put additional pressure on the
balance of payments. More recently, there is evidence that public assistance
is gradually replacing private financing, and the average terms of external
borrowing in 1979 were softer than those recorded in the previous two years.
Both the Bank Group and IMF have maintained a dialogue with the Government on
a wide range of policy matters, and Guinea has qualified for drawings under
the IMF first credit tranche and trust fund facilities.



- 6 -
18.       The accumulation of foreign debt to finance investments in public
infrastructure and public enterprises as well as public consumption, has
resulted in a burden of foreign obligations which is, and will remain for
years, a major problem. Guinea's external outstanding public debt reached
US$1.3 billion as of December 31, 1979, of which US$1 billion (66 percent of
GDP) was disbursed. Loans denominated in convertible currency amount to 53
percent of the total public debt disbursed as of the end of 1979 and to 83
percent of the 1979 disbursements. Limited foreign exchange earnings have
hindered the payment of debt service, and despite the negotiation of several
rescheduling agreements, outstanding arrears on loans due in convertible
currency totalled US$114 million at the end of 1979. During 1979 debt service
was projected to be US$143 million of which only U$82 million was actually
paid. In 1978 and 1979 the ratio of debt service obligations to gross export
earnings was about 50 percent if debt service on private borrowings, i.e.,
debt owed by the two mixed bauxite companies, be included. Actual service
payments amounted to about 35 percent of export receipts.
19.       Service for public debt outstanding at December 31, 1979 should
exceed US$140 million per annum over the 1980-82 period. Even if foreign
capital inflows cover the entire foreign exchange costs of new investments,
arrears are likely to rise further, at a pace provisionally estimated at
US$60 million per annum, of which two thirds in convertible currency.
Service on new commitments would of course further increase this amount.
With limited scope to maneuver, the Government has addressed the problem
through debt rescheduling negotiated bilaterally with some creditors, and
measures to improve debt management through the newly established External
Debt Department in the Central Bank, to which the Bank has provided techni-
cal advice as part of its economic work. The Government has also undertaken
a stricter control of investments financed by external credits, and a more
judicious official import program. Some relief was provided in this area by
the opening of trade. However successful these efforts may be, during the
next few years Guinea will have to rely on substantial amounts of foreign
assistance on concessionary terms. This will be needed not only for invest-
ment purposes but also to provide foreign exchange for intermediate and
consumer good imports which are vital to stimulate economic activity and
relieve supply constraints, particularly in the rural sector. Furthermore,
despite the Government-s achievements in keeping the growth of its current
consumption expenditures below the growth of revenue, net public savings
after debt service will be negligible until the mid-1980s, and local cost
financing by external sources will be needed.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUINEA
20.       To date, the Bank Group has financed ten operations in Guinea
Two loans totalling US$73.5 million in FY68 and FY71 financed infrastructure
for the Boke Bauxite Mining Project. IDA credits of US$7 million and US$14
million respectively were granted in FY75 for the Daboya Pineapple Development
Project and in FY76 for a Road Maintenance Project. In FY79, three credits



were signed, one of US$8 million for an Education Project, the second of
US$12.5 million for a Water Supply and Sanitation Project and the third
of US$1.13 million for a Power Engineering and Repair Project. Two addi-
tional credits were signed in 1979, one of US$10.4 million for a Rice Develop-
ment Project, the second of US$13 million for a Second Highway Project. A
credit of US$17.5 million for a Livestock Development Project was signed in
November 1980.  Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans and IDA credits and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects as of September 30, 1980.
21.       The Bank Group's share in Guinea's external public debt outstanding
and disbursed as of December 31, 1979, and of total public debt service in
1979 amounted to 8.1 percent and 11.4 percent respectively. IDA credits
represent 5.3 percent of Bank Group outstanding commitments and a negligible
proportion (0.2 percent) of Guinea's public debt service payments. By 1985
the Bank Group's share in Guinea's public debt outstanding will reach 16.5
percent of total commitments, 63.8 percent of which would be IDA credits.
IBRD's share of debt service will drop to 6.3 percent, while that of IDA will
remain insignificant at 0.5 percent of total public debt service payments.
22.       In view of the general shortage of foreign exchange and the poor
state of infrastructure in Guinea, the Bank Group's first projects were aimed
at promoting mining and agricultural exports and at beginning to rehabilitate
road infrastructure. The Boke Project was completed satisfactorily and
bauxite output has increased steadily. The Daboya Project experienced early
implementation delays but the agricultural production components are now being
developed at an acceptable pace. However, pineapple exports remain well below
the expected level. The Association is making intensive efforts to assist the
Government in improving internal transport and export marketing, which are the
main impediments to increased exports. Provided these problems can be over-
come, Daboya could become a model for other small-holder development schemes.
The first Highway Project has been largely successful in rehabilitating and
maintaining a major part of the transport network vital for agricultural
development.
23.       Encouraged by the experience in execution of these first proj-
ects, the Bank group has begun to expand and diversify its lending program.
This has been facilitated by agreement reached with Government on four basic
priorities: (i) rehabilitating and maintaining basic infrastructure; (ii)
improving human resources; (iii) expansion of mining; and (iv) developing
the rural sector. The first three would gradually remove constraints on the
development of economic activities, including lack of foreign exchange, and
would increase absorptive capacity, while the benefits of the fourth would
be distributed among the largest segment of the population. Thus Bank
Group operations in each of these four areas have been approved or are under
preparation, with particular emphasis on sectoral planning, institution
building and training. The Water Supply and Power Engineering Projects, the
latter initially concentrating on the deteriorated system in Conakry, and
the more comprehensive First Power Project which is proposed in this report,
concentrate on the first objective of improving infrastructure. The Second
Highway Project supports this strategy and would expand the road rehabilita-
tion and maintenance work begun under the First Highway Project. It would



- 8 -
also strengthen certain sector institutions to help Guineans acquire and
successfully apply the engineering and technical skills necessary to plan,
design and implement road transport projects. The first Education Project
arose out of the clear need for more trained technical manpower, and aims to
assist the Government in improving and expanding training programs for
industrial technicians and skilled workers with emphasis on strengthening
sector institutions. Because of the vital importance of mining in helping
alleviate the country's foreign exchange shortage, the Bank Group is also
considering further intervention in this sector. Feasibility studies are
being reviewed for the Nimba Iron Ore Mining project and for the Konkoure
Hydroelectric Power/Aluminum Smelter project (para. 26).
24.       One of the Government-s main priorities is to increase the ex-
ploitation of agricultural and livestock resources. It is in the rural
sector, however, that the country has experienced the greatest difficulty in
harnessing its development potential. The Bank Group has found it difficult
to find nonenclave projects suitable for financing. Basic institutional
support for the rural sector, financial incentives to farmers, accessibility
to modern technology, as well as applied agricultural research activity have
been virtually non-existent. These factors affect the willingness and ability
of Guinean farmers to respond to production expectations. To come to grips
with these fundamental issues, the Bank Group has been working with Govern-
ment to prepare a series of projects which entail direct intervention in the
rural sector in activities chosen for their growth potential. The Rice
Development Project approved in FY80 stresses institution-building at the
national level and is introducing low-cost improved rice production methods on
a pilot basis in a potentially highly productive part of the country to test
farmer response. The project also includes consultant services to carry out a
study of agricultural prices and rural incentives. The Livestock Development
Project approved in September 1980 aims at strengthening the institutions
responsible for day-to-day field operations and sectoral planning and
analysis, improving animal health and productivity, and training livestock
sector staff.
25.       The Bank Group will continue to assist the Government in developing
its policies toward newer sectors of activity and is beginning to prepare
an industrial rehabilitation project to help improve the efficiency and
productivity of the country-s public enterprises and to foster further growth
of the private sector. A port project, also under consideration, would
aim at rehabilitating the port facilities, fulfilling cargo handling require-
ments and improving port administration and operations. At the same time, an
urban project is being prepared which would be designed to upgrade several low
income settlements and develop sites and services in Conakry. The Bank Group
is executing agency for a UNDP financed Water Resource Master Plan which will
start shortly, and which is aimed at helping the Government to formulate a
program for rational use of water resources.



- 9 -
PART III - THE POWER AND ENERGY SECTOR
Energy and Power Resources
26.       Although data for the energy sector are incomplete, it is esti-
mated that firewood and charcoal provide 65 percent of the approximately
one million tons of crude oil equivalent (TOE) energy consumed by house-
holds, transport and industry (other than mixed enterprises) as primary
energy in 1978. For cooking and other domestic use, firewood remains the
most important fuel source for most of the Guinean population, including
urban households. The intensive use of firewood is leading to a significant
depletion of forests surrounding the towns, particularly in the savannah
region of the north. Total power generation in Guinea in 1978 was about
150 GWh, of which about 88 percent was hydro generation and 12 percent
diesel generation. In 1979 Guinea imported US$71 million of petroleum
products (40 percent of total imports from all sectors), of which US$35
million were used by FRIGUIA and CBG, large bauxite and alumina companies
which import directly for their own use. Prospects for oil discovery
off-shore are reasonable and government has recently entered into an explo-
ration contract with a foreign oil company. Prospects of oil discovery
on-shore are considered small. Guinea's most abundant energy resource with
potential for substituting for imported fuels is hydro electric power.
Only about 40 MW of hydro potential has so far been developed, with annual
average energy production of about 245 GWh (21,000 TOE). The power poten-
tial of these resources is estimated to amount to at least 6,000 MW with an
annual average output of about 35,000 GWh (3.0 million TOE). Not all of
this potential may be economic to realize, however, since much of the
rainfall is seasonal and heavy capital investments would be required to
construct dams with reservoirs of volume sufficient to provide firm power.
A Water Resource Master Plan which would set priorities for hydropower devel-
opment is under preparation (para. 25). The Government has also approached
the Bank for technical advice in preparing the 750 MW Konkoure hydro-electric
project. This proposed project, which has already been the object of substan-
tial studies, would supply electricity to an aluminum smelter of about 155,000
tons capacity and to the "Basse Guinee" Region, where the existing bauxite
mines and the Conakry interconnected system are located. Government has
proposed to revise and complete the feasibility studies in line with recommen-
dations agreed at a meeting of potential colenders held in April 1980. The
Bank has agreed to be executing agency for a proposed UNDP financed study of
the aluminum smelter component.
Existing Power Facilities
27.       The Guinean power sector consists, on the one hand, of the public
power supply sub-sector with hydro and thermal generating stations totalling
about 65 MW, about 170 km of related transmission lines and, on the other
hand, of an autonomous industrial sub-sector generating electricity for
bauxite mining with three isolated thermal generating stations totalling
about 70 MW. Annual energy supplied from the Samou river (Grandes Chutes and
Donkea) could be increased by about 120 GWh per annum, or 50% from current
levels, through reducing leakage at Grandes Chutes dam, improving operating
procedures and upgrading power installations. In the public sub-sector, the



- 10 -
Conakry system accounts for 45 MW of installed capacity and 85 percent of
total electricity sales in Guinea. This system consists of: (i) two
hydroelectric stations, i.e., the Grandes Chutes station (20 MW installed
with 4 units of 5 MW each) and the Donkea station (15 MW installed with 2
units of 7., MW each); (ii) the Tombo thermal station (10 MW installed with
7 units); (iii) transmission lines with related power line carrier telecom-
munication systems for coordinating operation of the above-mentioned generating
stations; and (iv) distribution grids in Conakry and nearby townships such
as Klndia. The Government owned Societe Nationale d'Electricite (SNE),
which serves the public network (para. 30) has about 23,000 customers nation-
wide of which 12,000 are in Conakry. Although these 12,000 connections
theoretically serve about 20 percent of Conakry's 600,000 population, the
existence of many illegal connections increases at least lighting coverage
to perhaps 60 percent of the city's population. About 3 to 4 percent of the
rural population is served by electricity.
28.       The Guinean economy has been adversely affected by a scarcity of
local expertise and a lack of foreign exchange to import equipment and pay
for foreign technical assistance. These constraints have seriously affected
the power sector and have resulted in the current precarious state of the
Conakry/Kindia inter-connected power system, which has been suffering from low
maintenance standards, frequent outages, excessive voltage drops and high
losses. To prevent a possible breakdown which would have had serious economic
consequences, a Power Engineering and Repair Credit (para. 20) was made to the
Government to help SNE finance the most urgent rehabilitation requirements of
the Conakry power system, to which the Government was giving high priority.
The Credit financed, inter alia: (i) a feasibility study for the rehabilita-
tion alternatives for the Grandes Chutes dam; (ii) the repair of two hydro
units, two diesel units and the telecommunications network required for
operating the transmission grid; (iii) urgently needed repair tools and
equipment; and (iv) technical assistance for auditing of SNE accounts. The
related repairs are proceeding well and will be completed by end 1980.
SNE's Organization, Management and Finance
29.       The Ministry of Energy and Konkoure (MINEK) is presently res-
ponsible for planning and executing power investment programs and for the
overall technical supervision of the power sector. Operation of the power
system is the responsibility of SNE. Like all state enterprises in the
industrial and energy sectors, SNE is a wholly owned subsidiary of the
Office de Coordination Financiere de l'Industrie (OCOFI), which is a state
owned holding company. OCOFI owns SNE's assets and manages SNE's financial
operations even though SNE reports to MINEK on technical matters. SNE is
run by a Director General appointed by decree. As SNE's financial manage-
ment capability improves, it is expected that OCOFI's role would diminish.
Other ministries which have direct involvement with the power sector and,
therefore, SNE are: the Ministry of Planning (coordination and financing of
capital expenditures); the Ministry of Internal Trade (review of tariff
proposals); the Ministry of Labor (review of wages and control of SNE's
personnel); and the Ministry of Finance (disbursement of funds and review of
wages). The substantial involvement of the other ministries means that SNE



- 11 -
does not have the autonomy normally present in power sector utilities. This
is a result of the country's chosen managerial system and cannot be expected
to change rapidly, even though the fragmentation complicates sector management.
Evolution to a more consolidated sector is desirable, however, and would be
initiated in the proposed project through SNE's role as executing agency and
the establishment of consolidated public power sector pro-forma accounts
(paras. 35 and 49).
30.       SNE was established in 1961, following nationalization of the
private company that operated the Conakry power system, and is now responsible
for nationwide operation of such systems. The performance of SNE has been
generally less than satisfactory, as evidenced by the deteriorating condition
of the network it operates.
31.       SNE's poor performance is due to a combination of staffing, organi-
zational and financial problems. The operation of the Conakry system is
carried out haphazardly by personnel with poor training. SNE has no training
facilities nor does it have any training program. Moreover, management is not
familiar with elementary operating and planning procedures. No preventive
maintenance exists and, since there are no meter calibration facilities,
metering at generation sources as well as at distribution and consumer points
is unreliable. With assistance from consultants to be provided under the
project, SNE would prepare a manpower plan involving detailed projections of
manpower requirements at each skill level and proposals for related training
activities. At the same time it would analyze maintenance needs and propose
maintenance programs. To alleviate the operating problems of SNE the project
would include a substantial technical assistance and training program designed
to help SNE improve its present operations and meet the requirements of its
expanding activities. The project would also finance the construction and
equipping of a training center, a meter repair/calibration laboratory and an
electrical/mechanical maintenance shop.
32.       At present, SNE-s organization is largely informal and is charac-
terized by fragmented responsibilities and inadequate communication between
services. Management is made more difficult by the absence of a sound
internal information system regarding operating and financial performances.
In a recent audit of SNE's financial statements financed under a 1978 PPF
advance, the agency's financial functions showed many serious deficiencies
and a need for extensive improvements in its accounting system and procedures.
During negotiations assurances were obtained that appropriate audits would be
provided to the Association starting with that for FY 1982 (Section 4.02 of
the Development Credit Agreement). However, the effectiveness of the reorga-
nization of SNE's structure and operations largely hinges on the success of
the technical assistance and training programs included in the proposed
project. The Management Improvement Program (MIP) described in paragraph 46
would coordinate components of the proposed project and would include a
timetable to improve SNE's staffing, training, technical and financial manage-
ment, planning and operations.



- 12 -
33.       SNE has also suffered over a period of years from a scarcity of
foreign exchange. This, combined with complicated administrative proce-
dures, has resulted in an insufficient supply of spare parts and has contri-
buted significantly to poor maintenance of power installations. In order to
remedy this situation, the Government agreed, under Cr. S-22 GUI, to: (i)
grant to SNE, at the beginning of each year from 1979 through 1981, global
licenses for importing equipment and spare parts amounting to a minimum of
US$400,000 for 1979, US$600,000 for 1980 and US$700,000 for 1981; (ii) open
at the Banque Guineenne du Commerce Exterieur (BGCE), the Central Bank's
branch for external trade, a special foreign currency account in the name of
SNE to avoid time-consuming approval procedures; and (iii) deposit in the
special account amounts required to permit SNE to make payments within the
framework of each annual global license. These changes, which have worked
reasonably well, represent a significant improvement from Government's
normal procedures. In line with these measures, Government has agreed that
it will maintain this system and has confirmed that it will continue to make
available sufficient foreign exchange to pay for the import of goods and
services necessary for the repair and maintenance of SNE's equipment and
facilities (Section 4.05(b) of the Development Credit Agreement).
Tariffs
34.       Since 1976, the average tariff has been about 2.11 Sylis/kWh (or
USJ11.1/kWh) on high and low voltage electricity. In 1978, the estimated
rate of return on historically valued assets was about 6 percent. This rate
of return does not represent a sound financial position for SNE because
overvaluation of the Syli implies an understatement of operating costs
and assets are considerably undervalued. In addition, past expenditures on
maintenance have been insufficient. Tariffs need to be increased substan-
tially to cover the increased costs of adequately maintaining existing facili-
ties and providing a return on properly valued assets. An increase is all the
more necessary in view of the fact that the long run marginal cost of elec-
tricity will be much higher than the average historical cost because a
greater proportion of thermal, or equally high cost hydro-energy, will be
needed to meet increased demand. Government has recognized the need for
tariff increases and has indicated its intention to raise tariffs by an
average 40% through selective increases, to meet the 1981 rate of return
covenant (para. 35 (iii)).
35.       Assurances were also received that the following steps would be
undertaken to improve SNE's financial position:
(i) SNE would from 1981 keep pro-forma accounts for the sector, to
be based on annually revalued assets and to include new long term
debt and related debt service (Section 4.06 of the Development
Credit Agreement);
(ii) a comprehensive tariff study, using terms of reference satis-
factory to IDA, would be completed by June 30, 1983 and submitted
to IDA for discussion (Section 4.08 (a) of the Development Credit
Agreement);



- 13 -
(iii) as from FY81, tariffs for the sector would be adequate to provide
revenues which would cover operating expenses, maintenance costs,
depreciation based on revalued assets and meet repayments on long
term sector debt, to the extent these repayments were greater than
depreciation provisions (Section 4.08 (b) of Development Credit
Agreement);
(iv)  in case there were delays in reaching agreement on tariff levels,
sector tariff levels would be set to provide an annual rate of
return on revalued net fixed assets of not less than 2 percent in
1983 and not less than 3 percent thereafter (Section 4.08(c) of the
Development Credit Agreement);
(v) the "household appliance" tariff would be eliminated by mid-1981
(Section 4.08 (d) of the Development Credit Agreement);
(vi) SNE's uncollectible debts would be written off (Sections 4.07(a)
and (b) of the Development Credit Agreement);
(vii) the sector's annual capital expenditure and financing plans would
be reviewed annually with the Association (Section 4.09(a) of the
Development Credit Agreement); and
(viii) Government would ensure that adequate funds were available to
meet operational, debt service, working capital and investment
requirements of the sector (Section 4.09(b) of the Development
Credit Agreement).
Bank Group Role
36.       The Bank Group objectives in the power and energy sector are to
contribute to the Government's efforts to define coordinated and coherent
policies aimed at exploiting the country's energy resources in the most
efficient way. In the power sector, the long-term objectives are to help
the Government establish a strong institution by reinforcing SNE's techni-
cal, organizational and financial management.  In the short run, *the objec-
tives are to help the Government rehabilitate the badly deteriorated power
network, in particular that of the capital city, Conakry.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
37.       In 1977 the Guinean Government requested IDA's assistance in
the power sector. It sought aid for the Conakry interconnected system and
specifically for: (i) the rehabilitation and reinforcement of existing hydro
power and diesel generating facilities, transmission lines and related high
to medium voltage substations; and (ii) the rehabilitation, reinforcement
and extension of the medium and low voltage distribution grid. Following



- 14 -
identification and preparation missions in May, July and August 1977, a
Canadian consulting firm, Tecsult International, was selected to prepare the
feasibility study, detailed engineering and bidding documents for such a
project. In February 1978, the Government received an IDA advance of
US$220,000 under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) to finance certain
foreign exchange expenditures required for project preparation. In the
course of these preparatory studies, it became obvious that the options for
repair of the Grandes Chutes Dam had to be examined and that urgent repairs
of some generating facilities had to be undertaken immediately. Following
discussions with the Guinean authorities in May 1978, it was decided to
cover these repairs through an engineering credit (Power Engineering and
Repair Project--Cr. S-22-GUI of January 12, 1979), while continuing project
preparation.
38.       During preparation in 1979, it became evident that the project
submitted to IDA by the Guinean authorities would be extensive, given the poor
condition of the various generating, transmission and distribution facilities.
As a result, IDA recommended to the authorities to separate the works into
parts and to seek additional lenders. With agreement from the Government, IDA
approached Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (KfW) and Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique (CCCE) for additional financing. The overall Rehabili-
tation Program was subsequently divided into three parts: (i) the rehabilita-
tion of Conakry's Tombo diesel power plant and related facilities (to be
financed by KfW); (ii) the complete overhaul of the Grandes Chutes hydro plant
and dam, consulting services for studies of the hydro potential of the Samou
and Diani Rivers and the proposed Fomi dam, and a preliminary study of the
tariff structure (to be financed by CCCE); and (iii) the rehabilitation and
extension of the Conakry II 1/ distribution system, new operating facilities
for SNE, as well as technical assistance and consulting services to improve
performance of the power sector in general through institution building (to be
financed by IDA). There has been close coordination and interchange of
information with CCCE and KfW during prepar.ation and the early stages of
implementation of the overall Program and of the IDA financed Project.
39.       The project was appraised by IDA in November/December 1979, with the
presence of KfW and CCCE representatives. An additional advance of US$300,000
under the PPF was approved in March 1980 to finance the studies necessary to
analyze the organization of the power sector and thus prepare the institution-
building component of the project. Negotiations were held in Washington
in November 1980; the Guinean delegation was led by H.E. Mohamed Lamine Toure,
Vice Governor of the Central Bank. A report entitled "People's Revolutionary
Republic of Guinea--Staff Appraisal Report--First Power Project" No. 3055-GUI,
dated November 25, 1980, is being distributed separately. Maps IBRD 14974R
and 14975 show the facilities of the power sector in Guinea. Chart 1 (IBRD
21517) shows the elements of SNE's Rehabilitation Program. Annex III provides
the timetable of key events in project preparation and processing.
1/ The city of Conakry comprises: Conakry I - the administrative and
business center and original residential area; and, Conakry II - the
industrial and new residential area.



- 15 -
Project Objectives and Description
40.       The principal objectives of the project would be: (i) to improve
the reliability of service to about 360,000 residential users and 2,000
industrial SNE accounts through the rehabilitation, reinforcement and
expansion of the power distribution system of Conakry II; and (ii) to
strengthen the institutions of the power sector by upgrading SNE's managerial,
technical and financial capabilities through technical assistance and
training. The project, which has already commenced would continue until
mid-1985. The new components would be part of the Government's 1980-84
overall rehabilitation program for the power facilities serving the city and
its surrounding areas. The project would comprise:
(a) the rehabilitation of the Conakry II distribution network, in-
cluding procurement of equipment and supplies for: (i) line
reinforcement works; (ii) extension works to bring service to new
customers; and (iii) a substantial rehabilitation program of
customers' connections;
(b) a training program for all levels of SNE staff;
(c) a three-year technical assistance program to start and manage
a training center in Conakry and to improve SNE's planning,
maintenance, operational and commercial capabilities, and to
carry out studies of SNE's finances and accounting procedures;
(d) the construction of, and procurement of equipment for, a training
center, a repair shop and a laboratory in Conakry as well as the
construction of, and procurement of furniture for, 17 houses for
expatriate and Guinean staff; and
(e) consulting services for: (i) the project's feasibility study and
detailed engineering and preparation of bidding documents for the
rehabilitation and construction works (financed principally
through the PPF advances and now largely complete); (ii) an
organization study of the sector; (iii) a review of the results of
ongoing and proposed studies, and the preparation of a feasibility
study for a possible second project.
The proposed Credit would also refinance the Power Engineering Credit
(Cr. S-22-GUI).
41.       Rehabilitation of Conakry II Distribution Network.  The rehabili-
tation works are designed to reinforce and extend the existing distribution
network of Conakry II and to complete the change-over to 20 KV (standard
voltage) of all primary distribution lines which are still at 15 kV or
6.3 kV. This would also include an extensive rehabilitation program of
customers' connections designed to eliminate the existing widespread prac-
tice of low voltage illegal connections. The program would make a census of
all low voltage customers of the area (residential and others) and install
standard customer connection facilities with adequate protection and meters.
Assurances were obtained that a study of the Conakry System load forecast



- 16 -
and its diesel generation expansion requirements (to be financed by KfW) would
be carried out and discussed with the Association (Section 4.11 of the
Development Credit Agreement). To improve supply to the Conakry system
assurances were also obtained that the results of the studies to be financed
by CCCE would be discussed with the Association, particularly those relating
to optimising use of the Samou river (Section 4.12 (a) and (b) of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement).
42.       Training Program.  The training program financed under the project
would consist of two basic components. First, it would provide for about 64
man-years equivalent of scholarships and overseas training for financial and
adminstrative managers, engineers and high level technicians of SNE as well as
for Guinean instructors for SNE's training center to be built under the
project (para. 40). Second, SNE's medium and low level personnel (technical,
accounting, administrative and commercial staff) would be trained in SNE's new
training center, initially under the direction of two senior expatriate
experts, to be replaced ultimately by Guinean counterparts. The final training
program would be based on an analysis of SNE's manpower, training, and mainte-
nance requirements to be carried out by consultants financed under the project
(para. 43).
43.       Technical Assistance to SNE.  The project would provide for recruit-
ment, for a period of 3 years, of 10 senior expatriate experts with experience
in operations and overall management of electricity corporations: to improve
planning, one expert would assist in reorganizing SNE's "Bureau d'Etudes"
and would prepare by December 31, 1982 a comprehensive three-year development
plan for SNE and the Guinean power sector in general; to improve maintenance,
four experts would be assigned to help organize and operate the electro-
mechanical repair shop and the laboratory mentioned above; to improve opera-
tions, three experts would be responsible for reorganizing SNE's hydrogenera-
tion, diesel generation and transmission activities; and to improve accounting,
two experts would assist SNE in reorganizing and streamlining financial and
accounting procedures and commercial and procurement activities. In addition,
some 4 man-years of consulting services would be provided to carry out studies
on SNE's finances and make recommendations on the establishment of adequate
accounting procecures as to make SNE's accounts auditable starting with FY82
accounts.   The 10 technical specialists and 2 training specialists (para. 42)
would be recruited from a single responsible entity.
44.       Improvement of SNE's Operating Facilities.  The proposed project
would provide for the construction of various facilities needed for im-
proving and streamlining SNE's technical operations. The project would
construct, equip and initially operate a training center in Conakry to cover
SNE's training requirements (para. 42). The new facilities would also
include an electro-mechanical repair shop providing maintenance services to
SNE's operating departments and an electrical protection and meter calibra-
tion laboratory which would help SNE to set up more rational maintenance and
to improve verification of protection systems and meters. Because of the
extreme shortage of adequate housing in Conakry, the project would finance
the construction and furnishing of 17 houses for the twelve senior expatriate
experts financed under the project (para. 43) and five Guinean on-call
operating personnel. To ensure that the hydrosites on which power generation



- 17 -
depends are properly maintained, and to prevent a repetition of the previous
problems at Grandes Chutes, assurances were obtained that the dams at
Grandes Chutes, Banea and Donkea would be inspected annually by qualified
engineers (Section 3.07 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
45.       Consulting Services.  The project would finance about 15 man-years
of consulting services. Some studies, financed under the February 1978 and
March 1980 PPF advances, and proposed for refinancing in this project are
already completed or under way: the feasibility study which helped prepare
the proposed project, and the detailed engineering and the preparation of
bidding documents for the rehabilitation works of the Conakry II distribution
system. Consultants have been selected for a study of the power sector
organization, notably SNE's own organization, including its structure, staffing
and training requirements, and of SNE's relations with the Government.
Consulting services would also be provided for the supervision of construction
and erection. Approximately 6 of the 15 man-years of consulting services
would be used to review the results of ongoing studies and prepare a feasibi-
lity study of a possible follow-up project. These consultants would also
help the Government and MINEK formulate a comprehensive power sector plan
for the post-1985 period, to be essentially based on hydro-power generation.
46.       Management Improvement Program (MIP).  In order to support and
coordinate the project components described above and to ensure their effec-
tive implementation, according to a timetable which will be agreed from time
to time with the Association, the Government and SNE would take complementary
measures designed to improve SNE's management and operations. This program,
which was discussed during appraisal, was finalized during negotiations and
includes targets to be attained by the end of 1982 in the areas of investment
planning, staffing, training and operational, organizational, commercial and
financial management (Section 3.08 of the Development Credit Agreement).
Project Cost
47.       The total cost of the project, including refinancing of Cr. S-22-
GUI and of advances under the Project Preparation Facility, and net of
identifiable taxes and duties, is estimated at US$32.5 million equivalent,
of which US$28.5 million equivalent, or 88 percent, in foreign exchange.
The cost estimate is based on mid 1980 prices and includes 10 percent
physical contingencies and a total of 34 percent price contingencies based
on expected international and national price trends over the life of the
project. Bids have been received for about 40 percent of items to be fi-
nanced under the project and are in line with cost estimates. For con-
sulting services and technical assistance, estimates are based on contracts
recently offered in Guinea and other West African countries. Housing costs
are based on those experienced in the ongoing Guinea Education Project (Cr.
849-GUI). For scholarships, estimates are based on experience in education
projects in West Africa. Man-month costs for consulting services and
technical assistance average US$12,000 including about US$2,000 for reimburs-
able expenses; scholarships are estimated on the basis of US$15,000 per year
in foreign currency. Total consulting services under the project amount to
about 9 man-years, technical assistance to about 40 man-years, and training
(scholarships) to about 64 man-years.



- 18 -
Project Financing
48.       The proposed credit of US$28.5 million equivalent would cover the
entire foreign exchange cost of the project, including the refinancing of the
two advances under the PPF (US$520,000 in total) and of US$1.13 million
equivalent under the Power Engineering and Repair Project (Credit S-22-GUI).
The local costs, US$4.0 million equivalent, would be financed by the Govern-
ment and SNE's cash generation. Government has agreed that contributions
would be made available to the project entity in quarterly advances in an
account with the "Credit National" bank (Section 3.01(b) of the Development
Credit Agreement) and that sufficient petty cash would be made available
(Section 3.06 of the Development Credit Agreement). Government has also
agreed that it would implement the entire 1980-84 Rehabilitation Program,
including those parts being financed by KfW and CCCE, in accordance with a
timetable acceptable to the Association (Section 4.10 of the Development
Credit Agreement). The project would be exempt from taxes and duties.
Project Implementation
49.       Assurances were obtained that the project would be executed by SNE.
To assist SNE's management in project execution a project unit, headed by a
qualified project manager (already in post), would be set up within SNE's
Bureau d'Etudes (Section 3.01 of the Development Credit Agreement). SNE will
continue to have to seek approval from other ministries for actions within
their areas of responsibility. A similar system has worked satisfactorily in
the Water Supply Project and is acceptable for the proposed project. The
proceeds of the Credit would be transferred as a grant from the Government.
The state holding company (OCOFI - para. 29) would be the owner of the assets
created under the project, and SNE would operate the assets. The evaluation
of bids for the rehabilitation of the Conakry II distribution system is
underway and is expected to be completed by end December 1980. All other bids
and contract awards, following studies prepared under the March 1980 PPF
advance, would be completed by February 1981 so as to enable effective start
of the project by mid-1981. Technical assistance not already financed under
Cr S-22-GUI and the PPF advances would be provided for three years starting in
mid-1981 and training would start by September 1981. The project is expected
to be completed by June 30, 1985.
Procurement
50.       Equipment and supplies would be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding (ICB) following Bank Group guidelines. Low voltage
consumer's connections would be installed by contractors, selected under ICB,
with the participation of SNE's personnel. Contracts for civil works would
also be awarded on the basis of ICB following Bank Group guidelines. Consult-
ants and experts would be appointed with qualifications, on terms and condi-
tions and with terms of reference satisfactory to the Government and the
Association (Section 3.02(a) of the Development Credit Agreement).
Disbursements
51.       The proposed IDA Credit would be disbursed on the following basis:



- 19 -
(a) 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost or 95 percent of local
expenditures for equipment and material (US$7.20 million);
(b) 90 percent of the costs of line erection and equipment
installation and of civil works (US$6.65 million);
(c) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for consulting services,
technical assistance, training and scholarships (US$8.0 million);
and
(d) refinancing of Cr. S-22-GUI and PPF advances (US$1.65 million).
US$5.0 million would remain unallocated. Disbursements would be fully
documented and are expected to begin during the third quarter of FY 81
and be completed during the fourth quarter of FY85.
Project Benefits and Risks
52.       The 1980-1984 rehabilitation program for the Conakry power system
would benefit the 610,000 population of Conakry and also the 40,000 popula-
tion in other centers served by the Conakry/Kindia transmission network.
Such benefits would accrue from improved system reliability and increased
generating capacity due to the rehabilitation of the Grandes Chutes hydro
plant and the Tombo diesel plant. Consumption by existing consumers is
expected to rise by 20 percent by end 1981 solely as a result of the rehabi-
litation of the production and transmission facilities. Annual total
consumption is expected to rise from about 100 GWh in 1980 to 260 GWh by
1985. The rehabilitation program would also lead to a reduction in losses
and unaccounted for electricity from the present level of 20 percent of
production to 15 percent in 1983. Taken together, the increase in new
customers, satisfaction of previously unmet demand of existing customers and
reduction in losses are expected to lead to an average growth rate in
electricity generation of 12.6 percent per annum from 1979 to 1985. This is
reasonable, based on already identified new industrial consumers, substan-
tial suppressed demand and experience in other countries which have started
from a similar base with comparable growth potential.
53.       Even though the IDA project is largely separable from the KfW and
CCCE financed components of the 1980-84 Rehabilitation Program, the nature of
the joint costs incurred means that the economic rate of return of the IDA
financed project cannot be estimated in isolation from the overall Rehabi-
litation and Expansion Program. Accordingly, the IERR of the entire program
has been calculated on the basis of all the incremental rehabilitation
and expansion works, technical assistance costs, and operations and main-
tenance costs compared with the revenues to be derived from the sale of
all incremental electricity distribution to final consumers served by the
Conakry/Kindia network at the present and proposed tariffs. Without the full
Rehabilitation Program, it is likely that the remaining generators at Grandes
Chutes and Tombo would fail completely, leaving the 15 MW diesel plant at
Donkea to carry the 1980 29 MW peak load. The transmission system is equally
precarious. Thus a total disruption of Conakry's power service within five
years is likely without the Rehabilitation Program. Accordingly, electricity



- 20 -
sales made possible by the rehabilitation and expansion works have been
attributed as benefits of the Program. On that basis the IERR would be 6.7
percent at current tariffs and 23 percent at the tariffs to be implemented
during the project, using a Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.5. Although
the degree of overvaluation of the Syli is not precisely known, an IERR of
10 percent would be achieved at proposed tariffs if the SCF were 0.3, which
would probably overstate the overvaluation. The IERR is not significantly
sensitive, at proposed tariffs, to increases in capital or operating and
maintenance costs. Recently, SNE's revenues have covered operating expenses,
including depreciation on assets valued historically, and have provided a
return varying from 1 percent to 6 percent on assets. Under the proposed
changes in SNE's financial structure (para 35), the return on currently valued
assets should increase from about 2 percent in 1983 to 3 percent in 1985.
This is considered a satisfactory start to placing SNE on a sound financial
footing.
54.       There are no special technical risks associated with the project
because the physical components consist mainly of repair works. The success
of the project, however, depends on SNE's ability to initiate steps necessary
for the long term attainment of its institutional and manpower improvement
objectives. The probability of achieving these is enhanced by the major role
to be played by the technical assistance and training components.
Similarly, the acute shortage of foreign exchange in Guinea always presents
some risks. However, the availability of foreign exchange necessary for
SNE's day-to-day operations and maintenance would be assured through the
establishment of a special account for the purchase of spare parts (para 33).
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
55.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Revolutionary
People's Republic of Guinea and the Association, and the Recommendation of
the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association, are being distributed to the Executive Direc-
tors separately.
56.       Special features of the draft Development Credit Agreement are
referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III.
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 21 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
58.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By
Washington D.C.
December 1, 1980                                Moeen A. Qureshi



- 22-                                          Annex-
PaRe I
TABLE 3A
GUINEA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GUINEA                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                      - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            245.9
AGRICULTURAL      71.7                                MOST RECENT            L0W INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  7b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  80.0       110.0    210.0oL                228.9                   726.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KTLOGRAM4S OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     65.0        98.0      91.0                 80.0                   699.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      3.1         4.1       5.1/4 f
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 9.9         13.8      18.0                  17.3                    28.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
PoPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       9.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                        23.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2170
PO PULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KM.                       13.0        17.0      21.0                 27.4                     61.7
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND     45.0        58.0      71.0                 82.6                    126.0
POPULATICN AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         42.1        42.5      43.5                 44.9                     45.5
15-64 YRS.                         55.1        54.7      53.6                 52.2                    51.6
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.8         2.8       2.9                  2.8                     2.8
POPULATICN GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.2         2.8       2.9/s                2.7                      2.7
URBAN                              9.0         6.1       6.4                  6.8                      4.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    47.0         47.0      46.0                 47.4                     46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     30.0        24.0      21.0                  19.6                    16.4
GROSS REFRODUCTION RATE              3.5Le       3.1       3.1                  3.2                      3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          97.0       100.0      86.0                 91.8                     94.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   86.D        90.0      84.0                 90.2                     92.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          43.0        44.0      42.7                 53.0                     53.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND FULSE        8.0         7.0       8.0                 18.4                     15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     45.0        36.0      30.0                  27.7                    21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    35.0        40.0      43.0                 45.3                     50.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          141.0Lf        ..
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..      10.0                 23.2                     31.0
URBAN                               ..          ..      27.0                 58.0                     66.8
RURAL                               ..          ..       3.0                 16.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF PO PULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        13.0        ..                 28.9
URBAN                               ..        70.0        ..                 67.0
RURAL                                          2.0
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         48000.0     32519.0   16629.0/d            30910.4                  14508.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     3890.0      5231.0    2449.0/d             5793.2                  3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1122.0       612.0/R   616.0               1198.9                   1141.5
URBAN                            207.0       146.0
RURAL                           2199.0      1271.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..        16.0
HOUS1ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSENOLD
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..
RURAL                               ..          ..



- 23 -                                        Annex 1
P&xe 2
TAB0LE 3A
GUINEA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEZT
GUINEA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTIID AvI  S
- HOST RICENT ESTIMATE)A
}tST RECENT           LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 30.0        33.0         ..                 57.7                     61.7
MALE                 44.0         45.0        ..                  74.2                    69.2
FEMALE               16.0         21.0        ..                  54.1                    51.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  2.0        13.0        ..                  10.0                     20.6
MALE                  3.0         21.0        ..                  13.7                    29.2
FENALE                0.4          5.0        ..                   7.1                    14.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)    ..          3.2         ..                  6.8                      7.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            66.0        36.0         ..                 45.0                     36.6
SECONDARY                          26.0        23.0        ..                  25.2                     24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         7.0         9.O/        ..                 25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          2.0         2.0       2.0                   3.6                     38.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         12.0        23.0      27.0                  31.5                     83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          ..        ..                   1.8
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATIOS PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   0.2         1.0       1.0                   4.6                     24.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..           ..         ..                   ..                      0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      1521.6      1939.6    2308.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   40.3        40.3      39.0                  33.5                     38.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              88.2        84.7      82.0                  80.7                     54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  6.1         8.5      11.0                   8.1                     17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                49.6        47.7      46.1                  42.2                     38.8
MALE                                 59.5        57.4       55.8                 55.1                     48.4
FEMALE                               39.9        38.1       36.6                 29.5                     29.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDE,NCY RATIO              0.9         1.0       1.0                   1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOHE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..        ..                 138.2
RURAL                               ..           ..        ..                  86.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..      70.0                 107.0
RURAL                                ..          ..         ..                 65.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                ..          ..        ..                  66.9.
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators dependa on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970  between 1969
and 1971; and for Moat Recent Eatimate, between 1974 and 1978.
Lc Recent Government estimates from Administrative Census indicate a resident population (excluding non-
Guineans) of 4.53 mill. in 1977 and population growth rate of 2.7X p.a.; /d WNO preliminary estimated
data; /e African population; /f 1955-60 average; /j Government hospitals only; /h 1965.
April, 1980
/i    New national accounts estimates were produced as a result of the February/March 1980 economic mission
and indicate a GNP per capita of US$274 in 1979.  These estimates will be discussed and finalized with
Government in late 1980 within the contest of a forthcoming Economic Memorandum.
/1    Updated Bank estimates indicate total population of 5.3 million in 1979.



- 24 -                                                                           Annex 1
?'oee3
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Notes:  Although tha date are drove fro  sources geS..aly judged the most authtitatie eat reliable, it should als  he outed that they  .y sot ha iboar-
eatio...lly  oompsrsbleb he..ue  of the lee  ofatadotis't teiottioo   out concepts seat by differet osetre                    o llettio, cho.  ata.  Te tat. sn   oe
chaIses,. us.fol to de-tiho orders of  sagntode.  inL4tiot  trends, out throeteertete m-Jor differeousa hones. ronetris..
Thetrsfereaoe1 grop  ere. (I) the o-  ooenY group of the sabjeot ousory  -d(0) a momy grop -Ith  .webat highat averag  Inter   ths the c.oatry group
of rho eojt coustry Pae.pt for "Capttel Surplus Oil Reporters" gromp wham  "ittla  mesa. North Afrira sotd Piddle toot' is oheson botess of ote...sr
aeoolraeffinities).  1e ths esfer..t. Sg...p tote the  --egS.  of  pepsatin weigbtsd arits-tLr mea  for nob id.ttota  out ehee  only when at
leas   MIlf of the  boo.tniea in a group baa dens for thee isdiototr.  Nines tha eroog.S. of t triso   .-S the iwdi.totot  depends on the  -ilobility of
dtot  and is not enifom,  -stion must he oaeriaod to toletin avtaa  of ow  gettootor to soother.  The.. so . erages ore only ..sefut in cosprieg the robs
of one ististor en a rime omoe  the coun..try out rofoosne goupo.
LAZED AREA (theusot sq.km.)                                                                   toRebotio    o    yheciiso    lopuietie dividee by e-oe  or prac.ticing  pry-
Toto1 - Total ourfon are, comprising loot st. sat inland water..                              siLe.2  qualif'ied  rm a actirsl sc.~hool et unive...ity Isv-l.
Aarcu.lItutol1  fttooie.o   of  oroluo    re, used teaPot-ily or permeastly                 Popoo.iaiossr cNtaesPeso1              P.peins -divided hy nuberiof pr-ctoing
for crops. pseturee, aerhet end hithohe  gardens or to lie fallow; 197y dtens               male end Penle greduats  oes  prsotira1 oura..e, out..ei-en   tote....
Pes!lation ocr HiusitolNo  - total  urban. .-  rural - Popolation  (toto.1
GN? PER CAPITA_PUSS) - GNP Per copit. esiatsa  current  erhat prise..   l-                      urban, ea  rural) tinted by thei.rotopetit  somber of hospital hots
coloetd by sm   covriemchot no Wocld Nook Aties (197b-78 basis); l%O,                         evilobla in public and printe  ganrol ant Aperiolinsd heapita1 end re-
19)0, ant 197N dtot.                                                                          hahilitatioo esorsr.  N lptal. are astabliehasato penmocerly stoOPfd
by On leat a.  Physicioo.  RsebhlbNo.sta prevLdieg prisripolly custodiol
ENONRIT CONSUSEPTIWI Pit CAPITA - A-..I coneuption of aosrial enrgy feol                         car  am  see Ila dtd.  Rural hospitals, bh-n.r include health out matInee
sod lignite, petroleum, sonura1 gas out hytro-.,.. nerea  oat Sethasml nIce-                  centers met poeseasutly stoffed by a physicios P bet by a  etloel assisoten,
etriity) io kilrgaS-  of tool oquiolent Pen capita; 1960, 1970. sad 1979                      mar50, midwife, etc.)  bhich offer tn-patient  -coo dttibo  sot provide
dote.                                                                                         limited ronee ofmeio  fecilitiso.  For stotisticl perp..os urben hespi-
POPUIATION AIID VITAL STATISTICS                                        t.~~~~~cle include WM).5 prinripo1 general end epecioltet hospleols. end total
POPULATION AXED VITA]. NTATISTICS                                       ~~heopitla 101 or tote1 hospitals sod medical end maternity center.-
Toed  Porulotios. Nit-Year Paillioss) -A. of July 1; 1960, 1970, aad 1978        Admiesoss0 sr-    psoitl Nod - TIdol nomr of adissions to or diechergee
dota,.                                                                                      fretisitlediided by the timber of hat..
Urb-mPolco   (prcan   of enrol)   R gots of orban te ttne1 paolanieM;
different tefenitiona of echo. ar.o. may affont raability of dote                       BOgeec
amog oonetee  190,1970, set 1978 date.                                             AeasEs   fNsoedPeenstbqabl)-ttl   ra.oterl
Poeslatios Proj        -Cutstttiooab  .d    ino                                         A hosehold  ootsfa grenp of  indviuas  b  shalolre living  lqattet
PPoplotioo in 7res  200I      uret Poplto    ojenoaebsodn18                                  e  their main seals.  A hoarder or lddgec may or may eon he incodd is
tote  peplotion by   ssots" oat their mortality eat fertility rtate.                      the house hold for statiotino1 purposee.
P'rojeotion perimters for moreolity fetes  "Weries of thin  level, se-                  Atemobrof reearem                oo     totl, urban, end rural - A-rstg  na-
ing rife snpsetocy at birth  ioesn    itb costry's poe rapine incom                     baropron erro  Ia oil urbn, set rural ..ccopind co= tnionI
1-v1, end f-1ol  life meps~oesoy stehiltino at 77.5 yeare.  The porn-                     twelliogs.! rspcioy            elneecae  o-emnn   tnnre
merer  for f-teility cots also bane three level  needing telin. in                          -.aeplat port..t
ifertility  -oodping to inome lavsl ant post family plooing perform c."                 Al=so  to Elen,ctiyPaon  of tdelling)-crl   rbn   n   oa 
Each coutryi hou essigoet o          ftbhae aloe embineties  of mortality                                                            L.vnimldelns   ihentiiyi  livin   qorswa   enoeg
sod fetilt iFtroasfr prjoiaPrOsof totol, urban, and rotsI dwellings  spectiv-ly.
Stationary Pneolotion _ Is. a statibonry populotion there is so growoeb sisc
the birth rags is eqoal to the death rats, oa  alma the age strmtnr  es-              DUCALTIO
main  con... tr.  Thio is achieved osly after fertility rotas deelisa to                Adjusted Enrollmet Patios
tin reploscat level of ants net raproductio  rots, when -ob genertion                     Frimar  school - total, male end feno1  - Gr.es tete1, male ed femal
of  :nmo  cePIl...e itesif enotly.  Th. statibonry popultiew  see se                        erellasn   of ol ages sotth  primary level oa p-ototage  of renpectirn
etinatd os the baeis of tha projected oherceatristice of the population                    pimr   cho-og    ouais;somlytcue   cide    gt0
inche yoo r 2000, and ths tote of decline of fortillty rate to repl.co-                   years hut adJusted for ditfforet length. of primary ede.cetO;.fr
man  leel                                                                                      cctiws with universal  d...tion sorol11-t may sceed 150 peccant
Ti.rtataionae  cenlation Is reached - ma. y-t who  stationery popoluetie                     since com  pupils ace bel.ow cc  hov  the official echeol ue
siehs  enraee.ssydr  enhool   oa. male ,act fs.l    - Cmpted as obev;  .onodntey
Population Densit-yoo   9lto   .rq1                   m-.    10   .tr.   fd-taie  requioso or leas  fot  yeats! of approvd primary iatrootion;
Per o.  e. -Nityea  poplaton   sr suar  hiomatr P190hecerse  ofpcovidmeS.. geerl, -octien, nr teacher training instructions for pupib
corl   55.ucal  of 12t-7yaso   f;crc-sp-ndooecucs ore gener11l
Per s. k.  asieerlolad - Cesund as obey  for agriculnera1 loot                                soogledoad.           7y.r  o    .
oly.                                                                                     Voctina enlcdlmee  Pprcen  of  anodary  -               SVocetioolointituebous
PonuaronAg Stutr   praIl - Chtldran  (0-16 yearo),  erhieg-ags  P 13-                            include1tethoia, industrial,or ote.          roorse thich opaeta itepopo-
64  eas)  end reTird( Footear  eat evr) as parromeoges of mit-year popo'                      dentlyota departments of aecontary  boetitutions
lai;1960  197, ad 1970 date.Puotabraio-rir, and secntar  - Tote  stdutsn     enrolled to
to. uLoto  iruws  Sat inrot      oa       e lgot   ae f total mId-                               prmay  adesenar  lsvsls. divd   by embers of teachbc..i  the
yearIpopLaioso for 1950-60, 1960-70, aSd 1970- 79.                                             corrsepoodlng levl..
Pouana   Orot goes (percent) -  .orbs  - A--Ia growth reese of urban pepo-              Adul, ierc   ee(ecn)-Iiecr   dlo(bet   atadwie
ltosfr19510-60. 19   -70    dn 1970-78.                                                 osepretg    ftoa  adult -pLpulotio  agedt 15bl yeroasd er.d-i.
Crud othbgt   er hua               - Annual line births per th-.sad of mid-yeart
Popultto;19h0  1970. so  1979  .t.t.                                                    CONSUMPTION
CeoDahN te fee  thoassed  - Annul deathe pee thoasesd of mid-your                  Po..oa.'ac Care (pec tbaooan  rulotiten   - P.....g.r care comprise macor
populotbon; 1960. 1970, and 1979 dtat.               '                                       esstn    osta   ight pores  secludes mbole-es. heacsee ant
irsoRproducetne Nte - Average number of deaghtocs a  oa ill beer in                        miiery tends.
heri-rooml .-rapretuiv- period if she enpriouree present as.-ep-ifto Pfor-                Rai   aevr otthouoo.nd popeleti-r  - All typo. of rciesPo   oo
t  .it :ats;uual  fiveyea  oveneeding in 1960, 1970, and 1977.                          brnotcesta tc general1 public per thousan d of population; secludeou-
Fselly PPaen  -Acroc. :Anu1 Ptho...ando) -Annual nuber of ..c. ptOr                            roused re-iver  in countries sod to yors when regiotrotion ot raioa
of birth-cotrol derics enter supiosa of -aicl  aIyplosing program.                   -a  in effect; dora for .ricen;yar  ma  nt be comprable sinc  most
Family Ploooin  - tests (carcout of _apri-dwma)-        -tscag  of wattld               c.."ciss  bhlished licesig
wenof child-bearing age (15-4t yost.) who.s  birth-control devit    to                 TV Rocvar -(set thousand pocultien   - TV feceivers for brodoset
all macrind woman in same age group.genere1 public pet thoneand pepoloten; encludo  unlicensed Ty rcivers
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~it ceotrtice and in  eo Y.,  whent regiatraio  of TV sets was In  ffoce.
PldOD  N otfflTdI Prnosporer1 1d.    fP                                      .pi.                       C..r.ulotio   poor thesead poculeeee) -iShows the avrag  crcis
tntoo  f PoetProtooios pr Capita (196-1-100)                                           tine   tprcoisem   on of "doilygera   ireoeunP.pr,dfnd a      peiodical pub-
Prouro   falfo   omdte.!1 Peuoie   nldes soot out fosod out                                 licetin devoted primacrily to rncordlg g...r-1 non." Iti. .s.c.nadtred
iso   ondryou  haste.  Cusdotinios cove  primary guudo (e...                        toarae e  ho "daily" if it appears on leas.t four tisose weak.
aesof auger) which err edible end cotai  otcirtnt  (e.g. toffee end                  liesAnulAtndneptCo ect  otDsd o  the nambar of
traseeldd).  Aggrogote Prndtocro   of each c...stry is hoe  on.                      icosod         drngin  er  icudnttoeioec  trv-ocin
ntionl.  avrag  producer price nights; 1961-65, 1970, end 1970 dote.                       and mobile union
onry  qiveet of ne  foot spplies avilable in country per '  tapi.                   usro
tar toy.  Av-ilobls supplies comprise tomeenic Production, inporco lan                TAOta FORCErFcetheod)-comclyueiepcns tcuig
neports, end canges is stoc.  Net auppliss  docut  animal ced, costs.               rerd forces and aneepityot but ocluding h...eoiva..  students.ec
qUencitt.e.e usdis fod proco...ing, sod lessee ini distrihutien.  Naq Ive-                                                                                     7
mets were eatimate  by PAO besot on phyoielogica1 ante  for bo-I -ote:                    Dofiniti... to carton  cotetit  Ore tot co.eporblo; 1960, 197 da
viry ant haslth conidering  -nirnomoolt teeporotcua  body weightn,eg                   female (prero-) - Fenal  lubor for-o so porc-erg  of total lbhoc forc..
utsndistribution of population, dataloig11 porcie for costa or                     Agrio lur (prcent -O         ao   oc   nfrlg   oety    ot                  n
h..eehnd  ..vol; 1961-5,1970  sot 1977 dote.                                               hsio   o percentage of totu1 1nOOr force;: 160, 1970 oct 1976 date
for capita surly of proteIn  gros  cot ty) - S'rneeloooneane of per c,Pico        Industry (cercenO) - Labor force to misig, crtrr t,snfactoriog
net opply of food pec day.  lice supplydofYfood ia deflect a   Ihov.Rit-                  and o1eorriitey,  tott sot g.o so per-ccrge of total lobocCco;190
quicemeni  for oh1 couccrine   sealihto  by IDA provide for ninino                         91st17   aa
u    tovoc   f.AS gr-on   f total prortoi pr  day out 20 grea of seolso              -atictaicoNtpcrer   - crl. sole, aed fomee -Paticipeito o
pue  pori,o  whihi0grm oheld be uncoo  protnic.  Th-svetao-                              aciiydoo  ec  sucde  tota,  ol,   en   esl  lhr f-reu
artsuo  oe  tfhan thono  75 gren  of coe  proteint urt 23 grat  of                         Ircrse   f  otul   oi o  froloPoplto    falae   opeiey
ocleal proesto ou ec average 5 cc the oct11, ~proposed by 0A05 to tic Third  19A0, 1970, end 1975 done.  Thoc ore ILl's participoties rtacor tnlciog
Wrid F.od Survoy;'1961-65, 1907  sod 1977 data..                                                                       u                                            It~t
fa   et   rrt   coy  reaIa_n   00  -Poenspl   ffn  to-                                       ae-en  strcture of the Pplotico, and long tine trend.  A too reti-
rivet from  aionalt  n  pussi       rrm    o  dey; 190-65,1970 act 1977 dote,   tEcton.ic Depodroc.y Ratio -  tort  of populacioc ender 15 and 61 ond  -vo
fIeld Pooce 1-4) Ocroullcy Osro Proc ibreourt) ~~~~~~~~~- Aretol douche per thboe..odot  to c  tic ctutl lobor forc..
ego grou.P I-A yearn, cc ohildtro in chic age grou P; f. or. moo dvelopiogcon
ertee dora derived c- lift tables; 1961, 197 act 1977 dtac.. 15100 1 DISTRISUTION
Pcoasof yrcvae I--n  (both to c..b _onkind) - tece.ti-d by richeoc
HELifTH eccoo   ic   vor)-Aoooea                          f  er   flf   oaco                    I poccor  ittheet 20 yororot, pcvrrnt 20 p-rceo, ond po.crnt 40 y-rc.nt
arbth   90   97 0 and 1978 dtac.
Iofoot Morcalitt  Rate Pcro  thousan.d) - A...el td-ho of irfarco order ore Y...            s~e    urT100
of age prr choonuod lion hircho.                                    TotInured ibacluto Poverty Icocor Prod  (lOt pot ro situ) - arbor urd.,      rural) - cb-
_crer nupply (-lootr   retod nuf ac  crer  or  -orreetc  bet e_..c.a.i.a..                   afot-dhl..
outruchan the  Iron protcte   beorela,  ePricgco,dco  eoeitory cr110) a                                                                                                 
f_ucrair or  tcandpcr 1ootetd ccc srn thur 2100   jrtrof      -cabo   nuy hr                 yroul     -on   of the .c...try.  Ico  lord  tui doricod fcm th  ro...l
vorderoda  heo  otehir   ceecrbI   acoo  o  t~_   hotboe..S  rura  eoa                   lce  ct  ajuco-fo    go   oo   f  cto   oote1ocr
crocraie  ccor ouldinyy cat  ho  ourolf  orneoeroof  ie   ocuhol         loioccodPorlocon  rlc  Abolur Pvery lrco  Icn  (eccott- ebo
do rotbev  to epeddaiup,prooti...tc~ pert of tho toy to fettohlg tho c.ua  - Podcre  ofppltico  feber ed rura) obo  r ,                                           anlcpo"
fontly'r c-rtro-d-e-.t-pP1
octal     boebr of  roclo(cora, arbo, artocoot  orovtEby  ocroc
lioorl 0  prcorooc  f  hriocy    P riopplroo. fooedi-tccl  art doial  uta..lo tri                                                                        ..
.f huc.  -crcad o                   brc-etchyut--boroyo-   r   rhoe         f                                                              A,ci1. i980
,it          -dcIt   t  u.iolet ic-cc. 11tiOr



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 4
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978                                             ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTli (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.            X                1973-79    1976-79    1979 1/   1979-85 Projected
GNP at Market Prices            1,372.7          100.0                 3.4        0.6        0.4           3.8
Gross Domestic Investment         190.2           13.9                 0.9       -0.7        8.4           6.6
Gross National Savings            114.3            8.3                 5.4 2/     3.5       14.7
Current Account Balance           -76.0           -5.5               19.8        10.2        7.0
Export  of Goods, NFS             327.9           23.9               15.6        -1.0       -7.1           2.7
Import  of Goods, NFS            -350.1          -25.5               -0.3        -8.1       -8.0           1.9
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY, 1976-79
Value Added Constant 1973 Prices
US$ Million                         Percentages
1976    1977    1978    1979        1976    1977    1978    1979
Agriculture                   588.9   556.1   558.5   523.9        53.2    51.7    49.2    46.2
Industry and Mining           180.7   180.8   192.8   198.0        16.3    16.8    17.0    17.4
Services                      336.9   337.7   383.9   413.4        30.4    31.4    33.8    36.4
CDP at Market Prices        1,106.5 1,074.6 1,135.2 1,135.1       100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government 3/
_  of GDP
1977    1978    1979           1977    1978    1979
Current Receipts                 8.20    8.85    9.73           30.8    30.8    33.1
Current Expenditures             4.31    5.16    5.55           16.2    18.0    18.9
Current Surplus                  3.89    3.69    4.18           14.6    12.8    14.2
Capital Expenditures             2.34    1.77    8.43 e          8.8     6.2    28.7 e
External Assistance (net) 7/   0.09    1.38    1.38              0.3     4.8      4.7
Central Government
% of GDP
1977    1978    1979           1977    1978    1979
Current Receipts                 7.65    8.23    9.16           28.7    28.6    i1.1
Current Expenditures  4/         3.87    4.72    5.18           14.5    16.4    17.6
Current Surplus                  3.78    3.51    3.99           14.2    12.2    13.5
Capital Expenditures  5/         2.23    1.66    8.32 e 6/       8.4      5.8    28.3 e
External Assistance (net) 7/   0.09    1.38    1.38   8/         0.3      4.8     4.7
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                           Billion Sylis
Dec.   Dec.   Dec.   June
1976   1977   1978   1979
Money                                      8.22   8.34   6.88   6.61
Quasi-Money                                2.25   1.43   2.21   3.00
Overall Money Supply                     10.47   9.79   9.10  10.49
Bank Credit to Public Sector             14.89  16.29  18.81  20.11
Bank Credit to Private Sector             0.95   1.08   1.08   0.76
(Percentages)
1976   1977   1978   1979
Money and Quasi-Money as % of GDP          39.4   36.7   31.6   33.0  9/
General Price Index (1973= 100)  10/   115.8  119.9  122.4  125.2
Annual % changes in:
Bank Credit to Public Sector              4.7    9.4   15.5    7.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector           -11.6   14.0   -0.1    1.0



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 5
REVOLUTIONARY PEOPLE'S REPlBLIC OF fUINEA
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                              MERChBNDISE EXPORTS (Average 1976-78)
(Preliminary Estimates)
1976        1977        1978                                                        US$ Mln       .
(US$ Million) 11
lbauxite               204.3        70.2
REport  of Goods, NFS                      252.6       293.2        327.9                               Alumina                  77.5       26.6
Import  of Goods, NFS                     -287.3      -261.9      -350.1                                Otber Comodities          9.4        3.2
Resource Gap (deficit * -)                 -34.7        31.3       -22.2
Total                  291.2      100.0
Interest Payments                          -40.C       -38.0         43.8
Workers' Remittances                        -5.6        -5.6         -6.4
Other Factor Payments (net)                 -7.5       -28.8       -36.4                         EXTERNAL DEBT, December 31, 1979
Net Transfers                                7.9         15.7        32.8
Balance on Current Account                 -79.9       -26.3       -76.L                                                                      US$ Mln
Direct Foreign Investment                                                                               Public Debt. Including Undisb.    1,342.0
Net MLT Borrowing                                                                                       Total Outstanding & Disbursed           990.4 8/
Disbursements, Public Borrowing           7Q0,O       5a.7       111.7
Amortization, Public Debt                -65,7       -97.8       -94,6                                             15/
Subtotal, Public Borrowing                 4,3       -47.1        17,0                         DEBT SERVICE RATIOS  FOR 1978                  1
Private Sector (net)                     -25.3       -19.1       -16.7                               Scheduled Service Payments
Total Borrowing                         -21,Q        -66.2         a.3                                         -  public debt               35.7
Capital Grants                             12          12/   --J                                                    private debt of
Other Capital (net)                         -0.1         1.7        -3.8                                              mixed enterprises].6/ 14.6
Other Item  (increase in arrears)           44,2        51.5        52.8                                         - total debt outstanding
Increase in Reserves                      -i5.6        _17.7       -51.9                                                     and disbursed  50.3
Actual Service Payments
Gross Reserves (end year)                   53,2        50.5        21.2                                         -  public debt               20.5
Net Reserves (end year) 13/               -110.0      -133.5      -205.6                                         -  private debt of
mixed enterprises 16; 14.6
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                                       _  total debt outstanding
Imports 16/                             13,1         17.9.       26.0                                              4 disbursed             35.1
of which:  Petroleum                  13.1         17.9        26.a                         B
Uxports                                 -            -           -                           IBRD/IDA LENDING (rch 31, 1980) (Mllion US)
IBRD     TDA
Outstandine an  Diahurned              S,1.3   24.1
RATES OF EXCHANGE                       T                                                             Undisbursed                              -      41.7
Through                                                        Outstanding including undisbursed  58.3   66.0
1970    1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978  1979
Sylia/US$                         24.7    24.6   22.7   20.7   20.5   20.3   21.4   21.1   19.7  19.1
1I/  Preliminary estimates for all 1979 aggregates.
2/  1974-79.
3/  Local administration not included.
4/  Including debt service on external borrowing on behalf of public enterprises.
5/  Including investment on behalf of public enterprises, and capital transfers to these
enterprises as follows (Sylis million): 1977 - 1,404
1978 -    95
1979 - 6,200
6/  Budgeted investment Sylis 2,500 million and financial assistance to public enterprises Sylis 6,200 million.
7/ Disbursements less scheduled amortizations plus increase in arrears.
8/ Subject to revision by Government.
9/ June 30, 1979.
1O/  GDP implicit deflator.
11/  Converted from data in Sylis, using period geometric averages exchange
rates (IFS, February 1980).
12/  Tncluded in net official transfers (current account).
13/  Differences between change in net reserves during the period, and the increase
in net foreign reserves (see above) are due to che exchange rates used, i.e USS/SDR at
end of the period for the former, and geometric averages for the latter.
14/  Excluding imports bv mining companies.  Total imports of petroleum products are
estimated at 396,500 tons in '978, and tentatively valued at about US$42 million.
15/  Service payments reported to exports of goods and services.
16/  CBG and FRTCUTA.
17/  Annual georetric averages.
18/  Savings and exports adjusted for change in the terms of trade.



- 27 -                        ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GUINEA
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of October 31, 1980)
Amount (less Cancellations)
Credit Number  Year      Borrower        Purpose        Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
------- (US$ million)------
Two loans and one Credit have been fully disbursed    73.5   14.0
569-GUI       1976     Republic of    Pineapple
Guinea         Development              7.0       0.1
849-GUI      1979      Republic of    First Education           8.0      4.3
Guinea
870-GUI       1979     People's Re-   First Water              12.5     10.3
volutionary    Supply and
Republic of    Sanitation
Guinea
S-22-GUI      1979     People's Re-   Power Engineer-           1.1      0.1
volutionary    ing and Repair
Republic of    Project
Guinea
952-GUI       1980     People's Re-   Rice                     10.4      9.8
volutionary    Development
Republic of
Guinea
953-GUI       1980     People's Re-   Second Highway           13.0     11.5
volutionary
Republic of
Guinea
1063-GUI      1981      People's Re-   Livestock Develop-
volutionary    ment 1/                 17.5      17.5
Republic of
Guinea
TOTAL                                            73.5    83.5
of which has been repaid                       18.1     0.0
Total now outstanding including undisbursed   55.4    83.5
Total undisbursed                                 0.0    53.6      53.6
1/   Signed on November 21, 1980.



- 28 -                        ANNEX II
Page 2
C.   Proj ects in Execution I/
Cr. 569-GUI Pineapple Development Project: US$7.0 million Credit of July 2,
1975; Effectiveness Date: October 22, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project consists of establishing an irrigated pineapple estate
and of providing pineapple growers in its vicinity with supporting services.
Despite initial delays, the project's irrigation works are now substantially
completed and per-hectare yields have been approximately as forecast at
appraisal. A recent setback has been encountered due to poor performance by
the fruit exporting agency and to failure of Government's importing agency
to provide fertilizer and chemicals on schedule. Strong recommendations
to resolve these problems were made during a recent mission and have been
favorably received by Government which has also made available the funds for
immediate purchase of fertilizer and for 1981 operating costs. Disbursements
are expected to be completed by early 1981.
Cr. 849-GUI First Education Project; US$8.0 million Credit of September 28,
1978; Effectiveness Date: January 16, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The project aims at (i) helping alleviate the country's shortage
of skilled workers by improving and expanding technical training programs,
and (ii) strengthening the Government's educational planning and project
implementation capacity. Though civil works are about three months behind
appraisal schedule, courses are expected to start in December 1980. Key
technical assistance personnel have arrived and an upgrading program for
Guinean personnel has been successfully completed. The Government delayed
implementation of the education and manpower planning components of the
project until an education sector study prepared by Unesco was completed.
The sector study was issued and reviewed with the Government in October 1980,
and implementation of the above component is expected to get underway in the
first half of 1981. Project management is satisfactory.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -                        ANNEX II
Page 3
Cr. 870-GUI   First Water Supply and Sanitation Project;  US$12.5 million
Credit of January 12, 1979; Effectiveness Date. April 13, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
The project's objectives are to fullfill the immediate water supply
and drainage needs of Conakry, provide satisfactory sanitation to most of
its population, and strengthen institutions operating in the sector. Project
implementation has been slow due to unsatisfactory preparation of detailed
design and bidding documents. Most works, and procurement of supplies and
equipment, are now underway. Some project components had to be reduced due
to price increases. While the action program for improvement in water supply
operations has progressed slowly, Government has recently appointed a dynamic
management team who are attempting to redress the situation.
Cr. S-22-GUI Power Engineering and Repair Project; US$1.1 million Credit
of January 12, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 6, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project is intended to complete preparatory work on a large
rehabilitation program for the Conakry power system, part of which will
be financed under the First Power Project proposed in this report. Thus
far, the feasibility study to repair the Grandes Chutes dam is completed.
Urgent rehabilitation work on the power system has begun and is expected to
end by mid 1981. The last technical assistance visit to the power company for
audits will be completed end 1980.
Cr. 952-GUI   Rice Development Project; US$10.4 million Credit of November 2,
1979; Effectiveness Date: April 14, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985.
The project consists of creating a specialized planning and
coordination unit for rice development within the Ministry of Agriculture,
upgrading the country's rice research capacity, undertaking a study of
agricultural prices and rural incentives, and carrying out a pilot project
to test and develop technical improvements to rice cultivation practices.
The technical assistance team and the pricing study experts began work in
mid-1980, tendering is underway for agricultural equipment, and field work is
expected to commence in early 1981. Initial project progress is satisfactory,
although delays are anticipated in construction of project buildings.
Cr. 953-GUI   Second Highway Project; US$13 million Credit of November 2, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The project is progressing smoothly. It will complete the program
begun under the First Project, upgrade an additional 1,500 kms of priority
roads, provide further institutional support to the Ministry of Public Works,
and help renovate the National Soils Laboratory. Most contracts have been
signed with suppliers, and maintenance brigades should be in full operation
towards end-1980.



- 30 -                        ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. 1063-GUI   Livestock Development Project:  US$17.5 million Credit
of November 21, 1980: Proposed Effectiveness Date:
February 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
The project's objective is to increase the productivity of the
Guinean cattle herd, thereby augmenting national meat and milk production,
improving nutrition, and raising the standard of living of cattle-herding
families. The project consists of a nationwide vaccination program, pro-
vision of drugs1medicines and mineral licks, and upgrading of the live-
stock,husbandry and veterinary support service. Signature took place end-
November 1980. A contract for design work and bidding documents has been
concluded, and invitations to consulting firms for provision of technical
assistance staff have recently been issued.



- 31 -                         ANNEX III
Page 1
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Engineering Credit Signed: January 1978
(b) 1st Project Preparation Facility Advance: February 1978
(c) Preappraisal: May 1979
(d) Appraisal: December 1979
(e) 2nd Project Preparation Facility Advance: March 1980
(f) Negotiations Completed: November 21, 1980
(g) Planned date of Credit Effectiveness: January 1981
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III: Special Conditions
During Credit Negotiations, the Government would be asked to
provide assurances on the following principal issues:
(a) to improve the financial status of the sector, and of SNE in
particular:
(i) auditing of SNE's accounts would start in FY 1982 (para. 32);
(ii) foreign exchange would be made available for adequate
maintenance and the arrangements for funding and licensing
imports instituted under S-22-GUI would be continued
(para. 33);
(iii) SNE would keep proforma accounts for the sector, based on
annually revalued assets and including new long term debt
and debt service (para. 35);
(iv) a comprehensive tariff study would be carried out by
end 1982 (para. 35);
(v) from FY81, tariffs would be adequate to cover operating
expenses, maintenance costs, depreciation based on revalued
assets and repayments on long term sector debt (to the extent
they were greater than depreciation provisions) (para. 35);



- 32 -                         ANNEX III
Page 2
(vi) Pending agreement on tariffs to be implemented resulting
from the study in (iv), tariffs would be set to yield an
annual rate of return of not less than 2% in 1983 and
of not less than 3% thereafter (para. 35);
(vii) SNE's uncollectible debts would be written off and the
"household tariff" abolished (para. 35); and
(viii) the Association would review annual investment plans and
the Borrower would ensure adequate funds to meet all
capital, operating and financial costs of the investment
and operating program (para. 35).
(b)  studies to be financed by KfW and CCCE would be discussed with the
Association (para. 41);
(c)  a Management Improvement Program would be agreed with the Association
and implemented by SNE (para. 46);
(d)  that the Government would implement the entire 1980-84 Rehabili-
tation Program, including those parts being financed by KfW and
CCCE for a timetable acceptable to the Association (para. 48);
and
(e) the dams at Grandes Chutes, Banea and Donkea would be inspected
annually by qualified engineers (para. 48).



IBRD 14975
JUNE 1980
GUINEA / GU I NEE
FIRST POWER PROJECT/
PREMIER PROJET D',EECTR/C/TE                                                            ,                    toma
REHABILITATION  OF CONAKRY  DISTRIBUTION  SYSTEM                                                  ,- K"kimbon
RENOVATION OU RESEAU DE D/STRIBUT/ON DE CONA KR Y                                                                     ;   -                         e
Comoyienne    ~     oyehiu
POSTE                                                Sd  du 28                                                                  '
--TOMBO            A 'j,rr~etiere       ~    1ytechn,q- -Bb-- I t  ID-,\
4osr            .1G   ,   "    am         e      '                                                   bos, Ie                                                                                                                                    MA;T  =  T\
TOb Nov   'Spembre9s'  ii  S'     
'r,-'---    -'-_,- r_    *''                                              --   Zon Indusrrielle               CreorGes                                                                   f
2~~~~~~~ ~~~~~ of  ot]0i, -  -y-  6bto+t Vr]t
NEW          BEHABILITATED   E  ISTING_ rBon .(   L  . .--pTeAirnM l t e
A CONSTRS//RE    A RENOVFE    FX/STANPT                                   Lm                 knKi6n,en
__     _ .__                    MV OVERHEAEY[NES                                    uRbasr-e         < j0 GescPri      ;;  -<<TT4311ue;tnfF    Xd   11
_  _ MV UNDERGROUND CAELES                              (Bureau BE ResidenIce)                 9           
CABl ES SOUSTEkRA/AJS MT                                                                      _     r 9
(*                            * V  P OST S E  D1STR IB UTO N  htBA SFE ME S                                                                                                                                S     1< 5E  N E  G   A   (    C >   
SUBOSTATOS HAT/MV T                                0I/ LN                                                                                                                     SSA t'                  f     -    nS <r
ROAOS! /eOES                                                                                                     :  erG UINEA
RAILROADS/ CHErVlN5 DE iFEE                                                                                                r;ff;Q   Xj                                     t:.1 -    .'i    
tNA'' D#TRBIUi ON THANSFOrNERs AND LOW VOL.TAGE LNES                                                   5010      500   t5U0         200tl=ig0 SW                                                                        Se 4..fi   gPi  
OrEr NV? ,NDICUTTD Ot T IlS MfE.*                                                                               METERS                                                                                           C9oky  />  0. <{ - 
LAS NAvE ASST TVAIVSAUNr rofTreu?ALTroLs SUf CrTTrrS SrsC,f                                                                                                                   g                                                   ERRA  S_
ofnoun0es Sdon htr t,dg   uporos/rznftAnerat0';Oc,eB  EMauo,uuasu,o(B,MB
0 VaSt0c ofTOLRR OAT b 808 StV 51  LTRIROR OSSSeeS c                                        = . --; .        .   GE ROT .a -,:,eL  
-  -  t I cIn l
Carrefo Gbess4,,,,    Po  A-f-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'A 






IBRD-14974R
MAURITANIA                                                                                 12                                                           0-                                                         SEPTEMBER 1980
;0r\>,,__. J           .                   \S E N  E G A  L                                                   
SENEGAL                           --NI--
.,tB IAk        f/UPPER
.   VOLTA
GUI NEA-                        /;7-o ,
B I S S A U  Lf<X5                        V                                                                                                                                                                        7 kret  g  /
F".~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
4J       -
CFNTAAIFSHYDPEeECR/OLE EX5TANEINATINAL  APIT L  C                                         E    'A  N          E
f [W           po;gr     Swnr1fX  ns          s    
CEN)WESEXISANTS AVEC EECr.IINTERNATIN OALS BROUNARES   /RN/RS0FA
EXHYDROELECTRIC  POWER PLANTS UNDERWSTDS NolprEMof pDEraF,
90                  FTU*ESA IIYEsPQEI PA $ ENV SA E/ES                                                                            I r           /J.
.eRIVES   HYDROPOENTIAL   ESUR            NEY                  _ INT!ENIONAL OUND E .         2 .Kroure  D'TA
: 5K  LINE///G'N.E 15K '  '                                                                                                        LI       BE RrL        I   A;D ,,.            e,  eho  rWe y
HYDROEEIS GCETERIC PWITH PLATW NER  SUPPLY/    Nl.,. pI E 5      /lffqY-                                                                                           / S/ /
CfNrRASE HYDRO&5VCfiCTRI      /C/ALEZID; Ao cma spgeMAeINRA5ROJf                                                                                  _                        c.      .    Ii
PROPOSEDN HYDROELECTRIC OWEN          LNSS/NTINLCPTL/CAYAfDrSX /                                                                                                                   S   
--- KV LINEN I MONE                                   -IKV                                                                       L    I   B    E    R                        '
30 KV LINELE IGNE R3OKV PpOM/ETERS
110 KV LINE/ /GNE 1/0KV
Th,. map has bee,, prepared by the World -ank Ss taff exefu00.08f for the oonvnnenct
ot tbereecters of the rpers to 'ts,ts hr rto atteuhed The denoommatltno used and tOe
boundar-ea-hewn on th,s map do not -mpfp on the pan af the World anh and to1
affifiatee any judgment eo the 1eb91 sttus of any tes,yto  or ray -ndrore.-t or
acneptaoo etoe f -h boedar,-         14                                                                                                                         10
II                                                                                                                          I                                                    I  _      I






Chart 2-1
GUINEA
REHABILITATION, REINFORCEMENT AND EXPANSION PROGRAM
Conakry High and Medium Tension System
110 and 60 KV Lines and Substations
To Kindia
GRANDES CHUTES                                                       DONKEA
34km                             HYDRO PLANT                                                      HYDRO PLANT
4 x 6.3 MVA                                                      2x x.5MVA
15 ks                     G      G       G       -
2x 1.6MVA                                                               25 MVA
, |  |   (<  y     \)       9             t~~~~~63/121 KV)               
60 KV                                                                                                   1 10 KV
15m
8 km
40 km
Yessoulou
(11 x 0.4 MVA)                                                                                                                  to Debelle
0.38 KV                      5 km                                                LEGEND                             IBauxite mine)
Maneah          (                                                                                   (CG) -Generators
(2 x 2 MVAI 2   V                                                                                             H
20 KV | <        a -                                                                   c _( z) 4  -~ High  Tension Transformers
Usinede                             6.5 km                                                               -High Tension Lines
Te.t1le   15 KV
(1 x 3.75 MV A)                                                                     68 km                   - Circuit Breakers
6.5 km                                                                Facilities to be Rehabilitated
under C.C.C,E. Financing
- Facilities to be Rehabilitated
Son fan ia    5  Vunder KFVV Financing
(3x 1 MA) 15 K12.5MV                                                                                        - IDA Financed Project
| Facilities Rehabilitated under
\ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Government I'mancieg n,
10 km                i110/60/                                          Previous Rehabilitation Action
MATOTO 60 KV : ] [ ] ~~~~~6.3 KV)                                          ][]...........  .... Expansion WVorks
MATOTO60K
SUBSTATION               6K
(1 10/60115/6.3 KV)                                                                                    110KV
1 afi 2.5 MVA)                                                        MVA
(11 x 3 MVA     5.5 KV                      .                _p\.
+1 x 2.5 MIVA)                     e                         12 5 MVA           :15/6 3 KV 
60 KV                                                                        [ 
TOMBO        trIt                                                                       s       q   
SUSAION  Lr   .3 MVA                                                                   TO CONAKRY
(60S 15  KV)           MV             6.3 MVA                                         DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM*
t)            ( tD                                        40~~~~~~~~~~~~~CNAKRY 11)
15 KV
TOMBO 
DIESEL
PLANT
TO CONAKRY DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
|CONAKRY I)
2 x 2100 KV A
5 x 1875 KVA
See detail in MAP No. IBRD 14975                                                                                     World Banks- 21517



