Document of
The World Bank                  FI                     y
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3055-GUI
PEOPLE'S REVOLUTIONARY REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIRST POWER PROJECT
November 25, 1980
Regional Projects Department
Western Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENTS
The official monetary unit is the Syli
Syli 1                        US$0,053
US$1                          Syli 19.00
J
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
gram      (g)          =      0.0022 pounds
kilometer (km)         =      0.62 mile
meter     (m)          =      39.37 inches
kilovolt  (kV)         =      1,000 volts
kilowatt  (kw)         =      1,000 watts
kilovolt-ampere (kVA) =       1,000 volt amperes
Megawatt  (MW)         =      1,000 kilowatts (kW)
Gigawatt hour (GWh)           1 million kilowatt hours (kWh)
Tons crude oil
equivalent (TOE)       =      85.71 GWh
ABREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
SNE       -   Societe Nationale d'Electricite
KfW       -   Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
CCCE      -   Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
DEG       -   Direction des Eaux de Guinee
OCOFI     -   Office de Coordination Financiere de l'Industrie
MINEK     -   Ministere de l'Energie et du Konkoure
MIP       -   Management Improvement Program
BGCE      -   Banque Guineenne du Commerce Exterieur
SOGUILEC  -   Societe Guineenne dlImportation de Materiel Electrique
IMPORTEX  -   Societe d'Importation et d'Exportation
EECI      -   Energie Electrique de La Cote d'Ivoire
SERCOM    -   Service Commercial
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PEOPLE'S REVOLUTIONARY REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
APPRAISAL REPORT OF THE FIRST POWER PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND ...............................................    l
Introduction            .....................    1
The Economy ................................         .        2
Il.  THE POWER AND ENERGY SECTOR ..............................    2
A. Country Energy Outlook .............................            2
Energy Uses and Resources ......        .....................    2
Tariffs ......    4
Energy Sector Organization ..........................    4
National Energy Planning .............................    5
Proposed Konkoure Hydro-Electric/Aluminum Smelter
Project ............................................    5
Bank Asslstance Strategy in the Energy Sector .......    6
B. Power Sub-Sector ......................................    7
Subsector Organization ..............................    7
Electric Service Coverage ...........................    8
The Electricity Market ...........................            8
Existing Facilities ........................         .        9
Subsector Planning and Development ......      ............  il
SNE's Rehabilitation Program .........................   il
III. IMPLEMENTING AGENCY .........................                     12
Organization and Management ..........................   12
Staffing and Manpower Development ....................  13
Manpower Development Evaluation .....        ................  14
"A Priori" Controls for Local Purchases ..............   15
Availability of Foreign Exchange for Operations .....    15
Meter Reading, Billing and Collection ................  16
Accounting ...........................................  17
Budgeting .............................................  18
Audits ........                                              18
Insurance ........                                          18
The appraisal of the project was carried out in November/December
1979 by Messrs. B. M. Thiam (Engineer), E.J.W. Gilling (Economist), J-M.
Boudier (Financial Analyst), WAPEW; Messrs. W. Cooper of the West Africa
Projects Education Division (WAPED) and R.R. Buhler of the Legal Department
(LEG) participated in the appraisal mission and appraised the training
requirements of SNE and the legal status of the power sector organization.
This report was prepared by Messrs. Thiam, Gilling and Boudier, with edi-
torial assistance from Mrs. L. Leach.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
IV. SNE'S REHABILITATION PROGRAM AND THE IDA PROJECT ...........   19
A. SNE's Rehabilitation Program                            ..   19
B.   The Proposed IDA Project . . . . ............................    22
Project Objectives                         ......  22
Project Components                         ......  23
Project Costs .. . . ......... 27
Project Financing .        .    . .       .    ....................    29
Project Execution . .                          .... 29
Construction  Schedule . .            ..................... . .           30
Procurement ..       .      ..                .......................    30
Project Monitoring and Reporting ....... 30
Disbursement ................................                             31
Environmental Impact ............................ . . .                   32
V.  ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION  ........................                      ...  ..    32
Benefits of the Rehabilitation Program.                                   32
Population to be Served    .                      .33
Consumption Forecast..                                                    34
Least Cost Solution    .                        .34
Generation   . .34
Transmission and Distribution Facilities  .                 .37
Return on Investments    .                       .37
Pricing Considerations    .                      .39
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .39
Introduction   ..39
Past Earnings   ..40
Present Financial Position   .                      .41
Tariffs  . .42
Financing Plan   ..42
Future Finances   ..44
VII.  SUMMARY, AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECObIENDATIONS  ....    45
Summary  . .45
Project Risks   ..45
Agreements to be Reached               .................  46
Recommendations         .............             ............    47



- iii -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
LIST OF TABLES
Table No.
2.1  1978 Primary Energy Consunption .......................... 4
2.2  Total Electricity Consumption and Generation, (1978) ..... 8
4.1  SNE's 1980-84 Rehabilitation Program Costs ....     ........... 19
4.2  Project Total Costs Estimates ............................ 28
4.3  Disbursement Schedule .................................... 32
5.1  Population Forecast in Conakry ........................... 35
5.2  Forecast of Total Consumption in Conakry/Kindia Network ... 36
5.3  Internal Economic Rate of Return ......................... 36
6.1  SNE's Past Income Statements ............................. 40
6.2  SNE's Past Balance Sheets Summary ........................ 41
6.3  SNE's Future Earnings .................................... 43
6.4  SNE's Financing Plan over the Project Period ....    ......... 44
LIST OF CHARTS
Chart No.
4-1 Rehabilitation, Reinforcement and Expansion Program:
Conakry High and Medium Tension System ....      ............... 20
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex No.
1    Conakry Interconnected System's Total Output .48
2 Existing Tariffs .49
3    Technical Assistance and Training .51
4    Management Improvement Program (MIP) .53
5    Development of Project Costs .........................    ..... 55
6    Project Construction Schedule .58
7   Project Monitoring and Reporting Requirements .59
8    Electrical Energy Consumption Forecast .61
9  SNE's Organization Chart .64
10  Income Statements: 1976-1985 .65
il    Cash Flow Statements: 1976-1985 .66
12  Balance Sheets: 1976-1985 .67
13    Assumption for Financial Projections .68
14    Documents and Data Available in the Project File .70
15    Economic Evaluation of SNE-s 1980-84
Rehabilitation and Expansion Program .72
Maps
IBRD 14974
IBRD 14975



PEOPLE'S REVOLUTIONARY REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
SOCIETE NATIONALE D'ELECTRICITE (SNE)
FIRST POWER PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
Introduction
1.01      The Guinea Government and Societe Nationale d'Electricite (SNE) have
requested IDA to participate with Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (KfW) and
Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) in the financing of SNE's
1980-84 Program for the Reinforcement, Rehabilitation and Expansion of the
Power Generation, Transmission and Distribution System for the City of Conakry
- Guinea's only extensive interconnected power system, in and around the
capital city. Total cost of the program is estimated to be US$66.6 million
equivalent, including contingencies, with a foreign exchange component of
US$58.7 million equivalent.
1.02      The Conakry power system today suffers from the consequences of
years of low maintenance and weak institutional capability. Frequent power
outages and excessive voltage drops disrupt production and damage industrial
and domestic electrical equipment. Institutional weaknesses reduce the
effectiveness of SNE in operating and maintaining the existing facilities with
the result that rehabilitation is required to virtually all generating,
transmissiion, and distribution facilities. A reinforcement of transmission
lines and substations plus an extension of the distribution network is also
required to serve industrial and domestic load growth.
1.03      The proposed IDA credit of US$28.5 million would finance the foreign
exchange component of a project for reinforcement of the Conakry Il 1/ dis-
tribution system (Map 14975) and technical assistance. The total estimated
cost is US$32.5 million, including the refinancing of PPF advances in 1978 and
1980 totalling US$520,000, and Credit S-22-GUI which was made in 1979 in the
amount of US$1.13 million to provide urgently needed engineering and repair
services in the power sector. The project is based on a feasibility study
carried out by a Canadian consulting firm, 2/ and financed under the PPF
advance. The Bank Group participated in formulating both SNE's 1980-84
rehabilitation program and the IDA project through identification, preparation
of the feasibility study's terms of reference, preappraisal and appraisal
missions in 1978-1979.
1/   The city of Conakry is composed of (i) Conakry I which is a peninsula
and the administrative and business center and the original residential
area and (ii) Conakry II which is the mainland, industrial and more
recent residential area.
2/   Tecsult International Ltd., Montreal, Canada.



-2-
The Economy
1.04      Guinea has an area of 246,000 km2 and a population of about 5.3
million growing at 2.6% per annum. The country<s varied and fertile natural
conditions provide potential for a diversified agriculture and animal hus-
bandry, while its substantial water resources are suitable for irrigated
agriculture and hydroelectric power. Mineral deposits include bauxite, of
which the country is estimated to possess the largest reserve in the world,
and considerable quantities of high-grade iron ore.
1.05      Economic performance during the 1960s and early 1970s was disappoint-
ing. After independence (1958), the Government placed emphasis on reorganizing
economic and social activities towards a socialist economy with trade, banking
and manufacturing handled almost exclusively by state enterprises with highly
centralized control. Inadequate planning, managerial inexperience and short-
ages of skilled manpower limited productivity, and public enterprises absorbed
increasing amounts of Government resources to the detriment of investments for
development. The capital costs and recurrent deficits of public investment
soon exceeded budgetary savings resulting in heavy foreign borrowing. in-
creasingly unmanageable debt obligations, and expansion of the money supply.
This resulted in galloping inflation, overvaluation of the local currency-
sharp curtailments on imports of raw materials and consumer goods, and
development of an active parallel market with prices substantially higher
than official levels. The economy thus entered a downward spiral of foreign
exchange shortages, poor incentives, and declining investments, output and
exports.
1.06      From 1973, after the start up of two large bauxite mines, the
economy picked up and per capita GDP has since grown at an average of 3.2% per
annum in real terms to reach US$292 in 1979. Most of Guinea's modern sector
economy and industry is located in and around Conakry which is the largest
urban center. 1/ One of the factors which contributes to poor industrial
performance is the lack of reliable electricity supply, which would be a
prerequisite for industrial rehabilitation.
II.  THE POWER AND ENERGY SECTOR
A. Country Energy Outlook
Energy Uses and Resources
2.01      As with many aspects of the Guinean economy statistical informa-
tion regarding the energy sector is inconsistent and incomplete. Hence, it
1/   Forty-nine percent of employees in manufacturing, and 21 of the 34
public enterprises are located in Conakry,



is possible only to present a broad picture of the national energy situa-
tion, as shown în Table 2.1. Firewood and charcoal are estimated to provide
65% of the approximately one million tons of crude oil equivalent (TOE)
energy consumed by households, transport and industry (other than mixed
enterprisr^) as primary energy in 1978. Firewood and charcoal remains
the most important fuel source for cooking and other domestic use for almost
all of the Guinean population, including urban households. The intensive
use of firewood is leading to a significant depletion of forests surrounding
the towns, particularly in-the savannah region of the north. The Government
is interested in developing other forms of renewable energy besides hydro-
electricity and fuel wood, but se far efforts have been confined to experi-
ments with a few small biogas units and photovoltaic pumps.
2.02      In 1979 Guinea imported about US$71 million of petroleum prEoducts
(20% of total merchandise imports), of which US$35.3 million were used by
FRIGUIA and CBG, mixed enterprises in the mining sector. 1/ The remaining
US$36 million accounted for about 30% of Government's net foreign exchange
earnings. The Government has recently granted a concession to Union Petroletu
of Texas for the exploration of approximately 22,000 km2 of a sedimentary
basin. The concession area is approximately 110 km wide beginning 40 km
offshore and running parallel te the coast from Conakry to the border with
Guinea-Bissau. The sedimentary basin is continued onshore, extending inland
about 180 km. However, the prospects here are less favorable than offshore.
Thus, no onshore exploration is currently planned. Production in the offshore
basin could possibly commence within 10 years, but the potential reserves and
production are unknown at present.
2.03      Hydro energy is Guinea's most abundant energy resource.  The
annual rainfall and topography give rise te a theoretical power capabilîty
of about 6,000 MW and average energy of up to 35,000 GWh (3.0 million TOE).
To date only 39.7 MW of installed capacity has been developed in all of
Guinea, with an annual energy capability of 245 GWh (21,000 TOE). Runofefs
are intense during the rainy season and, coupled with elevation differences
often of over 100 m, give rise to the large amount of potential power. How
ever, much of the rainfall in the middle and northern regioiis is seasonal5
with a four month rainy season (June-September) followed by eight dry
months.  Heavy capital investments would be required to construct the dams
needed to create reservoirs of sufficient volume to provide firm power. For
instance, the most attractive site identified to date is at Souapiti, 140 m
northeast of Conakry on the Konkoure River, with a projected capital cost cf
US$1.4 billion in 1980 prices for an installed capacity of 750 MW and an
annual production of 3,700 GWh (see para. 2.09). The investment costs for
this project alone would be in the range of Guinea's total annual Gross
Domestic Product.
l/   FRIGUIA and CBG (Compagnie de Bauxite de la Guinee) both mine and
export bauxite. FRIGUIA also operates an alumina plant producing
650,000 tons/year of alumina for export.



Table 2.1 - 1978 Primary Energy Consumption
1000 TOE     Percent
1.   Firewood/charcoal la                         726         65
2.   Imported petroleum products /b
-    gasoline                     61.1
-    diesel                       51.5
-    jet/kerosene                  9.0
-    fuel oil                    254.3      376          34
3.   Hydro electricity /c                          il          1
Total Energy Consumption                  1,113         100
/a   FAO 1977 estimate allowing for 2.5% estimated annual growth, as
given in Staff Working Paper 346 of July 1979, Energy Prospects in
Developing Countries.
/b   Source:  Texaco, Conakry, converted to TOE.
/c   130.7 GWh generation at a specific fuel consumption of 84 g/kwh
or 100% thermal efficiency in accordance with United Nations
practice. Assuming diesel engines as a substitute for hydro
energy at 250 g/kWh, 33,000 tons of diesel fuel (32,400 tons
crude oil equivalent) would be required to generate 130.7 GWh
of electricity.
Electricity Tariffs
2.04      The average price of electricity in Guinea during 1979 was Sylis
2.11 (USéll.10) per kWh. Tariffs were unchanged for many years until the
last tariff increase in 1975.  At the official exchange rate of the Guinean
currency, the existing average price of USdl.l0/kWh is comparable to
overall averages in West African coastal countries (USll.0/kWh in Sierra
Leone, USJ 10.38/kWh in the Ivory Coast, USell.0/kWh in Nigeria) but lower
than those in West African landlocked Sahelian countries (USJ20.6/kWh in
Upper Volta, and US27/kWh in Chad). The overvaluation of the syli tends to
overstate the domestic price of electricity expressed in foreign exchange. A
shadow exchange rate of twice the official rate would more reasonably reflect
the value of foreign exchange, suggesting that electricity is under priced at
USi5.5/kWh since the long run marginal cost of thermal generation is
US$é11.6/kWh.
Energy Sector Organization
2.05      This section deals with the total sector organization.  Details
of the power sub-sector organization are given beginning in para 2.14.



- 5 -
2.06      Despite its title, the Ministry of Energy and Konkoure (MINEK)
does not have unique responsibility for energy sector policy and planning.
MINEK is responsible for the development of hydro energy, of which the
Konkoure project is its primary concern (para 2.09). Petroleum product
imports are handled by Societe d'Importation et d-Exportatio- (IMPORTEX), a
centralized holding company in the commercial sector which in 1976 was given
control over all imports and exports, and distributed at the wholesale level
by the Office National des Hydrocarbures (ONAH). Distribution at the retail
level is handled by Service Commercial (SERCOM) which reports to yet another
holding company. The Ministry of Mines and Geology, on the other hand, is
responsible for the development of Guinea's potential petroleum deposits
(para 2.02). The Ministry of Agriculture, through its Service des Eaux et
Forets (water and forests), is responsible for the development of the
forests as a source of timber and fuel wood.
2.07      The Ministry of Plan is responsible for approving major develop-
ment projects and allocating foreign and local finance. No coherent econo-
mic development planning exists, but rather is done on a case by case basis.
The Bank group is engaged in a dialogue with the Government to improve
certain aspects of economic planning.
National Energy Planning
2.08      At present there is no coherent energy planning in Guinea, al-
though important first steps are being taken in the hydro-power subsector.
The Government has asked the Bank to act as executing agency for a UNDP
financed study leading to the development of a Water Resources Master Plan.
In addition to identifying and providing a preliminary evaluation of pos-
sible future utilization and sources of hydro power, the Master Plan would
cover utilization and sources for potable water and irrigation as well as
river transportation. Because most of the rivers have their origin in
Guinea and flow through one or more neighbouring countries, this study may
lead to an exercise on the division of water rights in the Sahel and the
affected coastal countries. Consultants are currently being asked to submit
proposals to carry out the study, the final report of which is expected to
be available by end-1982.
Proposed Konkoure Hydro-Electric/Aluminum Smelter Project
2.09      Responsibility for the preparation of the Konkoure project rests
principally with MINEK, since this project is regarded by the Government of
Guinea mainly as an energy related project. The Bank is presently working
closely with the Government to evaluate the overall potential impact the
Konkoure project could have on Guinea. Technically, the project would consist
of: (i) a 750 MWe 3,700 GWh/year hydro-electric station at Souapiti on the
Konkoure River about 140 km from Conakry; (ii) a 155,000 ton/year aluminum
smelter at Fria which would utilize 300 MW and 2,320 GWh/year of Souapiti
capacity; and (iii) a transmission network to link the major mining centers
(Kamsar, Boke, Sangaredi), plus the existing transmission networks of Conakry
and Kinkon. The investment cost of the hydro plant and smelter are each
estimated at US$1.4 billion including price contingencies. The combined
investment of US$2.8 billion is almost twice the size of the present Gross



-6-
Domestic Product of Guinea. The Bank has encouraged the Government to
evaluate Konkoure as an integrated project with implications for all aspects
of the economy. The Bank has also assisted in identifying specialist
aluminum industry consultants to be financed by UNDP to undertake a more
thorough analysis of the choice of technology, size of plant, market for and
price of aluminum, and investment and operating costs of the smelter. CCEE
has agreed to finance additional studies of the market for electricity other
than the smelter together with the associated costs of public network
development. Financing has not yet been found for a study to integrate the
individual technical studies on the dam and smelter in terms of optimum
size, macro-economic effects on foreign exchange, employment, and national
absorptive capacity. The Guinean Government hopes that the Konkoure project
will be operational by 1987, but this appears to be optimistic. About 8-10
years would be required to bring the complex to full operation following the
completion of the feasibility studies expected in mid-1981.
2.10      It is not clear at present that the Konkoure project is justified,
despite the existence of the primary materials of bauxite and hydro-energy,
because of the high investment costs relative to the national economy and
the risk of prolonged negative cash flows.
Bank Group Assistance Strategy in the Energy Sector
2.11      The electric power subsector is the most appropriate area for the
Association to begin a program of assistance to Guinea in the overall energy
sector. While the forests contribute about 65% of the national energy needs,
they are more accessible to the people and present no immediate supply con-
straint. IDA offered to assist in financing petroleum exploration. However,
this assistance was precluded when the Government contracted with a private
oil company for petroleum exploration (para 2.02).
2.12      The power subsector is at a crucial point and requires much tech-
nical assistance as well as capital investment. The 1979 Credit 1/ and two
PPF advances were in immediate response to the needs. The Region's strategy,
which evolved from this assistance, calls for a first credit for rehabilita-
tion and some expansion of the existing facilities, but most importantly a
large institution building component. SNE's 1980-84 Rehabilitation Program
would lay the groundwork for a well planned and executed development program
in which the Association could continue to play an important role through
subsequent lending operations.
2.13      It is unlikely that technical assistance for overall energy planning
would be effective at this point because of the complex organization and
fragmented responsibilities of the agencies involved in the energy sector.
Through discussions with the Government, it may be possible in the future to
realign responsibilities so that technical assistance for energy planning
could be more effective, and could be included as a component of a subsequent
lending operation.
1/   Engineering and Repair Credit S-22 GUI in the amount of US$1.13 million,



- 7 -
B. Power Subsector
Subsector Organization
2.14      At independence in 1958 Guinea nationalized the power facilities
which until then had been operated under a concession contract. In 1961
Societe Nationale d Electricite (SNE) was created as a fully Government-owned
state enterprise charged with responsibility for operating nationwide the
Guinean public power facilities. SNE is now one of 180 public enterprises
administered by six holding companies, which have responsibility for enter-
prises grouped along sectoral lines. The Office de Coordination Financiere de
l'Industrie (OCOFI) is responsible as the central cashier for 38 industrial
and mining enterprises, including the water supply company (Direction des Eaux
de Guinee, (DEG)) and SNE. SNE and DEG both report to MINEK for overall
management matters, and through OCOFI on financial matters.
2.15      OCOFI was established in 1972 to monitor the financial management
of some 38 state-owned enterprises. OCOFI's role was reinforced in 1975
when it was made the central cashier for these state enterprises (para.
3.02). OCOFI also prepares annual consolidated sector accounts.
2.16      Sector planning is done by MINEK.  Investment decisions and
financing are the responsibility of the Ministry of Planning; this Ministry
centralizes the entire cash generation of the state enterprises, which it
may use for investments in any of these enterprises. MINEK is responsible
for construction of facilities, which are transferred to SNE for operation
when completed.
2.17      SNE's managers are appointed by decree of the President of
the Republic. All other personnel are assigned to SNE through MINEK by
the Ministry of Labor. This Ministry also approves salary levels and
structures, promotions and dismissals (para 3.05). Tariff structures and
levels are approved by the Ministry of Internal Trade. The Ministry of
State Control has responsibility for auditing SNE's accounts.
2.18      These inter-relationships and divided reporting arrangements are
cumbersome and limit the scope of SNE's management responsibility to day-to-
day operations. Because of Guinea's centrally-planned economy which vests
all major decision-making responsibilities with the central government, and
the complex organizational inter-relationships mentioned above, the changes
required in the sector organization and management can be best achieved
through an evolutionary process. Specific measures provided for under the
proposed project are considered a first step in implementing the objec-
tive of changing the existing situation, with the ultimate objective of
achieving sound sector organization and modern management standards.  This
procedure was followed with reasonable success to date in initiating lending
to the water sector (Cr. S-870-GUI), where DEG is subject to the same sector
organization constraints and is also under the "tutelle" of MINEK.  The
principal reason for this success has been the Government-s interest in
improving sector efficiency. A detailed review of and recommendations



- 8 -
regarding organization of the sector and of overall management of SNE
(personnel, training, operations, accounting system, billing) are given in
Chapter III.
Electric Service Coverage
2.19      As of December 31, 1978, only 21 towns and villages - in addition
to Conakry and its suburbs - received electricity supply from SNE. SNE
customers totalled only about 23,200 and increased on the average at about
8% per annum from 1965 to 1978 reflecting the rather low economic growth
which characterized the same period. Less than 5 percent of Guinea's total
population live in a household with a connection. Conakry's total population
is about 600,000 while the total number of registered connections is 12,000,
serving about 20% of the population. The high number of illegal connections
believed to exist (para. 2.21) raises the percentage of population served at
least with lighting from about 20% to 60% (see para. 5.06). Of a total rural
population of 3 million, approximately 400,000 live in communities with an
electricity supply, and about 110,000 (28%) of these are SNE customers.
Rural electrification is not of highest priority at present, given the
weaknesses in the sector and the need to establish a reliable supply for
existing customers in Conakry. However, it will receive special emphasis in
the three year development plan to be prepared for SNE as part of the proposed
project.
The Electricity Market
2.20      SNEs total electricity generation and distribution to consumers in
1978 were estimated 1/ as follows:
Table 2.2
Consumption                                             GWh           % of Total
Residential                                            39.5               27%
Commercial                                              8.2                6%
Industrial                                             42.1               28%
Government (including public lighting)                 31.8               21%
Sub-Total                                        121.6               82%
Losses and Own Consumption                             27,4               18%
TOTAL                                            149.0              100%
Installed
Sources of Generation          _apacity
Hydro                              40                 130.7               88%
Diesel                             25                  18.3               12%
TOTAL                         65                 149.0              100%
1/   Both production and consumption figures are estimates due to a general
lack of working meters and repair facilities (see para 3.14).



- 9 -
The demand peaked in 1978 in the Conakry/Kindia interconnected system at 27
MW; other SNE systems' peaks were much lower, the highest being at the Kinkon
interconnected system, which did not reach more than 3 MW.
2.21      Total electricity consumption in Guinea increased st an average
annual rate of 8.5% from 1965 to 1978 with a higher rate of 10% from 1965 to
1973 and only 6% from 1973 to 1978. The decline in electricity consumption
growth rates from 1973 (first year of dramatic increases of crude oil prices)
to 1978, essentially results from the deterioration of SNE's electricity
supply rather than a reduction in demand. This is particularly true in
Conakry, which accounts for about 85% of SNE's total sales and where system
failures have been most acute. About 75 industrial customers account for
about half of total consumption in Conakry. The domestic consumption
therefore amounts to about 2,500 kWh per low voltage customer per year; this
apparent high specific consumption can be explained only by the multiplication
over the years of "illegal" connections.
Existing Facilities
2.22      The principal components of SNE's existing systems are shown on
Maps IBRD 14974 and 14975. There are three separate interconnected systems
(Conakry, Tinkisso and Kinkon) fed by four hydroelectric plants serving 20
centers with a total installed capacity of 39.7 MW and an annual rated output
of about 245 GWh. The remaining 14 electrified centers are served by diesel
units scattered throughout the country with a total installed capacity of
about 25 MW. However, all of SNE's systems, and particularly the Conakry
interconnected system, have deteriorated drastically due to a lack of
foreign exchange to import spare parts and the resultant improper basic
maintenance. Consequently, the quality of service has been poor for years,
and the Guinean Government has approached IDA for financial assistance to
rehabilitate the Conakry interconnected system.
2.23      The first hydro station built in Guinea at Grandes Chutes, (100 km
from Conakry on the Samou River) was designed for an installed capacity of
four units of 5 MW each.  The first stage of 10 MW (two 5MW units) was commis-
sioned in 1953, the second stage with 10 MW in two 5 MW units was commissioned
in 1964. Later with consumption growing, the Donkea hydro plant (25 km
upstream from Grandes Chutes) was commissioned in 1970 with 15 MW instal-
led (2 units of 7.5 MW) as an expansion of the hydro generating capacity to
a total output of 230 GWh per year for the Conakry interconnected system.
2.24      The Banea pluriannual reservoir (218 million m3) was created in
1970 with the construction of the Banea dam on the Samou River to regulate the
flow of water to the Donkea and Grandes Chutes hydro plants. The Banea
reservoir feeds the Kale reservoir, from which water flows to the Donkea hydro
plant. Downstream from Donkea is the Grandes Chutes dam (5 m high concrete
dike) and reservoir.  More energy could be extracted from the flows of the
Samou River by: (i) improvements in operating procedures; (ii) elimination of
leakage through the Grandes Chutes dam; and (iii) modification of the Banea,
Donkea and Grandes Chutes installations. The ultimate capacity of the Samou
River is estimated to be 347 GWh/year with 23 MW firm power as opposed to the
230 GWh and 22 MW firm power which are presently exploited. A detailed



- 10 -
feasibility study of optimum utilization of the Samou River system will
be carried out with CCCE financing under SNE's 1980-84 Rehabilitation Program
(para. 4.04(ii)).
2.25      A feasibility study financed under Cr. S-22-GUI determined that it
was more economical to repair the leaking Grandes Chutes dike than to build a
new one. Financing of the repair works has been secured from CCCE and related
detailed engineering is progressing well. The repair works are expected to
start by the end of 1980 with completion by June 30, 1981.
2.26      The two remaining hydro plants are (i) the Kinkon plant commissioned
in 1966 with 3.2 MW installed (4 units of 0.8 MW) and an annual output of
about 9 GWh, which supplies the "Moyenne Guinee" Region (Pita, Dalaba, Labe,
Mamou and surrounding areas) through a 33 kV grid and (ii) the Tinkisso plant
commissioned in 1974 wïth 1.5 MW (3 units of 0.5 MW) and an annual output of
about 6 GWh, which also feeds a 33 kV grid in the "Haute Guinee" Region
(Dinguiraye, Dabola, Bissikrima and surrounding areas).
2.27      The diesel plants included in the three interconnected systems
(Conakry, Kinkon and Tinkisso) are standby plants running only in emergency
cases or to complement generation in adverse hydraulic conditions; the
isolated diesel plants, on the contrary, are operated on a permanent basis.
SNE's diesel plants as of June 5, 1979, had a total installed capacity of
about 25 MW (in unit sizes ranging from 0.05 MW to 1.5 MW), the largest
plant being the Tombo plant in Conakry (10 MW in 7 units installed in 1965
and 1967); the remaining thermal plants are scattered around the country.
All plants and units need some degree of rehabilitation. The Tombo plant is
already being rehabilitated under Cr. S-22 GUI; this rehabilitation will be
completed under SNES 1980-84 rehabilitation program and the plant's instal-
led capacity expanded with 3 units of 5 MW each under bilateral financ-
ing from Germany.
2.28      The length of transmission lines in operation as of November 30,
1979 was 166 km (83 km of 110 kV and 83 km of 60 kV), with a total of 10
high- to medium-voltage substations, all these lines and substations being
part of the Conakry interconnected system. The 60 kV line was commissioned
in 1953 with the Grandes Chutes hydroplant, and the 110 kV line in 1970 with
the commissioning of the Donkea plant. The total length of 33 kV subtrans-
mission lines was 228 km with nine 33 kV to low voltage substations exclu-
sively within the grids of Kinkon and Tinkisso which were commissioned in
1966 and 1974 respectively; primary distribution lines (15 kV, 6.3 kV,
and 5.5 kV and more recently 20 kV in Conakry) are being standardized to
20 kV; part of this standardization is included in SNE's 1980-84 rehabilita-
tion program as a primary distribution voltage change over.
2.29      The bauxite mining and alumina corporations (Government and private
joint ventures) in the northwestern mining region own about 66 MW of thermal
generating facilities which are outside SNE's responsibility. Thirty MW of
this capacity is generated by steam plants, while the remaining 36 MW are in
diesel units ranging in size from 0.1 MW to 4 MW.  It is not economical at
present to supply these centers or SNEs isolated centers via an integrated
network because of distance and relatively small loads. The prospects for
integration are, however, being evaluated in connection with the proposed
Konkoure project (para. 2.09).



- il -
2.30      All of SNE-s generating, transmission, and distribution facilities
require rehabilitation as a result of many years of neglect of maintenance.
The principal deficiencies are, however, in Conakry.  Hence, the proposed
IDA project would focus on rehabilitation of the Conakry system, which is a
necessity 2n order to prevent a total collapse of the system.
Subsector Planning and Development
2.31      Beyond readily apparent needs for distribution network rehabilita-
tion and extension, it is difficult to identify a development program for
the power sub-sector because of: (i) the weak data base for generation and
consumption; (ii) uncertain industrial plans; (iii) the need for results
from the Water Resources Master Plan Study; and (iv) the further analysis of
the feasibility and impacts of the proposed Konkoure project. However,
first steps have been taken to formulate a development program for the
subsector as part of SNE's 1980-84 Rehabilitation Program. Subsector
planning is being prepared: (i) for the period up to 1985 by means of a
three-year development plan for SNE and the Guinean power sector provided
for under the proposed project (para. 4.10(i)), and the KfW study and
design for expansion of the Tombo diesel plant (para. 4.03(i)): and (ii)
beyond 1985 as a result of the CCCE study of optimization of use of the
Samou River (para. 4.04(ii)). The Association would continue to assist the
Government with subsector planning and development by pursuing the issues
previously raised, through on-going discussions and as part of future
lending operations.
2.32      Priorities for extending electricity service to new towns are
decided by the National Economic Conference, which is held annually to
review national development plans. At present, the Kankan system is being
extended and six new centers are being electrified. 1/ The five engineers
of SNEs planning and engineering department prepared the technical study
and plans for the works, which were discussed with the contractor and
approved by the planning department of MINEK. These works are being fi-
nanced with supplier credits and are expected to be completed by March 1981.
SNE-s Rehabilitation Program
2.33      SNE-s 1980-84 program of rehabilitation, reinforcement and exten-
sion of the Conakry interconnected system is designed to eliminate the
frequent power outages. excessive voltage drops and high losses with their
adverse effects on Guinean industry and overall economy. The precarious
state of the system has been created over years by scarcity of local
expertise and lack of foreign exchange to pay for foreign expertise and
to import equipment and spare parts needed to regularly and properly main-
tain the system-s facilities. To prevent a complete breakdown and its
adverse economic consequences, an IDA credit of US$1.13 million equivalent
(Engineering and Repair Credit Cr. S-22 GUI) was made to the Government in
January 1979. The credit helped finance the most urgent rehabilitation
requirements of the Conakry power system to which the Government was giving
high priority, i.e. (i) the feasibility study of rehabilitation alternatives
1/   Kobia, Kourrouou, Lelouma, Lola, Mandiana, Telemele.



- 12 -
of the Grandes Chutes dam which supplies Conakry with both power and potable
water; (ii) technical assistance to help SNE carry out an audit of its 1978
financial statements and implement the recommendations of external auditors;
(iii) the repair of two hydro units, two diesel units, and the powerline
carrier telecommunication network between existing generating plants; and
(iv) the supply of tools and 3 service vehicles needed for operating and
maintaining electrical distribution grids. Further action is proposed under
the 1980-84 rehabilitation program.
2.34      The feasibility study of the rehabilitation program was carried
out by a Canadian consulting firm, using acceptable least-cost criteria, on
the basis of terms of reference prepared by IDA staff and under financing of
a 1978 PPF advance in the amount of US$220,000 equivalent.l/ The objectives
of this program would be to:
(i)   complete the rehabilitation of the Conakry system power
generation and transmission facilities;
(ii) reinforce and expand the Conakry power generation and
distribution facilities; and
(iii)  provide extensive institution building and medium/long-
term planning capability through training and technical
assistance.
2.35      Various components of the program, illustrated in Chapter IV, are
being financed by KfW, CCCE and the proposed IDA credit.
2.36      The component of the 1980-84 rehabilitation program which is
proposed for IDA financing would comprise the rehabilitation, reinforcement
and extension of Conakry's distribution system and the provision of an
extensive institution building program through manpower improvement and
training (on the job, in a training center and overseas fellowships) and
technical assistance (expatriate personnel in overall planning, operation,
and maintenance, overall management including administrative, financial,
commercial and inventory management). Detailed description of the project
components and cost estimates are given in Chapter IV.
III.  IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
Organization and Management
3.01      The borrower of the credit would be the People's Revolutionary
Republic of Guinea. The proceeds of the credit would be administered by the
1/   This 1978 PPF advance included financing of detailed engineering,
preparation and analysis of bidding documents as well as analysis of
SNE's financial situation. After appraisal of the proposed project, an
additional PPF was approved in March 1980 in the amount of US$300,000
equivalent to finance an analysis of the power sector organization in
particular (see para 4.12 (ii)).



- 13 -
Ministry of Energy and Konkoure (MINEK), which is in charge of the sector.
SNE is a subsidiary of the Office de Coordination Financiere de l'Industrie
(OCOFI), the state holding company for the energy and industry sectors, and
would be implementing agency for the proposed project, under the general
supervision of MINEK. SNE's dual responsibilities to OCOFI and MINEK would
not hamper the execution of the project. SNE has employed a Guinean project
manager for the Rehabilitation Program, whose qualifications are acceptable to
the Association (para. 4.19).
3.02      SNE became a State Enterprise ("Enterprise d'Etat") by the Ordon-
nance No. 002/PRG dated January 31, 1961. As such, it is governed by Decree
No. 175/PRG dated June 27, 1960, which contains standard statutes applicable
to all state enterprises. Decree No. 236/PRG dated June 10, 1975, trans-
formed SNE into a subsidiary of OCOFI. A decree specifying SNE's organiza-
tion and operations required by the above Ordonnance has never been issued,
but one is now being drafted.
3.03      The company's organization chart has not been updated for years
and only partly reflects current arrangements (see Annex 9). The present
organization is largely informal and lines of communication, responsibili-
ties, and reporting arrangements between departments and with the secondary
centers are not clearly defined and inadequate. In addition to organiza-
tional weaknesses, SNE's operations are adversely affected by a general lack
of expertise (para. 3.08), acute shortages of materials, equipment and spare
parts, and lack of maintenance facilities, vehicles, and tools. Routine
maintenance and repair is carried out on an ad-hoc basis and there seems to
be no organized system for operation and preventive maintenance.  Consul-
tants retained to evaluate the organization and its manpower require-
ments will produce a functional organization chart clarifying internal and
external communications, responsibilities and reporting arrangements, and
make recommendations to address maintenance needs (para. 3.09).
3.04      SNE also suffers from other operational, management, and admini-
strative weaknesses which prohibit its effective operation. Only a con-
certed effort on the part of SNE-s management around a well-designed program,
can help build the institution to the level that it can effectively monitor
what is happening, manage its operations, and plan for the ultimate growth
and expansion of SNE's services. These problems are typical of those in
many other West African countries, and indeed in other institutions in
Guinea, and have been recognized by the Guinean Governnent. The Government
and SNE have also agreed to carry out a Management Improvement Program (MIP)
with technical assistance to be provided under the project. The MIP includes
actions to improve SNE's staffing, training and technical and financial
management, planning and operations (para 4.13 and Annex 4).
Staffing and Manpower Development
3.05      Personnel policies for recruitment, promotion, termination and
salaries for all state enterprises and Government agencies are part of a



- 14 -
unique civil service program, and are governed by Guinean national law. The
policies are administered by the Ministry of Labor, through MINEK, and SNE
therefore has little control over its staffing arrangements (para. 2.17). 1/
3.06      SNE's staff numbered 1,260 at year-end 1979; it was made up
of about 50 managers, 240 technicians and medium level staff, and 970
skilled and unskilled workers. Eighty percent of all staff work in produc-
tion (technical, operational), and the remaining 20% in administration. SNE
has about one employee for every 20 registered customers and thus ranks
among the most highly-staffed utilities in West Africa 2/. While the number
of new staff assigned to SNE in 1977 and 1978 by the Ministry of Labor
resulted in an overall increase of only 30 (3%), the total increase for 1979
was about 210 (20%). Despite the data, however, SNE suffers a shortage of
skilled technical specialists. The project will aim at alleviating this
imbalance through its manpower development and training component (paras.
3.08-10).
3.07      Although a significant number of senior staff has been trained
overseas, the Ministry of Labor recently allocated to SNE a number of
young graduates who have been trained exclusively in local universities.
These often lack the skill and experience required for the positions they
occupy. SNE does not have a manpower development program, and career
development is almost non-existent. Possibilities for internal promotions
are limited since most vacancies are filled by young graduates and present
positions are occupied by young staff. As a consequence of the limited
opportunities and incentives, staff morale is low and absenteeism widespread.
Manpower Development Evaluation
3.08      The need for a comprehensive evaluation of SNE's organization,
manpower requirements and training needs was acknowledged by SNE's managers
and MINEK's officials, and a study to address these issues is included in
the project. Because of its urgency, this study is being financed with
project preparation funds (PPF) so that the recommended program can be
discussed with the Association and implemented as part of the MIP. Fol-
lowing terms of reference reviewed by IDA, the study will (i) examine the
organizational structure and staffing of the power sector and SNE in parti-
cular; (ii) analyze maintenance needs and consequently propose maintenance
programs; and (iii) define manpower development and staff training programs
which will be implemented as part of the MIP.
3.09      SNE would create a training department whose manager would be
directly responsible to the General Manager. It would initially be staffed
with two expatriate training specialists to be financed for three years under
1/   See "Survey of Public Enterprise Sector, Guinea", IBRD report 3046-GUI,
June 17, 1980.
2/   Liberia 1 to 19 (1978), Sierra Leone 1 to 21 (1977), Ghana 1 to 23
(1977), Mali 1 to 35 (1978), Nigeria 1 to 45 (1977), Ivory Coast
1 to 67 (1978).



- 15 -
the project (see para. 4.10(i)). These specialists would design and esta-
blish detailed staff training and upgrading programs and train Guinean
instructors to be chosen by SNE from its qualified and experienced staff.
The project would also finance the construction and equipping of a training
center to be located în proximity to the electrical/mechanical maintenance
shop and the meter repair/calibration laboratory (both of which would also
be financed under the project) to provide easy access to practical training
under realistic operating conditions. Training needs of technicians, and
skilled and semi-skilled workers would thus be met through a combination of
courses to be conducted in the training center and supervised on-the-job
training programs within the various operating departments of the enterprise.
3.10      Training needs of supervisory and managerial staff would be met
through a fellowship program which would include seminars, study abroad,
visits and working attachments to other power corporations such as Energie
Electrique de la Cote d'Ivorie (EECI) in Ivory Coast. The project will
provide 64 man-years of fellowships for this purpose.
"A Priori" Controls for Local Purchases
3.11      Existing Government regulations which apply to all State enter-
prises require that all local purchases over Sylis 5,000 (US$265) be approved
a priori by OCOFI, the State Control Ministry, and the Ministry responsible
for direct supervision. The Government, however, has agreed as an exception,
in view of SNE's need to respond quickly to urgent situations, to increase
this level to Sylis 15,000. In April 1980, SNE's monthly petty cash fund was
also increased from Sylis 50,000 to Sylis 150,000. The time for a priori
approval to spend over Sylis 15,000 has also been reduced to 48 hours.
Availability of Foreign Exchange for Operations
3.12      Scarcity of foreign exchange over a period of many years, combined
with complicated administrative procedures, had resulted for SNE in an
insufficient supply of spare parts that had significantly contributed to
poor maintenance of power installations. In order to redress this situa-
tion, the Guinean Government agreed, under Cr. S-22-GUI, (i) to grant to
SNE, at the beginning of each year from 1979 through 1981, global licenses
for importing equipment and spare parts amounting to a minimum of US$400,000
for 1979, US$600,000 for 1980 and US$700,000 for 1981; (ii) to open at
the Banque Guineenne du Commerce Exterieure (BGCE), the Central Bank's
specialized branch for external trade, a special foreign currency account in
the name of SNE and to which SNE would have direct access, thus avoiding
time-consuming approval procedures; and (iii) to deposit in the special
account such amounts as would be required to permit SNE to make payments
within the framework of each annual global license. IDA agreed in 1979 to
make a single additional contribution to the account of US$100,000 from
Credit S-22-GUI. The Governnent has agreed that it would continue to (i)
grant global, annual licenses in amounts acceptable to IDA; and (ii) make
foreign currency available to SNE in amounts appropriate to adequately
maintain the power network.



- 16 -
Meter Reading, Billing and Collection
3.13      SNE's Commercial Department shows 23,200 registered customers,
of which 12,000 in Conakry and 11,200 in isolated centers. In fact, there
is no precise knowledge of the total number of connections, and SNE assumes
that, especially in Conakry, there are a large number of illegal connections.
Public consumption including that of public buildings and public lighting
is not currently metered.
3.14      Meter reading and billing are done bi-monthly for low voltage
customers; and monthly for high voltage customers. Most low voltage meters
are out of order due to lack of parts and maintenance; therefore most
of the low voltage customers are billed estimated amounts. For Conakry,
billing is centralized and done on the Ministry of Planning's computer; for
regional centers, billing is done manually and locally. The largest con-
sumers' accounts are kept at SNE's headquarters.  Small consumers' accounts
are kept in the seven Conakry districts and the twenty-one regional centers.
All accounts are kept manually.
3.15      State enterprises pay their electricity bills by means of entries
in their compensation accounts with OCOFI. Government agency accounts are
settled by credits to SNE's account in OCOFI's books, drawn from lump sums
in the national budget for Conakry, or regional budgets for areas outside
Conakry, through periodic installments based on annual estimates of consump-
tion. Cash or checks collected at district or regional centers from small
private consumers are deposited daily at local branches of OCOFI's bank (for
customers receivables see para. 6.06).
3.16      New customers are required to make a cash deposit of about 2
months' average consumption based on their installed capacity. Connection
charges are established on the basis of SNE's unit cost of work and parts.
However, it has frequently happened that parts have not been available at
SNE and that new customers have had to provide them themselves either by
purchasing them directly from SOGUILEC, the specialized branch of IMPOR-
TEX 1/ for electrical equipment or by purchasing them on the local free
market at much higher prices. For the past several years, most parts have
been very difficult to obtain and, as a consequence, new legal connections
have been very few. To help ease this situation, the project would finance
a stock of low voltage distribution material, including meters and connec-
tion parts (see para 4.08(vi)). In addition, the project would also finance
a meter calibration and repair laboratory.
3.17      The proposed project would include one commercial specialist for
three years to help SNE reorganize its commercial department and implement a
block mapping program in the Conakry area. Accounting machines would also
be provided through the project for customers' accounts, and are expected to
be installed by December 31, 1981. Updating of SNE's customer files and
distribution maps will be part of the Management Improvement Program and
1/   IMPORTEX is the state-owned monopoly for imports.



- 17 -
should be completed by December 31, 1982. A program for metering all
Government consumption (para. 3.13) and for billing to the responsible
entities at regular tariff prices, would be prepared following discussion
with the Association and implemented no later than June 30, 1982. This
program is included in the MIP.
Accounting
3.18      SNE's accounting system is based on accrual accountîng principles
using the National Chart of Account which has been derived from the former
French chart of accounts. Financial statements are prepared monthly. SNE
has no cost accounting system but would implement one under the MIP by
year-end 1982. SNE's accounting system reflects its organization as a
subsidiary of OCOFI, which assumes centralized cash management (see para.
3.02). SNE does not usually account for, or finance, fixed assets under
construction; the Ministry of Planning finances new capital expenditures and
transfers facilities to SNE (through OCOFI), when completed (see para 6.01).
In SNE's books, these transfers are balanced by simultaneous increases of
the "Government's Contribution" to SNE. Government contributions are free
of debt service so that SNE's books do not show any borrowing.
3.19      Both SNE's finance manager, and chief accountant completed their
studies at Conakry University.  They are young and have not yet gained
in-depth practical experience. They need advice, and the proposed project
would include 3 years of assistance to the Finance Department by an expa-
triate specialist. Enhancement of management and organization of the
accounting service would be complemented by appropriate training for ac-
counting personnel (paras. 4.09-4.10(i)).
3.20      SNE past accounts show many shortcomings, and Price Waterhouse,
Casablanca, which audited its 1976 and 1977 financial statements, were
unable to present an opinion on them. Problems arise mainly from (i)
incomplete adherence to accrual principles; (ii) inadequate or nonexistent
store ledgers; (iii) unsystematic updating of fixed assets register and lack
of supporting evidence to balance sheet values; (iv) improper calculation of
depreciation; and (v) poor maintenance of customers' accounts. In order to
help SNE to alleviate its accounting problems, in addition to providing an
expatriate specialist, the project would finance 50 man-months of technical
assistance from an accounting firm, whose recommendations will be implemented
under the MIP (para. 4.10(ii)).
3.21      Since all accounting work is done manually, the appraisal mission
discussed with SNE/MINEK's officials a minimum level of mechanization of
general accounting to be introduced in order to alleviate current manpower
constraints and to enhance reliability of work. Traditional posting machines
were estimated appropriate to SNE's current needs. However, further detailed
evaluation of these needs will be included in the terms of reference for
the technical assistance that will be financed by the project (see para.
4.10). Financing of such machines would be provided for under the project.
Introduction of these systems is also included in the MIP.



- 18 -
Budgetin£
3.22      SNE's annual operating budget is submitted for approval to OCOFI,
the MINEK and the Ministry of State Control, and signed by the Prime Minister.
At the same time, an investment budget is made in cooperation with MINEK's
planning department and the Ministry of Planning. Neither SNE or MINEK
perform any long-term financial planning. OCOFI and the Ministry of State
Control have a budgetary control function. However, compliance with budgeted
expenses limits is not strictly enforced and variations are possible with
special authorization.
Audits
3.23      The Guinean law gives the responsibility for auditing the public
sector's accounts, including those of SNE, to the Ministry of State Control.
This ministry performs its work on behalf of the Government before accaunts
are presented to the National Economic Conference, normally held in February.
However, because of constraints within the Ministry, audits of SNE's 1976
and 1977 accounts were performed by Price Waterhouse, Casablanca (para.
3.22), and financed under Credit S-22-GUI. Because of the poor state of
SNE's accounts, remaining funds available under Credit S-22-GUI, initially
earmarked to audit its 1978 accounts, are presently being used to finance
technical assistance to its accounting department.
3.24      Extension of such assistance by an international accounting firm
is included in the proposed project and should achieve the necessary improve-
ments in SNE's accounting systems so that by the beginning of FY1982 SNE
will be able to keep its accounts in a way that would make auditing meaning-
ful. The audit report on the financial statements of FY1982 would be sub-
mitted to IDA by the end of June 1983. In the meantime, this technical
assistance would include participation in preparing the financial statements
of fiscal years 1980 and 1981. The audit requirement of Credit S-22-GUI
would be revised to reflect the time necessary to improve accounting records.
During negotiations agreement the Government agreed that starting with FY1982
SNE would submit to IDA, within 6 months of the end of each fiscal year,
financial statements audited by the Ministry of State Control or - should such
audits not be performed or not be acceptable - by other auditors acceptable to
IDA.
Insurance
3.25      Since 1965, Guinean law makes insurance for third party liability
incurred by vehicles mandatory. SNE is insured for this type of risk by
the Societe National d'Assurance. Other third party liability and risks
to properties or inventories, including fire risks, are de facto, directly
assumed by the Government of Guinea.



- 19 -
IV. SNE'S REHABILITATION PROGRAM AND THE IDA PROJECT
A. SNE's Rehabilitation Program
4.01      The proposed project is a component of SNE's 1980-84 Program for the
Reinforcement, Rehabilitation and Expansion of the Power Generation, Transmis-
sion and Distribution System for the City of Conakry. The Government has
agreed to carry out this program according to a timetable acceptable to IDA
(para. 4.21). Other components are being financed by Kreditanstalt fuer
Wiederaufbau (KfW) and Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE). The
physical interrelationship of these components, as they relate to SNE's
complete program, is illustrated in Chart 4-1. The activities to be carried
out by KfW and CCCE are described below (paras. 4.03-4.04).
4.02      The costs of SNE's 1980-84 rehabilitation, reinforcement and
expansion program of the Conakry interconnected system are broken down as
follows for financing purposes (for more detail see Project File).
Table 4.1
SNE's Rehabilitation Program Costs /a
Local      Foreign       Total
--in million US$ equivalent--
KfW financing        1.7         15.8         17.5
CCCE financing       2.2         15.4         17.6
IDA financing /b    4.0          28.5         32.5
TOTAL      7.9          59.7        67.6
/a These figures were developed by IDA staff from
consultants' estimates, reviewed and agreed with
SNE's staff and the consultants. These cost
figures include appropriate physical and price
contingencies but exclude interest during
construction, taxes and duties.
/b Including: refinancing of 1978 and 1980 PPF
advances for program and project preparation;
refinancing of Cr. S-22-GUI; and preparation
of next project.



2-1
GUINEA
REHABILITATION, REINFORCEMENT AND EXPANSION PROGRAM
Conakry High and Medium Tension System
110 and 60 KV  Lines and Substations
To Kindia
GRANDESCHUTES                                                         DONKEA
34 km                            HYDRO PLANT                                                      HYDRO PLANT
4x 63MVA                                                         2 x 8.5 MVA
15k k                    ?   f)   )G (G
2x 1.6MVA                                                                                                                          t  eb25 MVeA
Maneaiy     '-.9s  (63/1-21                                  KV)  t Generto iK
K   60 KV                                                                       3 4     3 4     Hig  Tensio  T1anKV
Ttxtil                                                                          155KVr
<1 e 3.75 MVA)  -'                                km                      Circuit Breakers8 km
40 km                                                              -  a               I
Yessu lou                                              
(1 x 0AMVA3 )^ r                                                                                                                to Debellé
0.38 KV                                     ~>~LEGEND                                                               (Bauxite mine)
5 km
Maneah   <1-          -I =P(C) -Generato,s
(2x2M   )20 KV   ->      X                                                             (<W             igh Tension Transformers
Usine de                             6.5 kd High Tension Lines
Textile KV   KV
(l x 375 MVA)                                                                        68 km        {|A -Circuitnreakers
-   .      ~~6.5 km                                                             - -Faciilities to be Rehabilitated
{ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~under C.C.C,E. Financing
- Facil ties Io be Rehabilitated
Sofo,                                                            12.SMVA>-                             unde, KFW Fmancing
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ F -,acties Rehab,litated unde,
Government F,nancing in
i 1° k       m       (110160/                                          Previous Rehablitation Action
MAT   r     63 KV)                    r                 ...........   .Expans-on Works
MATOTO                 60__KV__i_______________
SUBSTATION               60 
(l 10160/15/6.3 KV)                 4-a                                           [                 11   110 KV
W   *                      »       ~~~~~~~~12.5 MVA  ,
Kipe '    *  ; `½4'                                                                             12.5 MVA
(1 x 3MVA       5.5 KV
+1 x 2.5 MVA) I                -                           12.5 MVA              :15/6.3 KV
60 KV    3                                                    L r
TOMBO                                                                                           1 ht   v  '  
SUBSTATION         63 MVA              6 3 M  AKR
(60115 KV/                            6.3 MvA                                         DGS _R_eL_T_ON SYSTEM
15 KV
TOM 50
DIESEL                                                                                   I
PLANT
Y  Y   I   lTO CONAI<RY DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
(t)   (4)   Z   l      l      |                           ~~~~~~~~~~(CONAKRY I-)
2x 2100 KVA
5N 1875 KVA
Seedetai s i MAP No. IBRD 14975                                                                                       Norid Bank - 21517






- 21 -
4.03      The KfW allocation would comprise:
(M)  complete electro-mechanical overhaul of the Tombo diesel power
plant, its 60 kV to medium voltage substation, the 110 kV trans-
mission line and related substations; feasibility study and design
for expansion of the Tombo diesel plant to back up existing hydro
generation to meet the system's demand until 1985. Under an
agreement between the Government and KfW, this study would be
carried out and completed by December 31, 1981, so that a decision
could be taken by June 30, 1982 on the required number of diesel
units to be financed, the proper timing and the financing required.
The Government and SNE have agreed to discuss the results of the
study with the Association. KfW is also expected to provide the
necessary financing for the expansion works; if not, alternative
financing would have to be sought in 1982;
(ii) construction of a system operating center at Tombo power plant
(located at the borderline between Conakry I and Conakry II 1/)
which would control systems activities and help monitor power
generation and transmission facilities more effectively and
efficiently;
(iii)  construction of a 110 kV transmission line between Matoto and
Tombo substations to be operated initially at 60 kV. This new
line would back up an existing old single 60 kV underground cable
between these two substations whose failure could result in
failure of power supply to Conakry I;
(iv) rehabilitation and extension of public lighting for all of Conakry;
(v)  supply of service vehicles, general accounting machines and
tools for all of SNE's facilities;
(vi) supply of spare parts for diesel generating units and for the 110
kV transmission line and related substations and of distribution
materials for development of SNE's distribution networks; and
(vii)  consulting services to carry out the detailed engineering required
in each of the above items and to supervise implementation of
KfW's above described allocation of the program.
4.04      The CCCE allocation would comprise:
(i) complete electro-mechanical overhaul of the Grandes Chutes
hydro plant 2/ its step-up substation, the 60 kV transmission
1/   See footnote 1/ on page 1.
2/   The two 5 MW hydro units of the Grandes Chutes plant commissioned in
1964, as well as the two 7.5 MW hydro units of the Donkea plant which
are more recent facilities and need less rehabilitation, are being
overhauled by the original manufacturers under bilateral arrangements.



- 22 -
line from Grandes Chutes to Tombo station with all five
60 kV to medium voltage substations hooked to the 60 kV line;
adequate supply of electrical and mechanical spare parts
would also be provided for all these facilities;
(ii) consulting services:
- to carry out the feasibility study of the Fomi hydro-
electric project located in "Haute Guinee" Region (Kankan-
Siguiri-Kouroussa); the dam would be a multipurpose project
(power, agriculture and water supply) and would contribute
to the economic development of this Region;
- to make a survey of the hydroelectric potentials of the
Diani River in the "Forest" Region of Guinea in order
to initiate the industrial development of this Region;
- to carry out a feasibility study for optimizing use of
the Samou River; this may be a medium-term solution to
meeting Conakry's increasing energy demand in the face of
increasing cost of diesel generation and the possible delay
in commissioning the Konkoure project or other major
sources of hydropower;
- to develop proposals for sound tariff policies through a
tariff study addressing tariff structures and levels;
and
- to carry out the detailed engineering required to ade-
quately overhaul the Grandes Chutes hydro plant's facili-
ties, the 60 kV transmission line and related substations
(as described above) and to supervise implementation of
this overhauling process.
4.05      The studies mentioned under 4.04 (ii) are important to meet
increasing power demands in the Conakry interconnected grid beyond 1985, and
to help the country plan for its economic and industrial development needs.
Assurances were given during negotiations that the results of the studies will
be discussed with the Association, and that implementation measures and their
scheduling, particularly relating to the optimization of use of the Samou
River hydro potentials for post-1985 demand, will be carried out in agreement
with the Association.
B. The Proposed IDA Project
Project Objectives
4.06      The main objectives of the project would be (i) to provide improved
reliability of service to the present approximately 8,000 commercial accounts



- 23 -
and 360,000 residential recipients of SNE's service; (ii) to finance part
of the costs of SNE's 1980-84 program of rehabilitation, reinforcement and
expansion of the Conakry distribution system; and (iii) to strengthen SNE
over time through training and technical assistance so that it may have the
managerial, financial and technical capacity to effectively discharge its
responsibilities and meet the anticipated growth in Guinea's power demand.
In order for the project components listed in paras. 4.07-4.12 to be effec-
tive, it is necessary for the Government and SNE to take complementary
action in various areas to improve SNE's management and operations. These
several activities, of which some are covenanted and others discussed during
project appraisal, are fully listed in a "Management Improvement Program"
(MIP) which is included as a component of the project. (See paras. 3.05,
4.13 and Annex 4.)
Project Components
4.07      The project proposed for IDA financing would consist of (i) the
rehabilitation reinforcement and extension of the Conakry II distribution
network; (ii) a training component; (iii) technical assistance (strengthening
of SNE-s maintenance, operational, planning and financial management capa-
bility); (iv) operating facilities; (v) consulting services; (vi) the MIP;
(vii) refinancing of PPF advances and of Cr. S-22-GUI; and (viii) consulting
funds to prepare the next project in this sector.
A.   Rehabilitation of Conakry II Distribution Network
4.08      The rehabilitation of the Conakry II distribution network would
consist of (i) line reinforcement works to complete the change-over to
20 kV as standard voltage 1/ of all primary distribution lines which are
still at either 15 kV or 6.3 kV, (ii) distribution network extension works
to supply new customers in areas previously without electricity and (iii) an
extensive consumers' connections rehabilitation program designed to elimi-
nate the existing widespread practice of low voltage illegal connections;
this would be done by making a census of all low voltage consumers (resi-
dential and others) and installing standard customer connection facilities
with adequate protection and meters. Specifically the rehabilitation,
reinforcement and extension works would consist of the supply and erection
of:
(i)  about 50 circuit km of overhead lines (with about 30 sectiona-
lizers) comprising both three phase primary (20 kV) and secon-
dary (0.4 kV) distribution circuits; about 30 circuit km would
be rehabilitation of existing lines and the remaining 20
circuit km would be new lines extending supply to new customers;
(ii) about 13 km of three phase 20 kV underground primary distri-
bution cable;
1/   The change-over process to 20 kV as a standard primary distribution
voltage was begun in 1978 under Government financing for the distribu-
tion network of Conakry I.



- 24 -
(iii) about 30 circuit km of three phase 0.4 kV secondary distribu-
(iv) about 350 pole mounted 20/0.4 kV distribution transformers of
100 kVA;
(v)  about 40 indoor 20/0.4 kV distribution transformers of
which 15 of 500 kVA and 25, of 315 kVA;
(vi) low voltage consumers connection materials (meters, circuit
breakers, fuses, cables) for about 2,000 triphase connections
and about 18,000 single phase connections.
B. Training
4.09      The training component would consist of the provision of 64
man-years of scholarships for overseas training for SNE's engineers and high
level technicians as well as financial and administrative managers. The
provision for overseas training would also finance training of Guinean
teachers for SNE's training center mentioned below in para. 4.11 (i). The
staff to be trained and the specific training to be given are being identi-
fied as part of the study of manpower requirements and training needs
financed with PPF funds (para. 3.08).
C. Technical Assistance
4.10      This component would consist of:
(i)  the provision of 36 man-years of senior expatriate specialists
experienced in training, operations and overall management of
an electricity corporation. A team of 12 senior specialists
would be sought on secondment to SNE for three years: 2
specialists would be in charge of starting and managing the
training center - see below in para. 4.11(i), and training
Guinean managers who would ultimately take over; the remaining
10 specialists would be responsible for helping to improve:
- SNE's planning capability; 1 specialist would be in charge
of helping reorganize SNE's "Bureau d'Etudes", train on
the Job the engineers presently in charge of planning
and in collaboration with the staff of the "Bureau d'Etudes"
prepare a comprehensive three year development plan for SNE
and the Guinean power sector by December 31, 1982;
- SNE's maintenance capability; 3 specialists would be assigned
to helping to organize routine maintenance and operation of
an electromechanical repair shop mentioned below in para.
4.11 (ii); 1 additional specialist would be assigned to help
organize and efficiently operate the protection and meter
calibration laboratory mentioned below in para. 4.11 (iii);
- SNE's operational capability; 3 specialists would be in charge
of reorganizing SNE's operation activities: one of these



- 25 -
specialists would be assigned to the operation and routine
maintenance of the existing hydroelectric plants, transmis-
sion lînes and related substations, another to the opera-
tion and routine maintenance of diesel stations, and the
third specialist to primary and secondary distribution
networks' operation and routine maintenance;
- SNE's accounting and commercial capability; 2 specialists
would be in charge of helping SNE's Finance and Commercial
Departments reorganize and streamline their procedures;
one specialist would be assigned to accounting procedures,
bookkeeping and inventory management &-d the other to
commercial activities and procurement;
(ii) a provision of 50 man-months of technical assistance from
an Accounting Firm which would carry o-'^ financial studies
on SNE's finances and make recommendat'; is on the establish-
ment of accounting procedures to make SNE's accounts audit-
able starting with FY 1982 accounts.
A team of 12 specialists to carry out activities under (i) above would be
recruited from a single responsible entity in order to have a more effective
impact on SNE than individually recruited specialists. During negotiations,
arrangements for the recruitment of these specialists under terms and condi-
tions acceptable to IDA, and detailed objectives and measurement criteria,
were discussed with the Government and SNE (for further details on this
component see Annex 3).
D.   Operating Facilities
4.11      This component would consist of the following:
(i) construction, equipping and initial operation of a training
center in Conakry based on the recommendations of the analy-
sis mentioned below in para. 4.12 (ii); the training center
would satisfy SNE's requirements for low and medium level
personnel (technical, accounting, administrative and commer-
cial staff); direction would be provided by expatriate staff
(see above in para. 4.10);
(ii) construction and equipping of an electromechanical repair
shop which would render maintenance services to SNE's systems
operating departments for the repair of electrical and
mechanical equipment which presently are often abandoned;
(iii) construction and equipping of an electrical protection and
meter calibration laboratory which would help SNE set up a
more rational and systematic maintenance and verification of
system protection and meters (most of SNE's meters are
presently out of order or inaccurate);



- 26 -
(iv)  construction of housing.  17 units in total, with 12 for the
senior expatriate specialists and 5 for Guinean on-call operating
personnel for whom housing is a serious constraint on carrying
out their duties; this housing component is included in the
proposed project due to the extreme shortage of houses in
Conakry and to the lack of a viable local housing construction
indus try.
E.   Consulting Services
4.12      These would consist of:
(i)  the refinancing of the feasibility study which helped prepare
the proposed project; the detailed engineering and preparation
of bidding documents of the r'a-bllit a      sf -h  Conakry II
distribution system;
(ii)  an analysis of the power sector organization and in parti-
cular of SNE's own organization and relations with the
Government as well as its manpower, training and maintenance
requirements; this study would make recommendations parti-
cularly on the objectives and design (size, operation and
characteristics of teaching equipment and personnel) of a
training center for SNE's low and medium level personnel, and
on overseas training (objectives, disciplines and number of
trainees for SNE's management staff); and
(iii) the supervision of distribution materials and equipment
supply and erection.
F.   Management Improvement Program
4.13      SNE at present does not have a well developed information manage-
ment and operating data collection system; meter reading, billing and
collection systems and procedures; sufficient spare parts inventory; timely
and effective repairs; manpower development and staff training programs;
cost accounting and financial management procedures; or financial and
operational planning and management procedures and systems. A comprehensive
Management Improvement Program (MIP) is proposed for SNE to take into
account all aspects of its organization, administration and operation and
designed to achieve agreed targets by the end of its 1982 fiscal year (see
para. 3.04 and Annex 4). SNE would be aided in its efforts to implement the
MIP by the consultant services and technical assistance provided for under
the proposed project (see Annex 3), and would provide regular reports on its
progress by means of routine quarterly progress reports to the Association
on project implementation. Details of the MIP were discussed during nego-
tiations, and agreement obtained that SNE will carry out the MIP, as it may be
amended from time to time in agreement with the Association.



- 27 -
G.   Refinancing
4el4      PPF advances made in 1978 (US$220,000) and in 1980 (US$300,000)
helped finance consulting services - described above under para. 4.12 (i) and
(ii). These PPF advances as well as Cr. S-22 GUI would be refinanced under the
proposed project.
H.   Preparation of Guinea Power II
4.15      The Guinean Government and MINEK lack the capability to evaluate
results of the numerous studies presently under way for the power sector
(see para. 2.31). The proposed project would provide US$1 million equiva-
lent (including contingencies) for 82 man months of consulting services to
review the results of on-going studies and those proposed within this
project, and prepare a detailed feasibility study in preparation for the
second IDA operatioa in this sector. The consultants should also, as a
result of their work, provide planning advice in support of MINEK's Bureau
d-Etudes to assist MINEK and the Government to formulate a comprehensive
energy plan for beyond 1985. Due to the timing of on-going and proposed
studies, the consultants are expected to begin work in January 1982 for
scheduled completion by mid-1984. The consultant selection criteria and
detailed terms of reference were discussed during negotiations.
Project Costs
4.16      The project is estimated to cost US$32.50 million equivalent
(including refinancing PPF advances and Cr. S-22-GUI) with a foreign ex-
change component of US$28.5 million equivalent. These costs exclude taxes
and duties, from which the Government intends to exempt the project.
Table 4.2 below shows project costs (PPF advances being included in con-
sulting services); see development of these costs in Annex 5.



- 28 -
TAtBLF 4 2   iIrINEH F OR11F  I PFRO JEIT
LOCRL   FOREIGN   TOTRL   LOCA:L   FOREIGN   TOTAL   RS. OCF
(IN MILLION SYLIS>       (IN LIS DOLLARS MILLION)  -
R.  REHRfE. EX-TEN LOF ClI9:II  NETW40RK
1, 2LI KV LOVEPHEhG, L INES
& LUNDERFGROUND CRF:L Es                      7. 22    40. 75    47 97    *3.-8      2. 16    2. 54       12
2. SUPPLY OCF DISTRIB. TRANSFORMERS              0. el   29 25    29. 25     U0        1. 55     1. 55        7
3. LV DIST. LINES S CONS. COiNNEE-.             14 82    83. 9S    9:. 78:     . 7 9    4. 45     5. 24       24
SUBTOTRL                                   22. 84   152. 96   176. ee    1. 17     8. 16    9. 2        42
B.  OPERRTING FRCAILITIES
1. REPRIR SHOP. PROTECTION/METER
CRLIBRRTION LABORRTORY                        1. 52   l. 94    12 47,    0. 6       0. 58    0. 66 
2. HOUSING                                       5.22    26. 28 32.20         £1 28     14 12 71               9
3. TRAINING CENTER                               4. 37    24. 24    28. 71    0. 22     1. 29     1. 52        7
SUBTOTAL                                    .        3 S2 26    73 47    e 59     320       2 389       18
C-  TRAINING (SCHOLRPSHIPS)                          0. e0    18 2.0   -1. 20     a,. s0    0. 97     0. 97        4
D.  TECHNICACL ASSISTRNCE
1. RCCOUNTING FIFM                               1. 91     9. 43    11. 24    e 10      0. e0    0. 60        2
2. OTHER EXPRTRIRTE T A-.                       16. 33    82. e8    98. 41    0. 87     4 325     5. 22      24
SUBTOTRL                                   1< 24    91 51   t0?l5 7       l        45       5. 82       26
E.  CONSULTING SERVICES
1. PROPOSED PROJECT                              2. 66    21. 13    23 79     0. 14     1. 12     1. 26        6
2. PREPRPRTION OF 2ND PROJECT                    i. 70    13. 77    15. 47    0. 09     0. 73     0. 82        4
SUBTOTRL                                    4.36    34. 91    39. 27     0. 2      1. 85    2 08         9
F.  PASF CO'.T (MID-1980 PRICES)                    S5. s5   360. 94   416. 79    2. 96    19. 12    22. 09      100
G.  CONrIN,ENCIES
1. PYebSICAL                                     4. 95    3. 04    4£.99      0. 26     1. i     2.a17       10
2. PRIL -                                       14. 72   119. 25   123. 96    a. 78     6. 32     7 le       32
3. TOTAL                                        19. 66   155. 28   174. 95    1. 84     8. 2 3   9. 27       42
TOTAL ESCRLR.TED PROJECT COSTS                      75. 51   516. 23   591. 74    4. 00    27. 2     31. 36
REFINRNCING OF CR. s-22-GUI                       3. 08    21. 47    21. 47    0. 60     1. 14     1. 14
G R R N D  T O T A L                                75. 51   57.70   61. 21       4. 00    28. 50    32 50
NOTE:  SUETOTRLS MRY NOT RDD DUE TO ROUNDING
11/20 .[,8Re LGI.
FILENAME GUINEA POWER PROJECT COST -GC



- 29 -
4 17      The project provides for US$1 25 million equivalent (PPF advances
included) or about 104 man-months of consulting services for project prepara-
tion, design engineering and supervision of construction of components
involving materials and equipment supply and erection, Consultant costs
include salaries, fees, international travel and subsistence estimated at an
average of US$12,000 per man-month (including approximately US$10,000
foreign component). The technical assistance component amounts to US$5.78
million equivalent in total or about 40 man-years at an average of US$12,000
per man-month. Unit costs for consulting services and technical assistance
were estimated on the basis of recent consultancy contracts for Guinea and
Bank experience in neighboring countries with similar economic environinent.
Scholarships are estimated to cost US$15,000 per year per candidate and are
in line with WAPED'S recent experience.
4.18      The cost estimates for the supply of electrical equipment and
distribution materials in mid-1980 prices were developed by Bank staff on
the basis of estimates prepared by the consulting firm in its feasibility
study. These costs are reasonable given the special, difficult nature
of the rehabilitation works on an existing distribution system, and the
specific urban constraints involved. Bids for these works which account for
about 40% of project costs are currently being analyzed and are in line with
the cost estimates (para 4.21). A 10% allowance has been provided for phy-
sical contingencies. Price contingencies have been allowed for the foreign
component on the basis of the following inflation ratesz 10-5% in 1980, 9%
in 1981, 8% in 1982 and 7% beyond; local price contingencies have been
allowed for the local component on the same basis as for the foreign compo-
nent due to the lack of official local inflation statistics. For price
contingencies related to overseas training costs, a 10% yearly rate was
applied based on West Africa Projects Education Division-s experience.
These assumptions lead to a total allowance for price contingencies of 33.6%
on the base line costs over the life of the project.
Project Financing
4.19      An IDA credit of US$28.5 million is proposed to finance the total
foreign exchange component of the project including refinancing of PPF
advances and Credit S-22-GUI. The IDA credit would be made to the Govern-
ment. Total local costs amounting to about Sylis 76.0 million (US$4.0
million equivalent) would be locally financed by Government contributions
from its equipment budget and SNE's cash generation. The Government has
agreed that its contributions would be made available to SNE in quarterly
advances in an account with the "Credit National" Bank.
Project Execution
4 20      The project would be executed by a project unit to be set up within
SNE's Bureau d'Etudes, and headed by a project manager whose skills and
qualifications are acceptable to IDA. The project unit would be assisted by
consultants to be retained by SNE, again, with qualifications acceptable to
IDA. Arrangements for setting up the project unit, and its staffing, were
discussed during negotiations.



- 30 -
Construction Schedule
4 21      Engineering design and preparation of bîdding documents for
Conakry IIs distribution network rehabilitation were carried out by the
consultants who did the feasibility study under the 1978 PPF financing and
were completed at the end of June 1980. The analysis of related bids will
be completed by the end of November 1980 (i.e. before Board presentation).
All project contract awards should be completed by the end of January 1981.
The design and bidding documents for the training center, the repair shop,
the laboratory and housing being prepared under the 1980 PPF financing have
been completed and related bids call, opening and analysis would be completed
by mid-January 1981. Based on these assumptions, execution of new physical
components of the project is scheduled to begin by mid-1981 and to be completed
by mid-1985 (see Project Construction Schedule in Annex 6). SNE staff and
its expatriate experts, with the assistance of a reputable consulting firm
will coordinate project execution with the execution of the other components
of SNE's 1980-85 rehabilitation program. A Guinean power engineer who
recently joined SNE's management staff after several years of project imple-
mentation experience overseas has been specifically assigned full time
to supervise and coordinate the program. Furthermore, close cooperation and
coordination already exists between cofinanciers since CCCE and KfW represen-
tatives were present in Guinea during IDA-s appraisal mission, and follow-up
and coordination continue through the exchange of documents and reports.
Procurement
4.22      Equipment, supplies, erection and related services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the proposed credit would be procured under inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines for
procurement. Bidding documents for low voltage consumers' connections
rehabilitation program are being prepared to invite contractors to organize
and train SNEs forces on the job, and to use their participation in the
implementation of this part of the work. These forces are skilled and had
carried out such connections in the past, but need to be properly organized
to reach the level of adequate performance they used to have.
4.23      Supply contracts have been separated from erection contracts.
Items have been grouped to the extent practicable to form bid packages by
voltage levels and by nature of distribution materials, and each group would
be awarded as a separate contract to increase competition. No Guinean
manufacturers exist to submit bids for supplies, thus no provision for local
preference is necessary.
Project Monitoring and Reporting
4.24      During negotiations, monitoring criteria (see Project File) and
reporting requirements (see Annex 7) were discussed with SNE and assurances
obtained that SNE, with the assistance of consultants and expatriate personnel,
will as part of the Management Improvement Program submit semi-annual progress
reports to IDA on SNE's 1980-84 rehabilitation program and more specifically
quarterly progress reports on the proposed IDA project implementation,



- 31 -
including items in the MIP (see para 4.13)^ Since SNE's 1980-84 program
and in particular the proposed IDA project is dependent on the supply of
electricity from hydroelectric generating facilities, agreement was obtained
during negotiations that SNE will have the dams at each of the hydro power
sites inspected annually by qualified experts.
Disbursement
4.25      The proposed US$28.5 million equivalent IDA credit would be
disbursed against:
(i) 100% of the CIF cost (or a maximum of 95% of local purchases)
of supply contracts of imported items such as electric
equipment and materials and teaching equipment for the
training center (US$7.20 million);
(ii) 90% of the line erection and equipment installation con-
tracts, as well as housing and repair shop and laboratory
building contracts (the estimated foreign exchange component
of these costs) (US$6.65 million);
(iii) 100% of foreign expenditures for consulting services, training
and scholarships (US$8.0 million);
(iv) Refinancing of Cr. S-22-GUI and PPF Advances (US$1.65 million);
and
(v) Unallocated (US$5.00 million).
Disbursements would be fully documented and are expected to begin during the
third quarter of FY81 and to be completed in the fourth quarter of FY85.
The estimated schedule of disbursement is as follows (in US$ million):



- 32 -
Table 4 3
IDA FY and Quarter       Quarterly Disbursements         Cumulative Disbursement
(in US$ million)
1981
3rd Quarter                        1.7                              1.7
4th Quarter                        0.9                              2.6
1982
lst Quarter                        0.4                              3.0
2nd Quarter                        1.1                              4.1
3rd Quarter                        1.3                              5.4
4th Quarter                        1.6                              7.0
1983
lst Quarter                        2.2                              9.2
2nd Quarter                        2.1                             11.4
3rd Quarter                        2.2                             13.6
4th Quarter                        2.9                             16.5
1984
lst Quarter                        2.6                             19.1
2nd Quarter                        2.3                             21.4
3rd Quarter                        2.3                             23.7
4th Quarter                        2.0                             25.7
1985
Ist Quarter                        1.1                             26.8
2nd Quarter                         .7                             27.5
3rd Quarter                         .4                             27.9
4th Quarter                         .6                             28.5
28.5
To allow sufficient time for the submission of final invoices, a closing
date of December 31, 1985 is set.
Environmental Impact
4.26      Project works consist of the rehabilitation, reinforcement and
extension of the Conakry II distribution system (primary and secondary
distribution lines and related equipment) and the construction of a training
center, a repair shop, a system's protection and meter calibration labora-
tory and housing. Therefore, following conventional practices in project
execution, there would be no adverse environmental impact.
V. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
Benefits of the Rehabilitation Program
5.01      The population of Conakry and Kindia who are now connected to
the network legally or illegally, as well as the industrial, commercial,



33 -
and Government customers of SNE, would benefit immediately from the rehabil-
itation of the generation and transmission facilities. Moreover, it is
likely that without the rehabilitation program, the remaining hydro and
diesel units still in service at Grandes Chutes and Tombo respectively would
fail completely leaving within a few years only the 15 MW Donkea hydro-plant
to carry the 1980 29 MW peak load. The transmission lines and sub-stations
are in an equally precarious state; thus, a total disruption of service in
Conakry within five years is quite conceivable in the absence of the rehabi-
litation program.
5.02      In addition to satisfying existing demand, the rehabilitation of
existing facilities plus the reinforcement and extension of the Conakry
II distribution network would permit load growth as shown in the consumption
forecast (see paras. 5.07-5.09). The load growth to mid-1981 can be met by
existing generating facilities, once rehabilitated, together with 15 MW of
new diesel capacity presently being installed with KfD linancing. Genera-
tion expansion plans beyond mid-1981 are in part depen,-ent on the results of
the optimization study of the Grandes Chutes and Donkea hydro-plants; hence,
it is possible that 10 MW of new diesel capacity would be required in 5 MW
units in 1980 in order to meet demand to year end 1985 (Annex 8).
5.03      Because of the interdependency of all components of the 1980-84
rehabilitation program, the economic justification of the IDA financed
project is based on an analysis of the complete program. All incremental
investment and operating costs to serve all program beneficiaries are taken
into account in determining the rate of return on the 1980-84 rehabilitation
and expansion program.
Population to be Served
5.04      The population to be served by the distribution facilities to be
provided by the IDA financed project is located in Conakry. However, the
population of Kindia and other centers served by the Conakry/Kindia trans-
mission network (roughly estimated at 40,000 in total) will benefit from
the overall rehabilitation and expansion program. 1/
5.05      The population forecast for Conakry is shown in Table 5.1.  By end
1979, the total population in Conakry is estimated to be about 610,000 with
a growth rate of 5.0% p.a. which should continue at least until 1985. The
Government places emphasis on the development of agriculture and mining
activities outside Conakry, which may slow down the rate of growth of
Conakry to about 3% p.a. in the period 1985-90. However, given the normal
attraction which most capital cities have for rural populations, it is
unlikely that the growth rate of Conakry would fall below this rate.
1/   Population estimates for centers outside Conakry are tentative since
the last official census was made in 1962.



- 34 -
5.06      The existing 12,000 registered domestîc connections 1/ are dis-
tributed over SNE's seven service districts as shown in Table 5.1. With an
estimated ten persons per connection, about 20% of the total population
would appear to be served. The percentage of population served is in fact
much higher due to the large number of illegal and hazardous connections and
extensions to neighbouring houses which result in severe overloading. One
instance was found where 20 neighbours were being served from one legal
connection. SNE estimates that in total, about 60% of the total population
are in fact served by at least electric lighting. Illegal connections have
become widespread due to the unavailability of electrical materials to SNE,
although such material can be obtained on the black market.
Consumption Forecast
5.07      It is not realistic ta male a detailed fo;^ecast <-sf- -s2zttorîn by
consumer category because of the incomplete and unreliable information
concerning production, consumption, and connections. Most of the production
figures are estimated since few of the meters in the Tombo and Grandes Chutes
plants are working. Only abDut one tenth of the legal connections are metered
and many of these readings are doubtful because of faulty meters which cannot
be repaired due to a lack of meter repair and calibration facilities. A demand
forecast has, nonetheless, been prepared on the basis of reasonable assump-
tions and is shown in Table 5.2 and Annex 8. Demand from existing connec-
tions has been suppressed because of continual breakdowns in generation,
transmission, and distribution equipment. It is estimated that consumption
by existing consumers would rise by 20%, from the present 101 GWh/year to
123 GWh/year, by end 1981 solely as a result of the rehabilitation of the
production and transmission facilities. The impact of the rehabilitation
and expansion of distribution facilities starting in late 1981 would permit
an average growth of about 10% p.a. in the period 1982-85. This rehabilita-
tion program is expected also to lead to a reduction in technical losses of
electricity from the present estimated level of 20% of production to 15% by
end 1983.
5.08      Seven new large industrial consumers are expected to be added to
the high voltage network with a total demand of 40 GWh/year by end 1984.
These new industries would then account for 20% of total consumption.
5.09      Taken together, the increase in new customers, satisfaction of
suppressed demand of existing customers, plus the reduction in losses and
unaccounted for electricity, are expected to lead to a growth in generation
from the present 127 GWh/year to 258 GWh/year at end 1985 at an average
growth rate of 12.6% p.a. The demand forecast is reasonable based on
already identified new industrial customers, substantial suppressed demand and
experience in other countries which have started from a similar base with
comparable growth potential.
Least Cost Solution
Generation
5.10      The rehabilitation of the existing hydro generation facilities on
the Samou River (Grandes Chutes and Donkea installations) clearly represents
1/ Lighting, household and artisanal use.



Table 5.1 Population Forecast - Conakry
_Popuation (thousands)                                  Low Voita e Domestic Connections
Official         SNE estimate of
Estimate                 Forecast                       Connections        service coverage by
1979      AGR %   1985        AGR %   1990       1979   % population  official & unofficial connections
________________I _______________   Actual         Served 1-         % population served 1979
Conakry I
District C                           58        2.2       66        1.0       69     1395           24                100
D                          75        2.1       85        1.0       89     1714           23                100
Sub-total                           133        2.1      151        1.0      158     3109           23                100
.Conakr  I
District A                           93        5.3      127        1.2      135     2531           27                100
B                          75        2.1       85        1.2       90     1851           25                100
E                          36        3.8       45        2.9       52     1741           49                 50
F                         128        7.5      198        4.5      247     1179            9                 10
G                         144        6.2      207        5.0      264     1488           10                 10
Sub-total                           476        5.7      662        3.6      791     8790           18                 46
Total Conakry                         609        5.0      813        3.1      949    11899           20                 60
Total Guinea (million)                 5.3       2.8       6.3       2.8       7.2       2.8         6.4
% Conakry/total Guinea                il                  13                 13
AGR = Annual Growth Rate
_/ based on 10 persons/connection



Table 5.2  Energy Consumption - Conakry/Kindia Network
1978        1979          1980          1981           1982 1     1983             184           1985
Actual   Estimate            -Forecast-
1. Existing service area -
low and high voltage
(i) annual consumption (GWh)          101.4       101.4         108.5         123.3          139.5         151.5          164.9         178.9
(ii) % annual growth                     -           -             7.0          13.6           13.1           8.6            8.8            8.5
elimination of             -----------------average growth 10% p.a.----
suppressed demand                    network rehabilitation and
existing customers                            extension
2. New high voltage
industrial consumers
(i) cumulative connections                                        1              3             5             6              7              7
(ii) annual consumption (GWh)                                      2.2            5.8          13.6          22.3           40.9           40.9         
3. Total consumption
(i) annual (GWh)                      101.4       101.4         110.7         129.1          153.1         173.8          205.8         219.8
(ii) % annual growth                     -           -             9.2           16.6          18.6          13.5           18.4            6.8
4.  Losses/unaccounted                     25.4         25.4          24.9          25.8          30.4           30.4           36.0          38.5
5.  Generation (GWh)                      126.8       126.8          135.6         154.9         183.7          204.2         241.5          258.3
6.  % losses/generation                    20          20             18            17            17             15             15            15



- 37 -
the least cost solution when compared to the cost of thermal generation.
Without rehabilitation, the Grandes Chutes hydro facilities would be limited
at most to the present operating capacity of 10 MW, and even this capacity is
in danger of failure due to the precarious state of the equipment. The
incremental cost of rehabilitation is USil.5/kWh vs. USJ11.6/1kWh for
thermal generation with the new units, assuming a 15 year life of capital
works, a 10% discount rate, and allowing for normal operating and maintenance
costs.
Transmission and Distribution Facilities
5.11      The standardization of sub-transmission voltages at 20 kV will
minimize costs by reducing inventory requirements for a variety of different
equipment and materials such as transformers, cables, and protection devices.
The choice of 20 kV has been demonstrated to be the optimum voltage level at
which to standardize, taking into consideration the present use of 20 kV
lines and the trade-off between investment cost and cost of losses.
5.12      Feasibility studies for rehabilitation were done using least
cost criteria acceptable to IDA. Distribution network costs will be mini-
mized by making extensive use of single phase connections, particularly for
domestic connections. The previous practice called for three-phase connec-
tions for all motive power installations, including domestic, with a sepa-
rate single-phase meter for lighting.
Return on Investments
5.13      The economic rate of return on the IDA financed project cannot
be estimated in isolation from the total 1980-84 rehabilitation and expan-
sion program for Conakry. The internal economic rate of return on the
entire program has, therefore, been calculated as the discount rate which
equalizes: (i) the present value of expenditures in constant 1980 prices
for: (a) capital rehabilitation and expansion works; (b) technical assis-
tance; (c) operation and maintenance; and (ii) the present value of revenues
derived from the sale of all incremental electricity distributed to final
consumers served by the Conakry/Kindia network at the present and proposed
tariff. Incremental sales are defined as the difference between total
consumption satisfied with and without the project. Without the project it
is assumed that total satisfied consumption would fall linearly from the
present level to zero by end 1985 (para. 5.01). The valuatîon of benefits
at both the current amd proposed tariff levels understates the true economic
benefits of improving and extending the availability of electricity, since
it does not account for: (i) consumer surplus and (ii) the increased
productivity in industry, government and social services that would result
from the availability of a continuous, reliable supply.
5.14      Tariff increases are necessary not only on economic grounds to
promote efficient resource allocation (para. 5.19), but also on financial
grounds to ensure adequate maintenance and to provide a portion of the capital
requirements for power sector development. The available financial informa-
tion indicates that cumulative tariff increases of 138% in current prices (65%



- 38 -
in constant prices) would be needed by 1985 to ensure adequate sector
financial performance.   A tariff study to be financed by CCCE (para. 4.04
(ii)) has been included in the program to determine more accurately the costs
of providing electricity to each consumer category. This study can be under-
taken, however, only when adequate engineering and accounting information
becomes available and a long term development program has been defined. The
tariff study would recommend a tariff structure and levels that would reflect
economic costs and social considerations in addition to purely financial
concerns which have presently been accepted by IDA as the provisional basis
for tariff setting (paras. 6.08 and 6.14). As a first step in increasing and
restructuring SNE's tariffs, the Government agreed during negotiations to
eliminate the special household tariff by June 30, 1981 and indicated that it
would selectively increase tariffs by an average of 40% during the first
quarter of 1981.
5.15      The rehabilitation and expansion of facilities under the 1980-84
program will permit load growth to 1985 as well as enabling the present
demand to be met. The incremental costs and benefits are taken over the
15-year period 1980-94 corresponding to the physical life of the diesel units.
An allowance has been made for the residual economic value of the distribution
network expansion facilities which would have an expected life of approxi-
mately 35 years.
5.16      The syli is overvalued;  however, a precise estimate of the
appropriate shadow price of foreign exchange is not available because of a
lack of data. The black market rate for foreign exchange can run as high as
four to five times the official exchange rate; however, this rate reflects
more the general tight market conditions than the underlying economic value
of foreign exchange. As a first approximation, IDA staff estimate that a
shadow exchange rate of two times the official rate would adequately reflect
the value of foreign exchange in converting from domestic to border prices.
5.17      Details of the IERR analysis are presented in Annex 15 and are sum-
marized in Table 5.3.
Table 5.3
Internal Economic Rate of Return
Benefits Valued at
Current Tariff     Proposed Tariff 2/
Base Case                                     6.7%               23.2%
Capital cost + 20%                            3.9%                19.1%
0 and M cost + 20% (including fuel)            2.5%               19.9%
5.18      The rates of return shown above have been computed in economic
efficiency prices which allow for the over-valuation of the syli. A stan-
dard conversion factor of 0.50 has been used to express the local cost and
benefit components in border prices. 1/ The IERR computed in domestic
1/   A standard conversion factor of 0.50 corresponds to a shadow exchange
rate of twice the official rate, or 38 sylis/dollar.
2/   Including 40% average increase in 1981, rising to 65% increase in real
terms by 1985 above current tariffs.



- 39 -
prices (using the official exchange rate) would be 50% for the base case
with benefits valued at the proposed tariff. The IERR computed in border
prices would drop to 10% (benefits valued at proposed tariff) if: (i)
operation and maintenance costs rise by 85%; (ii) capital costs rise by 90%;
or (iii) benefits drop by 30%. Assuming base case values for all costs and
benefits at the proposed tariff, a standard conversion factor of 0.33
(shadow exchange rate 58 sylis/dollar) would result in a 10% IERR. Given
the present unsatisfied demand, it is unlikely that the growth in sales
would be less than forecast; thus, considering the unquantified benefits of
consumer surplus and anticipated improvements in industrial productivity, it
is likely that the true IERR is higher than the 10% opportunity cost of
capital.
Pricing Considerations
5.19      The IERR associated with incremental project costs and benefits
(valued at the existing tariff) would normally indicate the appropriateness
of tariff levels in encouraging efficient resource allocation in the national
economy. Because this project largely involves the rehabilitation of the
existing generation and distribution facilities which have been treated as
sunk costs in the IERR analysis, it is necessary to consider the tariff
levels in relation to the long run marginal cost of electricity supply to
final consumers. The long run marginal cost of expanding the network would
then indicate the opportunity cost of electricity supplied from the existing
facilities and the level at which tariffs should be set to ensure efficient
resource allocation.
5.20      Consideration must also be given to the economic value of foreign
exchange by using a conversion factor for the foreign cost component expres-
sed in sylis. Roughly 85% of the costs of electricity supply in Guinea are
in foreign exchange. Assuming that a conversion factor corresponding to an
exchange rate of 38 sylis per dollar (as in the IERR analysis) would reflect
the economic cost of the foreign exchange component, the long run marginal
cost of electricity to low voltage consumers based on thermal generation
(including distribution costs) and expressed in domestic prices would be
5.40 sylis/kWh as opposed to 2.9 sylis/kWh at the official exchange rate.
The present tariff of 3.0 sylis/kWh for domestic lighting consumers would
appear appropriate if no allowance is made for the economic value of foreign
exchange. Significant tariff increases, i.e. 1.8 times the present tariff
assuming an economic foreign exchange rate of twice the official rate, would
be needed to price electricity according to economic principles. This is
even more the case for consumer categories other than domestic lighting
which pay lower rates.
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Introduction
6.01      Under present accounting arrangements it is difficult to obtain
an overall view of the finances of the sector. SNE has limited responsi-
bilities in treasury management and does not record in its accounts all



- 40 -
steps of the sector's cash transactions. Virtually all sector funds are in
the hands of the Government. SNE maintains accounts for operations and
accounts for fixed assets only after the latter has been put into operation.
Accounts for work in progress are kept by the Ministry of Plan; accounts for
long term debt and debt service are kept by the Central Bank (see para.
3.19). Regarding the latter, the Government has been contracting multipur-
pose loans, but detailed records have not been kept which would permit a
breakdown of the allocation to the related sectors. It is therefore impos-
sible to determine accurately the debt service of the power sector. Under
existing law and Government organization it is not possible to change these
arrangements. However, in order to ensure the measurement of overall financial
performance of SNE and the sector in the future, during negotiations the
Government and SNE agreed that as from January 1, 1981, SNE will maintain pro
forma sector accounts covering the finances of the whole sector. Up to now
all debt service has been financed by the Government and the related plant has
been transferred to SNE as equity. During negotiations the Government and SNE
agreed that as of January 1, 1981, all new long term debt contracted for the
sector, and related debt service, will be charged to the sector and recorded
in SNE's pro forma accounts.
Past Earnings
6.02      An analysis of estimated earnings for the sector for the period
FY 76-79 is given below:
Table 6.1
__                          1976    1977    1978    1979
Sales (GWh)                            92.3   105.8   121.6   122.8
-----Sylis million--------
Operating revenues                    200.6   229.8   261.3   267.3
Operating expenses                    167.0   194.4   219.0   258.8
Net income                             33.6    35.4    42.3      8.9
Rate of return la                       4.7%    4.8%    5.7%    1.2%
/a   On historically valued net fixed assets in operation.
6.03      The figures available for the past 4 years indicate that revenues
have covered operating expenses including depreciation on historically
valued assets, and have provided a small return on the fixed assets employed.
However, these figures do not reflect the true earnings of the sector since,
because of limited budgetary allocations, SNE has not adequately maintained
its plant, and depreciation has not taken into account a realistic valuation
of assets. If adequate maintenace had been performed and charges had been
made on a correct basis, the sector would not have reached a break-even



- 41 -
point. Moreover, the application of the official exchange rate that over-
values the syli (para. 5.15), tended to understate operating costs since
about two-thirds of them are directly or indirectly incurred in foreign
exchange.
Present Financial Position
6.04      The estimated capitalization of the sector as of December 31, 1979
was as follows:
Table 6.2
Sylis       US$
Assets                      million    million
Net fixed assets              709         37
Work in progress              194         10
Current assets                159         8
1062        55
Represented by:
Equity                       1062        55
6.05      In the past all assets have been transferred to SNE as Government
equity and have been retained in SNE's books at original cost. During nego-
tiations the Government agreed to cause SNE to revalue by March 31, 1981 its
fixed assets as of December 31, 1980, and thereafter annually, in accordance
with methods acceptable to IDA. These values will be recorded in SNE's pro
forma accounts as of January 1, 1981.
6.06      Current assets include receivables amounting to sylis 138 million
(US$7.3 million). Most of these debts, which have been outstanding for
many years, are owed by private consumers and represent about one year's
revenue from that consumer class. There is no reserve in SNE's accounts for
uncollectibles. The Government has, however, instructed SNE, among other
state enterprises, and as a one-time occurrence, to prepare a statement of
irrecoverable receivables for presentation to and approval of the Ministry of
State Control and the National Economic Conference. The amounts so approved
would then be reflected in SNE's accounts, possibly through a reduction in
SNE's current account with OCOFI. The Government has also agreed to furnish
to IDA by December 31, 1981, for its review and comments, appropriate measures
to enable SNE to make provision for, and write off, on an ongoing basis,
receivables from power customers determined to be uncollectible. Furthermore,
the Government has agreed to take all appropriate measures no later than
December 31, 1982 to implement such measures taking into account the comments



- 42 -
of IDA. Under the MIP, SNE would write off uncollectible accounts and after-
wards reduce low voltage consumer receivables to no more than three months of
billing by year-end 1982. SNE has no problem in obtaining settlement of its
industrial and public service receivables since they are mainly settled
through the Government's internal compensation system (para. 3.15).
Tariffs
6.07      SNE's present tariffs, which have been unchanged since January 1,
1975, produce an average revenue of 2.11 sylis/kWh (or USll.1 including
charges for energy, meter rental, etc. The typical charge for high voltage
energy is 1.5 sylis/kWh (USé7.9), and the charge for low voltage energy
ranges from 3.0 sylis/kWh (USel5.8) for lighting to 1.3 sylis/kWh (USJ6.8)
for domestic appliances. In addition to energy, low voltage consumers are
charged a meter rental which, in most cases, is 3.2 sylis/month per instal-
led kVa (USel6.8). For all high voltage consumers, meter rental is
150 Sylis/month (US%7.9). They also pay a fixed charge of 645 sylis/kVa/
month (US$33.9). Further details on tariffs are given in Annex 2.
6.08      The current tariff structure, which was designed at a time when
SNE had large hydro surpluses, was aimed at encouraging consumption. A
special "household appliance" tariff provides the larger consumers with
cheap additional energy. High voltage energy is charged at a flat rate and,
as a consequence, industrial tariffs do not distinguish peak-hour consump-
tion from off-peak consumption. Since, in the short term, SNE is planning
to expand its thermal generation facilities to meet the increase in demand,
and because hydro power surpluses will not be available for several years to
come, agreement was obtained from Government during negotiations that a
comprehensive tariff study, using terms of reference acceptable to IDA,
would be completed before June 30, 1983, taking into account marginal
cost and sectoral financial requirements. In recognition of the need for
immediate tariff action to enable SNE to meet the financial covenants for
FY1981, the Government agreed during negotiations to abolish the special
household tariff by June 30, 1981 and indicated its intention to raise
tariffs by an average of 40% through selective increases during the first
quarter of 1981.
Financing Plan
6.09      SNE's capital investment requirements for the period FY 80-85
and the sources from which they would be met are summarized below. Further
details are given in Annex 11.



- 43 -
Table 6.3
--------1980-85
Sylis       US$
million    million      %
REQUIREMENTS
Capital Expenditure - Project      1,132.4        59.6    45%
- Other       1,357.2        71.4    55%
Total Requirements      2,489.6      131.0   100%
SOURCES
Depreciation                          850.5       44.8
Income Before Interest               308.6        16.2
Total Cash Generated   1,159.1         61.0
Less Increase in Working Capital      84.6         4.4
Debt Service                    645.7        34.0
Net Sector Internal Cash Generation 428.8         22.6    17%
Borrowings and Grants:
Proposed IDA Credit                  520.6        27.5    21%
Proposed KfW and CCCE /a             592.8        31.1    24%
Other: identified /b                 536.1        28.2    21%
non-identified                411.3        21.6    17%
Total Borrowings and Grants        2,060.8       108.4    83%
Total Sources                  2,489.6       131.0   100%
/a   Financing related to the Rehabilitation Program.
lb   Comprises KfW, CCCE and supplier's financings.
6.10      Capital expenditure for the proposed project would represent
about 45% of the total program for the period FY 80-85. Other capital
expenditure is related to: (i) the rehabilitation of the Grandes Chutes Dam
(sylis 100 million); (ii) the renovation of the Tombo thermal plant (sylis
150 million); (iii) rural electrification works already committed (up to
sylis 200 million); (iv) further rural electrification works not yet com-
mitted (sylis 300 million); (v) provision for further expansion of SNE's
facilities to meet future demand (sylis 550 million); and (vi) other miscel-
laneous investments (sylis 50 million).



- 44 -
6411      The sector's internal cash generation, net of debt service, is
expected to contribute 17% of the total financing for capital expenditures and
would cover all local currency costs. All other requirements would be provided
by foreign sources. Already identified sources are: the proposed IDA credit,
21%, CCCE, 16%; KfW, 18%; and suppliers' credits, 11%. Non identified finan-
cing amounts to 17% of the total, or US$21.6 million equivalent; these funds
would be required to finance projects for the next program to be started
before the end of FY85. All sector funds are held by the Government (see
para. 6.01). The forecasts indicate that in FYs 80-82 the sector would
require sylis 170 million (US$8.9 million) from the Government as assistance
for operations, debt service, working capital and investment. The Govern-
ment would fully recoup this amount in FYs 83-85, when cash received on
behalf of the sector would be in excess of requirements. Nevertheless,
during negotiations, the Government will be asked to ensure that adequate
funds would be made available at all times to meet the operational, debt
service, working capital, and investment requirements of the sector. As a
protection for the proposed project, during negotiations the Government and
SNE will be asked to agree that they will, no later than September 30 of
each year, starting with 1981, review with IDA the sector's capital expendi-
ture plan and related financing sources.
Future Finances
6.12      Income statements and balance sheets forecasts for FYs 80-85 are
given in Annexes 10 and 12; relative notes are in Annex 13. The main features
of the financial forecasts are given below:
Table 6.4
FY 1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Sales (GWh)                      134.2   156.4   185.2   209.5   244.3   264.3
Net income (sylis million)      -12.5      5.2      0.6    19.7    49.0    42.5
Operating ratio (%)              104      95       95      90       87      89
Rate of return (%) /a             -0.8     0.9      1.3     2.3      3.3     3.2
Debt/Equity (%)                            0.14    0.21    0.27    0.33    0.34
Debt Service coverage                      2.1      1.5     1.7      1.8      1.9
/a   On revalued net fixed assets.
6.13      Using available information, together with reasonable assumptions
for sales and operating expenses and reasonable rates for the revaluation of
assets, it is estimated that a cumulative tariff increase of 56% by January
1, 1982 would be required and 15% each year thereafter through FY 85 to meet
operational and investment requirements. With the proposed tariff increase
of 40% during 1981 it is expected that operating expenses could be fully
covered and with further tariff increases as shown above, it is estimated
that rates of return on revalued assets would rise to about 3% in 1985



- 45 -
6,14      Detailed financing targets cannot be set at the present time.  Only
when the sector's finances are clarified, the accounting arrangements improved,
and the tariff study completed, will it be possible to set targets which will
bring the sector to full financial viability. During negotiations the Govern-
ment and SNE agreed to set tariffs at levels which would ens.re that revenues
In FYs 81 and 82 cover operating expenses, including taxes and providing for
adequate maintenance and depreciation on revalued assets, and also would cover
long term sector debt repayment to the extent that these repayments exceed the
allowance for depreciation. The Government and SNE further agreed that,
pending the results of the tariff study (para. 6.08) and agreement with IDA
on its recommendations, SNE would take necessary action, including tariff
increases, to achieve a rate of return on average net fixed assets in opera-
tion of 2% in 1983 and 3% thereafter.
VII. SUMMARY, AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED
AND RECOMMENDAIONS
Summary
7.01      The precarious state of the Conakry interconnected system with
its frequent power outages, excessive voltage drops, and high losses has had
adverse effects on the Conakry-based industries and on the overall economy.
To help the Government address this serious constraint to the country's
economic development, IDA (i) made a US$1.13 million credit in 1979 to
finance implementation of the most urgent rehabilitation requirements; and
(ii) helped define the comprehensive 1980-84 rehabilitation program and make
arrangements for its co-financing. The proposed IDA project would contri-
bute not only to the implementation of the rehabilitation program, but also
to the evolutionary rationalization of the power sector organization and to
the strengthening of the autonomy and management and operations of SNE.
Project Risks
7.02      The realization of the benefits of the project will greatly depend
on the ability of SNE to achieve the institutional and manpower improvement
objectives. These objectives are reasonable and the probablity of achieving
them is improved through the technical assistance and training components.
The Guineans are receptive to expatriate technical assistance, as evidenced
by their request during project appraisal to increase the size of this compon-
ent.  This receptivity, and the Guineans  expressed interest in learning and
willingness to change based on demonstrated benefits, suggest to the appraisal
team that the risks to this component are only moderate, and the chances for
success good. The availability of foreign exchange essential to SNE's day-to-
day operations and maintenance would be assured through the maintenance of
the special account already established with BGCE for the purchase of necessary
spare parts.



- 46 -
Agreements to be Reached
7.03      During negotiations, agreement was obtained from the Government
and SNE that:
(i) the maximum amount allowed to SNE to make purchases in local
currency without a priori approval from OCOFI will be increased to
Sylis 15,000, and SNE's petty cash fund may be replenished as
often as needed (para. 3.11);
(ii)  beyond 1981, the Government will maintain at the BGCE in the name
of SNE the special foreign currency account--opened under Agreement
reached under Cr. S-22 GUI--to which SNE will have direct access,
and in which the Government will deposit amounts appropriate to
allow SNE to make payments within the framework of annual global
licenses for imports required to maintain the power facilities
(para. 3.12);
(iii)  starting with SNE's 1982 fiscal year accounts, SNE will submit to
IDA within 6 months of the end of each fiscal year financial state-
ments audited by the Ministry of State Control or, should such
audits not be performed or not be sufficiently detailed, by auditors
acceptable to IDA (para. 3.24);
(iv)  a study of the Conakry system load forecast and its diesel generation
expansion requirements will be carried out by December 31, 1982, and
discussed with IDA (para. 4.03)(i));
(v) the results of the CCCE studies will be discussed with the Associa-
tion, and implementation measures and their scheduling, particu-
larly relating to the optimization of use of the Samou River hydro
potentials for post-1985 demand, will be carried out in agreement
with the Association (para. 4.05);
(vi)  SNE will carry out the MIP, as it may be amended from time to time
in agreement with the Association (para. 4.13);
(vii)  SNE will recruit consultants, using criteria acceptable to IDA, to
evaluate present and proposed studies in the power sector and
prepare a detailed feasibility study for a second power project in
Guinea (para. 4.15);
(viii)  Government contributions will be made available to the project
entity in quarterly advances in an account with the Credit National
Bank (para. 4.19);
(ix)  SNE will set up and staff a project unit, headed by a project
manager with skills and qualifications acceptable to IDA (para.
4.20);
(x) SNE will have the dams at each of the power sites inspected annually
by qualified experts (para. 4.24);



- 47 -
(xi) SNE will maintain, from January 1, 1981, pro forma accounts for
the sector as a whole, including new long-term debt and related
debt service (para. 6.01);
(xii) SNE will revalue its fixed assets on a proforma basis as of Dec.
31, 1980 by March 31, 1981, and thereafter annually (para. 6.05);
(xiii)  Government will submit to IDA for its review and comment no later
than December 31, 1981 appropriate measures to enable SNE to write
off uncollectible accounts and would take all appropriate action to
implement such measures by December 31, 1982 taking into account the
comments of IDA (para. 6.06);
(xiv)  the special household tariff will be abolished by June 30, 1981
(para. 6.08);
(xv)  a comprehensive tariff study, using terms of reference acceptable
to IDA, will be completed before June 30, 1983, submitted to IDA for
discussion of its recommendations (para. 6.08);
(xvi) Government will ensure that at all times funds will be made
available to fully meet the operational, debt service, working
capital and investment requirements of the sector (para. 6.11);
(xvii)  Government and SNE will, no later than September 30 of each year,
starting with 1981, review with IDA the sector's capital expenditure
plan and related financing sources (para. 6.11); and
(xiii)  SNE will set its tariffs staring in fiscal year 1981 at a level
sufficient that its revenues (a) would cover operating expenses
including taxes, provide for adequate maintenance and depreciation
calculated on revalued assets and allow for repayment of long term
debt to the extent that such repayment exceeds depreciation and (b)
would yield an annual rate of return on average net fixed assets in
operation of 2% in 1983 and 3% thereafter; these rates of return
would apply until appropriate financial targets could be set
following the completion of the tariff study (para. 6. 14).
Recommendations
7.04      Provided that the foregoing conditions are met. the project is
suitable for a credit of US$28.5 million, repayable on standard IDA terms



-48 -                                 ANNEX 1
SOCIETE NATIONALE D'ELECTRICITE (SNE)
FIRST POWER PROJECT
CONAKRY INTERCONNECTED SYSTEX'S TOTAL OUTPUT
(in GWh)
Power Plant:    GRANDES-CHUTES    DONKEA           TOMBO        Total
Rated capacity                                                                  Growth rate
in MW:           20  MW          15  MW       10  MW       45 MW              in %
Year
1965           42 348                       1 521         43 870
1966           46 229                         -           46 229             5.37
1967           47 201                         -           47 201             2.10
1968           54 130                       4 521         58 651            24.25
1969           57 008                      14 972         71 980            22.72
1970           47 234         27 684                      74 917             4.08
1971           43 588         38 333                      81 921             9.34
1972           51 369         36 664                      88 033             7.46
1973           51 570         39 317        3 558         94 444             7.28
1974           54 000         37 999        2 150         94 149           - 0.31
1975           69 266         34 185        2 620        106 011            12.66
1976           69 043         45 117        3 963        118 123            11.36
1977           61 243         43 128        3 848        108 219           - 8.40
1978           54 747         67 949        4 148        126 844            17.2
Average yearly growth in %                                                        8.51
Source : SNE



- 49 -                          ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
GUINEA
SOCIETE NATIONALE D-ELECTRICITE (SNE)
FIRST POWER PROJECT
EXISTING TARIFFS
Standardization of rates is valid for the whole country. Rates
have not changed for years.  Since more subscribers do not have a meter,
they are being contract-billed.
Low Voltage Rates
LV rates differ depending on type of use:
(i) Lighting-household use and artisanal use (single-phase
below 3 kW, three-phase above it)
-  lHousehold rate (lighting)             : 3 sylis/KWh
-  Special household rate (appliances   : 1.30 sylis/kWh (with a
second meter for involved
appliances)
-  Commercial rate (stores)                  3 sylis/kWh
-  Special artisanal rate                 : 2 sylis/kWh
(ii)  Motrice Power (industrial use)             : small industries
-  Single rate                               2.50 sylis/kWh
(iii)  Rates for tertiary sector (hotels, administrations):  2.00 sylis/kWh
High Voltage Rates, (15 kV or 5.5 kV) for average size industries (spinning
mills, slaughterhouses, industrial bakeries...) and certain embassies:
-  Price per kWh                           : 1.50 sylis/kWh
-  Fixed charge                           : 645 sylis/installed kVa/
year (payable in monthly
installments),
-  Penalty fees for consumption in excess of power indicated on
subscription.



-50-                             ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
Fees: Upon subscription, LV subscribers are paying in advance on consump-
tion (150 to 300 sylis per kVA) and are also paying taxes (52.5 sylis);
every 2 months they also pay a meter rental and maintenance fee (6.33
sylis/kVA for household and commercial rates; and 2.26 sylis for whatever
power level for special household - appliance and artisanal rates).



- 51 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 2
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
1.        The technical assistance being provided under the proposed project
(para. 4,10) is designed to serve a two-fold purpose: (i) provision of
immediate technical expertise to SNE's daily operations in order to help
restore SNE to acceptable operating levels; and (ii) training of SNE staff
to maintain these levels of operations.
2.        The Guinean Government has already expressed its keen interest and
receptivity to technical assistance to the power sector by requesting an
increase in this component during appraisal of the project, and the Guineans
in general show a keen interest in learning. The chances of successful
completion of the technical assistance and training component of the project
will be greatly improved if the right technical assistance team is selected.
However, an equal responsibility rests with the Guinean authorities and SNE's
management to take the necessary steps to implement the advice and recommenda-
tions of the team.
3.        The 12 specialists expected to carry out these activities should
be recruited as a team from, e.g., a well established, well managed
power company. The team concept is preferred over recruitment of indivi-
duals as the most cost effective means to accomplishing the disparate tasks
within the component, (and thus better integrate the results to SNE-s
overall goals). The team should bring with it a common body of knowledge
about established norms, proper operating procedures and sound management
practices which would further assure its meeting the objectives of the
component. The parent company should serve as back-up for the team in the
field in the event of technical problems, as well as replacement of team
members should this become necessary. The parent company would also have
accountability for over-all performance of the team in meeting its objec-
tives under the project.
4.        The Management Improvement Program (MIP) would provide the frame-
work for introducing proper operating procedures and sound management
practices. As such, its implementation would constitute part of the terms
of reference for the technical assistance team (para. 4.13 and Annex 4).
The team would: (i) review the terms of reference for the MIP with SNE and
IDA; (ii) develop the steps necessary for its implementation; and (iii)
monitor and report on the results of the MIP during its execution. The team
would also develop an operating procedures manual for SNE operations, and
train SNE staff in its use.
5.        The team would develop appropriate training programs and partici-
pate in the selection of SNE staff to be trained or reassigned according to
capability and performance. The training would be carried out in the training
school, but also on the job as an integral part of functional operations. The
Guineans have shown a preference for demonstrated results prior to any decision
to change, and a willingness to learn by doing. Therefore the team members
are expected to operate not only as advisor/trainers, but also as operational
staff to literally show the SNE staff how the work should be done. For this



- 52-                            ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 2
reason, the team members would have to be carefully selected for an ability to
deal appropriately and yet effectively with staff on two separate but related
levels of involvement.
6.        The team would be accountable to the Managing Director of SNE.
The individual team members would report as any other SNE employees to their
SNE supervisors, as well as to the team leader and the parent company. The
parent company would be accountable for the team's performance to SNE.  The
team would prepare regular progress reports to SNE, which SNE would use as
part of its regular progress reports to IDA under SNE's MIP and the project
monitoring requirements.
7.        By the end of the project period, SNE is expected, as a result
of this technical assistance, to have clearly established technical, commer-
cial, financial and managerial procedures such that the company will have
reached an acceptable level of proficiency in its day-to-day operations.
However, it is likely that further technical assistance will be necessary in
order to give SNE the experience over time with sound management and operating
practices so that it can become a viable, self-sufficient institution.
8.        The arrangements for the recruitment of the expatriate technical
assistants, and their role within SNE including objectives of their mission,
will be discussed and agreed during negotiations.



- 53                            ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
GUINEA
FIRST POWER PROJECT
MANAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM (MIP)
The following is a detailed list of actions to be carried out
by SNE under the Management Improvement Program which forms Part F (para.
4.13) of the Project:
Investment Planning
(a) Preparation of a comprehensive three year development plan for SNE
and the Guinean power sector by December 31, 1982 (para. 4.09).
Staffing and Training
(a) Within 3 months of the completion of the study of the organiza-
tion, manpower, training, and maintenance requirements of SNE and
the sector, the conclusions and recommendations will be discussed
with the Association; implementation of the recommendations will
be carried out in accordance with an agreed timetable (para.
3.08).
Commercial Management
(a) Installation of accounting machines in Districts no later than
December 31, 1981 (para. 3.17);
(b) Preparation of a program for metering of all public consumption
and billing to the responsible entities, and implementation of the
program before June 30, 1982 (para. 3.17);
(c) Updating SNE's customer files and distribution maps, by December
31, 1982 (para. 3.17);
(d) Elimination of the special "household appliances" tariff by no later
than June 30, 1981 (para. 6.05); and
Financial Management
(a) Keep adequate records of sector indebtedness starting with FY81
(para. 6.10);
(b) Implementation of a cost accounting system by year-end 1982 (para.
3.18);
(c) Implementation of accounting consultants' recommendations (para.
3.20);
(d) Mechanization of general accounting before June 30, 1981 (para.
3.21);



-54 -                             ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
(e) Revaluation of net fixed assets as of December 31, 1980, by March
31, 1981 and thereafter annually, in accordance with methods
acceptable to IDA (para. 6.05);
(f) Submission to IDA by the end of 1981 of appropriate legislation to
be enacted no later than December 31, 1982, to permit SNE to make
provision for and write off uncollectable receivables (para. 6.06);
(g) Reduction of low voltage customers' receivables to less than three
months' billing by year-end 1982 (para. 6.06);
(h) Establishment of pro forma operating account showing new external
financing and related nominal interest beginning with FY80 (para.
6.01); and
Monitoring and Reporting
(a) Quarterly progress reports will be submitted on each of the critical
target dates for project implementation (per Annex 6), and on the
items listed in para. 1 of Annex 7 (para. 4.24);
(b) Quarterly progress reports will be submitted on each of the items in
the MIP (para. 4.24);
(c) Semî-annual progress reports will be submitted on SNE's rehabilitation
program, per para. 2 of Annex 7 (para. 4.24); and
(d) Annual financial reports and financial plans will be provided (per
paras. 2-3 of Annex 7) (para. 6.11).



ANNEX 5
Page l of 3
- 55 -
DEVELOPMENT OF PROJECT COSTS - LOCAL CURRENCY
(IN MILLION SYLIS)
1981     1982     1983     1984    TOTRL
R,  REHRA,'»EXTEN. OF CONAKRY I I NETWORK
1. 2z0 KV OVERHERP LINES
& UNDERGROUND GABLES                       2. 16    2. S3    2. 53    e. ee     7. 22
2. SUPPLY OF DISTRIB. TRAlNSFORMERS            8. e8    0. ee    0. e0    e se    e. 80
3. LV DIST. LINES & CONS. CONNEC.             2. 98    7. 43    4. 4e    e.       14. 82
SUBTOTAL                                  5. 14    9. 96    6. 93    0. ee    22. e4
B,  OPERRTING FfCILITIES
1. REPRIR SHOP, PROTECTION/METER
CRLIBRI'TION LRAORRTORY                    8. 57     e. 57    0. 39    0. 80    1. 52
2. HOUSING                                     1. 89    2. 83    0. 61     . 808    5. 32
3. TRRININ,-i rENTER                          1. 54    1. 89    e, 94     e. 00    4. 37
SUBTOTAL                                 3. 99     5. 28    1. 94    8. ee    1l. 21
C.  TRRIINING  SCHOLRRSHIIPS)                     e. 08    8. 00    8. 08    0. 80    0. 80
D,  TECHN ICRL RSSISTPACE
1. RCCOUNTING FIRt1                           e. 96    e. 95     e. 88    0. 80    1. 91
2. OTHER EXPRTRIATE T. A.                     2. 77    5. 41    5. 38    2. 77    16. 33
SUBTOTAL                                 3. 73     6. 36    5. 38    2. 77    18. 24
E.  CONSiJLTING SERVICES
1. PROPOSED PROJECT                           1, 28     . 85    0. 53    0. 00    2. 66
2. PREPRRRTION OF 2ND PROJECT                 0. 80    8. 68    e. 68    0. 34    i. 70
SUBTOTAL                                 1. 28    1. 53   -1. 21    0. 34    4. 36
F.  BASE COST (MID-1980 PRICES>                   14. 15   2:3. 14    15. 46    3. 11    55. 85
G.  CONTIN15ENCIES
1. PHYSICRL                                   1. 31    1. 91    1. 51     e. 23    4. 95
2. PRICE                                      2. 36    6. 25     5. e4    1. es    14. 72
T TOT9L                                    3. 66    S. 15    6. 55     1. 30    19. 66
TOTRL ESC:RLRTED LOCRL CURRENCY COSTS            17. S1    31. 29   22. 01    4. 42    75. 51
NOTE: FIOURES Mfl' NOT RDD DUE TO ROUNDING



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 3
-56-
DEVELOPMENT OF PROJECT COSTS - FOREIGN CURRENCY
(IN MILLION LIS$)
1981     1982     1983      1984    TOTRL
A.  REHRB,'EXTEN. OF CONMKRY Il NETWORK
i. 20 KF'V OVEPHERD LINES
& LINDER13OrLIND CRBLES                     0. 65     e. 75    0. 75     e. ee    2. 16
2. SLIPPLY OF DISTRIB. TR^SFORMERS              P 47     C. 62     e. 47    e. C0    1. 55
3. LV DIST. LINES & CONS. CONNEC.               e. 89    2. 23     1. 34    C. 00    4. 45
SLIBTOTAL                                 2. 01     3. 6s    2. 55     C. ee    a. 16
B.  OPERRTING FaCILITIES
i. REPAiIR SHOP, PROTECTWINMETER
CRLIBRRTION LRB0RRTORY                      0. 21     C. 25    C. i3     0. ee    C. 58
2. HOUSINM                                      C. 53    C. 76     e. 15    C. £C    1. 43
-. TRRINING CENTER                              e. 47    e. 55     e. 27    e. e         .29
SUBTOTRL                                  1. 2e     1. 55  e. 55  e.    ee3
C.. TRRINING (SCHOLARSHIPS>                         e. 36    C. 27     C. 24    C. le     0. 97
D.  TECHNMIC-:L RSSI5TRNCE
1. RCCOUNTING FIRM                              C. 25    C. 25     C. CC    C. CC    C. se
2. OTHER EXPRTRIRTE T. R.                       C. 73    1. 45     1. 45    C. 73     4. 35
SUBToTRL                                   C. 98    i. 70    1. 45     C. 73    4. e5
E.  CONSUILTING 5ER.'E_
1. PROPOSED PROJECT                             C. 46    c. 41     C. 25    C. Ce    1. 12
2. FREPARRTION OF 2ND PRJECT                    C. CC    C. 29     C. 29    C. 15     C. 73
SUBTOTAL                                   C. 46    C. 7C    C. 54     C. 15    1. 85
F.  BRSE COST (MID-198C PRICES)                     5. 01     7. 82    5. 33    C. 97    19. 13
G.  CCINT I GENCI ES
1. PHYSICRL                                     C. se    C. 75     C. 5S    C. os     1. 91
2. PRICE                                        1. 18    2. 54     2. 19    C. 41     6. 32
3. TOTRL                                        1. 68    3. 30     2. 76    C. 49     8. 23
TOTAL ESCRLRTED FOREIGN CUPPENCY COSTS              6. 68    11. 12    8. IC     1. 47    27. -'S
NOTE FIGURES MAY NOT RDD DUE TO ROUNDING.



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 3
- 57 -
DEVELOPMENT OF PROJECT COSTS - TOTAL
<IN MILLION US %)
1981     1982     1983     1984    TOTAL
A.  REHRB/EXTEN. nF CONRKRY II NETWORK
I. 20 KV OVERHERD LINES
& UNDERGROUND CABLES                       8. 77    e. 89    e. 89    e. ee     2. 54
2. SUPPLY OF DISTRIB.TRRNSFORMERS             0.47    a. 62    e. 47    e. ee    1. 55
3. LV DIS.. LINES & CONS. CONNEC.             1. 05    2.62      1. 57  e    c.    5.24
SUBTOTRL                                 2.28     4. 13    2. 92    e. ee     9. 33
B.  OPERATING FRCILITIES
1. REPRIR SHOP, PROTECTION/METER
CRLIBRRTION LRBORRTORY                     e. 23    0. 28    e. 15    8. ee     8. 66
2. HOUSING                                    0. 62    e. 9      0. 18    e. 8     1. 71
3. TRAINING CENTER                            8. 55    e. 64     e. 32    0 ee     1 52
SUBTOTAL                                 1. 41    1.83      0. 65    0 0      3. 89
C.  TRRINING (SCHOLARSHIPS)                       C. e6 8. 27    8. 24    a. 18        0. 97
D.  TECHNICAL ASSISTRNCE
1. RCCOUNTING FIRM                            e. 38    0. 3-    8. 8e    8. ee     0. se
2. OTHER EXPATRIRTE T.R.                      8. 87    1. 74     1. 74    0. 87    5. 22
SUBTOTRL                                 1. 17    2. 04    1. 74     8. 87    5. 82
c.  CONSULTINu3 SERVICES
1. PROPOSED PROJECT                           e. 53    8. 46    8. 28    0. 8e    1. 26
2. PREPARATION OF 2ND PROJECT                 8. 80    0. 33    e. 33    e. 16    8. 82
SUBTOTAL                                 e. 53    e.78     e. 61     e. 16    2. e8
F.  BRSE COST (MID-1980 PRICES)                   5. 75    9. 85    S. 15     1. 14   22. 09
G.  CONTINGENCIES
1. PHYSICAL                                   e. 57    8. 85    8. 6SS    . e9     2.17
2. PRICE                                      1. 38    2. 87     2.52    8. 47     7. 1I
3. TOTRL                                      1. 87    3.73      3.17    e. 56     9. 27
TOTAL ESCRLRTED COSTS                             7.63-   12. 78     9.26     1. .     i e    S3. E
NOTE: FIGURES MAY NOT RDD DUE TO ROUNDING.
11/12/88



GUINEA
SOCIETE NATIONALE D'ELECTRICITE (SNE)
FIRST POWER PROJECT
PROJECT CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
Calendar Years                  1980        1981       1982        1983          1 84     1985
Quarters                  1    3                 1           13 24   314 1 |2  3  4 1          .
Conakry II's Distribution Network
Rehabilitation
. Design and Preparation of Tender   XXXX (Complete)
Documents
Bidding Process                          XXXXX( omplete)
. Contracts Awards                            XDC 
. Manufacture and Delivery                          XXXXXXI'XLEXXXXXXXX EXXXXXXXX
. Construction                                                                       J*xxODXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX XXx
Sector Organization and Manpower                                                                                    t
Maintenance StudyAI                       XXXXX   Under way)                                                      v
Repair Shop and Laboratory
. Bidding Process and Award                       X
. Construction and Equipping                           XXXXXX QL=
Training Center
. Bidding Process and Award                    XXXE
. Construction and Equipping                           XXXXXEXXX
Housing
, Bidding Process and Award                    XXXK
. Construction and Furnishing                      EXXXXXXXXX.XXXXX
Expatriate Technical Assistance                             XXx YCXXXXXXXXXI XXXXXXXXXX ~xxxxXXXXXx DXXX X
Accounting Firm                                      tXXX     XXX       XXX X 
Scholarship_ s                                                                               XXXX
Preparation of Second Project            _                      KXXXXXXXXX X           {XXXXX
1/  Including design and preparation of bidding documents for the repair shop, the lab, the traln:ng
center and housing.                                                                                  Nov. 21, 1980



Annex 7
-59 -                          Page 1 of 2
GUINEA
SOCIETE NATIONALE D'ELECTRICITE (SNE)
FIRST POWER PROJECT
PROJECT MONITORING AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
Project and Program Reporting
1.        A quarterly progress report would be required within 60 days of
the end of each calendar quarter providing:
(i) detailed information and comments on project execution/
procurement; existing potential delays - and causes - compara-
tively to original construction schedule; actual and final
estimated project costs broken down between local and foreign
costs by credit category; disbursement schedule; and on any
events, affecting - or which could significantly affect - the
project execution with action recommended to safeguard the
project;
(ii) growth in number of consumers, demand (KV, KW and KWH);
generation; evolution of load factor per distribution trans-
former; losses per level of voltage;
(iii) number of power failures (at each level from consumers'
connection to generating plants) with duration and causes of
failure;
(iv) voltage drops from single distribution transformers levels
to generating plants.
2.        A semi-annual progress report would be required within 60 days of
the end of each calendar semester providing information on the execution of
SNE's 1980-1984 rehabilitation program and mainly on potential execution
delays (and their causes) and cost estimates; this report should also include
information on the Grande Chutes dam rehabilitation works.
Financial Reporting
3.        An annual financial report would be required within 6 months after
the end of each fiscal year which would comprise:
(i) SNE's income and balance sheet statements;
(ii) record of new debts incurred by the Government for the power
sector, as from January 1, 1981, including related debt
service and origin of financing;



- 60 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
(iii)  sectoral pro forma accounts including income statements,
balance sheets and fund flow statements;
(iv) a statement of actual total sales by consumer category; and
(v) a statement on receivables by consumer category.
4.        An annual financial plan for the subsequent years shall be re-
quired, to be furnished no later than September of each year, which would
contain explicit details on future sector capital expenditures, and related
financing sources.



GUINEA:  ELECTRICAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION FORECAST
Conakry-Kindia Network (GWh)               1978      1979       1980       1981      1982       1983       1984       1985
Low voltage existing and growth,
plus existing high voltage             101.4      101.4      108.5      123.3    139.5       151.5      164.6      178.9
New industrial projects - high voltage
Clinker factory                                                2.2        4.3       4.3        4.3        4.3        4.3
Central laboratory                                                        0.7       1.4        1.4        1.4        1.4
Elect. workshop                                                           0.8       1.7        1.7        1.7        1.7
Match   factory                                                                     1.2        1.2        1.2        1.2
Salt and soda factory                                                               5.0       10.1       10.1       10.1
Transmission center                                                                            3.6        7.2        7.2
Textile factory                                                                     _                    15.0       15.0
Total Conakry-Kindia /1                  101.4      101.4      110.7      129.1    153.1       173.8      205.5      219.8
Isolated Centers /_  - Total               20.2      21.4       23.5       27.3      32.1       35.7       38.8       44.5
TOTAL GUINEA /1                          121.6      122.8      134.2      156.4    185.2       209.5      244.3      264.3
Conakry-Kindia    Isolated Centers    Total Guinea
/1  Average annual growth over:  1978-1985                    11.7%                11.9%               11.7%
1979-1985                  13.8%               13.0%               13.6%
-.>



SOCIETE NATIONALE D'ELECTRICITE (SNE) - GUINEA
BALANCE OF ENERGY AND POWER FOR THE CONAKRY NETWORK
Actual                                     Forecast
1978     1979         1980          1981         1982         1983         - 1984         1985
I. Demand Forecast
1.Energy (Gwh)
Sales forecast (% annual growth) 101.4   101.4(9.2)  110.7(16.6) 129.1(18.6) 153.1(13.5) 173.8(18.2) 205.5(7.0)   219.8
Loasses  /                          25.4    25.4          24.9         25.8         30,6          30.4         36.0          38.5
Total to be produced                   126.8   126.8        135.6         154,9        183.7        204.2        241.5          258.3
2,Power
Peak demand (MW)                    27.0    27.0          28.9         33.0         39.1         42.5          50,3          53,1
Hours of utilization of
peak power                       4700    4700          4700         4700         4700         4800          4800          4800
I. Production Forecast (average
hydraulicity 2/>
1.Energy (Gwh)
Hydro: Donkea                        67.9   111.5        131.6        150.9        179.7         200.2        225.5         230.0
Grandes Chutes               54.8                                                                                     3
Thermal: Tombo                       4.1    15.3           4.0          4.0>                  -                16.0          28.3
Other                        _    -                - 
Total produced                         126.8   126.8        135.6         154.9        183.7        204.2        241.5         258.3
2.Power (MW)
Peak demand                                  27.0         28.9         33.0         39.1         42.5          50.3          53.8
Total existing guaranteed pover -
existing hydro plus thermal 3/          21.0         30.0         30.0         30.0         30.0         30.0           30.0
Total new generation capacity               -          15.0         15.0         15.0         15.0          25.0          25.0
Total guaranteed power                       21.0         45.0         45.0         45.0         45.0          55.0          55.0
Power surplus (deficit)                      (6.0)-'      16.1         12.0          5.9           2.5          4.7           1.2
1/   Lossea: 1979 same as 1978, 1980:   18 Z, 1981 and 1982: 17Z, 1983 teo 1985:  15X.
2/   An adverse hydraulicity would not affect the hydro production capacity by more than 10 Gwh and would got affect the
guaranteed pover sînce the river on which Grandes Chutes and Donkea are înstalled is regulated upatream by the Banieya                    ( 
pluriannual reservoir.
3/   Following the rehabilitation of Grandes Chutes and Tombo unîts.                                                                           o
4/   Peak demand not met.



- 63 -
Chart 8-1                                           ANNEX 8
ENERGY FORECAST                                      Page 3 of 3
Conakry/Kindia Network
30                                      _ ,____*  __  -_  __  r:.j .::*  t  .-.r
2 0 0      . .  :.     __           .  _     _  _   _                       __.      .        . .  rot a l   G e n e r a t o n_
-t: Annual        :_:.        _., .                 :/                 Nw      : 
æ ;- rowth                                     _                    2Z-. ,.........:_.  Industries.
150
-    4- t-   ----         /--/                                 -0--  Exlsting
4 . _0+*  -   - *- t s ---/;   t/    -.=  t     =t+-4  Area (low.I
: . X. --. . ;. +  + ..4 _  /- : *--W ---t-é i-4-& hîgh 
10                                             ___-_
1979       1980         1981          1982        1983          1984        1985
Chart 8-2
SYSTEM DEMAND FORFCAST 
Conakry/Kindia Networlc
50
|  ;;  i    : Ç   |  Guaranteed Power                     |                       - 
t40
0  tt  - . |:    t     /        '    0 |    m     i  10% - I ~~~Grctwth
30
25      1979         1980         1981         1982         1983         1984          1985



GUINEA
Flrst Power Prolect
SNmizOrganization Chart
General Manager
and
Deputy General Manager
Financa                  Commercial                        Tachnical
Direction                 Direction                         Direction
Administrative       Srudi-s        Ac|ounting                                    Conakry System            Secondary Centars |
Operation Division        Supervision Division 
Division          Division        Division
Management                       Central Cash            TMeter Reading                  ranstion                         Faranah
Social and |                     Purchasing                 Blling
W4elfarerub-rnss,
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n  Defre.istributo  .........
TrainAng   1         4 C~eneral Store|           Customers' Clains                 e   ors           
Pning                                                                                                                  ........
--[ HV- L-a-b-o r-a t-ort'y .0 ........
u  Building/Veicles|       
| Maintenance    j        '-             X



SNE INCOME STATENMTS
(Sylis million)
1976       1977        1978        1979        1990        1991        1982         1983             1994        1995
S-)LES OF ENEROY
ENERGY SOLD  GOrH)                               92.3       105.0       121.6       122.8       134.2       156.4       185.2        209.5            244.o        264.3
hvER. IFiut NITHOUT TAR. INCR.                     2.1        2.1         2.1         2.L         2.1         2.1         2.1          2.1              2.             1
SALES OF ENER. WITHOUT TAR. INCR.                194.9      223.2       256.6       259.t       283.2       330.0       390.8        442.0            515.5        557.7
CUMUL. TARIFF INCR. PACTOR                       100.0      100.0       100.0       100.2       100.0       140.0       156.1       179.5            206.4        237.4
TILES OF ENER. AFTER TAR. INCR.                  194.8      223.2       256.6       259.1       283.2       462.0       610.0        793.5           1063.9       1323.e
REVENUE
TALES 7F EFFEROY                                194.8       223.2       256.6       259.1       293.2       462.0       610.0        793.5            1063.9      1323.'
CTFR-F  ALES ANI' SERVICES CHARGED                5.3        6.2         4.4      72S   I      23           11.9        15.2         198.4             22.0         2" 9 3
rlTStCLT NECIJS INCOMES                         t. 0,6  -    0   -.-r -  0.23       -O4 --       0.4         0.6-        0.8          1.0               1.2          !.3
TOTAL rEVENRUE                                  200.6       22r 8       261.3       267.3       293.0       474.5       626.0        812.9            1099.1       13C'.
EXPENDITURfES
FUEL AnI.' OTHER CONS,                            38.1       37.9        71.0       103.9   .   75.6        109.8        157.9       202.5              334.3        516.
ITHOT  CLL LXPENSES                               40.5       41.9        47.7        54.6        75.6      -109.3        124.9       140.4              156.7       174.1
>XCT                                              0.9         1.1         2.4         2.5         2.9         3.2          3.5         3.9                4.3          4-'
CYTE'N~ L CERVUICS AN» SUPPLIES                   31.0       45.1:       27.         4.          695        133           5,7         980220.2                       249.
-'ANFF8Si-T                                        7.1       10.7         8.5         9.7        13.4        19.4         22.2        25.0               27.9.
ml:SCSUT_;NCCUS                                    3.5        3,9         4.4         4.4        -5.0          5.6         6.3         6.9                7.6          i. 4
S;W>N ltwTCESTS                                                                       0.1         0.1          0.1         0.1         0.1                0.1           O.t
SUP TrOAL                                        121.0      140.6       161.5       222.1       241.1        370.6       471.5       566.7              751.0        994.7
r_ÇPRL:ATION                                      29.5       31.5        31.7        31.9        62.2         82.2       121.9       -167.1             195.7        221.0
.'CRATiCNAL. EEXFrNSE6 BEF. INT.                150.5       172.1       193.2       254.0       303.3       452.8        593.3       733.8                467       120.
O'ERÀFr1ONIFL INOllE BEP. INT.                    50.1       57.7        60.1        13.3       -10.3         21.7        32.6         79.1              141.4       145.
INTEREST                                                                                          2.3         13.9        32.4        50.4                69.0         53.C
.CT SAF,LLFIS (DEFICT) AFTEe INTEREST-            50.1       57.7        69.1        13.3       -12.5          7.9         0.3         29.6               72.4         62.0;q
lUINOE TA>.                                       16,5       22,3        25.9         4.4                      2,6         0,1          9.5               24.1    ~~
YET SLF'LUS AtTER TAXES                           33.6       35.4        42.3          8.9       -12.5         5.2         0.2         19.1                48.3        41.7
T'CrATlC R IATIO                                  75.0        74.9        73.9        95.0       103.5        95.4        94.8         90.3                87.0        89.2
-LFI SLF.I TTC CSCRASE                                                                                        2.1          1.5         1.7                 1.9          1.9
* tL ,c u   ,IL IU ON UNhEV PIXED ASSETS                       42. 1.7                 I 2                                                                    S.2
IE 0 CFL IlURN ON RLVAL FIXED ASSETS                                                           -0.9          0,9         1.2          2.2                 3.3         3.2
November 25, 1980



SNE CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
(Sylis million)
1976        1977        1978        1979         1980        1981        19H2         1983        1984        1985
INTERNAL SOURCES ANDI REOUIREMENTS
INCOME BEF. DEPR. AND INT. NEr OF TAXES              63.0        66.9        74.0         40.8        51.9       101.3       154.4        236.6       313.0       346.3
VAR. wORKING CAPITAL                                110.2       -27.7        49.8          7.4      -106.5        30.3         25.3        31.6        41.8        57.8
[DEBT SERVICE IDA                                                                                                 19.9         51.6        62.2        63.7        35.9
DEPT SEFVICE COFINANCIERS                                                                              0.4        10.1         23.0        26.5        26.4        26.4
DEBT SERVICE OTHER NEW LOANS                                                                           1.8        17.7         29.4        47.7        82.8       120.3        a'
DEBT SERVICE EXISTING BAL.
TOTAL [EBT SERVICE                                                                                     2.3        47.7        103.9       136.4       172.9       182.5
NET AVAILABLE FROM OFERATIONS                       -47.2        94.6        24.1         33.4       156.2        23.3         25.3        68.5        98.3       106.0
CONSTRUC. REQUIR. TOTAL PROJECT                                                                      100.7       307.8        364.8       245.1       114.0
CONSTRUC. REQUIR. OTHER                              36.8        76.6          9.5       187.4       378.8       164.3        146.3       137.8       263.1       266.8
TOTAL COJNSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS                     36.8        76.6          9.5       187.4       479.5       472.1       511.1        362.9       377.1       266.8
IDA CREDIT                                                                                                        77.9       131.1        182.4       129.2
COFINANCIERS LOANS                                                                                    89.3       207.1       226.1         70.3
OTHERS                                                                                               137.9       145.8        120.2       111.1       214.6       217.8
BALANCE TO FINANCE                                   84.0       -18.0       -14.6        154.0        96.1        18.0          8.4       -49.4       -65.0       -57.0
NET GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTION                          28.8       -17.7       -16.6        156.3        96.6         16.5         8.4       -48.4       -65.0       -56.0
SUPPLEMENTARY CASH TO SNE                           -55.2         0.3        -2.0          2.3         0.5         0.5                      1.0                     1.0
November 25, 1980



SNE BALANCE SHEETS
(Sylis million)
1976       1977        1978        1979        1980        1981        1982        1983              1984        1985
________    --------    -- ------  --  - - -   -  - --_-       - - -   - -  - -     -  ----           -- _ _ _ _-   --- -- ---
ASSETS
GROSS FIXED ASSETS IN OPERATION          987.4      1053.6      1059.3      1074.0      2236.5      3040.2      3681.4      4416.0           5059.9      5666.9
CUMULATED DEFRECIATION                   270.4       301.9       333.6       365.5       601.4       737.7       918.6      1150.0           1426,2      1747.7
NET FIXED ASSETS IN OPERATION            717.0       751.7       725,7       708.5      1635.1      2302.5      2762.7      3266.0           3633,6      3919.2
WORK IN PROGRESS                            7.0        17.5       21.3       194.0       347.1       216.8       330.0       235.9            278.3       292.3
INVENTORIES                                 7.1       17.5        11.2        15.6        16.5        25.7        35.4        44.5             66.7        96.2
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE                      123.5        79.0       135,2       138.2       109.9       118.6       156.5       203.2            272.0       338.0
CASH AND BANK                               5.4         5.7        3.7         6.0         6.5         7.0         7.0         8.0              8.0         9.0
TOTAL ASSETS                             860.1       871.4       897.1      1062.2      2115.1      2670.7      3291.7      3757.6           4258.6      4654.7
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
GOVERNMENT EQUITY CONTRIBUTION           853.7       871.4       897.1      1062.3      1146.4      1170.1      1178.7      1149.4           1132.7      1118.4
REVALUATION RESERVE                                                                      662.5       809.6       993.8      1187.2           1415.8      1670.2
CONTRIBUTION TO INVEST.                                                                  133.0       304.2       464.0       534.3            5Z4.3       534.3
TOTAL EOUITY                              853.7       371.4      897.1      1062.3      1941.9      2283.9      2636.6      2870.9           3082.8      3322.9
LONG TERM DEPT IDA                                                                                    60.8       150.1       290.7            387.6       387.6
LONG TERM DEBr COFINANCIFRS                                                               43.7       170.7       280.0       270.9            261.2       250.8
LONG TERM DEPT OTHER NEW iOANS                                                            50.5        88.5       135.9       211.9            364.6       493.2
LONG TERM DEPT EXISTING PAL.
TOTAL LONG TERM DEBT                                                                      9402       320,0       566.0       773.5           1013.4      1131.6
ACCOUNTS PAYAGL-E                           6.4                                           79.1        66.8        89.1       113.2            162.5       200.2
TOTAL EOUITY AND LIAPILITIES             860.1       871,4       897.1      1062.3      2115.1      2670.7      3291.7      3757.7           4258.7      4654.7
November 25, 1980



- 68 -                            ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 2
GUINEA
First Power Project
Assumptions for Financial Projections
A.         Income Statements (Annex 10).
Quantities sold are as detailed in Annex 10. Average price per
kWh in 1980 is 2.11 Sylis.  Tariff increases assumed are:
25% on January 1, 1981
25% on January 1, 1982
15% on January 1, 1983
15% on January 1, 1984
15% on January 1, 1985.
Other income, which mostly includes charges for new connections,
is projected as a function of the growth of sales and of the inflation index.
Personnel expenses include cost of technical assistance. Expenses
related to the Guinean staff are assumed to grow at an average of 6.5% p.a.,
plus the factor for inflation. This 6.5% increase includes 3.5% per year for
staff increases, and 3% for other factors. Diesel oil purchases are computed
on thermal generation needs at 12 Sylis/liter in 1980, plus 2% per year
increase in real prices over inflation. External services and other supplies
gradually reach 4.5% of the company's revalued gross fixed assets.  Transport
expenses increase in direct relation to personnel expenses. Depreciation for
FYs 80-85 has been calculated on revalued assets, using a straight line rule
and average rates of 3% for FY81, 3.5% for FY82, and 4% thereafter.  Income
tax is one-third of SNE's net surplus after interest.
Inflation factors assumed are:
Foreign and Local
1980/1979                      10.5%
1981/1980                       9.0%
1982/1981                       8.0%
1983/1982                       7.0%
thereafter                      7.0%
B.        Fund Flow Statement and Balance Sheet (Annexes 11 and 12).
SNE's income before depreciation and interest, and net of taxes,
is shown as an internal source of funds. Accounts payable are calculated at
15% of cash operating expenses plus capital expenditures other than those
related to the project itself and to the KfW and CCCE financings.



- 69 -                            ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 2
Accounts receivable are progressively limited to three months'
revenues by 1982.
Stocks are computed in proportion to fuel consumption and to
other supplies.
New financings related to the project are as follows:
IDA:        US$27.5 million (Sylis 520 million) with 0.75%
service charge for 50 years including 10 years'
grace. Proforma on-lending terms for everything
but technical assistance are: interest 9.25%,
duration 20 years, grace period 5 years. Technical
assistance will be repaid to the Government annually
as expenses are incurred.
CCCE:       US$15.4 million (Sylis 292 million) of which:
(i) US$ 3.1 million guaranteed suppliers' credit over
6 years at 7.25% interest; and
(ii) US$ 12.3 million on current CCCE terms: 6% interest
for 20 years, with 7 years' grace.
KFW:        US$15.8 million (Sylis 300 million), granted.
Other identified financings are a KfW grant for additional generating
units (Sylis 135 million), a CCCE loan for repairs on the Grandes Chutes dam
(Sylis 101 million), and commercial credits for ongoing rural electrification
works (Sylis 193 million). Commercial credits are at 7.25% interest for
eight years.
Capital expenditures outside the program are based on SNE's estimates.
The Government Contribution is taken as equity contribution and finances all
funds requirements which are not covered by the sector's cash generation (see
above) or foreign sources. Cash refers to the petty cash fund available to SNE.
Fixed assets are revalued on the basis of available information on
historical value and on working conditions of plants, using the price index
of manufactured exports from developed countries (see project File). Transfers
to f ixed assets are assumed to be made the year of their commissioning.
Work in progress is related to all works for SNE starting with those under-
taken in FY 79.



- 70 -                            ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 2
GUINEA
SOCIETE NATIONALE DELECTRICITE (SNE)
FIRST POWER PROJECT
Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.          Etude de Renforcement de Renovation et dExtension du Systeme
de Production, Transport et Distribution d Electricite de la Ville de Conakry.
Rapport Interimaire; avril 1978 (2 volumes)
Addendum au Rapport Interimaire; juillet 178
Projet de Rapport Final; aout 1978
Addendum au Projet de Rappot Final; septembre 1978
Rapport Final; janvier 1979 '2 volumes)
* Addendum au Rapport Final; juillet 1979
2.          Etude Technique et Economique du Barrage de Grandes Chutes
Proposition du Groupement DAFECO/C.B.
Contrat Souscrit avec DAFECO/C.B.; octobre 1978
Rapport de Synthese et Etude; juillet 1979
Etude Technique et Economique de la Renovation du Barrage;
Rapport Final; aout 1979
3.          Rapport Price Waterhouse sur les Comptes Financiers de la SNE
pour les annees 1976 et 1977.
4.          Operation de Maintenance aupres d'une Societe dEnergie, CCCE
(Termes de Reference).
5.          Terms of Reference for Preparatory Studies on Sector Organization
and on SNEs Staff Training, Strengthening of Maintenance Capability.
6.          Etude de Faisabilite du Barrage de Fomi sur le Niandan;
novembre 1979.
7.          Development of SNE's 1980-84 Rehabilitation Program-s Total
Costs and Allocation of Total Costs by Co-financiers.
8.          Copies of SNEs legal documents.
9.          Preliminary Study on the Soukou-Doukoura hydro plant; EDF;
May 1979.
10.         Feasibility Report on the Souapiti hydroelectric development
on the Konkoure River; EDF, September 1979.
il.         Least Cost Alternative.



- 71 -                           AtNlNEX 14
Page 2 of '
12.         Marginal Cost of Power in the Conakry Interconnected System.
13.         Internal Economic Rate of Return on Investment
14.         Feasibility Study Report on the Konkoure River; SICAI.
15.         Project Monitoring guidelines



- 72-                             ANNEX 15
Page 1 of 5
ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF SNES 1980-84 RERABILITATION AND EXPANSION PROGRAM
1.        The cost and benefits of each component of the 1980-1984 Rehabili-
tation and Expansion Program are interdependent; hence, it is necessary to
consider the IDA financed component jointly with those financed by KfW and
CCCE. The internal economic rate of return (IERR) has therefore been deter-
mined on the incremental costs and benefits of the Program.
2.        Incremental costs and benefits have been computed as the diffe-
rence between those with and without the Program. Incremental costs include
the investment costs as shown in Annex Table 1, while incremental operating
costs are based on estimates of the variable costs of producing and distri-
buting incremental sales of electricity.
3.        It is likely that without the Program the quantity of electricity
supplied from existing facilities would decline as failures of the generating,
transmission, and distribution facilities become more frequent and outages
longer. It is assumed that outages due to increasing equipment failure and
longer times between repair would increase to the point that by end 1985 no
electricity could be distributed. The trend towards total failure is now
evidenced by continual breakdowns in generating plant, transmission lines,
and transformer sub-stations which have blacked out the Conakry area for
increasing periods of time.
4.        With the Program, it is expected that total electricity sales will
increase according to the demand forecast given in Annex 8.
Incremental Cash Flows
5.        The capital expenditures shown in Annex Table 1, for rehabilita-
tion and expansion to be financed by KfW, CCCE, and IDA, would permit the
restoration of service to acceptable standards and would enable load to grow
to the level shown for 1985, and to be maintained at that level for the
duration of their physical lives (approximately 15 years for diesel plant
and rehabilitation works). The new distribution facilities have been
designed for load growth beyond 1985 and it is assumed that 50% of capacity
would remain available for further load growth. A residual value of 50% of
the initial investment cost for new distribution facilities has thus been
credited in 1985. Since the physical life of distribution facilities is
approximately 30 years, a residual value of 50% of initial investment in the
distribution facilities associated with incremental sales has been credited
at the end of the 15-year economic study period, i.e. in 1994.
6.        Annual operating and maintenance expenditures have been estimated
as follows:
(i) hydro generating facilities - 2.0% of total investment at
$100/kW of installed capacity, 60% in foreign exchange,
(ii) diesel plant - 5% of total investment at $600/kw of installed
capacity, 60% in foreign exchange;



- 73                           ANNEX 15
Page 2 of 5
(iii)  distribution and transmission facilities. 7% of investment
cost of $500/kW of peak demand, 60% in foreign exchange,
and
(iv)  fuel costs at 250 gms/kWh of diesel generating based on an
international 1980 base cost of $45/bbl for diesel fuel with
2% annual increase in real terms, 100% in foreign exchange.
Sunk Costs
7.        The investment costs of existing generation, transmission, and
distribution facilities are excluded from the IERR analysis since they are
sunk costs. The 15 MW of new diesel capacity, now under construction at
Tombo with KfW financing, and the repair of the Grandes Chutes dam with CCCE
financing, have already been committed and are similarly treated as sunk
costs.
Valuation of Benefits
8.        Incremental benefits have been taken as the revenue received by
SNE for the sales of incremental electricity valued at existing and proposed
average tariff levels.  The use of tariffs to value benefits reflects the
willingness of consumers to pay but does not reflect consumer surplus nor
the secondary economic benefits arising from improved productivity in
industry attributable to a reliable electricity supply. The availability of
a reliable supply of electricity would also lead to the avoidance of costs
of standby diesel generators which are being purchased in increasing numbers
by industries and higher income residential consumers. The economic value
of total benefits is thus understated; hence, the estimated IERR is a
conservative estimate of the true IERR.
Border Pricing
9.        The cash flows shown in Annex Table 1 are given in US dollars in
1980 constant domestic prices, i.e. the local currency component has been
converted to US dollars at the official exchange rate, currently 19 sylis/
dollar. The IERR has been computed with and without shadow prices to
compare the effect of the overvaluation of the syli. The estimated standard
conversion factor for local cost and benefit components is 0.50 corresponding
to a shadow exchange rate of 38 sylis/dollar. Based on the estimated propor-
tion of foreign and local currency components for each cost and benefit
item, the factors used to convert from domestic to border (efficiency)
prices at a shadow exchange rate of 38 sylis/dollar are as follows:
Local Currency           Conversion Factor
Component %         Domestic to Border Prices
(i) investment                       15                      0.93
(ii) operating and maintenance        40                      0.80
(iii) sales revenue                   100                      0.50



Table 1.  INTERNAL ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN ANALYSIS:   1980-84 CONAKRY REHABILITATION AND EXTENSION PROGRAM
(Million US Dollars, 1980 Prices, Official Exchange Rate)
---------------------------------------------------------------------__------_____-----------------------------
PEFIOD               1       2      3       4       5      6       7      8       9      10     11      12      13     14      15
YFRR              1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   198.   1998   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
CfONt5ltlMPTI ON GWH
WJTTH PRGRRM  ;
TOTAL SALES    110. 70 129. 10 153. 10 173. 80 205. 50 21.9. 80 219. e0 219. 80 219. 80 219. 80 219 80 219. E:8 219 CA 219 80 219. 80
l I1 THilfl'ITPPOriRRM
70TRL SALES    110. 70  8. 60  66.50  44.40  22.10   0.00   0.00   0. 00   0.00   0. 0c   0.8    Li.    8 a ci   a 0r   0e. ea
INiCP SALES       0. 80  40. 50  86. 60 129. 40 i83. 40 219. 80 219. 80 219. 80 219. 80 219. DO ?19. 80 219. 80 219     219 80 219. 80
TECH LOSS % Y. 18   e. 17   0.17   0.15   0. 15   c.i5   0. 15   0.15   0. 15    . 15   0. 15   e 15   0 15   0.15   c. 15
PPCOLIC:TIOON GWH
HYLDRO PROD'N   131. 60 150. 90 179. 78 200. 20 225. 50 238. e0 230. e0 230. 88 230. 80 238. 80 230. 80 238. 00 230. 80 230. 82. e0
DIESEL FROD'N    4. e0   4. 88   4. e0   4. 80  16. e0  28. 30  28. 30  28. 30  28. 30  28. 30  28. 30  28. 20  2e 302 28 30  20. :
TOTAL. PRODN   135. 60 154.90 183.70 204. 20 241. 50 258. 30 258. 30 258.30 258. 30 25$. 1: 258. 38 258. 30 258. '- 258 30 258. 30
FUEL COST
CENTS.*KINH        9. 5   9. 79  10. e8  18. 38  10. 69  11. 81  11. 34  11. 68  12. 83  12. 40  12. 77  13. 15  13. 54  13. 95  14. 37
PPOGRRII CASH FLOWS
IPWFSTNENT Co srs
R  -:F14J FINAINCING
TOTAL (:C0ST     1. 87   5. 42   8. 20   3 07   0. e0
B  SCCCE FI rNNC ING
TOTAL COST       3. j3   3. 71   e.72   0. ee   e. ee
C IDRl FINANCINO
TOTAL COST      0. 80   8. 45   4. 35   4. 35   4. 35
TOiTIL IIJVEST    5. as  17 58  13. 27   7. 42   4. 35
F6ES. IDIRL VALUE                                      -6. 80                                                               -3. 40
CIFF'F'RTIOIN &A MRINTENANCE C:OST
DIE5FL  PLANT     0   sa l   20   1.28   12    1. 50   1.50   150   150   1.0    - 5ei  1-   5 0 I  S 1 5a   I 50   J. 50 
HY'PO PLANT          g90   e90   e.90   0. 90   e 9    e. e90   0.90   e90   0. 9a   e. s90   0.90   8 90   0 90   0 9H  0e -é 9
LDISTRIB & TRNS   1. 80   1.20   1. 40   1.58   1. se   1. 9L   1. 9Ct  1.90   1. 90   1. 90   19 0     9e   1.90   1 9H   190  - c ci,
FlIEL. CO         8 38   0. 39   8.40   0.42   1.71   3.12   3.21   3.31   3.41   3. 51   3.61   3.72   3.83   3.95   4.07
TOTAL O&M         2. 88   3. 69   3, 90   4.02   5.91   7.42   7. 51   7.61   7.71   7.81.   7. 91   8.e 82   8. 13   8 25   8 37       °
=======_=    =_=  _===  ___=                             62    ===   =  _== 7_ 61  7= 71            =  =    ===== =====                Ln
TOTAL COST        7.93  2i127  17.17  1l. 44  18.26   e. 62   7.S1   7.61   7. 71   z. 81   7. 91   8.02   8.13   .9.25   4.97@



Table 1. (Continued)
--------------------------------------------------------------__-------------__--------------------------------
PEPIOD                1       2       3       4      5       6       7       8       9      10      il      12      13      14      15
YEFiR              1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   19S6   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994
F:ENEFITS
VYF'Y INFL 'N '           9.00  e8. Le   7. 88   7. 00   7. 00
AUiti INFLUN FAC   1.00   1.09   1.l8   1. 26   1. 35   1. 44   1. 44   1.44   1. 44   1. 44  1 44   1.44   1.44   1. 44   1. 44
Cl-t1 TAFRIFF INC   1. O0   1.25   1.56   1. 80   2. 07   2. 38   2 38   2.38   2. 38   2. 38   2. 38   2. 38   2, 38   2. 38   2. 38
PEAL TRRIF INC   1.08   1.15   1. 33   1. 43   1.54   1. 65   1.65   1. 65   1. 65   1.65   1.65   1.6    i.SS 1.65   1.65   1.65
CEP4TS/KtWJH      I1.10  12. 73  14. 71  15. 86  17. 15  18. 32  18. 32  18. 32  18. 32  18. 32  18. 32  18. 32   1S.2:.2   1. 32    8.-<2
REVENUE            0 80   5. 16  12. 74  20. 53  31. 27  40. 26  48. 26  40. 26  40. 26  40.26  40. 2 4. 40. 26  40. 2S 40 26  40.26
--~~~~~~~~=== ====                          =- === === ====s====== = = = = = = = = = = _ = = = = = = = = = = =
NJEr CRSH FLOW   -7. 93 -16. 12  -4 43   9. 09  21. 01  39. 65  32. 75  32. 66  32. 56  32. 46  32. 35  32. 24  32. 13  32. 02  35. 30
tJET PRESENT VRLUE IN DOMESTIC PRICES
DISCOULNT RATE%   0. 80   5. 00  10. 0  15. 08  20. 88  25. 00  30. 08  35. 00  40. 80  45. 00  50. 00  55. 00  60. 8O1  65. 08  70. 88
JF'V            335 73 208. 88 123. 94  78. 12  49. 78  31. 69  19. 80  il. 81   6. 34   2. 53  -0. 14  -2. 84  -3. 39  -4. 34  -5. 02
========================================e=================::====================--~
NET PRESEtJT VALLIE IN BORDER PRICES
FX     On      INV    REV
CC'N'...'EPSION FAC   a 50   0. 80   0. 93   e. 5a
SENS ITIVITY FACTOR        1. 00   1. 08   1. 00
f:AYH FI.0115
TnTRL O&M          2. 3    2.95   3.12   3. 21   4.73   5.93   6. 01   6.89   6 16   6.25   6. 33   6 42   6.51   6.60   6 69
TOTIL ItNVEST      4. 67  16 26  12. 27   6. 86   4. 02   8. ci   8.88   0. ee   8  8   0. 0 e.ee    0.Ce   e.0 8    8. CIO      c ô 0 88
TOTAL CO0ST        6 98  19. 21  15. 40  18. C8   8. 75   5. 93   6. e1l   6. 9   6. 16   6. 25   S. 33   6. 42   6. 51   6 60t   S 69
TOTAL BENJEFIT    0. 80   2. 58   6. 37  10. 26  15. 63  20 13  20. 13  20. 13  20. 13  20. 13  20. 13  20. 13  20. 13  20. 13  20 13
NET CASHFLOW      -6 98 -16. 64  -9. 03   0. 19   6. 88  14. 20  14. 12  14. 05  13. 97  13. 89  13. 80  13. 72  13. 63  13 53  13. 44
DISCOJINT RATE%   8. 88   5. 80   1. 01  15. e0  2. 80  25.00  38. 00  35. 00  40.00  45. ee  50. 80  55. 00  60.Q0 8   5. ee  70 e              >
PRESENT VRLUIES                                                                                                                               QQi
PV OspM           79.30  51.82  35.79  25.96  19. 64  15.40  12.45  10.32   8.74   7.54   6.A0   5 86   5.25   4 75   4. 34                   ( 
PV INAVESTMlENT   44. 09  38. 60  34. 09  3. 35  27.22  24. 56  22. 29  20. 34  18. S4  17. 16  15. e6  14 72  13. 70  12 79  11. 9e8         4
PV TOTAL COST  123. 40  90. 42  69. 89  56. 31  46. 85  39. 96  34. 74  30. 66  27. 39  24. 70  22.47  2e. 57  18. 95  17 54  16. 31          0 U
PV TOTAL REVEN 236. 17 150. 34 108.44  70. 81  50. 63  37. 79  28.99  22. 77  18. 25  14. 89  12. 33  10. 35   8. 79   7 54   6. 53-
______________ -----  -----  -----  -----  ----- _-_-__---  -----  -----  -----  -----  -----  -----  -----  -----  ----
NPV             112. 77  59. 92  30. 56  13. 70   3. 77  -2. 17  -5. 75  -7. 89- -9. 14  -9. 82 -18. 14 -18. 22 -10. 16 -10. ee  -9. 78
=====================_S===========                                        =5=  ===== -  -=== ==========_==========



- 76 -                            ANNEX 15
Page 5 of 5
TRBLE 2
1980-84 CONRKRY REHRBILITRTION RND EXTENSION PROGRRM
----------------------------------------------------
(MILLION US$, 1980 PRICES, OFFICIRL EXCHRNGE RRTE)
PERIOD/        1      2      3      4      5
YERR  1980   1981   1982   1983   1984  TOTRL
R.KFW FINRNCING
_______________
GENERRTION
TOMBO OVERHRUL        1.20   1.30                        2.50
DISPATCHING                         1.40                 1.40
1MW DIESELS                        3.07   3.07          6.14
TRANSMISSION
OVERHRUL 110KV               ï.69   1.70                 3.39
NEW llQ KV                   0.59   0. 60                1. 19
DISTRIBUTION
PUBLIC LIGHTING                     1. 37                1. 37
MATERIRLS                    1.80                        1.80
TOOLS/EQUIPMENT        e. 63                               0. 63
CONSULTING              0. 04   0. 04   0. 06              0. 14
SUBTOTAL             1. 87  5. 42  S. 20  3. 07        18. 56
B.CCCE FINRNCING
______________
O/HRUL GR.CHUTE        3. 00   3.00                        6.00
O/HAUL 60KV                    0. 53   0. 54               1. 07
CONSULTING              0. 18  0. 18  0. 18                0. 54
SUBTOTRL             3. 18   3. 71  0. 72               7. 61
C.IDA FINRNCING
CONRKRY II DISTRICT            2.44   2.44  2.44   2.44   9.76
METER REPAIR                  0. 70                         . 70
TRRINING CENTER                1.S6                        1.60
TECH ASSISTRNCE                1. 39   1. 39   1. 39   1. 39   5. 56
-CONSULTING                    0. 26   0. 26   0. 26   0. 26  1. 04
T/R HOUSING                    1. 80                       1. 80
SCHOLARSHIPS                   0. 26  0. 26  0. 26  e. 26   1. 94
SUBTOTAL                    8. 45   4.35  4. 35   4. 35  21. 50
TOTAL                   5. 05  17. 58  13. 27   7. 42  4. 35 47. 67



_   __   _   _   ___ _ _   _  _    ____  _ __-           _____________________________________                                                   IBRD-1497.1R
T  Mt-JRITEtQ .                                                                                                                         o ,>   ;5  ,0                                         SEPTEMBER 1980
S E    -  A                                                                                                             A  L 
:~~~~~~~PE .;)                                                                                                                                                    ....R r tté5f<      
9.                                                                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~12'
j f-)t -8_ v_-4g x y                                                 (9»Kot, 0        /              e  
*1~~~~~~~~1
G  L Ios/  ) 1 N  E A  
c-'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
1   00 }  00   )  0  voF    l    `j,X<-'-8:'://    s   I  E    R    R    A                             t; >K)»                   ;// >                                                  7 0
: H:FiRST PO@NER: PROJECT/                                                            L E O  N  E
PRFA4FR PROJU D'7- EG,!C/TF    --. Y                                                                                                       Kstogu3                                v
1980/84  Refiabilitation Pr   Iam/
Prograimm  de Re ovaiton I80/M84
Booe EXiSTMNG CENTER. WITHI POWER SLPPLY/             ---'IsES ,/V/hAIS
A/TEESLEf/STA A/AVEC FEFC7h?TF                     -. MAIN ROADS / ROUTSi
.  ,XISTING D DIESL P COWER PLANTS                      - RA AVVvAYS / CI//O MlN LF /FA/e                                                       Mcento T
CFA/TVRA/AS DiFAl'/ DXISTANTrS                    rs  REGIONA[ CAPIESLS /  C,'/FF   I/iDE /FGION/I
EXISTING HYDR)OE[FCTRIC POWFR PLANTS/ /9  NATIONAL CAPITAL /  API/IA4F  'PAr4
CENTRAZE  /IYiROAF/7OIR/OLJE t)/s,TAN1VS    NTERNAII O NAL HOUNDARIES                          D'E7 ATAiR(5 DE/AI
HYDROE EC fR`C TOW(E- PLANT lJNDER STUDY(NoîpX  of pDm)                                                                                       .L»
(-[Ipll(RAi- -ORÙO C_ TR/OUE A z ETU/DENoo      ,o,/oo p,op,oo.-oh
P/(`FO')F  HYDP) 'STATiONS!/
HIaOA  H      AC7 . tFFTE/C/LES ANV/SA o/eS S1l-
RIVERS lOR HYDRO PO!FN IAL SURVFY/
A'5/CIISA FTD.I N/ 1                                                                                                               R9 A2                                   LJ       1' 'S v
3.iSKV LNE/îOGNEA/-S/V                    n_________u_j                                                            L   I  B   E   R I           A          zeAe                    ,  J O
.0KV LINE/t/cI/F  /V                                                                                                                              ) |
-   60K`/ KlNE! I/if I/O KV
.. I0VL[rE///-iGNF //O C'V                                                                                 /^   S          t
Ion,,,:tlE?S  r/]G»U) 1; thés a,sp dotto Pl,O     ,or : ,1 atre ofthe W,r,dBa,,kéasls dféd t1                   /                                                     I    S
sst~~~~~~~~~140as n uamllU7tCSS*1 rt   1/,trsOy#.............................JYctdsL l r......... ... i



IBRD 14975
G U 1 N E E~~~~~~~~~~~~~i                                                                                                                                                       /E 8
PREMER POJET ROJECTR/CE
REl-IABILITATON  CF CONAKRYDISTRIBUTION  SYSTEM
RENO VAl/ON DU RESEAU DE DISIR/BLIT/ON DE CQNAKRY                                                               F~~~~~~~~erme Kakimbon
Hotel    !esttr
POST,F                                  S~~~~~~~tade du28
*   /L,met,ere -         ~~Pilytechreque                  m o    cole Il                                                                       is,n
Domina   (I tereure)  Libert4~ ~ ~~~~~~id~tr,ll
-                  ~~~~~~Carrefour Gbessia
Banfi Root   P  -ç----------- ~~  -- --i  Poste Aviation               Poste Aoictiae Militaire
tA   VBFA0D  IN/S                                               <wPor t IliTfzt
t 'OSES AEBIENNES          URSS                                           Gb~~~~~~~~~~~~        ~        ~~~es5sa Port tOvAR    I/R
PO,5TE5,DE O/S TV/BE T/ON MBBT                                                                                                                                                                                   A L  '1-'
Evsto~î iONS HVPS Mv                                                           'R /f                                                                                       BSJ
BOBOS! ROUTES                                                                                                                            GUI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NEA
eSILeOSSS Y (N/M/NS DE RFA  O   200   (f~~~~~SC  200  20550                                                            tIo~~~ak,75   ~/                        C
MEt/BS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~F'~



