                                                            Report No. 89836
                                          About the Panel

The Inspection Panel was created in September 1993 by the Board of Executive Directors of
the World Bank to serve as an independent mechanism to ensure accountability in Bank
operations with respect to its policies and procedures. The Inspection Panel is an instrument
for groups of two or more private citizens who believe that they or their interests have been
or could be harmed by Bank-financed activities to present their concerns through a Request
for Inspection. In short, the Panel provides a link between the Bank and the people who are
likely to be affected by the projects it finances.

Members of the Panel are selected “on the basis of their ability to deal thoroughly and fairly
with the request brought to them, their integrity and their independence from the Bank’s
Management, and their exposure to developmental issues and to living conditions in
developing countries.”1 The three-member Panel is empowered, subject to Board approval,
to investigate problems that are alleged to have arisen as a result of the Bank having
                       Report and Recommendation
ignored its own operating policies and procedures.

Processing Requests

After the Panel receives a Request for Inspection it is processed as follows:

     The Panel decides whether the Request is prima facie not barred from Panel consideration.
     The Panel registers the Request—a purely administrative procedure.
     The Panel sends the Request to Bank Management, which has 21 working days to respond to the
               ARMENIA: Second Education Quality and
      allegations of the Requesters.
                 Relevance Project (P107772), and
      The Panel then conducts a short 21 working-day assessment to determine the eligibility of the
      Requesters and the Request.
              Education Improvement Project (P130182)
      If the Panel recommends an investigation, and the Board approves it, the Panel undertakes a full
      investigation, which is not time-bound.
     If the Panel does not recommend an investigation, the Board of Executive Directors may still
      instruct the Panel to conduct an investigation if warranted.
     Three days after the Board decides on whether or not an investigation should be carried out, the
      Panel’s Report (including the Request for Inspection and Management’s Response) is publicly
      available through the Panel’s website and Secretariat, the Bank’s Info Shop and the respective
      Bank Country Office.
     When the Panel completes an investigation, it sends its findings and conclusions on the matters
      alleged in the Request for Inspection to the Board as well as to Bank Management.
     The Bank Management then has six weeks to submit its recommendations to the Board on what
      actions the Bank would take in response to the Panel’s findings and conclusions.

                                        August 1, 2014
      The Board then takes the final decision on what should be done based on the Panel's findings
      and the Bank Management's recommendations.


1
    IBRD Resolution No. 93-10; IDA Resolution No. 93-6.
                                                                                                     i
                                               The Inspection Panel

                                        Report and Recommendation

                                                             On

                                             Request for Inspection

     Armenia: Second Education Quality and Relevance Project (P107772) and
                   Education Improvement Project (P130182)


A.       Introduction

1.     In accordance with the Resolution (“the Resolution”) 1 establishing the Inspection Panel
(“the Panel”), the purpose of this Report and Recommendation on Request for Inspection (“the
Report”) is to make a recommendation to the Board of Executive Directors (“the Board”) as to
whether the Panel should investigate the matters alleged in this Request. The Panel’s
recommendation is based on its consideration of the technical eligibility of the Request and its
assessment of other factors as provided in the Resolution and the Panel’s Operating Procedures.

2.     On May 16, 2014, the Inspection Panel received a Request for Inspection (“the Request”)
of the Armenia: Second Education Quality and Relevance Project, APL 2 (“EQRP 2”) and the
Education Improvement Project (“EIP”) (“the Projects”). The Request was submitted by 9
NGOs, 2 students and 5 parents from Armenia who requested to keep their identities
confidential. The Panel registered the Request and notified the Board and Management on June
5, 2014. Management submitted the Management Response on July 7, 2014.

3.      This Report includes the following sections: (a) this introduction, (b) a description of the
Project, (c) a summary of the Request, (d) the Management Response, (e) the Panel’s review
including the Panel’s determination of the technical eligibility of the Request, in accordance with
the 1999 Clarification to the Resolution, 2 and the Panel’s observations on other factors
considered, (f) the Panel’s analysis and (g) the Panel’s recommendation to the Board on whether
an investigation of the matters alleged in the Request is warranted.




1
  International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (Resolution IBRD 93-10) and International Development Association
(Resolution 93-6), “The World Bank Inspection Panel”, September 22, 1993 (hereinafter “the Resolution,”) ¶ 19. Available at:
http://siteresources.worldbank.org/EXTINSPECTIONPANEL/Resources/ResolutionMarch2005.pdf
2
  “1999 Clarification of the Board’s Second Review of the Inspection Panel”, April 1999 (hereinafter “the 1999 Clarification”).
Available at: http://siteresources.worldbank.org/EXTINSPECTIONPANEL/Resources/1999ClarificationoftheBoard.pdf
B.       The Projects

Second Education Quality and Relevance Project, APL 2 (EQRP 2)

4.     The project aims to improve the quality and relevance of the Armenian school system to
meet the challenges of the knowledge society. 3 The Project Development Objectives (PDO) of
EQRP 2 are: “(i) enhance school learning in general education and improve school readiness of
children entering primary education, and (ii) support the integration of Armenian Tertiary
Education system into the European Higher Education Area.” 4

5.      The project includes three components: (i) Enhancing the quality of general education,
(ii) Supporting tertiary education reforms in the context of the Bologna Agenda, and (iii) Project
management, monitoring and evaluation. 5 The Ministry of Education and Science (MOES) is
responsible for the implementation of the project supported by a Center for Education Project
(CEP) acting as the Project Implementing Unit (PIU). The Project was classified as
“Environmental Category C,” and none of the safeguards policies were triggered.

6.       The EQRP 2 was approved by the Board on May 12, 2009 for an IDA credit of SDR 17.0
million (equivalent to US$25.0 million) to the Republic of Armenia, with a closing date of
November 30, 2014. 6 It was restructured in August 2012 in order to “(i) revise the activities
under one of the Project’s components; (ii) reallocate financing across project activities; and
(iii) adjust the Project Results Framework (RF) to accommodate the proposed changes.” Neither
the PDO nor the applicable policies changed as a result of the restructuring. 7

7.     At the time the Panel received the Request for Inspection, about 72% of the credit had
been disbursed.

Education Improvement Project (EIP)

8.     The project aims to support the government of Armenia in two main endeavors: (i)
enhancing the quality of general education, and (ii) fostering relevance of tertiary education
through mainstreaming of the Competitive Innovation Fund (CIF). 8 The Project Development
Objectives (PDO) are “to improve school readiness of children entering primary education,
improve physical conditions and the availability of educational resources in upper-secondary
schools, and support improved quality and relevance in higher education institutions in
Armenia.” 9

3
  Project Appraisal Document (PAD) on a Proposed Credit in the amount of SDR 17.0 million (US$25.0 million equivalent) to
The Republic of Armenia for a Second Education Quality and Relevance (APL) program, April 15, 2009, p. 4, para. 13
4
  Financing Agreement, Second Education Quality and Relevance Project, between the Republic of Armenia and the International
Development Association, dated June 5, 2009,Schedule 1, p. 4.
5
  Financing Agreement, Schedule 1 for EQRP 2, p. 4.
6
  Financing Agreement for EQRP 2, p. 1.
7
  Restructuring Paper on a Proposed Project Restructuring of Second Education Quality and Relevance (APL2) Project to the
Republic of Armenia, August 2, 2012, p. 4.
8
  Project Appraisal Document (PAD) on a Proposed Credit in the amount of SDR 9.8 million (US$15.0 million equivalent) and on
a Proposed Loan in the amount of US$15.0 million to The Republic of Armenia for an Education Improvement Project, February
18, 2014, p. 24, para. 3.
9
  PAD EIP p. 4, para. 10.

                                                             2
9.      The project includes three components: (i) Enhancing the quality of general education,
(ii) Mainstreaming of the Competitive Innovation Fund (CIF) for Higher Education Institutions
(HEI) into full implementation, and (iii) Project management, monitoring and evaluation. The
project was classified as “Environmental Category B” and two safeguard policies were triggered:
(i) Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01), and (ii) Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11).
According to the PAD, OP/BP 4.01 was triggered because the Project would support upgrading
of selected school buildings, and the rehabilitation work may have some temporary negative
impacts typical for reconstruction and rehabilitation of small to medium-size buildings. For this,
an Environmental Management Framework (EMF) has been developed. OP/BP 4.11 was
triggered to ensure that the process of school selection for rehabilitation would involve verifying
if any of the buildings are formally entered into the list of the nations’ historical and/or cultural
heritage. 10

10.     The EIP was approved by the Board on March 13, 2014 for an IDA credit of SDR 9.8
million (US$15 million equivalent), and an IBRD loan of US$15 million to the Republic of
Armenia, with a closing date of September 30, 2019. 11 At the time of writing of this Report, the
EIP was not yet effective. The Ministry of Education and Science (MOES) will be responsible
for the implementation of the project supported by a Center for Education Project (CEP) acting
as the Project Implementing Unit.

C.        The Request

11.     This section summarizes the allegations included in the written Request (the full Request
is attached as Annex I).

12.    The Requesters allege that the EIP is “…designed in such a way as not to address failures
of the previous program… (EQRP 2)” 12 and “…would exacerbate the harm caused by the
previous loan (EQRP 2)….” 13 The Requesters believe that EQRP 2 resulted in “substantial
harm” 14 to the Armenian education system, especially “…in areas of accountability,
governance, quality and accessibility”, and as a result, harmed academics, students and parents,
including the Requesters, who will also be affected by the EIP.

13.     According to the Requesters, the main focus of EIP is on refurbishing school buildings
rather than addressing the shortcomings of the previous program, and it poses a threat of great
harm to the education system of the whole country. In their view, “…any new loan…” 15 of the
World Bank must consider the problems of a previous loan program and thus address those
issues. The Requesters attached several case studies to illustrate the Projects’ adverse impact on
students and parents. The alleged harms are described below.



10
   PAD EIP, p. 16-17, paras. 50-52.
11
   PAD EIP.
12
   The Request, p. 1.
13
   Ibid.
14
   Ibid.
15
   Ibid.

                                                 3
Quality of Education

14.     Disadvantaging Rural Students. According to the Requesters, the reform under EQRP 2
unfairly disadvantaged students from rural areas. They allege that there are only a few high
schools in rural areas, and that the quality of schools is lower than that of the urban areas,
functioning based on a 12-year curriculum that does not provide specialization. This renders
rural students unable to “…comply with the government’s plan to transfer to a credit system in
high school courses.” 16 As a result, rural students are at a disadvantage with respect to urban
students who have greater access to high schools and therefore, higher education.

15.    Ineffective Teachers Training. The Requesters also note that there are many
“…professionally unqualified teachers…” 17 but that the teachers’ training aimed at professional
development was ineffective as it did not accommodate varying skill types and levels among the
teachers.

16.     Political Influence on Higher Education. According to the Request, “the governance
boards of state universities, state education agencies are represented by government officials,
MPs and by the administration of the President at around 50%” 18 , which allows for
“…interventions by the state over their finances, management appointments, specialization, and
admissions”. 19 The Requesters state that these “undermine academic independence vital for
credibility and sustainability of any research and scientific endeavor”. 20 One student claims that
a research topic, i.e., “The solutions of current problems in Armenia through political left” 21 was
rejected by the Head of the Philosophy Department of National Academy of Science giving the
reason that “…he was not going to help the current political opposition in Armenia” 22 and
“…cynically…” 23 suggested that the student instead writes on “The behavior of strip dancers in
Armenia”. 24 According to the Requesters, a Rector of a university was also wrongfully fired by
the Minister of the MOES.

17.     State Control over University Finances and Poor Financing Scheme under the Project.
The Requesters assert that the state directly controls the budget of state universities, despite the
fact that the proportion of state allocation is very small (9-30%). In addition, the Requesters
consider that the Competitive Innovation Fund (CIF) and sustainable funding strategy being
designed under this project are “…fragmented…” 25 and cannot assist in “…ensuring sustainable
funding system…” 26 as they do not address the declining public spending or legal framework
regulating the finances of universities. Parents feel that the schools are “not equipped with the
necessary technical capacities and do not have proper equipped laboratories and libraries that


16
   The Request, p. 10.
17
   The Request, p. 14.
18
   The Request, p. 7.
19
   Ibid.
20
   The Request, p. 9.
21
   The Request, p. 12.
22
   Ibid.
23
   Ibid.
24
   Ibid.
25
   The Request, p. 8.
26
   Ibid.

                                                 4
would provide for the quality education.” 27 The Requesters state that the quality of education
suffers due to insufficient financing.

18.     Religious Influence over Higher Education. The Requesters state that the subject standard
for the Armenian Church History is “singlehandedly controlled and supervised by Armenian
Apostolic Church through Center for Christian Education and Propaganda.” 28 The Requesters
allege that religious institutions exercise influence over research topics as illustrated by one case
study on a student, where a Reverend’s “…non-scientific…” 29 negative feedback on a thesis was
accepted by an academic committee which eventually rejected the thesis and the student did not
receive a degree.

Discrimination

19.     The Requesters say that biased gender roles and “…discriminatory norms (e.g., religious)
and perceptions are widely promoted…in textbooks, teaching process and teachers’ attitude.” 30
According to the Requesters, a 10th grade text book shows five basic needs of men and women
which are discriminatory in nature (i.e., sexual satisfaction, a charming woman, household
management for men and financial support, conversation and honesty for women). The
Requesters also allege that schools do not offer opportunities to discuss these discriminatory
ideas which could influence the thinking of students. The Requesters state that “gender
insensitive content and the constant messaging of traditional gender stereotypes, the teachers
deeply biased attitude is particularly damaging for developing the notion of gender equality in
youth during their formative years.” 31 The Requesters also say that “ill treatment is widely
practiced by both teachers and students towards religious minorities.” 32

Governance

20.     Governance and Corruption in Quality Assurance Systems. The Armenian National
Quality Assurance Agency (ANQA) 33 is an independent external quality assurance agency. The
Requesters allege “there are serious irregularities in its mission, composition and function”, and
thus its independence is questioned. In addition, the Requesters allege that quality assurance
reforms under the project have been “fully controlled by the government and ruling political
party with no dialogue or consultation” 34 with relevant stakeholders and therefore, “met with
distrust, if not open opposition…” 35, and eventually resulting in “poor quality reform of higher



27
   The Request, p. 14.
28
   The Request, p. 11.
29
   The Request, p. 12.
30
   The Request, p. 10.
31
   The Request, p. 4.
32
   The Request, p. 6.
33
   The government established the Armenian National Quality Assurance Agency (ANQA) in November 2008. MOES also
created a Working Group on Quality Assurance, which will assist the consolidation of ANQA during the initial stage. This sub-
component will support the ANQA and the WG of QA to establish the external QA system and universities to develop internal
QA system.
34
   The Request, p. 2.
35
   The Request, p. 3.

                                                              5
education in Armenia” 36. The Requesters state that the Bank ignored its “…own assessment of
the tertiary sector governance issues and irregularities…” 37 and failed to make changes.

Lack of Consultations

21.    The Requesters state that the “beneficiary and public feedback was ignored both during
the implementation, monitoring, and assessment of theEQRP2…” 38 which they feel would have
improved both Projects.

D.        The Management Response

22.   This section summarizes the Management Response submitted on July 7, 2014 (the full
Response is attached as Annex II).

23.     Management does not believe that the Request meets the eligibility criteria and disagrees
that the alleged adverse impacts cited in the Request result from the two Projects. It believes that
the Requesters are not able to demonstrate that their rights and interests have been or are likely
to be adversely affected by the Projects. Management argues that the Request is primarily about
broad issues of the education system in Armenia and design preferences for the Project.
According to Management, the Requesters appear to define harm as any pre-existing conditions
which they view as undesirable and which are not addressed by the Bank supported Projects,
which they believe should be. The Response argues that this does not relate to an act of omission
by the Bank, nor does it constitute harm referred to in the Panel’s Resolution, rather it represents
unfulfilled expectations and do not create harm. 39

24.     Management concurs with some of the points made by the Requesters and notes that
several interventions under the Projects support reforms that are needed to address the issues
raised in the Request. However, in Response to the Requester’s contention that the Bank support
should be offered only once issues of the education sector have been addressed, Management
notes that according to the Bank’s global experience, waiting precludes the opportunity to
support progress and early intervention can improve the pace and quality of their progress. 40

Higher Education

25.    Governance Issues and Corruption in the ANQA. Management disagrees with the
Requesters’ claims that the Bank failed to address these problems with the Borrower. A report
produced by the Bank (Addressing Governance at the Center of Higher Education Reform in
Armenia, January 2013) indicates that ANQA, a national quality assurance system, has made
important achievements in a short period of time 41 and the government is committed to taking
the additional steps to meet the international standards of quality assurance.


36
   Ibid.
37
   The Request, p. 7.
38
   The Request, p. 10.
39
   MR, p. 10-12, paras. 16-21.
40
   MR, p. 11, para. 21.
41
   MR, p. 13, para. 26, section (i).

                                                 6
26.      Inadequate Public Financing. Management agrees with the Requesters on the importance
of ensuring sufficient public funding for the education sector but notes that the Projects are not
responsible for the sector’s financing. Management states that despite this, the need to increase
public funding …has been regularly brought to the attention of the Ministry of Education and
Science (MOES) and the Ministry of Finance (MOF) 42 as elaborated in the Bank report “Public
Fiscal Consolidation and Recovery in Armenia.” Management also notes that the Competitive
Innovation Fund (CIF) was also established to address some of the financing issues in the
sector. 43

27.      Alleged Overly-tight Political Control. Management notes that these issues are being
addressed through Bank financed Projects and in sector dialogue, and that the government has
shown commitment. 44 Management indicates that the above mentioned Report did not find
evidence of systemic issues pertaining to …widespread corruption and nepotism…in the
sector. 45

28.     Alleged Lack of Academic Freedom. Management states that this project does not deal
with academic freedom, nor does the Bank have evidence to show that this is a pervasive issue in
higher education in Armenia. 46 In Management’s view, the universities’ self-evaluations
promoted by ANQA are useful mechanisms to monitor progress on the desired changes within
universities. 47 Management also notes that the “case studies” provided by the Requesters do not
offer any evidence that the alleged incidents stem from or are aggravated by the two Projects.

Secondary Education

29.    Alleged Political Control of the Sector by the Government. Management views the
Requesters’ claims as not being related to the Projects and that it is difficult to verify the claims
without concrete evidence. Management also notes that the appointment of school officials by
the Ministry of Education is similar to other education systems in the world. 48

30.     Weak Student Evaluation. Management agrees that student evaluation could be
significantly improved. However with the help of the Bank and other donors (through the
Projects, trust funds and policy dialogue) the government is making efforts to improve the
evaluation. 49

31.     Putting Rural Students at a Disadvantage. Management notes that although there remain
significant …infrastructure and educational equipment needs in both rural and urban areas, 50
the Bank has provided support to address those needs, including the rest of the Bank portfolio
that covers support for infrastructure and equipment needs of schools in rural and underserved

42
   MR, p. 14, para 26, section (ii)
43
   MR, p. 14, para. 26, section (ii).
44
   MR, p. 14-15, para 26, section (iii)
45
   MR, p. 15, para 26, section (iii)
46
   MR, p. 15, para 26, section (iv)
47
   MR, p. 15, para26, section (iv)
48
   MR, p. 15, para 27, section (i)
49
   MR, p. 16, para. 27, section (ii).
50
   MR, p. 16, para 27, section (iii)

                                                 7
areas. Management further states that while the infrastructure component of EIP focuses on high
schools in urban areas, students in rural schools have and will benefit from the system-wide
activities supported under the EQRP2 and EIP, such as in-service teacher training, connectivity
to internet for all schools, curriculum revisions and improvements, and students’ assessment
activities. 51

32.     Ineffective Teacher Training. Management states that the support for in-service teacher
training provided under the EQRP2 was aimed at leveling the field among teachers with regard
to…reforms…including, curriculum reforms, the extension of the education system from 10 to 12
grades, and the introduction of ICT into the learning and teaching process. 52 An impact
evaluation of Bank supported in-service teacher training for 2011 and 2012 showed some
positive impacts, as well as areas that needed improvements. However, the government decided
in 2013 that all in-service teacher training is to be funded by the government and provided by the
National Institute of Education (NIE).

33.     Lack of Transparency in Curricular and Syllabus Design, Leading to Gender Bias and
Discriminatory Behavior. Management notes that the Bank has not provided support for the
development of textbooks in Armenia under either of the two Projects. While noting that it is
outside the scope of the Projects, the Bank is strongly committed to gender equality and gender
inclusion, and will review this issue and raise it with the Borrower if gender bias and
discriminatory behavior is confirmed.

34.     Discrimination against Religious Minorities. Management states that the EQRP2 and the
EIP do not support any links between religion and education, and the discrimination and the
potential harm stemming from it is neither caused nor aggravated by the Projects. Management
notes that the Bank strongly supports the principle of inclusive development and equal treatment
of ethnic and religious minorities.

35.     Alleged Lack of Consultations. Management maintains that supervision of the EQRP 2
and preparation of the EIP have included close contact and extensive consultations with various
stakeholders, and states that the feedback received was taken into account. In addition, a series of
analytical studies to inform the preparation of the project were disseminated and discussed in
country in May 2013. 53 Management also notes that the Bank team met with the Open Society
Foundation (OSF) of Armenia three times during the EIP preparation.

36.     Other Policy Considerations. With regard to OP/BP 13.05 (Supervision), Management
asserts that the Projects have been supervised according to the requirements of the policy;
Management also asserts that the Projects are anchored in country policy/sector analysis; and
reflect lessons learned from the Bank’s experience, as required by OP/BP 10.00 (Investment
Lending; Management states that OP/BP 8.60 (Development Policy Lending is not applicable to
the Projects.. Management states that OP/BP 13.60 (Monitoring and Evaluation) establishes the
requirements for results-oriented monitoring and evaluation, but does not include obligations at
the project level. (p.32 MR)
51
   MR, p. 17, para 27, section (iii)
52
   MR, p. 17, para 27, section (iv)
53
   MR, p. 18, para. 28, section (i).

                                                 8
37.     Given Management’s disagreement with the allegations of harm stemming from policy
compliance, Management states that no actions are required to bring the Projects into
compliance. However Management adds that it take this opportunity to consider how the issues
raised in the Request could be addressed by the Bank going forward to help the education sector
in Armenia. In view of this, Management proposes to review and verify allegations of
discriminatory content in textbooks and would consider raising the issue with the government
with a view to encourage adapting or changing such school textbooks to include gender
appropriate content. 54

E.          Panel Review of the Request and of the Management Response

38.     A Panel team composed of Chairperson Eimi Watanabe, Panel Member Gonzalo Castro
de la Mata, and Senior Operations Officer Tatiana Tassoni visited Yerevan, Armenia on July 16-
19, 2014. The Panel met with the Requesters and other allegedly Project affected people. The
Panel also met with Government authorities in Armenia including the Minister of Economy, the
Minister of Education and Science, officials from the National Center of Education Technology
(NACET), representatives of the Armenian National Quality Assurance Agency (ANQA), the
Project Implementing Unit, World Bank staff in the Yerevan Country Office, representatives of
UNICEF, representatives of the Yerevan State Medical University, and representatives of the
Step by Step Benevolent Foundation (involved in the implementation of some of the Projects’
aspects).

39.     The Panel wishes to express its appreciation to all those mentioned above for sharing
their views and exchanging information and insights with the Panel. The Panel extends its thanks
to the Requesters and other allegedly affected people who met with the Panel team. The Panel
wishes to thank, in particular, the Ministry of Education and Science for preparing a detailed
document, which was helpful in gaining an improved understanding of the issues under review.
Particular appreciation goes also to the World Bank Country Director, the Country Manager, and
staff in the World Bank Country Office in Yerevan for meeting with the Panel team, discussing
the issues and providing relevant information, and assisting with logistical arrangements.

40.     The Panel’s review is based on information presented in the Request, on the Management
Response, on other documentary evidence, and on information gathered during the visit to
Yerevan. This review covers the Panel’s determination of the technical eligibility of the Request,
according to the criteria set forth in the 1999 Clarification (subsection 1), and observations on
other factors supporting the Panel’s recommendation (subsection 2).

Determination of Technical Eligibility

41.    The Panel is satisfied that the Request meets all six technical eligibility criteria provided
in paragraph 9 of the 1999 Clarifications as detailed below. The Panel notes that its confirmation
of technical eligibility, which is a set of verifiable facts focusing to a large extent on the content
of the Request as articulated by the Requesters, does not involve the Panel’s assessment of the
substance of the claims made in the Request.
54
     MR, p. 20, para. 35.

                                                  9
42.      Criterion (a): “The affected party consists of any two or more persons with common
interests or concerns and who are in the borrower’s territory.” The Panel confirms that the
Requesters live in the borrower’s territory and share interests that may be affected by Project
activities. The Panel considers the requirement of paragraph 9(a) as met.

43.     Criterion (b): “The request does assert in substance that a serious violation by the Bank of
its operational policies and procedures has or is likely to have a material adverse effect on the
requester.” The Requesters assert that in the design of the EIP the Bank failed to address
problems identified during the implementation of the EQRP 2, as is required by Bank policy on
investment lending regarding the appraisal of a project (OP/BP 10.00). In the Requesters’ view,
in spite of the Bank’s own assessment of the education reform underway, the EIP did not include
changes to project design in line with the lessons learned from the EQRP 2. In this context, for
example, they believe that as a result of the reforms supported by the Bank Projects, rural
students were disadvantaged and thus discriminated against in the quality of the education they
received compared to urban schools. The Requesters also refer to failures in supervising the
EQRP 2 properly, with respect to the quality of teachers training, undue political influence on
higher education and gender discrimination in the content and standards in the schools. The
Requesters also state that there are irregularities that the Bank should have addressed as part of
its supervision with respect to the composition and functioning of ANQA, which, they believe,
does not act as an independent agency. The Requesters also assert that consultations with
stakeholders about the education reform were inadequate. The Panel is thus satisfied that the
requirement of paragraph 9(b) is met.

44.    Criterion (c): “The request does assert that its subject matter has been brought to
Management's attention and that, in the Requester’s view, Management has failed to respond
adequately demonstrating that it has followed or is taking steps to follow the Bank’s policies and
procedures.” The Requesters state that they presented their facts and analysis to senior World
Bank staff in both Yerevan and in Washington DC; that they met and corresponded with the
Country Office Senior Management as well as with other Bank staff but are not satisfied with
Management’s Response. The Requesters clarified to the Panel that they met with Bank officials
in Washington DC in the Fall of 2011 to discuss the standard of secondary education in EQRP2.
The Requesters also state that they met with Bank Management in the Yerevan office in the Fall
of 2013 where they raised concerns. The Requesters believe that the Bank’s responses to their
complaints did not address their issues adequately. The Panel is satisfied that this criterion has
been met.

45.      Criterion (d): “The matter is not related to procurement.” The Panel is satisfied that the
claims with respect to harm and non-compliance included in the Request for Inspection do not
raise issues of procurement under the Project and hence this criterion is met.

46.    Criterion (e): “The related loan has not been closed or substantially disbursed.” At the
time of receipt of the Request for Inspection, about 72% of the EQRP 2 had been disbursed. The
EIP was not yet effective.




                                                10
47.    Criterion (f): “The Panel has not previously made a recommendation on the subject
matter or, if it has, that the request does assert that there is new evidence or circumstances not
known at the time of the prior request.” The Panel confirms that it has not previously made a
recommendation on the subject matter of the Request.

Observations on Other Factors Supporting the Panel’s Recommendation

48.    During the visit to Yerevan, the Panel team met with the Requesters and had the
opportunity to discuss in depth their concerns regarding the Projects and the harm that they
believe has resulted or will result from them, on different aspects of the Projects’ design and
implementation. Observations are made on each of the alleged specific harms resulting from the
Projects and the failure of the Bank to properly supervise the implementation of the EQRP 2 and
address the shortcomings and integrate the lessons learned from the EQRP 2 into the design of
the EIP.

49.     High School System. The Requesters claim that the high school system created with the
support of the EQRP 2 has aggravated poverty by widening the gap between urban and rural
areas and putting the latter at a great disadvantage. The Requesters argue that the EQRP 2 design
is discriminatory vis-à-vis non-urban children because: (i) only 7 out of 109 high schools were
opened in non-urban areas, (ii) the financing system privileges urban schools which, the
Requesters state, receive financing 30% higher than general school 1-12th grade, and (iii) the
curriculum in high schools is different and qualitatively better than the curriculum in general
schools for the same grades (10 through 12th). Therefore, they maintain, children from rural
areas who, for economic as well as transportation reasons, cannot attend a high school are
disadvantaged with respect to urban children in terms of quality of education and
competitiveness to enter university.

50.    Management does not agree, stating that while the infrastructure component of EIP
focuses on high schools in urban areas, students in rural schools have and will benefit from the
system-wide activities supported under the EQRP2 and EIP, such as in-service teacher training,
connectivity to internet for all schools, curriculum revisions and improvements, and students’
assessment activities. 55

51.      The Panel understands that the educational reform in 2006 extended the general
education system from 10 to 12 years. In the following year, the decision was taken to establish
three-year high schools, totaling 109 for the entire country. The result is that there are now two
parallel systems for secondary education, one in which children attend school from first to ninth
grade and then move on to high school, and the other where children attend the same general
school from first to twelfth grade. The Panel was informed during the visit that the 109 high
schools established with the support of EQRP 2 are situated prevalently in urban areas (the Panel
was informed that some one-third are in Yerevan where 35% of the population resides, at least
one in each capital of the ten marzes or provinces, a small number in villages, and the remainder
in other cities and towns). High schools were also created with the intent of becoming centers of
excellence in specific specialized subjects, such as math, sciences and languages, and to cover
the surrounding communities as “catchment” areas. In the villages, some 9th to 12th grade
55
     MR, p. 17, para 27, section (iii)

                                               11
children commute to the high schools if accessible, while most other children attend the 1-12th
grade general schools.

52.    Officials of the PIU informed the Panel that initial plans were to try to introduce high
schools in urban and rural areas alike, but for economies of scale and cost-effective
considerations, the decision was made to establish high schools only in large communities of
15,000 inhabitants or more, while at village level general schools 1-12th would be kept. The PIU
also noted that support under the EQRP 2 was focused on establishing high schools, not on 1-
12th grade schools. All schools were however integrated into an internet IT network system
financed by the Bank’s project, as a basis for an MIS supporting the administration of schools.
The Panel was also informed that more than 90% of schools have computers, but some twenty
schools in remote areas have problems with accessibility. An ICT syllabus is being introduced,
and children are accessing the internet in 50 pilot schools.

53.    According to the document provided by the Minister for Education, the country’s 109
high schools are located accessibly in central locations in each region and designed as regional
high schools in and near population centers, at reasonable distances from rural areas, to minimize
the aggregate amount of travel for students from nearby communities. This is a rational
approach to high schools followed in most rural areas throughout the world… 56

54.     During the visit, the Panel was informed of the rapid demographic decline in Armenia.
According to UNICEF, the number of children have halved over the past twenty years, reflecting
the overall population decline through emigration as well as the drop in fertility rates. 57 The
Minister for Education spoke of the two crises he faced; one financial and the other, the
demographic one. Under such circumstances, it is not unreasonable to locate the high schools in
centers of population concentration, with the intent of covering a larger “catchment” area of
surrounding villages. In addition, the Panel understands that there are inaccessible mountainous
villages that are cut off for months on end during the harsh winters; children from such areas
would be unable to commute to the towns for their education.

55.     The PAD acknowledges that the decision to concentrate high schools in bigger centers
presents the “flip side” that students who could have had a chance to go to the new, specialized
high schools “will now stay in their local school with, in theory, a more constrained opportunity
to learn in comparison to their urban counterparts.” 58 The PAD indicates however, that a
Mitigation Fund of AMD 50 Million (ca. US$123,000) was created and transferred to the marzes
(provinces) education departments to cover transportation costs. The PAD further notes that the
quality of education in high schools is expected to be higher than in regular 1-12th grade schools,
but adds that the implementation of need-based grants for rural students to cover transportation
costs “would contribute to keep a high enrollment rate in upper secondary education in
Armenia.” 59

56
   Document from the Ministry of Education and Science received on July 10, 2014.
57
   “It is estimated that Armenia has lost up to a quarter of its original population since independence due to emigration,”
“currently, out-migration from rural to urban areas (mainly to Yerevan) continues. Some rural communities of Armenia already
experience a very strong depopulation.” (Manasyan, H. and G. Poghosyan. Social Impact of Emigration and Rural-Urban
Migration in Central and Eastern Europe. Final Report: Armenia. April 2012).
58
   EQRP 2 PAD, p. 35, para. 30.
59
   EQRP 2 PAD, p. 35, para. 32, section (iii).

                                                             12
56.    The Panel was informed during the visit that the high school curriculum and that used for
grades 10 to 12 in the general schools are currently the same. During a meeting with the Yerevan
State Medical University, university officials told the Panel that the number of students from
non-urban areas applying to their university has been increasing and students from rural areas
reach now over half of their new enrollments.

57.    Tutoring. The Requesters claim that the quality of education has decreased over the years
forcing parents to resort to expensive private tutoring to guarantee a level of education for their
children that would allow them to enter universities. Further, they state that some teachers
encourage kids to take tutoring classes that they themselves provide and then discriminate among
children who did not attend.

58.     The Panel understands that under the reform process supported by Bank financing, a
unified exam to enter university has been instituted. According to parents with whom the Panel
met, this exam is very difficult and neither the new high school curriculum nor the 1-12th
school’s curriculum adequately prepare children for such an exam.

59.     Management states that tutoring is not uncommon in countries with competitive
university entrance systems. 60 The Panel was also informed through several sources that tutoring
is not a recent phenomenon in Armenia but has existed since Soviet times, especially for students
preparing to enter university in certain subjects. It was also explained by some that the tutoring
was primarily focused on preparing for appropriate techniques for passing the unified university
qualifying exam rather than acquiring additional knowledge. These views reflect a different
perception from that of the Requesters, for whom the prevalence of tutoring is directly indicative
of the declining quality of education in schools.

60.     Quality of Teacher Training. The Requesters allege that there are many “professionally
unqualified teachers” and that teacher training was not adequate to help teachers implement new
methodologies and approaches in the classes and thus offering better education to the teachers.
Tight political control over the decision making structure in schools harmed independence and as
a result progress in reforming the education system.

61.     Management Response states that the support for in-service teacher training provided
under EQRP2 was aimed at “leveling the field” among teachers with regard to the many reforms
that have taken place, including curriculum reforms, the extension of the education system from
grades 10 to 12, and the introduction of ICT into the learning and teaching process. According to
Management, an impact evaluation of in-service training showed some positive impacts in the
use of interactive teaching methodology but also identified areas for further improvement. 61

62.     The note prepared by the MOES states that although the majority of teachers participated
in informational training workshops under the Projects, they were neither designed nor expected
to have a substantial effect on teaching practices, which as any education professional knows is

60
     MR, p. 27, Claim no. 8.
61
     MR, p. 17, para. 27, section (iv).

                                                13
a longer, more arduous process. Furthermore, it adds that the number of teachers receiving
qualification ranks in 2012 was 51, in 2013 was 96, and in 2014 was 146. A total of 5,925
teachers have been trained under EQRP2 in 2011 and 6,241 in 2012. Evaluation of trained
teachers shows that 94% are actively using the interactive and cooperative teaching methods,
while only 0.6% continues to use their traditional teaching practices.

63.    The Panel notes that all stakeholders agree on the need for further strengthening of
teacher training for it to have a sustainable impact.

64.     Standards and Curriculum Development. In the Requesters’ view, the EQRP 2’s support
for standards and curriculum development has translated into support for education content that
is discriminatory, especially with regards to gender issues. They add that content analysis of
school textbooks shows that asymmetric representation of gender roles prevails and that
discriminatory norms and perceptions are widely promoted both in textbooks, teaching process,
and teachers’ attitude. In the Requesters’ view, this does not provide a comprehensive
development of individuals as specified in the standard and goal of the subject program. During
the meetings with the Panel, the Requesters elaborated on this by adding that the current system
for textbook development, design, publication, review and approval lacks transparency and
checks and balances; in the words of the Requesters, neither authors, publishers, committees
responsible for piloting, (nor) expert reviewers are gender sensitive. The Request gives an
example from a 10th grade textbook quoting a psychologist that describes The needs of a man are
in sexual satisfaction, rest companion, a charming woman, household management and
admiration. For a woman the needs are expressed in tenderness, conversation, honesty and
frankness, financial support and devotion to family. In this context, according to the Requesters,
the teacher training financed under the Project was inadequate and reinforced discriminatory
concepts about the role of women in Armenian society.

65.     Management acknowledges that this is a valid and important issue, and while stating that
the Bank has not provided support or advice for the development of textbooks and is thus not
responsible for its content. Management also emphasizes Bank’s strong commitment to gender
equality and gender inclusion. Management further states that it intends to review and verify the
Requesters’ claim, and if confirmed, the issue will be raised with the Borrower in the context of
ongoing policy dialogue. Management also states that the curriculum revisions envisaged under
EIP will provide an additional opportunity to revisit the textbook content issues.

66.     Financing of Education. The Requesters claim that the Project component in the EIP
providing Competitive Innovation Funds (CIFs) are isolated efforts that do not address the more
general issue of declining public spending nor the legal framework regulating finances of
universities to ensure more sustainable financing. Management shares the Requesters’ view on
the importance of sufficient funding for the education sector and state that they brought this
message regularly to the attention of MOES and MoF officials. 62 In Management’s view, the 2.6
percent of the GDP allocated for public expenditure on education is very low compared to most
other countries at comparable levels of development.


62
     MR, p. 14, para. 26, section (ii).

                                               14
67.    Management explains that the CIF aims to increase the diversification of sources of
funding of higher education through a competitive and transparent process of allocating funds.
The Panel heard from the Yerevan State Medical University highly appreciative comments on
funding received from CIF to finance a modern Simulation Center in the Medical Faculty, which
would allow it to greatly enhance quality and safety of medical training. The University will
provide matching funds to cover building and management expenses. At the same time, there
were also comments regarding the cumbersome procedures involved, especially for procurement.

68.    The Panel notes that the CIF is based on a “bottom up” approach based on competition
and demand, linked to the private sector and based on transparent distribution of funds. The
Panel notes that CIF was not designed to address the overall financing issue.

69.    Governance Issues – ANQA. The Requesters claim that Project has helped established a
body, ANQA, whose composition and function present many irregularities, thus legitimizing a
corrupt system that was already pervasive. Further, the accreditation system created by ANQA
and supported by the Project has encouraged corrupt practices in universities. During the
meeting with the Panel, the Requesters expressed the view that ANQA legitimized or provided
window dressing to a corrupt system.

70.     Management states that they partly concur with the Requesters’ assessment of the
governance challenges facing higher education 63 and that these issues were identified by the
Bank, brought to the Borrower’s attention and are being addressed through several Bank-
supported Projects. Management also adds that with regards to higher education, the governance
issues raised by the Requesters are broadly consistent with the findings of the Bank’s 2013
education report. 64 In the Management’s view, both Bank supported Projects have contributed to
gradually improving the governance of higher education. The Panel heard from some of the
Requesters their acknowledgement that the unified university entrance exam removed the
possibilities of corruption that was pervasive previously when each university was conducting its
own entrance exams.

71.    The MOES also recognized in its note that the internal quality assurance systems are still
under development, acknowledging the critical importance of quality assurance issues and the
need for a longer time period to achieve noteworthy results

72.     A key issue regarding the Requester’s concern about governance was the composition of
the ANQA Board. In their view, the very institution that is intended to assure quality is unable to
do so in that as currently constituted, the Prime Minister (PM) is the President of the Board of
Trustees, which impacts the independence and credibility of ANQA’s accreditation process. This
point was fully recognized by the ANQA representative during the meeting with the Panel, who
held the view that the PM’s chairing of the ANQA Board during the transitional stage was
desirable in order to ensure that state universities pass through the quality assurance review
procedures. Furthermore, the ANQA representative recognized that this goes against the
established European standard and will prevent further progress with the Bologna process; thus

63
     MR, p. 14, para. 26, section (iii).
64
     Addressing Governance at the Center of Higher Education Reform in Armenia, January 2013

                                                             15
changes will have to be made. At the same time, it was explained that ANQA has a diversified
set of governing bodies for accreditation, with checks and balances that provide assurances that
the accreditation committee will act independently from the Board.

73.    Now that ANQA is more strongly established, and 15 universities have gone through the
accreditation process, the ANQA representative noted that changes can be made to further
improve its functioning and governance.

74.     Consultation. While the Requesters state that the beneficiary and public feedback was
ignored both during the implementation and assessment of the project, Management maintains
that close contact was maintained and extensive consultations with various stakeholders have
taken place, and states that the feedback received was taken into account. In addition, a series of
analytical studies were disseminated and discussed in country in May 2013. 65 Annex 3 of the
Management Response lists a series of consultations that were carried based on the Bank’s
analytical studies, as well as consultations in preparation of EIP.

75.     Monitoring and Supervision. According to the Requesters, the main focus of EIP is on
refurbishing school buildings rather than addressing the shortcoming of the previous program,
and poses a threat of great harm to the education system of the whole country. In their view, any
new loan of the World Bank must consider the problems of a previous loan program and thus
address those issues.

76.     With regard to OP/BP 13.05 (Supervision), Management asserts that the Projects have
been supervised according to the requirements of the policy. Management also asserts that the
Projects are anchored in country policy/sector analysis; and reflect lessons learned from the
Bank’s experience, as required by OP/BP 10.00 (Investment Lending) Management also attaches
an Annex listing how they had applied lessons from previous Projects and international
experience into consideration. Management states that OP/BP 8.60 (Development Policy
Lending) and OP 13.60 (Monitoring and Evaluation) are not applicable to the Projects.
Management states that Policy on Monitoring and Evaluation, OP 13.60, establishes the
requirements for results-oriented monitoring and evaluation, but does not include obligations at
the project level.

77.    While the Panel agrees with Management that OP/BP 8.60 is not applicable to the
Projects, the Panel does not share Management’s view on the application of OP 13.60 on
Monitoring and Evaluation. In accordance with this Policy, the Bank needs to monitor and
evaluate its projects to assess the extent to which its efforts and those of borrowers are making
progress toward the objective of reducing poverty and achieving sustainable growth. 66
Management lists actions being undertaken under the monitoring system currently in place on
p.32 of the Management Response. The Panel trusts that this monitoring system is being
implemented in order to meet the continuing challenges of the sector.




65
     MR, p. 18, para 28, section (i).


                                                16
F.       Panel’s Analysis

78.     According to the Resolution, the Panel’s mandate is to review Requests alleging that the
rights or interests of the Requesters “have been or are likely to be directly affected by an action
or omission of the Bank as a result of a failure of the Bank to follow its operational policies and
procedures with respect to the design, appraisal and/or implementation of a project financed by
the Bank.”

79.     In making its recommendation on whether an investigation of the claims raised in the
Request is warranted the Panel considers, in addition to the technical eligibility criteria discussed
in Section E above, the following factors:

       i. Whether there is a plausible causal link between the harm alleged in the Request and
          the Project,
      ii. Whether the alleged harm and possible non-compliance by the Bank with its
          operational policies and procedures may be of a serious character,
     iii. Whether Management, in the Panel’s view, has dealt appropriately with the issues
          raised in the Request and demonstrated clearly that it has followed the required policies
          and procedures, or Management acknowledged that it did not comply with relevant
          policies and procedures, and
     iv. Whether Management has provided a statement of specific remedial actions, and
          whether, in the judgment of the Panel and taking into account the view of the
          Requesters, these proposed remedial actions may adequately address the matters raised
          by the Request.

Points iii and iv above do not apply in this case.

80.     During its meetings with the Requesters, the Panel had the opportunity to hear concerns
regarding the education reform process from different stakeholders, ranging from parents,
students, civil society representatives looking at the various aspects of education, and university
professors. They all spoke very passionately about their hopes for reform that can guarantee
better quality of education for their children and the future of their country. Parents in particular,
who experience on a daily basis the challenges of providing a good education, alongside their
children, expressed their frustration about the education system they view as flawed and not
improving. This perception is apparently widely held; the Panel notes that in the UNDP “Social
Cohesion Study” of 2011, some 65% respondents felt that education is worse than 25 years ago,
40% worse than 5 years ago. 67

81.    Management, in its Response, stated that "the Bank has been informed that the
government remains committed to continue with the long-term reform agenda…" 68 The Panel
has noted the Minister’s repeated statements recognizing some of the challenges, but adding the
need for a longer time frame required to achieve all the necessary changes.

67
   Slide 6, 2011 Social Cohesion Survey CRRC-Armenia, UNDP:
http://www.crrc.am/hosting/file/_static_content/projects/social_cohesion_survey/CRRC_UNDP_SocialCohesion%20Presentation
_English.pdf
68
   MR, p. 13, para. 25.

                                                          17
82.     The Panel notes that the issues raised by the Requesters in their submission to the Panel
are serious, legitimate concerns of citizens about the content and directions of reforms in
education that is absolutely critical to the future of Armenian children, and therefore of Armenia.
Management, in its Response, indicated that they share some of the critical concerns elaborated
in the complaint. In the Panel’s view, the allegations of harm are thus of a serious character.

83.    Notwithstanding these considerations, and after careful review of the Request, the
Management Response, and taking into account the information gathered during the visit to
Armenia, the Panel is unable to establish that the concerns raised by the Requesters, although
legitimate, can be considered as instances of material harm that may have resulted from a failure
of the Bank to follow its Operational Policies and Procedures with respect to the design,
appraisal and/or implementation of the Projects financed by the Bank.

84.     In the Panel’s view, the Requesters’ claims point to systemic weaknesses of the education
sector in Armenia that the Projects indeed were designed and aimed to address, and the Panel
does not consider them as harms resulting from the Projects. 69 Moreover, an in depth analysis by
the Panel of the results achieved by the reforms with support of the Projects would amount to an
evaluation review that goes beyond the purview of the Panel’s role and mandate.


G.        Recommendation

85.    In light of the foregoing the Panel does not recommend an investigation into the matters
alleged in the Request.

86.    The Panel appreciates Management’s statement that it intends to verify and review the
claims related to gender issues and related insensitivities, and to include them in its policy
dialogue with the Borrower.




69
   During the Panel’s meeting with one of the Requesters, it was mentioned in connection with the issue of undue religious
influence in textbooks that while the issue was not directly linked to the World Bank, if the Bank was financing reform, then it
should address the issue. This also does not constitute harm resulting from the Project, as per the Panel’s Resolution.


                                                                18
ANNEX I
Date: May 16, 2014

To: Executive Secretary, the Inspection Panel
1818 H Street NW, MSN 10-1007, Washington, DC 20433, USA



Who we are:
N.B. We do not authorize you to disclose our identities.
Subject of the Claim

On March 13, 2014, the World Bank Board of Executive Directors approved a US$30 million
financing for the Education Improvement Program in Armenia. 1 This financing continues two previous
               2
loan programs and is supposed to build on the latest program, the 2009-2013 Education Quality and
Relevance II Loan Program.

We started working on this Claim before the approval of the Education Improvement Program in
Armenia with the purpose of postponing its approval and initiating a revision of the scope and purpose
of the proposed financing. Our analysis indicates that the Education Quality and Relevance II Loan
Program resulted in substantial harm to the Armenian education system, particularly in the areas of
accountability, governance, quality, and accessibility.

We, all the above signed, believe that the main directions of the Education Improvement Program in
Armenia loan project are designed in such a way as not to address failures of the previous program
and pose a threat of greater harm to the education system of the whole country and hence each and
every one of us.

Simultaneously, among the signatories of this claim there are people who are immediately affected
by the harmful effects we identify below. Namely, there are those whose career is harmed because of
the created and supported governace structure where lack of academic freedom and multiple layers
of conflicts of interest are not conducive to the right to critical thinking in research and teaching.
There are others, who were simply fired for ideological reasons. There are parents who had to move
children to private schools, hire tutors as the high school in its form is not suited to provide adequate
education for future higher learning and career (see Attachment).

It is important to note that the individual cases are reflection of systemic problems that we prioritize
given the nature of our organizations' missions. The need for additional tutoring even for best students
is so widespread that the children admitted to universities without private expensive tutoring are
exceptions rather than a norm

To support the statement, a blitz survey conducted among 95 first and second-year students (i.e.
graduates of newly established high school) of one department of Yerevan State University showed that
only 4 of them had not had additional tutoring. That is only 1% of all graduates were able to continue
higher education at the university with knowledge and skills gained in the high school.

We believe the new financing in its curren.t scope and form does not properly account for the vast
governance and accountability problems in Armenia's education s~ctor and would exacerbate the harm
caused by the previous loan rather than improve the quality of and access to education in Armenia.

We believe any new loan needs to take into account the problems with the previous loan program.
Simultaneously in view of existing governance inadequacies demonstrated in dubious and conflicting
legislative and regulatory frameworks and numerous obvious conflicts of interests (institutional, not
personal) at the highest levels of governance, certain preconditions need to be established to satisfy
minimal accountability standards before the World Bank moves forward with any new financing.



1
  The project will support the improvement of school readiness for children entering primary education and the physical conditions in
upper-secondary schools. It will also promote greater links between higher education institutions and labor market in Armenia. Retrieved
from http://www.worldbank. org/en/news/press-release/20 14/03/ 13/world-bank-supports-improvements-in-education-in-armenia
2
  Education Quality and Relevance I Loan Program, World Bank, 2003-2009. Education Quality and Relevance II Loan Program. World
Bank 2009-2013.
    We presented our facts and analyses to senior World Bank staff in both Yerevan and in Washington
    DC 3 .
r


    The fact that the World Bank unconditionally approved the new program is particularly surprising
    given that the Bank's own assessment4 of the previous project concluded that in Armenia there are vast
    and systemic problems with education governance that hamper any potential for improvement. The
    World Bank's assessment alone, even without other credible supporting research commissioned by
    OSF Armenia, 5 provided conclusive evidence that the objectives of the previous financing had not been
    achieved and that these failures posed risks for further improvement.

    A detailed chart below specifies how concrete deliverables were not attained and the particular failures
    of the World Bank procedures in relations to each objective thatwe believe was not achieved (Chart 1).

    In general, both the World Bank's and above noted outside researchers identified the main systemic
    problems that caused stagnation of the reform process and degradation of the quality and equity of the
    tertiary education system, including its key aspects - learning and teaching, research, relevance to the
    economy, relevance to the needs of a democratic society and sustainability. These flaws are: poor
    governance and quality assurance, inadequate financing and overly-tight political control and a
    resultant lack of academic freedom. It is our contention that without a serious effort to address these
    problems in advance the World Bank's plan to support research through selected university grants will
    not contribute to improving Armenian universities' research capabilities or their sustainability (from
    either the financial or credibility points of view), development or contribution to industry and the labor
    market.

    While quality assurance was a major component of the previous WB education project, the
    Central European University's Higher Education Observatory reports that higher education reforms in
    Armenia have not had a significant impact on the quality of teaching and learning in higher education,
    or on the content and substance of administrative or governance practices in the field. 6 Moreover, the
    overall impact of the quality assurance reforms has not been positive; instead quality assurance changes
    are carefully and fully controlled by the government and ruling political party with no dialogue or
    consultation possible among relevant stakeholders. 7 Disingenuous quality control is exercised by the
    state with no nationally defined performance indicators or a comprehensive database to monitor and
    evaluate higher educational institutions' (HEis) performance. 8 Both the CEU's and the World Bank's
    own reports strongly emphasize the pernicious practice of the government directly influencing higher
    education governance by appointing a majority of the members of HEis' governing Councils. 9 The
    reports further highlight systemic problems pertaining to conflicts of interest in the governing of HEis,
    widespread .corruption, and nepotism in the field. 10 Quality assurance reforms have been carefully
    controlled, designed and carried out bureaucratically in a purely top-down manner, and are therefore


    3
       Meeting with Mr. Jean-Michelle Happi, Country Director, World Bank Armenia office in November 2013. Official correspondence to
    Mr. Happi following the meeting dated December 9, 2013. Meetings with education team, Armenian ED's office and a round-table
    presentation at the the World Bank Washington office in DC, February 2014.
    4
       Kataoka,S; Shahverdyan, A; Harutyunyan, H. 2013 . Addressing Governance at the Center of Higher Education Reforms in Armenia.
    Washington DC. World Bank. Retrieved from http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/20 13/0 1117748657/addressing-govemance-
    center-higher-education-reforms-armenia
    5
        Matei, L., Iwinska, J. & Geven, K. 2013 . Higher Education in Armenia Today: a focused review. CEU Higher Education Observatory.
    Budapest.
    6
       Matei, L., Iwinska, J. & Geven, K. 2013 . Higher Education in Armenia Today: a focused review. CEU Higher Education Observatory.
    Budapest. Pp 9-11.
    7
       Ibid page II .
    8
       Kataoka,S; Shahverdyan, A; Harutyunyan, H. 2013. Addressing Governance at the Center of Higher Education Reforms in Armenia.
    Washington DC. World Bank .Page 17.
    9
      . Matei, L., Iwinska, J. & Geven, K. 2013.Pp. 11 , 12-14.Kataoka,S; Shahverdyan, A; Harutyunyan, H. 2013 . Pp. 24-9.
    1
        °
        Kataoka,S; Shahverdyan, A; Harutyunyan, H. 2013 . Pp.4, 12. Matei, L., Jwinska, J. & Geven, K 2013. Pp. 3, 24
met with distrust if not open opposition and simply lack of understanding by most intended
             11
beneficiaries , eventually resulting in poor quality reform of higher education in Armenia.

An additional obstacle to quality-based higher education is created by poor financing schemes in the
field. Successful reform of existing financing mechanisms, which the government has already
committed to implement, will require not only effective allocation of available funding, but a
substantial increase in total public funding for higher education. In that case reforms can be expected to
have a measurable impact on the quality and competitiveness of higher education. 12 This will only be
possible when there is a broad public consensus on the direction of the reforms and trust in HE
governace.

Another significant structural problem is the overly tight political control of the sector. The reports
by CEU and the World Bank indicate identical channels and means through which exaggerated and
severely counterproductive control over higher education institutions is exercised. Regulatory
ambiguity is consistently mentioned as a factor that allows state control over universities. 13 Moreover,
the 2002 Charter of the Ministry of Education and Science establishes that the state is nominally in
control of universities despite the fact that the proportion of funds allocated to the sector by the state is
very limited. 14

Regarding secondary education - and particularly high school development as planned by the new
loan- there are equally strong arguments against the unconditional new funding. The government and
the ruling party (Armenian Republican Party) assert political control of the sector throufh control over
the appointment of school principals 15 , the composition of school governing bodies 1 and financing
mechanisms. 17 Secondary educational institutions and their employees serve as an important
administrative resource that is systematically and vastly abused for political ends during elections. 18

The system of student aptitude evaluation is-hugely problematic in principle and provides conflicting or
even mutually exclusive results for student learning and skills evaluation. It does not enjoy broad
support and trust among either the public or professional educators, a fact amply demonstrated by
expert interviews and research.

Below in Chart 2 we present in greater detail problematic issues that arose during the implementation
of the previous loan and failures by the World Bank to address underperformance and the causes that
hampered development.



11
     Matei, L., Iwinska, 1. & Geven, K. 2013. Pp. 7, II , 15-16.
     •
12
    Kataoka, S.; Shahverdyan, A.; Harutyunyan, H. 2013. P. 23.
13
    Kataoka, S.; Shahverdyan, A.; Harutyunyan, H. 2013. Pp. 8-10. Matei, L., lwinska, J. & Geven, K. . 2013. P. 13.
14
   • Matei, L., Iwinska, J. & Geven, K. 2013. P. 13, 25.
15
    According to largest Shirak marz data 70% of principals are of ruling Republican party. Policy Forum Armenia.2013. Corruption in
Armenia. p31. Accessible from : http://www.pf-armenia.org/document/corruption-armenia
16
    School boards are composed of 8 members, 4 of which are representatives of executive and/or local government. The responsibility of
School Boards is selection of school principal, financial decisions, approval of suggestions on procurement/alienation of school property,
etc. Despite the fact that school principals are selected by the School Boards, contracts with them are processed and signed by supervising
body (marzpetaran or Yerevan municipality). Current way of Board composition gives the executive full control over decisions. Most of
school Boards are chaired by high level officials from marzpetarans or Yerevan municipality.
17
    Per-capita funding mechanism is not based on the measurement of necessary costs needed to ensure quality education of each student.
As a measuring principle in educational service provision no quality based criteria are taken into account. Instead, each year available
amount for secondary education is mechanically distributed amongst existing schools based on the formula developed and approved by
the Ministry of Finances and the Ministry of Education. No clear methodology of these allocations is available, nor a content based list
specifying costs associated with each students' educational needs. There is no comparative data on how existing financial mechanisms
contribute to and correlate with the achievements of the state education standards and objectives.
18
   Republic of Armenia Parliamentary Elections. 2012. OSCE/ODIHR Election Observation Mission. Final Report. Warsaw. pl2.
Republic of Armenia Presidential Elections 2013. OSCE/ODIHR Election Observation Mission. Final Report. Warsaw. pp 12-13.
Observation of the Parliamentary Elections in Armenia. 2012. Council ofEurope.pp30-38
By not addressing systemic problems and clearly identified failures the new loan threatens to
exacerbate those and make the situation irreversible given the vast amounts that are supposed to be
spent under flowed premise of reform. While further development of the high school system is stated as
a priority in the new loan, it is limited to the physical refurbishment of a limited number of high
schools ( 17 out of the existing 102 19) and will not address the issue of quality and accessibility of high
schools. Education standards, curricula and the entire system of high school are considered as deeply
problematic by both the public and the education community. The curricula and education standards
and teachers' professional capacity are of particular concern. The failures of previous standard
development have already resulted in gender biased content of education materials and incompliance of
civic education with human rights standards and Toledo principles? 0 Along with gender insensitive
content and the constant messaging of traditional gender stereotypes, the teacher's deeply biased
attitude is particularly damaging for developing the notion of gender equality in youth during their
formative years. The level of bias is well demonstrated in a survey on gender socialization among
teachers according to which a majority of teachers strive to instill docility and modesty in girls and
leadership in boys. Equally troubling is their statement that the educational benchmarks they presume
for boys and girls are different with the boys being held to higher standards, with a justification that
they need education more than girls 21 •

This is in a country where the number of women with higher education has been greater than men for
decades and women in technical and scientific specialties constituted almost half of workforce as
recently as ten years ago.

The process by which the standards, the curricula and syllabus are reformed needs to become open and
transparent; the benchmarks must exclude the possibility of propaganda of gender bias and
discriminatory behaviors. Yet, there is no such guarantee as the same process that had created the
problems is supported through the new loan.

In the two charts below we present major points of concern regarding implementation of the previous
education versus its stated objectives and deliverables. We also underline particular failure of the WB
procedures that contributed to unsatisfactory implementation/result, specifically meaning two things:
firstly, the failure to properly identify some of the outlined systemic and damaging problems through
proper assessment and hence address them in a timely manner; and secondly, most importantly, when a
large number of systemic problems ranging from conflicts of interests, breaching of academic
independence and integrity to abundant executive control over the education, had been identified and
reported within the WB assessment, failure to not address those in any manner that the harm is
minimized and the problems are resolved. Moreover, the problems being systemic and far-reaching into
all aspects of governance and quality assurance inadvertently endanger any future support, whereas the
World Bank approved the new financing without any reference to the problems and attempt to correct
the wrongs.




19
   Total number of general education institutions in Armenia in 2013-2014. http ://stat.armedu.am/?section=content&id=2&year=20 13
20
   Tsaturyan, R.20 13. Gender Based Stereotypes in Pedagogical Domain. Yerevan. Accessible from http ://www.osf.am/wp-
content/uploads/2014/0I/Policy paper Ruzanna Tsaturyan.pdf; Hovhannisyan. H, .Davtyan, A. 2013.,Content Analysis of Armenian
Church History Textbooks'. Yerevan. Accessible from http://www.osf.am/programs/policy-fellowship-initiative/policy-papers/?lang=am
21
   According to the survey, for 96% of teachers, courage, determination and industriousness are among instilled characteristics for boys;
whereas modesty and patjence should be instilled in girls according to 94% of the same teachers. Also 66% of teachers consider boys
more capable than girls, while 68% of teachers consider girls to be obedient and modest. Gevorgyan. H. ed. 2011. The Mosaics of Gender
Relations. pp35-37.
Suggestions to the WB

   •   Suspend implementation of the newly approved financing for education. Initiate thorough
       revision of the project with genuine involvement of local education commun~ty, public policy
       experts in design and consultation process.
   •   Condition the WB support upon elimination of conflict of interest, government representation
       and political control in higher education governance through resignations of high ranking
       officials (i.e. the president, the prime minister, etc.) from university governing boards,
       establishment of periodic public reporting mechanisms and separation of political and
       educational spheres via internal university regulations.
   •   Use clearly defined conditionality tools while working with the Armenian Government. The
       main conditionality tool in the given context is the reform of the legislative framework to the
       effect of guaranteeing freedom and independence of HEis in accordance with the requirements
       of Armenian Constitution and the Law on Education. Particular legal norms include: SNCO law
       that allows exercise of undue executive control over university financial management,
       university board governance and management, government Decree that allows appointment of
       political figures and government officials as board chairs and majority representation in the
       university governance.
   •   In addition to institutional enhancement of internal quality assurance, address internal quality
       improvement in practice based on clear measurement tools, such as number of internationally
       competitive research projects and research outcomes by the faculty and students, random
       sampling of academic papers written by faculty and students and checking of those against
       criteria of academic honesty, practice of academic freedoms, continuous and holistic plan of the
       training of faculty and staff, etc.
   •   In consultation with a wide scope .of beneficiaries design quality measurement tools of
       specialized high school staff, its professional capacity, school facilities, and access to high
       schools in support of high school reform. Design further WB support to high school reform
       based on the measurement.
   •   Prior to deciding main directions of WB support, create a platform where wide circles of
       beneficiaries will come to reflect upon the directions and means of reform implementation
       consecutively contributing to the popularization of the education reform agenda itself.
            Chart 1. Tertiary Education components of the WB Second Loan with described harms and bank procedure failures

Description of the Bank               Harm                                                                                     Failure of the bank procedures
Loan component
1. Establishment and                  In our assessment (coinciding with the WB's conclusion) the newly                       The Bank failed to address the
Strengthening     of the              established institution, Armenian National Quality Assurance                            identified problems to the borrower
National            Quality           Agency allows for political control mechanisms and lack of integrity                    to     resolve   them.     Moreover,
Assurance System                      in the system. It does not meet standards for independence and its                      establishment     of ANQA         is
The main goal of the sub-             scope of authority is insufficient to fulfill its mission both per                      considered as a major achievement
component is to establish             European standards and versus its own charter.                                          of the loan project, despite its
National            Quality                                                                                                   criticism by the Bank itself.
Assurance System of                   Details:
Higher Education, as well             Established in 2008 Armenian National Quality Assurance Agency                          Details:
as        support       the           (ANQA) functions a consu.tative body for external quality                               ENQA principles, ANQA own
establishment          and            assurance. There are serious irregularities in its mission,                             mission statement have been
strengthening      of    its          composition and functions. The mission of ANQA is stated in its                         identified by the Bank as
capacity.    Two      major           Strategic Charter22 as "independent from the RA Government and                          undermining the credibility of the
components      will     be           accreditation subject institutions". However, it is neither                             agency.
supported:                a)          independent nor has the accreditation authority, but is rather
establishment or external             consultative to the Armenian government. Moreover, it is chaired by
quality assurance in line             the Prime Minister, who in his tum is the board chair of the
with     QA     principles            Armenian State Pedagogical University. Moreover, ANQA is a
under           European              consultative body only and the final decision on accreditation lies
standards, support to                 with the Government. Additionally, ANQA is an associate. member
the establishment and                 of ENQA and aspires for its full membership. However, the level of
functioning of ANQA                   political control in its composition and failure to adhere to the
according       to      the           external quality assurance principles are major violations in the
government charter and                functions of the Agency. Namely, the principle of independence as
its capacity building                 defined in the Standards and Guidelines for Quality Assurance in
                                      European Higher Education Area, as "Agencies should be
                                      independent to the extent both that they have autonomous
                                      responsibility for their operations and that the conclusions and
22
     ANQA Strategic Plan 2010-2015. PI!. Retrieved from: http://www.picga.org/en!Portals/O/PicqaFiles/1 .2%20ANOA Transitional Period strategic plan.pdf
                                   recommendations made in their reports cannot be influenced by
                                   third parties such as higher education institutions, ministries or other
                                   stakeholders" 23 . This has also been commented in the ENQA report
                                   of ANQA's work in November 2013, where the direct conflict of
                                   interest, lack of authority to make accreditation decisions and
                                   coaching work have been mentioned as diverted from main mission
                                   of an independent external accreditation agencl4 •
b)     Internal     quality        The current set up of university governance is regulated through                         Despite own assessment of the
assurance system with              ambiguous legal documents that allows overrepresentation of                              tertiary sector governance issues
policies and procedures            political entities in various ways into both education content and                       and irregularities, failure to make
for internal mechanisms,           management, and uses as a tool for political/ideological control,                        corresponding changes in program
and establishment of QA            brings to top down reform implementation, non-inclusive                                  design/concept and continuing to
units in universities              approaches for academic community.                                                       fund fragmented components that
                                                                                                                            have little likelihood to sustain the
Outcomes:                                                                                                                   system.
Strengthened   capacities          Details:
of ANQA, MoES Higher               The governance boards of state universities, state education agencies                    To address qualitative, in additional
Education and Licensing            are represented by government officials, MPs, and by the                                 to quantitative, measurement in
Departments, HEis;                 administration of the President at the level of no less than 50%. 25                     Program Result Report and make
                                   Universities are managed by Law on Education, Law on Higher and                          adjustments for future activities.
Ensuring day-to- day               Postgraduate Education, Law on State Non Commercial                                      Details:
effective operation of             Orgaillzations, which are in direct contradiction with one another                       The internal QA centers supported
newly        established           and allow for interventions by the state over their finances,                            by the Bank program only
bodies(ANQA, IQA units             management appointments, specializations, and admissions. Such                           structurally follow the policies and
in HE Is) in accordance            intervention is in itself anti-constitutional                                            procedures on formal            level.
with     the    Bologna            The establishment of internal QA units was mostly done at formal                         Whereas the goal is on the



23
   Standards and Guidelines for Quality Assurance in European Higher Education Area.p25.Retrived from: http://www.enga.eu/wp-content/uploads/2013/06/ESG 3edition-2.pdf
24
   http://www.anga.am/argata/Portals/O    /documents/ANOA%20Reports/ANOA %20Proof"/o20Review"/o20Pane1Report%2028.11.13.F1NAL.pdf
25
   The full list is available in Kataoka, Sachiko; Shahverdyan, Anush; Harutyunyan, Hovhannes. 2013. Addressing governance at the center of higher education reforms in
Armenia Washington DC. World Bank. Retrieved from http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/20 13/0 1/ 17748657/addressing-governance-center-higher-education-reforms-
armenia
objectives;                           level with little capacity and internalization of the required tasks.                      development of internal QA
                                      A status report on Bologna in 2012 shows that 56% of universities                          mechanisms, the measurement for
Establishment         and             do not have a QA concept for their university developmene6 .                               this is only done through the
strengthening           of            Moreover, the report shows only 18% of universities in Armenia                             number of QA units established.
internationally compatible            develop important documents in consultation with faculty and mid-                          However,        the    quantitative
Quality Assurance system              management, which shows that these papers are developed in                                 indicators cannot be considered as
in Armenia.                           narrow circles, do not reflect needs of practitioners and are not                          measuring the quality system and
                                      brought down to this level.                                                                quality per se.

2.                                    Constraints in financial autonomy, control over university finances       Key risks were identified with
a)        Designing       a           restrict universities and fragmented funding for research and             re.commendations to the country
sustainable strategy for              modernization cannot assist in ensuring sustainable funding system,       government to resolve them,
public financing of HE                especially considering decreasing public expenditure on education.        however no actions were taken
with     components      of                                                                                     other than "closing eyes" on the
legislative changes for the           Details: The financing strategy does not address the decrease in the risks.
implementation of the                 public spending and does not offer ways for universities to engage in
higher education financing                               due to legal framework regulating the finances of
                                      various activities -
strategy's                            universities27 . The state controls directly the budget of state Details: Situation with governance
recommendations;                      universities, despite the fact that the proportion of state allocation is and funding principles was assessed
financing new methods                 very limited. State universities receive only between about 9 and as a major problem with the higher
and            mechanisms;            30% of their budgets from the state; the rest of their funding comes education sector. Despite own
expansion of students'                from student tuition fees 28 • The latest Medium Term Expenditure assessment, the Bank bypasses this
financial     aid;  proper            Framework 2012-2014 indicates that total education spending will situation and directs funding into
pricing      policy    and            continue declining in the next three years down to 2.6 percent of compartmentalized sector, which
methodology of tuition fee            GDP, placing Armenia back to among one of the lowest education given the current situation cannot
formation                             spending countries in the region.                                         soar.

b)     Designing     a Details: Absence of research and complete separation of research
competitive innovation and teaching is one of the major shortcomings of education system.
fund                   Not only do universities disregard the ipl}JOrtance of research, but

26
     Current Status of Bologna Reforms in Armenia. 2012. National Center for Strategic Research in Higher Education. (report available in Armenian only)
27
     Kataoka, S.; Shahverdyan, A., Harutyunyan, H.. 2013 . Addressing governance at the center of higher education reforms in Armenia. Washington DC. World Bank.
28
     Formulating the Financing Principles and Exploring Alternative Financial Mechanisms for Armenian Tertiary Education. 2008. CHEPS.
 to develop and implement            also do not create favorable conditions for faculty to participate in
innovative       plans    for        international programs and engage in research. The above
modernizing             their        mentioned control mechanisms undermine academic independence
curriculum               and         vital for credibility and sustainability of any research and scientific
pedagogical         methods,         endeavor. Reports on how these control levers have been used to
develop ECTS, build their            ban "politically incorrect" research projects even at the level of
fund-raising        capacity,        approval of topics are abundant. This makes competitive faculty
create      linkages    with         leave universities and/or adjusts to antiscientific standards. The
industry, and engage in              presence of research is a necessary condition for attracting
international cooperation            competitive faculty, who otherwise prefer to leave the sector.
activities.                          Simultaneously, limited public funding for research (0.2 % of GDP)
Outcomes:                            is primarily allocated to the Academy of Sciences, limiting
 - Higher          education         university research capacities. However, the major problem with the
     sustainable financing           component is that apart from lack of funding, there are no
     strategy                        mechanisms for research development in universities 29 . Jhis is
 - Appropriate                       explained by the extreme workload for faculty/researchers, little
     documents            for        resource available for full-fledge research, control over financial
     designing CIF and               transactions, and incomplete internal mechanisms and contradictions
     legislative documents           to various policies and practices that bottleneck the autonomy of
     package              for .      universities.
     submitting            to
     approval




29
     Matei. L.., Iwinska J., Geven K. Higher Education in Armenia Today: a focused review. Budapest 2013. CEU Higher Education Observatory
   Chart 2. Enhancing General Education Component with harms and failures for bank procedures


What is bank loan component       Harm                                                                                                Failure of the Bank procedures
Component 1                      • High schools are largely inaccessible for students from rural areas.
Enhancing the Quality of Hundred and two out of hundred and nine                      high schools are                               • Bank failed in setting proper
General Education                  located in cities and only seven - in rural areas30 . In rural areas                                monitoring and self-evaluation
                                   there are still schools that work based on 12- year curriculum                                      indicators for EQRP2 and relied
Subcomponent 4.                    which is not designed and does not provide specialization. 31 These                                 on the borrower's M&E system
Supporting the Implementation      schools are not able to comply with the government's plan to                                        (OP 13.60, point 4.) and reporting.
of High School Reform              transfer to credit system in high school courses. Thus graduates of                                 Irrelevant baseline data were
                                   high schools will have double advantage over those in 12-year                                       considered for measuring the
Goal:                              curricula schools. Given higher rates of poverty and vulnerability                                  progress of EQRP2.
Increasing the education quality   in rural areas, as well as professionally and technically lower                                   • The factual challenges of the high
and relevance in high schools      capacities of these schools compared to urban ones, the                                             school reform were not taken into
and       establishment      and   disadvantage is much greater and the risks for further limiting                                     account during the development
improvement of the high school     access to higher education is growing higher.                                                       stage of the new Education
network by assisting in:         • The existing per-capita financing mechanism does not ensure                                         Improvement Project (Pl30182),
                                   allocation of the relevant financial resources for provision of                                     while the Bank Procedure, defines
-         Organization        of quality streaming education in high school. Students and parents                                      that "During appraisal, the task
teaching/learning process in       still have to take private tutor classes for preparation to the final                               team assesses the adequacy of
streams.                           un1.fi
                                        1ed/admiSSion
                                                . . exams. 32
                                                                                                                                       the proposed program to
- Creation of methodological • Content analysis of school textbooks shows that asymmetric                                              achieve its stated objectives."
structure, curriculum, teaching    representation of gender roles prevails. Male and female                                            (BP 8.60, point 6).
and learning materials for the     characteristics, roles, attributes, professions are created and                                   • The beneficiary and public
HSs according to the diversified   reproduced through images and texts. Discriminatory norms and                                       feedback was ignored both during
streams.                           perceptions are widely promoted both in textbooks, teaching                                         the implementation, monitoring
- Raising the professional level   process, and teachers' attitude. By the decree of the Minister of                                   and assessment of the EQRP2
   30
      Distribution of general education institutions in Armenia in 2013-2014 per educational programs available in urban and rural areas
   http://stat.armedu.am/?section=content& id=63&year=20 13
   31
      Total number of general education institutions in Armenia in 2013-14 per available implemented educational programs
   http://stat.armedu.am/?section=content&id=2&year=2013
   32
      Report on the State Policy on General Education Financing. 2014. Community Finance Officers' Association. Available at http://www.osf.am/wp-
   content/uploads/20 13/ !!/State-Pol icy-on-General-Education-Financing. pdf
of high school teachers                     Education, the class for the subject of Technology should be                                results and development of new
                                            divided into groups based on gender. For each group there is                                Education Improvement Project,
                                            separate curriculum. About 30% of textbook themes are general                               while     according   to    the
                                            and are meant for both girls and boys. Other themes are gender                              procedure (OP13.60) in addition
                                            specific and are meant for differentiated teaching for boys and                             to working with borrower, the
                                            girls (e.g. the section on culinary, food security and nutrition is                         Bank should "work with other
                                            taught only to girls, so · is the section on aesthetics, whereas the                        development partners to agree
                                            section on construction is taught to boys only). This is justified by                       on the results expected from
                                            further professional specialization for males and females, which                            development activities and to
                                            does not provide a comprehensive development of individuals as                              harmonize     the   monitoring,
                                            specified in the standard and goal of the subject program33 .                               reporting,    and    evaluation
                                          • Development of subject standard for the Armenian Church History                             requirements".
                                            is singlehandedly controlled and supervised by Armenian
                                            Apostolic Church through its Center for Christian Education and
                                            Propaganda. During the teaching process the doctrine of the
                                            Armenian Apostolic Church is preached. Discrimination and ill
                                            treatment are widely practiced by both teachers and students
                                            towards religious minorities34 .
                                          • Substantial part of EQRP2 was aimed at the professional
                                            development and in-service teachers' trainings. Initial stated aim
                                            of the teachers' professional development was the increased
                                            quality of education, capability of using ICT technologies and e-
                                            content during the teaching process . . However, the trainings
                                            conducted based on unified content and format, which was not
                                            efficient as teachers' fsrofessional and pedagogical skill,
                                            experience and needs vary 5 .



   33
      Ruzanna Tsaturyan. (2013). Gender Based Stereotypes in Pedagogical Domain. Yerevan. For full version of the paper available here http://www.osf.am/wp-
   content/uploads/20 14/0 !/Policy paper Ruzanna Tsaturyan.pdf
   34
      Hovhannisyan. H, .Davtyan, A. 2013.Content Analysis of Armenian Church History Textbooks. Yerevan. Accessible from http://www.osf.am/wp-
   content/uploads/20 14/04/H_Hovhannisyan_ Research-.pdf
   35
      Khachatryan. S., Petrosyan. S., Terzyan. G. 2013. Assessment of Teacher Professional Development and Educational Content in the Context of General education Reforms in
   Armenia. Barev Scientific Educational NGO. Available at http://www.osf.~wp-content/uploads/2014/03/FinalENGAssessmentPDEC.pdf
Attachment

Case 1: The case shows lack of academic independence for credibility and sustainability of
research, censorship of research and politicization in academia
In 2012 I contacted the Head of Philosophy Department of National Academy of Science
and expressed my wish to write a dissertation within political philosophy field on "The solutions
of current problems in Armenia through political left". The head of the department was long
trying to convince me that this is not a right topic to take and was cynically suggesting that I
write about "The behavior of strip dancers in Armenia". Anyway, it took me three months to
discuss and negotiate with him the topic I chose and eventually he refused my suggested topic
reasoning that he was not going to help the current political opposition in Armenia. Just to note
that there is in fact no political left in Armenia and the opposition he was referring is of
neoliberal nature. Not only did the department head violate my basic rights, but he also
positioned himself politically as well as cynically. I was long trying to get a written notification
from him for rejection, but he kept refusing.

Case 2: The case is illustrative of lack of academic freedom in research, irregular
mechanisms of research within universities, political control and violation of secularity of
university.
In 2003 I was admitted as a PhD student at Armenian State Pedagogical University and in 2008 I
presented for a pre-defense my thesis paper on "Characteristics of Spiritual Education for High
School Students" and received a positive feedback on it. The public defense of my thesis was
postponed for 3 years, so for that reason it was re-submitted for another pre-defense in 2011 and
eleven months later on May 24, 2012 it was finally set. The Department of Theology at Yerevan
State University, which was wrongly selected as a leading entity, provided negative feedback on
the thesis, naming it as "something populist". This could not have been legitimate, since the
above department had no relevance to pedagogical sciences and was not entitled to provide
opinion on the thesis work. It took another 10 months to get the Department of Pedagogy of the
same university to take over as a leading entity and to provide a second opinion. This
department's opinion was largely influenced by the existing negative feedback of the first
department. Also, it was influenced by the opinion given by Reverend Father Vardan
Navasardyan, the representative of Apostolic.Church and the Director of the Center for Christian
Education. His opinion was non-scientific and should not have been taken into account for the
defense of a scientific paper either legally or ethically, however it was accepted by the academic
committee. The opponents claimed propaganda elements in the thesis without justifying their
position. On February 28, 2013 the public defense eventually took place. Seven of the twelve
members of the academic committee voted against my thesis and rejected granting me with a
degree. I should note that my work has been presented to a number of scientific institutions at the
National Academy of Sciences of Russia and the State Linguistic University of Novgorod and I
have      received      offers    to     defend       it    in    Russia     or     in     Ukraine.
In 2012 I was dismissed from my position at Armenian State Pedagogical University, which
according to the university management was in the result of reorganization of the Chair of Social
Pedagogy. I claim that the real reason behind this related to the issues of spiritual education in
my thesis that was misinterpreted by the above communities as religiosity. I keep getting hints
that the defense of my thesis work will never be possible, because I am a member of a religious
organization and the academic committee will vote against.
Case 3: This case demonstrates that due to dubious legislative field executive control over
universities is made possible
On April 6, 2012 the Rector of Yerevan State Linguistic University after Brussov received a
reprimanding letter from the Minister of Education and Science Mr. Armen Ashotyan. The
Ministe~ referred to the breach of duties and unexcused absences by the Rector whereby he,
despite the Minister's rejection, participated in a conference in Strasbourg, France from March
19 to March 23, 2012. The Rector received a second reprimand by the Minister on April 17,
2012. The same day the Minister suspended the rector's responsibilities and terminated the
employment contract.
The Rector's dismissal is a violation of RA Constitution and his labor rights. Firstly, the
university autonomy principle specified by the RA Constitution and the Law on Higher and
Postgraduate Education was violated that allowed the executive to intervene into the hiring and
firing of the university head (by the above laws such a function is prescribed to the university
governance board). The Rector's dismissal was, however, possible due to the irregular legal
framework, namely the RA Law on State Non-Commercial Institutions that regulates Armenian
universities and allows the founder, i.e., the Ministry, to appoint and dismiss rectors and board
members. This law therefore conflicts the independence of universities. Moreover, the labor right
of the Rector was violated since the termination of his duties and the contract was not done by
the relevant body, i.e. his employer. The minister is not entitled legally or practically to draw
penalties, since according to the RA Labor Code this function is vested into the employer, i.e.,
the university board.
Parents' authorization letter

Subject matter: the cases support the claim that high school as designed and supported by
the WB loan has not been realized to the extent that it does not provide minimal sufficient
learning outcomes and skills to the students to continue education at universities, which is
the main mission of the high school as stated by the Education Quality and Relevance
Second Loan Program.


We the undersigned parents - citizens of the Republic of Armenia, have suffered a significant
harm in the result of insufficient implementation of the high school reforms that were initiated
and implemented within the scope of the Education Relevance and Quality II Loan Program
funded by the World Bank. We believe that this harm is a result of World Bank's non-
compliance with its operational policies on monitoring and evaluation and improper control over
the implementation of the ERQP II. In particular:

  1. High schools, where our children study/ studied do/did not ensure provision of quality
     education services. All of us have had to either apply for additional tutoring or transfer
     children to private schools to get better quality education and preparedness to enter
     universities. We believe that our children would have never gotten quality education and
     enter the university if they had stayed at the state high schools.
  2. High schools do/did not provide for the quality streaming education that would ensure
     professional orientation for our children. High schools are not equipped with the necessary
     technical capacities and do not have proper equipped laboratories and libraries that would
     provide for the quality education. Computer classes are not fully accessible for children.
     Teachers do not use the computers during the class.
  3. The textbooks and teaching are/were of low quality. Some of textbooks, like Social
     Science textbooks for 9 to 11 grades, include discriminative norms and are gender
     insensitive. . For example, in the lOth grade textbook the hypothesis of psychologist
     U.F.Harley is given according to which there are five basic needs of men and women,
     fulfillment of which guarantees stability of marriage, while dissatisfaction of those needs
     may lead to the conflict and even to divorce. The needs of a man are in sexual satisfaction,
     rest companion, a charming woman, household management and admiration. For a woman
     the needs are expressed in tenderness, conversation, honesty and frankness, financial
     support and devotion to family. The textbook and teaching process do not provide children
     with opportunity to discuss and argue these statements. Hence there is real risk that
     children may accept them as norm and apply later in life. Another example from the same
     textbook says that "the societies, such as western ones, where women are fully involved in
     social life, tum to have a significant decrease in birth rate". Children can take the statement
     as granted and think that the only mission of women is to ensure population growth, thus
     making her reproductive function a priority in contrast to women's wish to become a fully
     integrated member of society.                                                        ·
  4. We all bear ·the harms that result from professionally unqualified teachers, their
     discriminatory attitudes and practices towards school children, unawareness of and
     incompetence in applying innovative teaching methods in classrooms. Some of the
     teachers in our schools do/did not take any action to promote interest of our children in
     particular subjects (e.g. physics) which resulted in zero motivation among children to study
     that subject.
  5. We faced the situations when teachers proposed us out-of-class private tutoring of our
     children, which in fact was the compensation for the under-taught content in the classroom.

Taking into account th~t some of our children are still enrolled in high schools, and in order to
avoid their undue discrimination or harassment, we would request the Inspection Panel and the
World Bank to keep our data in strict confidentiality.
We hereby authorize above organizations to apply to the World Bank Inspection Panel on our
behalf. In consultation with us, the above organizations will embark on compiling and submitting
the Claims to the WB and Inspection Panel.

Respectfully,

Claimants:
ANNEX II
                    MANAGEMENT RESPONSE TO
           REQUEST FOR INSPECTION PANEL REVIEW OF THE
 ARMENIA SECOND EDUCATION QUALITY AND RELEVANCE PROJECT
(P107772) AND ARMENIA EDUCATION IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (P130182)

Management has reviewed the Request for Inspection of the Armenia Second Education
Quality and Relevance Project (Pl 07772) and Armenia Education Improvement Project
(P130182), received by the Inspection Panel on May 16, 2014 and registered on June 5,
2014 (RQ14/03). Management has prepared the following response.




                                    July 7, 2014
                                                       CONTENTS

Abbreviations and Acronyms ......................................................................................... iv
Executive Summary .......................................................................................................... v
I.     INTRODUCTION .................................................................................................... 7
II.    THE REQUEST ....................................................................................................... 7
III. BACKGROUND OF THE PROJECTS ................................................................ 8
IV. MANAGEMENT'S RESPONSE .......................................................................... 10


Annexes

Annex 1. Claims and Responses
Annex 2. Lessons from Previous Bank Funded Projects in Armenia Considered in the
         Design of the EIP
Annex 3. Consultations and Due Diligence




                                                              Ill
         ABBREV IA TlONS AND ACRONYMS



ANQA      Armenian National Center for Professional Education
          Quality Assurance
APL       Adaptable Program Loan (used also to refer to Adaptable
          Program Credit)
ATC       Assessment and Testing Center
BP        Bank Procedures
CEU       Central European University
CIF       Competitive Innovation Fund
EC        European Commission
EIP       Education Improvement Project
EMIS      Education Management Information System
EMP       Environmental Management Plan
ENQA      European Association for Quality Assurance
EQRP2     Second Education Quality and Relevance Project
ESMF      Environmental and Social Management Framework
EU        European Union
FY        Fiscal Year
GDP       Gross domestic product
GIZ       Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Internationale Zusarnmenarbeit
HEI       Higher Education Institution
ICR       Implementation Completion and Results Report
ICT       Information and Communication Technologies
IDA       International Development Association
IQA       Internal Quality Assurance
Mo ES     Ministry of Education and Science
MoF       Miriistry of Finance
NIE       National Institute of Education
OP        Operational Policy
OSF       Open Society Foundations
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
POM       Project Operational Manual
QA        Quality Assurance
READ      Russian Education Aid for Development
SABER     System Assessment and Benchmarking for Education Re-
          sults
TEMIS     Tertiary Education Management Information System
TIMSS     Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study
UNICEF    United Nations Children's Fund
US AID    United States Agency for International Development




                       IV
                                  EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

The Projects

1.      The Education Improvement Project (EIP). The EIP consists of a loan of US$15
million from IBRD and a credit of US$15 million from IDA. The objectives of the EIP
are to improve school readiness of children entering primary education, improve physical
conditions and the availability of educational resources in upper secondary schools, and
support improved quality and relevance in higher education institutions in Armenia.

2.    The Second Education Quality and Relevance Project, Adaptable Program
Loan (APL) Phase 2 (EQRP2). The EQRP2 consists of a credit of US$25 million from
IDA. The objectives of the EQRP2 are to: (i) enhance school learning in general educa-
tion and improve the school readiness of children entering primary education; and (ii)
support the integration of the Armenian Tertiary Education system into the European
Higher Education Area.

The Request for Inspection

3.     On June 5, 2014, the Inspection Panel registered a Request for Inspection, IPN
Request RQ 14/03, concerning the EQRP2 and the EIP. The Request for Inspection was
submitted by nine NGOs, two students and five parents from Armenia who requested to
keep their identities confidential.

4.       The Request alleges that the two Bank financed operations fail to address what
the Requesters view as the key issues in the higher education system in Armenia, includ-
ing: (i) poor governance and corruption in the Armenian National Center for Professional
Education Quality Assurance (ANQA); (ii) inadequate financing; (iii) overly-tight politi-
cal control; and (iv) lack of academic freedom. The Request further alleges, similarly,
that the two Bank operations fail to address systemic issues in secondary education, in-
cluding, (i) political control of the sector by the government; (ii) weak student evaluation;
(iii) putting rural students at a disadvantage; (iv) ineffective teacher training; (v) lack of
transparency in curricular and syllabus design, leading to gender bias and discriminatory
behavior; and (vi) discrimination against religious minorities. The Request also alleges
that there was a lack of consultations during project preparation as well as inadequate in-
corporation of lessons learned from the previous education project~. As a result of this,
the Requesters claim that the projects "pose[s} a threat of greater harm to the education
system of the whole country and hence each and every one of us."

Management's Response

5.      Management does not believe that the Request meets the eligibility criteria. In
Management's view, the Requesters are not able to demonstrate that their rights or inter-
ests have been or are likely to be adversely affected by the projects as required by the
Panel Resolution. Furthermore, Management disagrees that the alleged adverse impacts
cited in the Request result from the two Bank-supported projects.




                                              v
6.      Management notes that the Request/or Inspection is primarily about broad is-
sues in the education system in Armenia and that the description of the alleged poten-
tial harm consists of existing shortcomings to the system in general, neither specific to
nor resulting from the two Bank-financed projects. In Management's view the claims of
harm presented in the Request for Inspection: (1) do not relate to the Bank-supported op-
erations, but rather to (i) existing conditions in the Armenian education system (quality of
higher and secondary education, quality of teachers, urban/rural distribution of schools,
quality of text books), and (ii) issues around government or church influence in the edu-
cation sector; and (2) are generally based on the assumption that Bank support granted
under an operation amounts to the Bank' s endorsement of and responsibility for every
issue in the respective sector. The Requesters also suggest that sector issues that are not
addressed by the Bank-supported projects would constitute harm caused by the projects.

7.      In Management's view the Request/or Inspection is about the Requesters' de-
sign preferences for the projects as well as a view that Bank support should be offered
only when the education sector is performing well In the Requesters' view, the projects
cannot achieve adequate progress under the current situation, and the Bank therefore
should not support the education sector in Armenia but rather exit and create precondi-
tions for reengagement. The Requesters also present a list of suggested actions for the
Bank to take in this regard. These are presented in Annex 1 along with Management's
responses.

8.      The Requesters appear to misinterpret harm as any pre-existing conditions
which they view as undesirable and which are not addressed by the Bank supported
projects, and which they believe should be. This, however, does not relate to any "acts
or omissions " by the Bank in relation to Bank policies or procedures, and does not con-
stitute the harm which is referred to in the Panel Resolution. Hence, in Management's
view the harm alleged by the Requesters represents what they view as non-
accomplishments of the projects and must be viewed as unfulfilled expectations that do
not generate a material deterioration. This cannot "be considered as a material adverse
effect " for the purpose of the Panel Resolution.

9.      Notwithstanding the above considerations Management welcomes this oppor-
tunity to further clarify its support to the Armenian education sector and progress of
achievements to date.




                                             VI
                                                                              EQRP 2 and EIP




                                 I.     INTRODUCTION

1.      On June 5, 2014, the Inspection Panel registered a Request for Inspection, IPN
Request RQ 14/03 (hereafter referred to as "the Request"), concerning the Armenia Sec-
ond Education Quality and Relevance Project (EQRP2, PI 07772) financed by the Interna-
tional Development Association (IDA) and the Armenia Education Improvement Project
(EIP, Pl30182), financed by both IDA and the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (the Bank).

2.      Structure of the Text The document contains the following sections: Section II
summarizes the Request; Section III provides background on the two Projects; and Sec-
tion IV contains Management's response. Annex 1 presents the Requesters' claims, to-
gether with Management's detailed responses, in table format. Annex 2 discusses lessons
learned from previous Bank-funded projects in Armenia that were considered in the de-
sign of the EIP and Annex 3 provides information on the consultations and due diligence
undertaken by the Bank for the two projects.


                                  II.   THE REQUEST

3.      The Request for Inspection was submitted by nine NGOs, two students and five
parents from Armenia who requested to keep their identities confidential, hereafter re-
ferred to as the "Requesters."

4.       The Request alleges that the two Bank financed operations fail to address what
the Requesters view as the key issues in the higher education system in Armenia, includ-
ing: (i) poor governance and corruption in the Armenian National Center for Professional
Education Quality Assurance (ANQA); (ii) inadequate financing; (iii) overly-tight politi-
cal control; and (iv) lack of academic freedom. The Request further alleges, similarly,
that the two Bank operations fail to address systemic issues in secondary education, in-
cluding, (i) political control of the sector by the government; (ii) weak student evaluation;
(iii) putting rural students at a disadvantage; (iv) ineffective teacher training; (v) lack of
transparency in curricular and syllabus design, leading to gender bias and discriminatory
behavior; and (vi) discrimination against religious minorities. The Request also alleges
that there was a lack of consultations during project preparation as well as inadequate in-
corporation of lessons learned from the previous education projects. As a result of this,
the Requesters claim that the EIP "pose[s} a threat of greater harm to the education sys-
tem of the whole country and hence each and everyone of us. "

5.      Attached to the Request are three testimonials by individuals and a parental au-
thorization letter. No further materials were received by Management in support of the
Request.

6.    The Request contains claims that the Panel has noted may relate to the following
Bank Operational Policies (OP) and Bank Procedures (BP):



                                              7
Armenia



      •    OP/BP 4.01, Environmental Assessment;
      •    OP/BP 10.00, Investment Lending;
      •    OP/BP 10.00, April 2013 , Investment Project Financing; and
      •    OP/BP 13.05, Project Supervision.



                           III. BACKGROUND OF THE PROJECTS

The Education Improvement Project (EIP) - P130182

7.       The Project. The EIP consists of a loan of US$15 million from IBRD and a credit
of US$15 million from IDA, and government counterpart funding in the amount of
US$7.5 million. It was approved by the Board on March 13, 2014 and is not yet effective.
Its closing date is September 30, 2019.

8.     Project Objectives. The objectives of the EIP are to improve school readiness of
children entering primary education, improve physical conditions and the availability of
educational resources in upper secondary schools, and support improved quality and rele-
vance in higher education institutions in Armenia.

9.         Project Components.

      •    Component 1: Enhancing the Quality of General Education (total estimated cost:
           US$27 .50 million), which consists of the following sub-components: (1.1) Pro-
           moting school readiness and equal opportunities at the start of general education;
           (1.2) Enrichment of upper secondary schools; (1.3) Improving data-collection and
           monitoring of the education system performance; and (1.4) Supporting further
           improvements in the quality of education through curriculum revisions.

      •    Component 2: Mainstreaming of the Competitive Innovation Fund (CIF) for
           Higher Education Institutions (HEI) into full implementation (total estimated cost:
           US$6.25 million).

      •    Component 3: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$3 .75 mil-
           lion).

The Second Education Quality and Relevance Project, Adaptable Program Loan
(APL) 1 Phase 2 (EQRP2) - P107772

10.    The Project. The EQRP2 consists of a credit of US$25 million from IDA and
government counterpart funding in the amount of US$6.25 million. The project was ap-
proved by the Board on May 12, 2009 and closes on November 30, 2014. A total of
US$19 million has been disbursed to date.


1
    APL acronym also used to refer to this Adaptable Program Credit.




                                                      8
                                                                             EQRP 2 and EIP



11.     Project Objectives. The objectives of the EQRP2 are to: (i) enhance school learn-
ing in general education and improve the school readiness of children entering primary
education; and (ii) support the integration of the Armenian Tertiary Education system in-
to the European Higher Education Area.

12.       Project Components.

      •   Component 1: Enhancing the Quality of General Education (total estimated cost:
          US$19.66 million equivalent), which consists of the following sub-components:
          ( 1.1) Promoting school readiness and equal opportunities at the start of general
          education; (1.2) Supporting further improvements in the quality of education
          through improved in-service teacher training and professional development; (1 .3)
          Continuing support to the integration of Information and Communication Tech-
          nologies (ICT) in the teaching and learning process; and (1.4) Supporting the im-
          plementation of high-school reform.

      •   Component 2: Supporting Tertiary Education Reforms in the Context of the Bo-
          logna Agenda (US$7.53 million equivalent), which consists of the following sub-
          components: (2.1) Establishment and strengthening of the national quality assur-
          ance system; (2.2) Developing a Tertiary Education Management Information
          System (TEMIS); (2.3) Strengthening the capacity to implement a sustainable fi-
          nancing system; and (2.4) Reforming pre-service teacher education.

      •   Component 3: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$4.06 million
          of which US$3.25 million in IDA financing).

13.      The EQRP2 has achieved important results by supporting the implementation of
reforms that are expected to contribute to improved student learning in both general and
higher education. The reforms supported include: (i) preschool expansion through im-
plementation of micro-projects to enhance existing preschools or through establishment
of preschool services in the poorest and most vulnerable communities, benefitting about
5,000 children; (ii) enhancing the quality of education by providing targeted in-service
trainings to about 12,000 general education teachers; (iii) providing internet connectivity
to all schools in Armenia and implementing the Education Management Information Sys-
tem (EMIS); (iv) supporting high school reform by establishing and equipping resource
centers in all of them; (v) providing technical assistance for the establishment of a quality
assurance system led by the ANQA; and (vi) development and piloting of a CIF for HEis.
The project is currently rated as Moderately Satisfactory for its development objectives.
Two out of the three outcome indicafors present a positive trend (improved Early Devel-
opment Index of students in preschools and kindergartens receiving grants; and standings
of Armenia in the Bologna Scorecard in Higher Education), while the third indicator (per-
formance of Armenian students in Trends in International Mathematics and Science
Study, TIMSS 2011) .will need to be revised as the field tests for TIMSS were carried out
6 months after the project became effective. All project activities are on track towards
achieving the end of program targets.




                                              9
Armenia


14.     Preparation of both projects met the requirements of OP/BP 10.0 and OP/BP 4.01.
Subsequent supervision of EQRP2 met the requirements of OP/BP 13.05. Notably, les-
sons learned during the implementation of the first Education Quality and Relevance Pro-
ject (P074503) and the ongoing EQRP2 shaped the design of the EIP (see details in An-
nex 2). The Implementation Completion and Results (ICR #00001318) report of the first
project highlighted the importance of: (i) conducting open discussions and achieving pub-
lic consensus; (ii) using good analytical work to inform project preparation; (iii) intensive
and continuous guidance and supervision; and (iv) having a sound and independent moni-
toring and evaluation mechanism in place. The EIP' s preparation involved consultations
with several education sector and civil society stakeholders (as detailed in Annex 3) and
included analytical work covering the whole spectrum of the education system, from pre-
school through higher education. The EQRP2 included rigorous evaluation studies for the
project's supported preschools and for the in-service teacher training activities. The Bank
team also maintained a close dialogue with the government and undertook several super-
vision missions (as detailed in Annex 3). Lessons learned during the implementation of
the EQRP2 as well as international evidence and best practice were also considered dur-
ing the preparation of the EIP, in particular, for the support of the preschool subcompo-
nent, for the EMIS to increase accountability, and for the mainstreaming of the CIF as
described in Annex 2.


                         IV. MANAGEMENT'S RESPONSE

15.    The Requesters' claims, accompanied by Management' s detailed responses, are
provided in Annex 1.

Eligibility Considerations

16.    Management does not believe the Request meets the eligibility criteria. In Man-
agement's view, the Requesters are not able to demonstrate that their rights or interests
have been or are likely to be adversely affected by the projects as required by the Panel
Resolution. Management disagrees that the alleged adverse impacts cited in the Re-
quest result from the two Bank-supported projects.

  17.     Management notes that the Request/or Inspection is primarily about broad is-
 sues of the education system in Armenia and that the description of the alleged poten-
  tial harm consists of existing shortcomings to the system in general, neither specific to
  nor resulting from the two Bank-financed projects. In Management's view the claims of
  harm presented in the Request for Inspection: (i) do not relate to the Bank-supported op-
  erations, but rather to existing conditions of the Armenian education system (quality of
  higher and secondary education, quality of teachers, urban/rural distribution of schools,
  quality of text books), and to issues around government or church influence in the educa-
  tion sector; and (ii) are generally based on the assumption that Bank support granted un-
. der an operation amounts to the Bank' s endorsement of and responsibility for every issue
  in the respective sector.. The Requesters also suggest that sector issues that are not ad-
  dressed by the Bank-supported project would constitute harm caused by the project.




                                             10
                                                                                            EQRP 2 and EIP



18.      Management also notes that the individual testimonies (referred to as "case
studies'? presented in the Request, are not verifiable, nor do they offer indication or
evidence that the alleged incidents stem from the support granted under the two pro-
jects, or are related to the projects in any way. These testimonies present personal expe-
riences of a few individuals, while lacking evidence that such experiences are occurring
in a systemic manner. Further, it is not clear how the two Bank-supported operations
could be related to: (i) the individual decisions of professors or faculties regarding the
acceptance or refusal of a proposed Ph.D. thesis topic; (ii) the acceptance of a Ph.D. the-
sis; or (iii) the dismissal of a Rector.

19.     The Request/or Inspection is about the Requesters' design preferences/or the
projects as well as a view that Bank support should be offered only when the education
sector is performing well. Much of the Request is about the Requesters' views on when
and how the education system in Armenia should be supported by the Bank. In the Re-
questers' view, the projects cannot achieve adequate progress under the current situation,
and the Bank therefore should not support Armenia but rather exit and create precondi-
tions for reengagement. The Requesters also present a list of suggested actions for the
Bank to take in this regard. These are presented in Annex 1 along with Management's
responses.

20.     The Requesters appear to define harm as any pre-existing conditions which
they view as undesirable and which are not addressed by the Bank supported projects,
but which they believe should be. This, however, does not relate to any "acts or omis-
sions" by the Bank in relation to Bank policies or procedures, and does not constitute the
harm which is referred to in the Panel Resolution. Hence, in Management's view, the
harm alleged by the Requesters represents what they view as non-accomplishments of the
projects and must be viewed as up.fulfilled expectations that do not generate a µiaterial
deterioration.2 This cannot "be considered as a material adverse effect" for the purpose
of the Panel Resolution.3

21.     Notwithstanding concerns regarding the eligibility of this Request, Manage-
ment agrees that some of the points made by the Requesters are valid and notes that
several interventions under the projects support the government precisely in the direc-
tion of the wide reforms that are needed to address these points. However, the Bank' s
global experience shows that educational improvement is gradual and takes time. Hence,
based on the Bank's mandate and experience, its support is most effective when applied
based on a joint understanding with the Borrower of the required interventions that lead
to improvement. Evidence shows that engaging before the circumstances are ideal allows
for progress toward the goals of improving quality and relevance of education. Waiting
until all issues are addressed precludes the opportlinity to support progress and early in-
tervention can improve the pace and quality of their progress.

2
  In the Requesters ' own words, in their view the previous education projects' "objectives [.. ] had not been
achieved" and "concrete deliverables were not attained;" and that without changes the new project will not
"contribute to Armenian Universities' research capabilities or their sustainability[ .. ]."
3
  1999 Clarification of the Inspection Panel Resolution, paragraph 14.




                                                      11
Armenia



22.      Likewise, Management welcomes this opportunity to continue to clarify the is-
sues and questions raised by the Requesters. The Bank has met with various stakehold-
ers over the past few years, including civil society, where issues of concern have been
raised, and has shared many documents. In addition to dissemination of Bank reports on
the education sector and engagement with stakeholders during preparation and implemen-
tation visits, consultations were carried out in the context of the EIP preparation during
2013. As detailed in Annex 3, consultations were undertaken for: (i) the school readiness
enhancement subcomponent; (ii) assessment of the current situation of high school re-
forms in Armenia; (iii) the environmental and social management framework for the in-
frastructure subcomponent; and (iv) the evaluation of the CIF in its pilot phase for the
higher education component. Throughout the concept and preparation stages of the pro-
jects, the Bank has continued to provide many opportunities for in-depth discussions with
civil society to take into account their suggestions and feedback in the design process.

Management's Response to Specific Allegations Raised in the Request

23.     The Requesters allege lhat the designs of the· two projects do not resolve system-
ic and far-reaching failures of the Armenian education system and request the suspen-
sion and revision of the projects. Management disagrees with these allegations and
points out that the Bank' s global experience shows that the improvement of education
systems is gradual and demands time. Reforms usually meet resistance and controversy,
face systemic barriers, and therefore require a constant process of evaluation and feed-
back for proper decision-making. Finland and Poland are two examples where efforts to
improve education took time before initial results became evident. Indeed, Finland has
systematically worked for over 40 years to make its once poorly ranked (1970) educa-
tional system one of the leaders in student achievement. Starting in 1989, Poland de-
signed a reform, ultimately introduced in 1998, that only began to show overall im-
provements in educational performance by 2006, as measured by results in the Program
for International Student Assessment (PISA) tests.

24.     The Bank has supported the gradual reforms taking place in the education sec-
tor in Armenia through education projects, policy dialogue and knowledge exchange.
The EQRP2 and EIP build on the reform efforts and achievements made by Armenia to
date and contribute to furthering those efforts. For example, in preschool education, the
EQRP2 has contributed to the increase in preschool enrollment of 5-6 year old children, ·
from less than 30 percent in 2007 to 65 percent in the school year 2012-2013, thus im-
proving school readiness of Armenian first graders. However, this is still far from reach-
ing the government' s objective of 90 percent preschool enrollment by 2017. In general
education, the projects have supported and will continue supporting the implementation
of the 12-year general education system, including the curriculum revisions, teacher
training, and student learning assessment aligned to the new 12-year system; the intro-
duction of high schools offering specialized streams to better fit students' academic
needs; increased account~bility of and information on the education system to citizens by
improving data collection through systems for monitoring education system performance;
and by providing continued support for the regular participation of Armenia in interna-
tional large-scale student assessments (TIMSS). It is clear, however, that quality of edu-
cation remains a challenge, as highlighted by the results in international assessments and


                                            12
                                                                            EQRP 2 and EIP



also by the perception of stakeholders in Armenia. In tertiary education, the projects
have contributed to the increased integration of Armenia into the European Higher Edu-
cation Area, by supporting the establishment of a quality monitory agency (ANQA) and
by contributing to the diversification of sources of funding for innovation for both public
and private universities. Important challenges remain in the area of governance of higher
education, but the direction of the reforms is encouraging and the support of the Bank to
move in such a direction is opportune.

 25.    In Management's view, waiting until all education sector issues are addressed,
as suggested by the Requesters, precludes the opportunity to support progress and in-
fluence the pace and quality of that progress. For the reasons offered above, the Bank's
support through the EQRP2 and EIP and its policy dialogue with the government are of
strategic importance in promoting a gradual improvement process that is taking place in
the education sector in Armeriia. The Bank has been informed that the government re-
mains committed to continue with the long-term reform agenda, which was recently con-
firmed by the content of the Program for the Government of the Republic of Armenia
submitted to Parliament on May 19, 2014.

26.    On the allegations regarding the Higher Education System in Armenia

       (i) Governance issues and corruption in the ANQA: The Requesters allege
       that "there are serious irregularities in ANQA mission, composition and func-
       tion, " and thus its independence is questioned. In addition, the Requesters allege
       that quality assurance reforms under the project have been ''fully controlled by
       the government and ruling political party with no dialogue or consultation " with
       relevant stakeholders therefore, "met with distrust, if not open opposition, " and
       eventually resulting in ''poor quality reform of higher education in Armenia. " The
       Requesters state that the Bank ignored its "own assessment of the tertiary sector
       governance issues and irregularities " and failed to make changes.

       Management disagrees with the Requesters' claims that the Bank failed to ad-
       dress these problems with the Borrower to resolve them. The Bank has produced
       a report titled, "Addressing Governance at the Center of Higher Education Re-
       form in Armenia" (January 2013) that has been widely consulted and disseminat-
       ed in-country. This report has served as the basis for the policy dialogue with the
       government and other stakeholders on higher education. The report indicates that
       the ANQA, which was established to strengthen the national quality assurance
       system in Armenia, has made important achievements in a short period of time,
       but there are further steps to take in order to become an internationally credible
       quality assurance agency. In order to meet international standards, ANQA needs
       to address deficiencies in its governance structure through legislative action that
       would allow for needed changes to the composition of its Board of Trustees. It
       should be noted that the Program for the Government of the Republic of Armenia
       dated May 19, 2014 and presented for the approval of the National Assembly,
       states the government's commitment towards international recognition of qualifi-
       cations for joining the "European Quality Assurance Register for Higher Educa-
       tion" through full membership of the ANQA in the European Association for


                                            13
Armenia


          Quality Assurance in Higher Education (ENQA). In disagreement with the Re-
          questers, Management wishes to clarify that the Bank' s diagnostic and assessment
          work of the ANQA did not identify issues of corr\lption arising from the way it is
          currently organized (see Item 2 in Annex 1 for further details).

          (ii) Inadequate public financing: The Requesters allege that successful reform
          of existing financing mechanisms, which the government has already committed
          to implement, will require not only effective allocation of available funding, but a
          substantial increase in total public funding for higher education. The Requesters
          assert that the CIF cannot assist in "ensuring sustainable funding system " as it
          does not address the declining public spending or legal framework regulating the
          finances of universities.

          Management agrees with the Requesters on the importance of sufficient public
          funding for the education sector but the projects are not responsible for the
          government's decisions on financing for the sector. Even though the level of
          public financing for education is not the Bank's decision, the need to increase
          public funding has been regularly brought to the attention of the Ministry of Edu-
          cation and Science (MoES) and ·the Ministry of Finance (MoF). The 2013 higher
          education report indicates that public funding for higher education is limited and
          that increasing and diversifying higher education financing is needed. The 2011
          "Public Fiscal Consolidation and Recovery in Armenia" report by the Bank
           makes a specific recommendation to increase spending in education, in particular,
          to increase non-salary recurrent spending to improve quality.

           The CJF, piloted in the EQRP2 and mainstreamed in the EIP, and available for
          public and private universities, aims to increase the diversification of sources of
          funding for higher education, through a competitive and transparent process of
          allocating funds. The Bank's experience of supporting these mechanisms in
          higher education in several projects highlights the value of CIFs in establishing
          diversified funding mechanisms for higher education that are demand-driven and
          have transparent procedures, as opposed to designating resources for narrowly de-
          fined purposes and in a top-down fashion. It also highlights the flexibility of CIFs
          to respond, with transparent procedures, to specific sector development needs and
          to reorient resources from investments in teaching facilities to improvement of
          curricula and the learning process. (See Items 6 and 9 in Annex 1 for more details
          and lessons learned on CIF in Annex 2).

          (iii) Alleged overly-tight political control: According to the Requesters, "the
          governance boards of state universities, state education agencies are represented
          by government officials, MPs and by the administration of the President at
          around 50%, " which allows for "interventions by the state over their finances,
          management appointments, specialization, and admissions. "

          Management partly concurs with the Requesters' assessment of the governance
          challenges facing higher education, as identified by the Bank in its engagement



                                               14
                                                                            EQRP 2 and EIP



      with Armenia, and those are being tackled through Bank financed projects and
      education sector dialogue (see Item 4 in Annex 1 for more details). However,
      contrary to the Requesters' statement, the Bank's 2013 report did not find evi-
      dence that "further highlights systemic problems pertaining to . .. widespread cor-
      ruption and nepotism in the field. " Management notes that the government is cur-
      rently working on the legal framework for higher education. The Program of the
      Government of the Republic of Armenia dated May 19, 2014 and presented for
      approval of the National Assembly, calls for increased autonomy of HEis and for
      greater transparency and accountability in the system, while continuing to imple-
      ment the integration of Armenia into the European Higher Education Area.

      (iv) Alleged lack of academic freedom: The Requesters state that the alleged
      overly-tight political control "undermines academic independence vital for credi-
      bility and sustainability of any research and scientific endeavor. "

      The projects supported by the Bank do not include components dealing with ac-
      ademic freedom, nor does the Bank have evidence that lack of academic free-
      dom is a pervasive issue in higher education in Armenia. Management' s view is
      that the universities ' self-evaluations, promoted by the internal quality assurance
      units supported by the EQRP2, are useful mechanisms to monitor progress on the
      desired changes within universities. Management also notes that the supporting
      testimonies provided by the Requesters do not offer any indication or evidence
      that the alleged incidents stem from or are aggravated by the support granted by
      the Bank under the two projects (see Item 27 in Annex 1 for details).

27.   On the allegations regarding Secondary Education

      (i) Alleged political control of the sector by the government: The· Requesters
      allege that "[t}he government and the ruling party (Armenian Republican Party)
      assert political control of the sector through control over the appointment of
      school principals, the composition of school governing bodies and financing
      mechanisms. Secondary educational institutions and their employees serve as an
      important administrative resource that is systematically and vastly abused for po-
      litical ends during elections. "

      These claims are not related to the projects in any way. Management notes that
      the MoES exercises its oversight role in managing the country's public schools.
      In the absence of concrete evidence it is difficult to verify the Requesters ' claims
      that " ... the ruling party (Armenian Republican Party) asserts political control
      over secondary education" and that "secondary educational institutions and their
      employees serve as an important administrative resource that is systematically and
      vastly abused for political ends during elections." Similar to many education sys-
      tems around the world, the MoES appoints school principals, determines the
      composition of school governing bodies and defines financing mechanisms (see
      Item 4 in Annex 1 for details).




                                           15
Armenia



          (ii) Weak student evaluation: The Requesters allege that "[t]he system of stu-
          dent aptitude evaluation is hugely problematic in principle and provides conflict-
          ing or even mutually exclusive results for student learning and skills evaluation. It
          does not enjoy broad support and trust among either the public or professional
          educators, a fact amply demonstrated by expert interviews and research. "

          Management concurs that there is significant room for improvement in student
          evaluations in Armenia, while also recognizing that the government is making
          strides toward improving those evaluations with the help of the Bank and other
          donors. In 2011, Armenia conducted a benchmarking exercise on student assess-
          ment in its different dimensions through the Bank's System Assessment and
          Benchmarking for Education Results (SABER) initiative, which helps countries
          examine and strengthen the performance of their education systems to achieve
          learning for all. The benchmarking exercise identified possible next steps to fur-
          ther develop the different types of assessment activities (classroom assessment,
          national large seal~ assessments, international large scale assessments and exami-
          nations). The Bank, through projects, trust funds and policy dialogue, is providing
          support for gradual improvements in -these areas, including the introduction of
          new forms of assessment of the learning process and of learners' achievements, in
          compliance with international standards, as detailed in Annex 1, Item 17. With the
          support of an earlier Bank-financed project, Armenia established the Assessment
          and Testing Center (ATC) and has participated in all rolinds of TIMSS since
          2003. Additionally, national student assessments are being carried out by the
          ATC, albeit not regularly. Finally, under the Russian Education Aid for Develop-
          ment (READ) Trust Fund for Armenia, in 2013-2014 a classroom assessment
          course was developed for tertiary level students preparing to join the teaching pro-
          fession and a cadre of instructors from various universities has been trained to de-
          liver this course.

          (iii) Putting rural students at a disadvantage: According to the Requesters,
          "[h]igh schools are largely inaccessible for students from rural areas. Hundred
          and two out of hundred and nine high schools are located in cities and only seven
          in rural areas In rural areas there are still schools that work based on 12- year
          curriculum which is not designed and does not provide specialization. [. ..] Given
          higher rates ofpoverty and vulnerability in rural areas, as well as professionally
          and technically lower capacities of these schools compared to urban ones, the
          disadvantage is much greater and the risks for further limiting access to higher
          education is growing higher. "

          Management is aware that general education schools in Armenia have severe
          infrastructure and educational equipment needs, both in rural and urban areas,
          and Bank engagement has supported efforts to address those needs. While the
          infrastructure component of the EIP focuses on high schools, which are primarily
          located in urban areas, the Bank' s portfolio in Armenia is broad and covers
          schools all over the country, including important support for infrastructure and
          equipment needs <?f schools in rural and underserved areas, through other projects.



                                               16
                                                                                  EQRP 2 and EIP



           The Bank has already financed the rehabilitation or construction of 120 schools4
           and provided 57,508 units of school furniture (desks, chairs, bookcases, black-
           boards and teachers' desks, etc.) worth US$6.12 million for 812 educational facil-
           ities in poorer communities in Armenia. This financing has focused primarily on
           rural and underserved areas, and has excluded from coverage the city of Yerevan
           and the Marz (province) centers, where most of the high schools are located. The
           EIP seeks to improve the infrastructure and safety conditions of 17 urban high
           schools and improve educational equipment in all of them. Students in rural
           schools have and will benefit from the system-wide activities supported under the
           EQRP2 and EIP, such as in-service teacher training, connectivity to internet for
           all schools, curriculum revisions and improvements, and students' assessment ac-
           tivities (see Item 7 in Annex 1 for details).

           (iv) Ineffective teacher training: The Requesters allege that there are many
           "professionally unqualified teachers " but the teachers ' training aimed at profes-
           sional development was ineffective, as it did not accommodate varying skill types
           and levels among the teachers.

           The support for in-service teacher training provided under the EQRP2 was
           aimed at leveling the field among teachers with regard to the many reforms that
           have taken place in Armenia in recent years, including curriculum reforms, the
           extension of the education system from 10 to 12 grades, and the introduction of
           ICT into the learning and teaching process. An impact evaluation of Bank sup-
           ported in-service teacher training for the years 2011 and 2012 showed some posi-
           tive impacts in the use of interactive teaching methodology. It also identified are-
           as that required further support for improvements (e.g., timing of the trainings,
           logistical arrangements and heter~geneity of teachers in the training groups).
           However, since 2013 and by government decision, all in-service teacher training
           is funded by the government and provided by the National Institute of Education
           (NIE) (see Item 15 in Annex 1 for more details).

          (v) Lack of transparency in curricular and syllabus design, leading to gen-
          der bias and discriminatory behavior: The Requesters allege that "[c}ontent
          analysis of school textbooks shows that asymmetric representation of gender roles
          prevails. [. ..} Discriminatory norms and perceptions are widely promoted both in
          textbooks, teaching process, and teachers' attitude. [. ..} This is justified by further
          professional specialization for males and females, which does not provide a com-
          prehensive development of individuals as specified in the standard and goal of the
          subject program. "

           The Bank has not provided support for the development of textbooks in Arme-
           nia under either of the two projects. However, independently of this allegation,
           the Bank is strongly committed to gender equality and gender inclusion, and will
           review this issue, while noting that it is outside the scope of the projects. If con-
4
    Armenia has about 1,390 public schools.




                                                 17
Armenia


          firmed, the issue will be raised with the Borrower in the context of ongoing policy
          dialogue, including implementation support visits for the projects (see Item 11 in
          Annex 1 for more details).

          (vi) Discrimination against religious minorities: The Requesters allege that
          "[d]evelopment of subject standard for the Armenian Church History is single-
          handedly controlled and supervised by Armenian Apostolic Church through its
          Center for Christian Education and Propaganda. During the teaching process the
          doctrine of the Armenian Apostolic Church is preached. Discrimination and ill
          treatment are widely practiced by both teachers and students towards religious
          minorities. "

          The EQRP2 and the EIP do not support any links between religion and educa-
          tion and the Bank strongly supports the principle of inclusive development and
          equal treatment of ethnic and religious minorities. This particular situation and
          the potential harm stemming from it is neither caused nor aggravated by the
          Bank-supported projects (see Item 14 in Annex 1 for more details).

28.       On the alleged lack of consultations

          (i) The Requesters state that the "beneficiary and public feedback was ignored
          both during the implementation and assessment of the project" which they feel
          would have improved both projects.

          Management disagrees with the assertion that feedback was ignored and main-
          tains that supervision of the EQRP2 and preparation of the EIP have included
          close contact and consultations with various stakeholders. During the supervi-
          sion of the EQRP2, the Bank team has maintained close contact with various
          stakeholders, including regular visits to schools, kindergartens and HEis. During
          preparation of the EIP, the Bank team held extensive stakeholder consultations
          (students, teachers, principals, community members, HEis, employers' associa-
          tions, among others), carried out a series of analytical studies to inform prepara-
          tion, developed sound monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for tracking the
          impact of previous and ongoing projects, held regular supervision missions and
          maintained a continuous dialogue with the government. Four analytical reports
          were prepared during 2013 . and disseminated and discussed in country in May
          2013 . These activities were conducted in line with OP/BP 10.00, and the complete
          list of consultations is included in Annex 3.

          Management notes that the Bank team met with the Open Society Foundation
          (OSF)-Armenia three times during the EIP's preparation. Even though the Re-
          questers are anonymous, it is important to observe that OSF-Armenia has been the
          only organization to bring its concerns to the Bank's attention. Bank representa-
          tives met OSF-Armenia on the following occasions. First, the Country Manager
          for Armenia met OSF-Armenia in December 2013. Then, in a visit to the Bank's
          headquarters in February 2014, OSF-Armenia met with the Bank team and pre-
          sented its report on higher education during a meeting organized by the Bank's


                                              18
                                                                            EQRP 2 and EIP


       US Executive Director. Substantive discussion on project design ensued. Finally,
       as a follow up to the February 2014 meeting in Washington, the Bank team invit-
       ed OSF-Armenia to continue the dialogue and learn more about its activities dur-
       ing a visit to Armenia in April 2014 (see details in Annex 1).

29.     With regard to OP/BP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), Management notes that
the Requesters do not raise any issue pertinent to that policy. Management has reviewed
the related documents that were prepared to address environmental and social impacts
from the construction activities supported under the projects and found them to be con-
sistent with the related policy.

30.    With regard to OP/BP 13.05 (Supervision), Management asserts that the projects
have been supervised in line with the requirements of the policy (see Annex 3).

31.     With regard to OP/BP 10.00 (Investment Lending), Management asserts that the
projects are "anchored in country policy/sector analysis; and reflect lessons learned from
the Bank' s experience," as required by the policy. Annex 2 gives an extensive overview
of the sector work, internal reviews and evaluations of past operations that were taken
into consideration in developing the projects that are the subject ofthis Request.

32.     With regard to OP/BP 13 .60 (Monitoring and Evaluation) and OP/BP 8.60 (De-
velopment Policy Lending), which are mentioned by the Requesters, Management would
like to clarify that neither policy applies to the operations in question: OP/BP 13.60 es-
tablishes the requirement for results-oriented monitoring and evaluation of Bank-
supported operations and strategies, including independent evaluation by the Bank' s In-
dependent Evaluation Group, but does not include obligations at the project level. Like-
wise there are no issues related to OP 8.60, which governs Development Policy Opera-
tions, while both the EQRP2 and the EIP are Investment Project Finance operations.

Conclusion

33.   Bank Management has carefully reviewed the issues raised by the Requesters
and does not agree with the allegations of noncompliance and harm. Moreover, Man-
agement questions the eligibility of the Request Management believes that the Bank has
made every effort to apply its policies and procedures and to pursue its mission statement
in the context of the projects. In Management's view, the Bank has followed the policies
and procedures applicable to the matters raised in the Request. As a result, Management
believes that the Requesters' rights or interests have not been, nor will they be, directly
and adversely affected by a failure of the Bank to implement its policies and procedures.

34.    Management also believes it is important to separate disagreements over project
design, which are legitimate to entertain in stakeholder engagement settings, from
claims of harm due to policy noncompliance. The former are normally addressed
through evaluative mechanisms and not those for policy compliance._ Further, as noted
above, the Requesters' claims of harm are not linked to Management' s actions, but are
policy and practice disagreements the Requesters have with how the sector is managed.




                                            19
Armenia



35.    As Management disagrees with the allegations of harm stemming from policy
noncompliance, no actions to bring the projects into compliance are required. Howev-
er, Management takes the opportunity provided by its own review of the issues raised in
the Request to consider how relevant points made in the Request could be addressed by
the Bank going forward. Such actions are geared to help the education sector in Arme-
nia improve, which is neither related to the projects, nor intended to acknowledge any
alleged harm or noncompliance. In this instance, Management proposes to further re-
view and verify the Requesters' claim to ascertain if and where, and to what extent, gen-
der discriminatory content exists in school textbooks. Based on that review, which is un-
related to any Bank activities, Management would consider raising this with the
government with a view to encourage adapting or changing such school textbooks to in-
clude gender appropriate content.




                                           20
                                                                                               EQRP 2 and EIP



                                                 ANNEXl
                                           CLAIMS AND RESPONSES


No.                                Claim                                                    Response

1.         General Claim
           Our analysis indicates that the Education Quality and    Management disagrees that the EQRP2 or the EIP
           Relevance II Loan Program resulted in substantial        has resulted in any harm, as alleged by the Re-
           harm to the Armenian education system, particularly      questers. There is no indication that the alleged harm
           in the .areas of accountability, governance, quality,    is linked to the Bank-supported operations. The Re-
           and accessibility. We[ ... ] believe that the main di-   questers' representations do not portray any material
           rections of the Education Improvement Program in         deterioration or harm caused by the projects com-
           Armenia loan project are designed in such a way as       pared to the without-projects situation.
           not to address failures of the previous program and      Generally, the Request fails to specify the nature of the
           pose a threat of greater harm to the education system    serious harm to the Requesters, as well as the relation-
           of the whole country and hence each and every one        ship between the alleged harm and the Bank-supported
           of us.                                                   program.
                                                                    Specifically, the Requesters appear to define harm as
                                                                    the full complement of underlying issues in the pre-
                                                                    existing condition of the education sector, which they
                                                                    view as undesirable.
                                                                    Further, the Requesters appear to believe that the pro-
                                                                    jects should address all the underlying sector issues,
                                                                    which is an unrealistic expectation.
                                                                     While the Management acknowledges that there are
                                                                    many issues that present challenges to the sector 's
                                                                     development, the projects were not designed to address
                                                                     all of them. The Bank typically engages to advance an
                                                                    agenda in a particular area. The Bank may choose to
                                                                    refrain from interventions when the overall sector
                                                                    framework is unsatisfactory or if it believes the context
                                                                    will not allow the project objectives to be met. The fact
                                                                    that the projects focus on certain areas for engagement
                                                                    and not others does not amount to "acts or omissions"
                                                                    by Bank Management in relation to a Bank policy or
                                                                    procedure for the purpose of the Inspection Panel
                                                                    Resolution.
                                                                     Hence, in Management's view the harm alleged by the
                                                                     Requesters represents what they see as non-coverage
                                                                     by the Bank-financed programs and must be viewed as
                                                                     unfulfilled expectations that do not represent a material
                                                                    deterioration compared to the without-project situation.
                                                                     This, however, cannot "be considered as a material
                                                                     adverse effect" for the purpose of the Panel Resolu-
                                                                     tion. 5
           Second EQRP
2.         Tertiary Education components of the WB Second           Management disagrees with the Requesters' claims
           Loan with described harms and bank procedure fail-       that the Bank failed to raise problems related to
           ure                                                      quality assurance with the Borrower in order to re-

5
     1999 Clarification of the Inspection Panel Resolution, para. 14.




                                                        21
Armenia



No.                             Claim                                                    Response
       Component. Establishment and Strengthening of the          solve them.
       National Quality Assurance System [. ..]                   Management 's opinion is that the establishment of the
        Harm. In our assessment (coinciding with the WB's         ANQA was an important milestone to support the de-
        conclusion) the newly established institution, Anne-      velopment of a proper quality assurance system in the
        nian National Quality Assurance Agency allows for         higher education system. Management acknowledges
        political control mechanisms and lack of integrity in     that the ANQAfaces institutional, governance, and
        the system. It does not meet standards for independ-      capacity constraints and challenges, which are being
        ence and its scope of authority is insufficient to ful-   tackled through Bank projects and sector policy dia-
        fill its mission both per European standards and ver-     Logue.
        sus its own charter. [ ... ]                              The ANQA was established in 2008 to strengthen the
        Bank failure. The Bank failed to address the identi-      national quality assurance system and to pursue Anne-
        tied problems to the borrower to resolve them.            nia's commitment to raise the quality of higher educa-
        Moreover, establishment of ANQA is considered as          tion to European standards. Its main task is to imple-
        a major achievement of the loan project, despite its      ment "investigations, analyses, recommendations and
        criticism by the Bank itself. Details: ENQA princi-       evaluation in tertiary level education field." It has de-
        pies; ANQA own mission statement have been iden-          veloped the Statute on State Accreditation of Tertiary
        tified by the Bank as undermining the credibility of      Level Institutions and Academic Programs and Accred-
        the agency.                                               itation Criteria and Standards, which defines policies,
                                                                  procedures, criteria, and standards for external quality
                                                                  assurance. Under the new accreditation rules, institu-
                                                                  tional accreditation is a mandatory process for all HEls
                                                                  within the territory of the Republic of Armenia every
                                                                  five years, whereas program accreditation is a volun-
                                                                  tary process carried out only in the case of a positive
                                                                  result of institutional accreditation.
                                                                  The EQRP2 supported capacity building in ANQA by
                                                                  financing technical assistance from international ex-
                                                                  perts. The World Bank report titled "Addressing Gov-
                                                                  ernance at the Center ofHigher Education Reforms in
                                                                  Armenia" (January 2013) was explicit in signaling that
                                                                  the ANQA's governance structure had not yet met the
                                                                  requirement to become a full-member of the ENQA, an
                                                                  issue that has been noted by ENQA experts as well. 6
                                                                  The Bank team maintains regular dialogue with the
                                                                  MoES regarding governance issues and has been made
                                                                  aware that the new Strategy for Higher Education
                                                                  which the MoES will present to the Prime Minister
                                                                  closely follows the recommendations of the Bank [and
                                                                  other partners] regarding ANQA's governance struc-
                                                                  ture. Management is pleased to note that the Program
                                                                  for the Government of the Republic of Armenia, dated
                                                                  May 19, 2014 and presented for the approval of the
                                                                  National Assembly, reiterates government's commit-


6
  The ANQA currently is an associate member of the ENQA and is committed to become a full member by
2015. An independent expert evaluation by the ENQA concluded that the legislative framework governing
the accreditation process in Armenia is in compliance with European standards but made two key recom-
mendations for further improvement. First, the ANQA needs to address deficiencies in its governance
structure arising from the composition of its Board of Trustees and second, experts recommend authorizing
the ANQA Accreditation Committee to make the final accreditation decision.




                                                      22
                                                                                           EQRP 2 and EIP



No.                           Claim                                                     Response
                                                                ment towards international recognition of qualifica-
                                                                tions for joining the "European Quality Assurance
                                                                Register for Higher Education" through full member-
                                                                ship of the ANQA in the ENQA. A key criterion 7 for it
                                                                is that the ANQA achieves operational independence
                                                                from the government. The Bank will continue the poli-
                                                                cy dialogue with the government and provide technical
                                                                advice to facilitate the process to achieve this goal.

3.    Component. Internal quality assurance system with         Management disagrees and notes that the harm al-
      policies and procedures for internal mechanisms, and      leged by the Requesters pertains to the current set-up
      establishment of QA units in universities. [ .. . ]       of university governance, a pre-existing condition
      Harm. The current set up of university governance is      that does not result from the Bank-supported projects.
      regulated through ambiguous legal documents that           The establishment of internal quality assurance (!QA)
      allow overrepresentation of political entities in vari-   within HE ls is a crucial pillar of the European Stand-
      ous ways into both education content and manage-          ards and Guidelines for Quality Assurance and is key
      ment, and uses as a tool for political/ideological con-   for the integration ofArmenian higher education into
      trol, brings to top down reform implementation, non-      the European Higher Education Area. The !QA units
      inclusive approaches for academic community.[ .. . ]      are still in the process of being established and a full
      Bank failure. Despite own assessment of the tertiary      assessment of their impact will be undertaken by the
      sector governance issues and irregularities, failure to   MoES.
      make corresponding changes in program de-                 The EQRP2 supported this process by providing grants
      sign/concept and continuing to fund fragmented            to institutions to establish and strengthen this function.
      components that have little likelihood to sustain the      During supervision, the Bank team observed IQA units
      system.                                                    in some universities, taking note of their strengths and
      To address qualitative, in additional to quantitative,    challenges. These units are still in the process of being
      measurement in Program Result Report and make             established. A full assessment of their impact will be
      adjustments for future activities.                         undertaken by the MoES as part of its assessment of
                                                                the effectiveness of project activities.
      Details: The internal QA centers supported by the
      Bank program only structurally follow the policies         Management agrees that the establishment of IQA
      and procedures on formal level. Whereas the goal is        units in universities is only a first step and does not
      on the development of internal QA mechanisms, the         constitute evidence of actual quality improvement.
      measurement for this is only done through the num-        Nevertheless, it is an important intermediate step, and
      ber of QA units established. However, the quantita-        therefore, the "number of public and private universi-
      tive indicators cannot be considered as measuring the      ties that have operational .internal QA Units in place
      quality system and quality per se.                         according to the new QA standards" is included as an
                                                                 intermediate outcome indicator to track component
                                                                 implementation and project progress.

4.    While quality assurance was a major component of          Management partly concurs with the Requesters'
      the previous WB education project, the Central Eu-        assessment of the governance challenges facing high-
      ropean University's Higher Education Observatory          er education. Management notes that these issues were
      reports that higher education reforms in Armenia          identified by the Bank, brought to the Borrower 's at-
      have not had a significant impact on the quality of       tention and are being addressed through several Bank-
      teaching and learning in higher education, or on the      supported projects. The design of the EIP was influ-
      content and substance of administrative or govern-        enced by this assessment.
      ance practices in the field. [ ... ] Both the CEU's and   Management disagrees with the Requesters' com-
      the World Bank's own reports strongly emphasize           ments about secondary education and their argu-
      the pernicious practice of the government directly        ments for conditionality-based funding. Manage-
      influencing higher education governance by aoooint-

7
  Information on ENQA membership criteria can be found in: http://www.enqa.eu/index.php/enqa-
agencies/membership-criteria/




                                                    23
Armenia



No.                           Claim                                                     Response
      ing a majority of the members ofHEis' governing           ment's view is that the government exercises the usual
      Councils. The reports further highlight systemic          oversight role in managing public schools, including
      problems pertaining to conflicts of interest in the       "through appointment of school principals, the compo-
      governing ofHEis, widespread corruption, and nepo-        sition of school governing bodies and establishment of
      tism in the field. Quality assurance reforms have         financing mechanisms." However, the Requesters '
      been carefully controlled, designed and carried out       statements that " ... the ruling party (Armenian Repub-
      bureaucratically in a purely top-down manner, and .        /ican Party) asserts political control over secondary
      are therefore met with distrust if not open opposition    education" and that "secondary educational institu-
      and simply lack of understanding by most intended         lions and their employees serve as an important admin-
      beneficiaries, eventually resulting in poor quality        istrative resource that is systematically and vastly
      reform of higher education in Armenia.                     abused for political ends during elections" are difficult
      Another significant structural problem is the overly      to substantiate in the absence of any concrete proof.
      tight political control of the sector. The reports by     With regard to higher education, Management notes
      CEU and the World Bank indicate identical channels        that the governance issues raised by the Requesters
      and means through which exaggerated and severely          are broadly consistent with the findings of the Bank's
      counterproductive control over higher education in-       2013 higher education report. This report identified
      stitutions is exercised. Regulatory ambiguity is con-     the governance structure and regulatory framework as
      sistently mentioned as a factor that allows state con-    key to the development of overall higher education
      trol over universities. Moreover, the 2002 Charter of     systems. It investigated how autonomy and accounta-
      the Ministry of Education and Science establishes         bility are regulated and exercised at the institutional
      that the state is nominally in control of universities    level. It examined four dimensions of autonomy, i.e.,
      despite the fact that the proportion of funds allocated   organizational, academic, human resource, and financ-
      to the sector by the state is very limited.               ing, along with institutional accountability in terms of
      Regarding secondary education -and particularly           academic integrity, financial integrity, students' partic-
      high school development as planned by the new             ipation, and management administration capacity. The
      loan-there are equally strong arguments against the       report revealed a number of contradictions in the exist-
      unconditional new funding. The government and the         ing regulatory framework and gaps between the theory
      ruling party (Armenian Republican Party) assert po-       and the reality of university governance. It then pro-
      litical control of the sector through control over the    posed policy reforms to strengthen the governance
      appointment of school principals, the composition of      framework and its implementation in four areas: regu-
      school governing bodies and financing mechanisms.         latory framework, quality assurance, financing, and
      Secondary educational institutions and their employ-      capacity building.
      ees serve as an important administrative resource that    However, contrary to the Requesters ' statement, the
      is systematically and vastly abused for political ends    Bank report did not ''further highlight systemic prob-
      during elections.                                         /ems pertaining to ... widespread corruption and nepo-
                                                                tism in the field."
                                                                Further, Management agrees with the importance of
                                                                improving the governance of higher education in
                                                                Armenia and both Bank supported projects have con-
                                                                tributed to gradual improvement. In fact, the Bank' s
                                                                overarching engagement with the government on ter-
                                                                tiary education is precisely focused on furthering pro-
                                                                gress toward improved governance.
                                                                First, Component 2 of the ongoing project (EQRP2)
                                                                has supported specific actions aimed at improving
                                                                availability of higher education information (critical
                                                                step to achieve integration of the system), quality as-
                                                                surance, and new financing models - including the
                                                                pilot of the CIF.
                                                                Second, Component 2 of the new project (EIP) main-
                                                                streams the CIF after the successful pilot conducted
                                                                under the previous project and sub-component 1.3 im-
                                                                plements the information management system <level-



                                                   24
                                                                                         EQRP 2 and EIP



No.                          Claim                                                    Response
                                                              oped under the previous project.
                                                              Finally, as noted earlier, the Bank team maintains regu-
                                                              tar contact with the MoES and notes that the new Strat-
                                                              egy for Higher Education closely follows the recom-
                                                              mendations of the Bank and other partners. Moreover,
                                                              the recently disclosed Program for the Government of
                                                              the Republic of Armenia (presented to Parliament for
                                                              approval through a Decree dated May 19, 2014) calls
                                                              for increased transparency and accountability and au-
                                                              tonomy in higher education.
5.    Components. 2. a) Designing a sustainable strategy      Management notes that the alleged harm pertains to
      for public financing of HE with components oflegis-     the prevailing financial constraints and control of
      lative changes for the implementation of the higher     universities, which is a pre-existing condition and .
      education financing strategy's recommendations;         does not result from the Bank-supported operations.
      financing new methods and mechanisms; expansion         However, Management disagrees with the Re-
      of students' financial aid; proper pricing policy and   questers' views that the Bank closed its eyes to risks
      methodology of tuition fee formation .                  and bypassed governance issues. Jn fact, the Bank 's
      b) Designing a competitive innovation fund to devel-    response to challenges in the sector was grounded on
      op and implement innovative plans for modernizing       research, technical evidence and international best
      their curriculum and pedagogical methods, develop       practice.
      ECTS, build their fund-raising capacity, create link-   The shortcomings in Armenia 's higher education sec-
      ages with industry, and engage in international coop-   tor raised in the Request were all highlighted in the
      eration activities.                                     Bank 's 2013 higher education report. In addition, the
      Harm. Constraints in financial autonomy, control        Bank team's approach has been based on technical
      over university finances restrict universities and      evidence and on international best practice. The
      fragmented funding for research and modernization       EQRP2 and EIP support for increased information on
      cannot assist in ensuring sustainable funding system,   the education sector and for a competitive and trans-
      especially considering decreasing public expenditure    parent process of allocating funds to HEis through a
      on education. [ ... ]                                   competitive innovation fund are key elements to im-
                                                              prove governance in higher education. In addition,
      Bank failure. Key risks were identified with recom-
                                                              Management believes that continued engagement with
      mendations to the country government to resolve
                                                              the government in the education sector through entry
      them, however no actions were taken other than
                                                              points to address those shortcomings is a more produc-
      "closing eyes" on the risks. Details: Situation with
                                                              tive approach than refraining from engaging in the sec-
      governance and funding principles was assessed as a
                                                              tor.
      major problem with the higher education sector. De-
      spite own assessment, the Bank bypasses this situa-     More than 30 innovation funds are being implemented
      tion and directs funding into compartmentalized sec-    in various parts of the world, some of them supported
      tor, which given the current situation cannot soar.     by the Bank. Bank experience supporting innovation
                                                              funds indicates: (i) the value of establishing diversified
                                                              funding mechanisms for higher education that are de-
                                                              mand-driven and have transparent procedures, as op-
                                                              posed to designating resources to narrowly defined
                                                              purposes and in a top-down fashion; and (ii) the flexi-
                                                              bility of competitive funds to respond, using transpar-
                                                              ent procedures, to specific sector development needs
                                                              and to reorient resources as needed, from investments




                                                  25
Armenia



No.                            Claim                                                     Response
                                                                  in teaching facilities to improvement of curricula and
                                                                  learning processes.8
6.     An additional obstacle to quality-based higher educa-      Management agrees with the Requesters on the im-
       tion is created by poor financing schemes in the           portance of sufficient funding for the sector. This
       field . Successful reform of existing financing mech-      message has been regularly brought to the attention
       anisms, which the government has already commit-           of the government in the Bank's dialogue with both
       ted to implement, will require not only effective allo-    the MoES and the MoF.
       cation of available funding, but a substantial increase    Armenia invests 2.6 percent of GDP in education over-
       in total puJ>lic funding for higher education. In that     all, of which 0.3 percent of GDP is invested in higher
       case reforms can be expected to have a measurable          education. Both amounts are very low compared to
       impact on the quality and competitiveness of higher        many other countries. Management agrees that the
       education. This will only be possible when there is a      Government of Armenia should improve the allocation
       broad public consensus on the direction of the re-         of financial resources to the education sector. This
       forms and trust in HE governance.                          conclusion has been highlighted in the Bank' s regular
                                                                  Public Expenditure Reviews and has been regularly
                                                                  brought to the attention of high-level officials in the
                                                                  MoES and MoF.
                                                                  The Bank's 2013 report also notes the need for in-
                                                                  creased and diversified financing for higher education.
                                                                  The CIF, piloted in the EQRP2 and mainstreamed in
                                                                  the EIP, aims to increase the diversification of sources
                                                                  of funding for higher education, through a competitive
                                                                  and transparent process of allocating funds.
7.     Enhancing General Education Component with                 The Bank is aware that schools based on 12-year cur-
       harms and failures for bank procedures                     riculum in rural areas have severe infrastructure and
       Component 1 Enhancing the Quality of General Ed-           educational equipment needs. The Bank's portfolio in
       ucation                                                    Armenia is broad and covers schools in rural areas
                                                                  through another project.
       Subcomponent 4. Supporting the Implementation of
       High School Reform.                                        The Bank has already financed the rehabilitation or
                                                                  construction of 120 schools 9 and provided 57,508 units
       Harms :
                                                                  of school furniture (desks, chairs, bookcases, black-
       High schools are largely inaccessible for students         boards and teachers' desks, etc.) worth US$6.12 mil-
       from rural areas. Hundred and two out of hundred           lion for 812 educational facilities in poorer communi-
       and nine high schools are located in cities and only       ties in Armenia. This financing has focused primarily
       seven - in rural areas. [ ... ] In rural areas there are   on rural and underserved areas, and has excluded from
       still schools that work based on 12- year curriculum       coverage the city of Yerevan and the Marz (province)
       which is not designed and does not provide speciali-       centers, where most of the high schools are located.
       zation. [ ... ]Given higher rates of poverty and vu!-
                                                                  The EIP seeks to improve the infrastructure and safety
       nerability in rural areas, as well as professionally and
                                                                  conditions of 17 urban high schools and improve edu-
       technically lower capacities of these schools com-
                                                                  cational equipment in all of them.
       pared to urban ones, the disadvantage is much great-
       er and the risks for further limiting access to higher     Students in rural schools have and will benefit from the
       education is growing higher.                               system-wide activities supported under the EQRP2 and
                                                                  EIP, such as in-service teacher training, connectivity to
                                                                  internet for all schools, curriculum revisions and im-
                                                                  provements, and student assessment activities.

8
  References on CIF in higher education: Saint, W. 2006. Innovation Funds for Higher Education: A Users'
guide for World Bank Funded Projects. The World Bank; Fehnel, R. 2004. Higher Education Reforms and
Demand Responsive Innovation Funds: Dimensions of Difference. The World Bank.
9
  Armenia has about 1,390 public schools.




                                                     26
                                                                                           EQRP 2 and EIP



No.                           Claim                                                     Response

8.    Parents' letter: I. High schools, where our children      Management recognizes that there are still several
      study/ studied do/did not ensure provision of quality     challenges for improving the quality of general edu-
      education services. All of us have had to either apply    cation in Armenia. The projects seek to address many
      for additional tutoring or transfer children to private   of those challenges.
      schools to get better quality education and prepared-     The EQRP2 and EIP aim to raise learning outcomes
      ness to enter universities. We believe that our chi!-     through their different activities. However, private
      dren would have never gotten quality education and        tutoring is not expected to disappear, regardless of im-
      enter the university if they had stayed at the state      provements in quality, as it is caused by a high-stakes
      high schools.                                             university entrance exam - the Armenia Unified En-
                                                                trance Exam - which is used for university admission.
                                                                The widespread use of tutoring in addition to public
                                                                education is not a phenomenon that is particular to the
                                                                Armenian context. Tutoring coexists with some of the
                                                                best public education systems in the world (e.g., Korea
                                                                and Japan). In fact, tutoring is usually prevalent in up-
                                                                per secondary education in countries that have compet-
                                                                itive, high-stakes exams for university admission,
                                                                which is the case in Armenia.

9.    The existing per-capita financing mechanism does          Management agrees with the Requesters on the im-
      not ensure allocation of the relevant financial re-       portance of sufficient funding for the sector. This
      sources for provision of quality streaming education      message has been regularly brought to the attention
      in high school. Students and parents still have to take   of the government The 2011 "Fiscal Consolidation
      private tutor classes for pteparation to the final uni-   and Recovery in Armenia " report by the Bank makes a
      tied/admission exams.                                     specific recommendation to increase spending in edu-
                                                                cation, in particular, to increase non-salary recurrent
                                                                spending to improve quality.
                                                                At 2.6 percent of GDP, public expenditures on educa-
                                                                tion in Armenia are very low compared to most other
                                                                countries. As a consequence, primary and secondary
                                                                education "levels are underfunded and the Bank has
                                                                brought this to the attention of high-level officials in
                                                                the MoES and MoF. See response in Item 6 above,
                                                                which addresses a similar claim for the case of tertiary
                                                                education.

10.   Parents' letter 3 and 5. High schools do/did not pro-      The poor infrastructure and lack of availability of
      vide for the quality streaming education that would       educational equipment at high schools is a concern
      ensure professional orientation for our children. High    shared by parents, the MoES and the Bank. The EIP
      schools are not equipped with the necessary technical     focuses on improving infrastructure and the availabil-
      capacities and do not have proper equipped laborato-       ity of educational equipment for student safety and
      ries and libraries that would provide for the quality      improved learning conditions.
      education. Computer classes are not fully accessible       With the support of the EIP, major rehabilitation works
      for children. Teachers do not use the computers dur-      will be conducted in 17 high schools - selected on the
      ing the class. We faced the situations when teachers       basis of objective criteria, see Item 19 - which do not
      proposed us out-of-class private tutoring of our chil-     meet Armenia's construction and safety standards (in-
      dren, which in fact was the compensation for the           eluding seismic stability). The project will also support
      under-taught content in the classroom.                     the provision of contextualized digital learning materi-
                                                                 als, modem equipment and school furniture to all high
                                                                 schools in Armenia to enrich the learning environment.
                                                                 Teachers' proposals to provide out-of-class private
                                                                 tutoring to compensate for low quality classes are un-
                                                                 acceptable and should be reported throu!!h the aooro-



                                                    27
Armenia



No.                            Claim                                                      Response
                                                                  priate channels that the MoES has available for these
                                                                  cases.
11.   Content analysis of school textbooks shows that             The Bank has not provided support or advice for the
      asymmetric representation of gender roles prevails.         development of textbooks or the financing of text-
      [ ... ] Discriminatory norms and perceptions are wide-      books. Hence, neither of the Bank supported projects is
      ly promoted both in textbooks, teaching l'rocess, and       responsible for the cited contents in textbooks.
      teachers' attitude. [ . .. ] This is justified by further   However, the Bank is strongly committed to gender
      professional specialization for males and females,          equality and gender inclusion, and believes that pro-
      which does not provide a comprehensive develop-             gress toward gender equality is a prerequisite to end-
      ment of individuals as specified in the standard and        ing extreme poverty and boosting shared prosperity
      goal of the subject program.                                (http://www.worldbank.org/en/ topic/gender). Man-
                                                                  agement strongly supports gender sensitive education
                                                                  in all of its dimensions, and intends to further review
                                                                  and verify the Requesters' claim to ascertain if and
                                                                  where, and to what extent, gender discriminatory con-
                                                                  tent exists in school textbooks. If confirmed, the issue
                                                                  will be raised with the Borrower in the context of on-
                                                                  going policy dialogue, including implementation sup-
                                                                  port visits for the projects.
                                                                  With regard to other aspects ofreform related to quali-
                                                                  ty, the EQRP2 invested in the establishment ofre-
                                                                  source centers (libraries, computer labs, books and
                                                                  teaching materials) in each high school as well as train-
                                                                  ing of librarians and teachers. The EIP is designed to
                                                                  support improvements in teaching and learning condi-
                                                                  tions through: (i) further curriculum revisions in gen-
                                                                  eral education by investing in technical assistance
                                                                  (working groups composed of subject experts, school
                                                                  teachers, university professors, and experts from the
                                                                  NIE) and consultative workshops; it is envisaged that
                                                                  these consultative workshops will enable collection of
                                                                  direct feedback from all key stakeholders throughout
                                                                  the entire period of project implementation; and (ii)
                                                                  provision of contextualized digital learning materials,
                                                                  modem equipment and school furniture to be used in
                                                                  classrooms in all high schools in Armenia, including
                                                                  training of teachers on using modem teaching method-
                                                                  ologies and digital learning materials in the classrooms.
12.   Parents' letter 4. The textbooks and teaching               See response in Item 11. above.
      are/were of low quality. Some of textbooks, like So-        Management acknowledges that this is a valid and
      cial Science textbooks for 9 to I I grades, include         important issue. As indicated above, the Bank is
      discriminative norms and are gender insensitive .. For      strongly committed to gender equality and gender in-
      example, in the lOth grade textbook the hypothesis of       clusion, and stands ready to further engage on this is-
      psychologist U.F.Harley is given according to which         sue in its dialogue with the MoES. In addition, the en-
      there are five basic needs of men and women, ful-           visaged curriculum revisions to be supported under the
      fillment of which guarantees stability of marriage,         EIP provide a valuable opportunity to revisit textbook
      while dissatisfaction of those needs may lead to the        content issues, as textbooks will need to be aligned
      conflict and even to divorce. The needs of a man are        with the revised curriculum. Moreover, as detailed in
      in sexual satisfaction, rest companion, a chamiing          its Project Appraisal Document, the EIP will promote
      woman, household management and admiration. For             gender sensitivity and prioritize the inclusion of worn-
      a woman the needs are expressed in tenderness, con-         en, the poor, the disabled and other vulnerable groups
      versation, honesty and frankness, financial support         across all project activities, includin~ project consulta-



                                                     28
                                                                                            EQRP 2 and EIP



No.                           Claim                                                     Response
      and devotion to family. The textbook and teaching          tions and other mechanisms for stakeholder engage-
      process do not provide children with opportunity to        ment. Direct consultation with beneficiaries, their rep-
      discuss and argue these statements. Hence there is         resentatives and other stakeholders throughout project
      real risk that children may accept them as norm and        implementation will provide an opportunity to engage
      apply later in life. Another example from the same         in discussions on gender issues and gender biases or
      textbook says that "the societies, such as western         barriers. These consultations will also provide an op-
      ones, where women are fully involved in social life,       portunity for any group or individual to voice their
      tum to have a significant decrease in birth rate".         concerns on textbooks and on aligning textbooks to the
      Children can take the statement as granted and think       revised curriculum. Finally, the EIP will ensure that it
      that the only mission of women is to ensure popula-        monitors its gender impact, and the project results
      tion growth, thus making her reproductive function a       framework includes gender-disaggregated indicators on
      priority in contrast to women's wish to become a           school readiness, preschool enrollment and high school
      fully integrated member of society.                        attendance.
13.   The failures of previous standard development have         See response in Items 11 and 12 above.
      already resulted in gender biased content of educa-
      tion materials and incompliance of civic education
      with human rights standards and Toledo principles.
      Along with gender insensitive content and the con-
      stant messaging of traditional gender stereotypes, the
      teacher's deeply biased attitude is particularly dam-
      aging for developing the notion of gender equality in
      youth during their formative years. The level of bias
      is well demonstrated in a survey on gender socializa-
      tion among teachers according to which a majority of
      teachers strive to instill docility and modesty in girls
      and leadership in boys. Equally troubling is their
      statement that the educational benchmarks they pre-
      sume for boys and girls are different with the boys
      being held to higher standards, with a justification
      that they need education more than girls. This is in a
      country where the number of women with higher
      education has been greater than men for decades and
      women in technical and scientific specialties consti-
      tuted almost half of workforce as recently as ten
      years ago.
14.   Development of subject standard for the Armenian           The EQRP2 and the EIP do not support any links
      Church History is singlehandedly controlled and            between religion and education and the Bank strong-
      supervised by Armenian Apostolic Church through            ly supports the principle of inclusive development.
      its Center for Christian Education and Propaganda.         This particular situation and the potential harm
      During the teaching process the doctrine of the Ar-        stemming from it is neither caused by nor aggravated
      menian Apostolic Church is preached. Discrimina-           by the Bank-supported projects.
      tion and ill treatment are wi<Jely practiced by both       The Bank does not support exclusion of any minority
      teachers and students towards religious minorities.        group and would encourage anyone affected by dis-
                                                                 crimination or ill treatment towards religious minorities
                                                                 (or any minority group) to bring forward cases to the
                                                                 appropriate channels within the MoES or to the office
                                                                 of the Human Rights Defender (Ombudsman) of the
                                                                 Republic of Armenia.
15.   Substantial part ofEQRP2 was aimed at the profes-          Management disagrees with the Requesters' assess-
      sional development and in-service teachers' trainings.     ment of the teacher training.
      Initial stated aim of the teachers' professional devel-    Support provided under the EQRP2 with respect to in-
      opment was the increased quality of education, capa-       service teacher trainin~ was aimed at /eve/in~ thefield


                                                    29
Armenia



No.                              Claim                                                   Response
          bility of using ICT technologies and e-content during   with regard to many of.the reforms that have taken
          the teaching process. However, the trainings con-       place in recent years. An impact evaluation has shown
          ducted based on unified content and format, which       some improvement in the application of interactive
          was not efficient as teachers' professional and peda-   teaching methods as well as areas that require further
          gogical skill, experience and needs vary.               support for gradual improvement. The EQRP2 has also
                                                                  supported professional development at the school level
                                                                  through grants provided by the Union of School C~n-
                                                                  ters. However, since 2013 and by government decision,
                                                                  all in-service teacher training is funded by the govern-
                                         '                        ment and provided by the NIE.
      -                                                           The teacher professional development trainings for
                                                                  certification were provided to 5,925 teachers (about
                                                                  14.6 percent of all teachers) in 2011 and 6,241 teachers
                                                                  (about 15 percent of all teachers) in 2012. The training
                                                                  content was modular-based, emphasizing both subject
                                                                  matter content and pedagogy as well as ICT skills and
                                                                  educational legislation.
                                                                  An impact evaluation of teacher training programs was
                                                                  undertaken under the project in 2011and2012. Ac-
                                                                  cording to the evaluation, there has been some im-
                                                                  provement in terms of teaching practices: 94.3 percent
                                                                  of teachers in 2011 and 93.4 percent of teachers in
                                                                  2012 spend most of their class time using interactive
                                                                  methods; however, only 57.75 percent (2011) and 63.2
                                                                  percent (2012) of the teachers applied those methods
                                                                  during group work classes. Management is also aware
                                                                  of some of the weaknesses in the trainings offered,
                                                                  related to the timing of training, logistical arrange-
                                                                  ments and the heterogeneity of teachers in the training
                                                                  group. The government is well-informed about both the
                                                                  strengths and weaknesses of the training and has the
                                                                  opportunity to take these into account in future training
                                                                  provided by the NIE.
                                                                  The EQRP2 also provided support for the development
                                                                  of a national system for teacher professional develop-
                                                                  ment as well as for a shift in focus from in-service
                                                                  training of individual teachers to supporting school
                                                                  improvement as a collective process of change.
                                                                  In this regard, the work under the project supported the
                                                                  following: (i) modernization of the teacher policy
                                                                  framework through the development of new policies
                                                                  regarding recruitment/evaluation and promotion of
                                                                  teachers; amendments were made to the law on Gen-
                                                                  era) Education (Article 26) introducing new teachers'
                                                                  certification and training regulations in October 2011
                                                                  and the respective normative documents for the im-
                                                                  plementation of the attestation process were developed;
                                                                  and (ii) Establishment of the Union of School Centers
                                                                  to provide grants to schools for professional develop-
                                                                  ment purposes, networking, development of new edu-
                                                                  cational materials, introduction and dissemination of
                                                                  good practice and innovation programs.




                                                      30
                                                                                          EQRP 2 and EIP



No.                           Claim                                                    Response

16.   [from parental authorization letter] 4. We all bear the   These issues do not stem from the EQRP2 or the EIP
      harms that result from professionally unqualified         but are rather part of the existing challenges in the
      teachers, their discriminatory attitudes and practices    sector that must be addressed. Nonetheless, the Bank
      towards school children, unawareness of and incom-        shares the concerns regarding the negative impacts of
      petence in applying innovative teaching methods in        professionally unqualified teachers and discriminato-
      classrooms. Some of the teachers in our schools           ry teaching.
      do/did not take any action to promote interest of our     In fact and as explained above, the EQRP2 has pro-
      children in particular subjects (e.g. physics) which      moted pre-service and in-service training activities
      resulted in zero motivation among children to study       aimed at improving the quality of teaching in the coun-
      that subject.                                             try.

17.   The system of student aptitude evaluation is hugely       Armenia is making strides in improving student eval-
      problematic in principle and provides conflicting or      uation, although it still has some way to go. The Bank,
      even mutually exclusive results for student learning      through projects and trust funds, is providing support
      and skills evaluation. It does not enjoy broad support    for gradual improvement and introduction ofnew
      and trust among either the public or professional         forms of assessment of the learning process and of
      educators, a fact amply demonstrated by expert in-         learners' achievements in compliance with interna-
      terviews and re-search .                                  tional standards.
                                                                Through its efforts and investments, Armenia has
                                                                gradually established the foundations for a comprehen-
                                                                sive student assessment system, including formative
                                                                assessments, summative assessments, examinations,
                                                                and national and international large-scale assessments.
                                                                In 2011 , Armenia conducted a benchmarking exercise
                                                                on student assessment through the Bank's SABER ini-
                                                                tiative, which helps countries examine and strengthen
                                                                the performance of their education systems to achieve
                                                                learning for all. Armenia's student assessment system
                                                                was identified as "advanced" (highest) for classroom
                                                                assessment; "established" for examinations; "emerg-
                                                                ing" for national large-scale assessment; and "estab-
                                                                lished" for international large-scale assessment. The
                                                                benchmarking exercise identified possible next steps to
                                                                further develop the different types of assessment activi-
                                                                ties. These steps have received support through the
                                                                EQRP2 and a READ-Armenia grant, while the EIP
                                                                may fund the participation of Armenia in the intema-
                                                                tional student assessment, TIMSS 2015 (currently
                                                                TIMSS 2015 is in the MoES budget).
                                                                Many challenges remain to maximize the effectiveness
                                                                of the system and ensure it best serves society. Meeting
                                                                these challenges will require the engagement and ac-
                                                                tion not only of the Assessment and Testing Center, the
                                                                creation of which was supported by the EQRP2, but
                                                                also of policy makers and the broader community of
                                                                educational practitioners. None of these challenges are
                                                                unique to Armenia and the country can learn from the
                                                                experience of other countries through dialogue and
                                                                exchange of experiences facilitated by the Bank.

18.   Bank failures. Bank failed in setting proper monitor-     Management believes that there are no issues related
      ing and self-evaluation indicators for EQRP2 and          to OP 13.60 or OP 8.60.
      relied on the borrower's M&E system (OP 13.60,            OP 13.60 establishes the requirement for results-



                                                    31
Armenia ·



No.                           Claim                                                     Response
       point 4.) and reporting. Irrelevant baseline data were   oriented monitoring and evaluation of Bank-supported
       considered for measuring the progress ofEQRP2.           operations and strategies, including independent evalu-
       The factual challenges of the high school reform         ation by the Bank's Independent Evaluation Group, but
       were not taken into ac-count during the development      does not include obligations at the project level.
       stage of the new Education Improvement Project           Likewise there are no issues related to OP 8.60, which
       (Pl30182), while the Bank Procedure, defines that        governs Development Policy Operations; the EQRP2
       "During appraisal, the task team assesses the adequa-    and the EIP are both Investment Project Finance opera-
       cy of the proposed program to achieve its stated ob-     tions.
       jectives." (BP 8.60, point 6). The beneficiary and
                                                                Independently of this point, Management believes that
       public feedback was ignored both during the imple-
                                                                the projects have appropriate monitoring mechanism in
       mentation, monitoring and assessment of the EQRP2
                                                                place. They include: (i) a short term consultant (under a
       results and development of new Education Im-
                                                                contract of 150 days per fiscal year) to follow up on
       provement Project, while according to the procedure
                                                                project activities and to carry out regular in-country
       (OP13.60) in addition to working with borrower, the
                                                                dialogue; (ii) regular visits by the Task Team Leader to
       Bank should "work with other development partners
                                                                the country given the scope of the education portfolio;
       to agree on the results expected from development
                                                                (iii) Implementation Supervision Reports that are filed
       activities and to harmonize the monitoring, reporting,
                                                                at least once per year; (iv) the EQRP2 results frame-
       and evaluation requirements".
                                                                work, which is updated and monitored at least once a
                                                                year; and (v) missions that are followed by Manage-
                                                                ment letters to high level officials in the government:
                                                                Minister of Education and Science; Minister of Fi-
                                                                nance; Minister of Economy; Deputy Ministers; and
                                                                Head of Project Implementation Unit (PIU).
       EIP

19.    By not addressing systemic problems and clearly          Management disagrees that EIP does not address
       identified failures the new loan threatens to exacer-    systemic problems and risks exacerbating their ad-
       bate those and make the situation irreversible given     verse effects. To the contrary, the EIP will contribute
       the vast amounts that are supposed to be spent under     to the gradual improvement of educational quality in
       flowed premise of reform. While further develop-         high schools in Armenia.
       ment of the high school system is stated as a priority   The EIP does not intend to tackle or fully resolve all
       in the new loan, it is limited to the physical refur-    challenges of upper secondary education; however, it
       bishment ofa limited number of high schools (17 out      does intend to notably improve the educational envi-
       of the existing 102) and will not address the issue of   ronment and materials for many students. Specifically,
       quality and accessibility of high schools.               around 10,200 high school students will benefit from
       Education standards, curricula and the entire system     the refurbished buildings and over 56,000 high school
       of high school are considered as deeply problematic      students will benefit from the upgraded educational
       by both the public and the education community. The      equipment.
       curricula and education standards and teachers' pro-     More specifically, the EIP will support secondary edu-
       fessional capacity are of particular concern.[ .. . ]    cation (high schools), through sub-component 1.2,
       The process by which the standards, the curricula        which will provide enrichment for all 107 high schools
       and syllabus are reformed needs to become open and       in Armenia (specifically, the project will provide con-
       transparent; the benchmarks must exclude the possi-      textualized learning materials, modem equipment for
       bility of propaganda of gender bias and discriminato-    teaching/learning, and updated furniture) and will re-
       ry behaviors. Yet, there is no such guarantee as the     habilitate and refurbish the facilities of 17 high schools
       same process that had created the problems is sup-       housed in old and dilapidated buildings.
       ported through the new loan.                             The selection of the 17 high schools to be refurbished
                                                                with the EIP funds was transparent (see criteria on
                                                                page 29 of the Project Appraisal Document); the aim is
                                                                one of safety, as the buildings to be refurbished have
                                                                heating and humidity problems and are seismically
                                                                unfit.



                                                   32
                                                                                           EQRP 2 and EIP



No.                           Claim                                                     Response
                                                                By upgrading the educational materials in all high
                                                                schools and ensuring the safety of students that attend
                                                                high school in potentially dangerous buildings, the
                                                                project will contribute to the improvement of quality in
                                                                upper secondary education in Armenia.
                                                                The project will also contribute to the updating of cur-
                                                                ricula for grades 1-12, that is, including high schools,
                                                                through sub-component 1.4. The updating process is
                                                                expected to be open and participatory - including ex-
                                                                perts, school teachers, and university professors -
                                                                which explains why the majority of the resources allo-
                                                                cated to this sub-component are expected to be used in
                                                                the hiring of experts and the convening of consultative
                                                                workshops.
                                                                Management realizes that while these efforts constitute
                                                                a contribution towards gradual quality improvement,
                                                                more efforts and resources are needed to attain the
                                                                overarching objective of developing a world-class,
                                                                high-performing high school network in Armenia.
20.   We believe the new financing in its current scope         Management does not believe that there is material
      and form does not properly account for the vast gov-      deterioration or harm caused by the projects com-
      emance and accountability problems in Armenia's           pared to the without-project situation.
      education sector and would exacerbate the harm            The Bank noted Open Society Foundations (OSF}-
      caused by the previous loan rather than improve the       Armenia' s main concerns and has discussed them with
      quality of and access to education in Armenia.            the MoES. Management agrees that strong government
      We believe any new loan needs to take into account        control negatively affects the higher education sector
      the problems with the previous loan program. Simul-       and this view has been made public through the Bank' s
      taneously in view of existing governance inadequa-        2013 higher education report and though the dissemi-
      cies demonstrated in dubious and conflicting legisla-     nation, workshops and dialogue with the MoES which
      tive and regulatory frameworks and numerous               the Bank has undertaken.
      obvious conflicts of interests (institutional, not per-    The Bank 's assessment is that postponing the EIP pro-
      sonal) at the highest levels of governance, certain       j ect would cause a greater harm to citizens, as the pro-
      preconditions need to be established to satisfy mini-     ject supports a wide range ofneeded activities from
      ma! accountability standards before the World Bank        preschool to tertiary education. In addressing the
      moves forward with any new financing.                      shortcomings in higher education governance, the
      The fact that the World Bank unconditionally ap-           Bank team faced two options: (i) postpone the en-
      proved the new program is particularly surprising         gagement with MoES until it addresses the higher edu-
      given that the Bank's own assessment of the previous      cation governance issues; or (ii) continue the engage-
      project concluded that in Armenia there are vast and       ment to attain gradual improvements. The team opted
      systemic problems with education governance that          for the latter. At the same time the team acted on two
      hamper any potential for improvement. The World           fronts . First, and based on international experience, the
      Bank's assessment alone, even without other credible       project is financing activities that are aimed at improv-
      supporting research commissioned by OSF Armenia,           ing governance, namely support for increased infor-
      provided conclusive evidence that the objectives of        mation to make the education system accountable,
      the previous financing had not been achieved and          along with support for the CIF. Second, the Bank has
      that these failures posed risks for further improve-       maintained an ongoing dialogue on higher education
      ment.                                                     governance with the MoES and stakeholders. Exam-
      In general, both the World Bank's and above noted          pies include the one day event to disseminate the
      outside researchers identified the main systemic           Bank' s 2013 higher education report (the first time that
      problems that caused stagnation of the reform pro-         such issues were the subject of open discussion in Ar-
      cess and degradation of the quality and equity of the      menia) in May 2013. The seminar and workshop was
      tertiary education system, including its key aspects -    attended by over l 00 stakeholders from HEls and in-



                                                    33
Armenia



No.                               Claim                                                     Response
          learning and teaching, research, relevance to the          eluded a session in which the stakeholders discussed
          economy, relevance to the needs of a democratic            their recommendations to improve governance in high-
          society and sustainability. These flaws are: poor          er education in Armenia. As a follow up activity, the
          governance and quality assurance, inadequate financ-       Bank has secured funds in Fiscal Year (FY)IS to con-
          ing and overly-tight political control and a resultant     tinue the technical work and dialogue on higher educa-
          lack of academic freedom . It is our contention that       tion governance.
          without a serious effort to address these problems in
          advance the World Bank's plan to support research
          through selected university grants will not contribute
          to improving Armenian universities' research capa-
          bilities or their sustainability (from either the finan-
          cial or credibility points of view), development or
          contribution to industry and the labor market.
          Suggestions to the Bank by the Requesters
21.       Suspend implementation of the newly approved fi-           Management does not agree that fully resolving the
          nancing for education. Initiate thorough revision of       issues should be a precondition or conditionality for
          the project with genuine involvement of local educa-       further engagement in the sector, contrary to the
          tion community, public policy experts in design and        wishes and desires of the Requesters.
          consultation process.                                      Management notes that these suggestions were previ-
                                                                     ously conveyed to the Bank by the Executive Director
                                                                     of the OSF-Armenia, in a letter to the Bank's Country
                                                                     Manager dated December 9, 2013. During its interac-
                                                                     tions with OSF-Armenia, the Bank acknowledged the
                                                                     governance and legal challenges facing higher educa-
                                                                     tion, as noted in the Bank's 2013 higher education re-
                                                                     port. This report was widely discussed and publicized
                                                                      in the country. The Bank further drew the attention of
                                                                     the government to these issues within the framework of
                                                                      its ongoing policy dialogue.
                                                                      Management notes that the government is currently
                                                                      working on the legal framework for higher education.
                                                                      Management disagrees with the Requesters on the al-
                                                                      leged lack of consultations and involvement of key
                                                                     stakeholders in the design of the EIP.
                                                                     During project preparation the Bank team held exten-
                                                                     sive consultations with various stakeholders (students,
                                                                     teachers, principals, community members, HEis, em-
      '
                                                                     ployers' associations, among others) to inform project
                                                                     design (see Annex 3). The team carried out a series of
                                                                     analytical studies to inform preparation, developed
                                                                     sound monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for
                                                                     tracking the impact of previous and ongoing projects,
                                                                     held regular supervision missions and kept a continu-
                                                                     ous dialogue with the government. Furthermore, the
                                                                     EIP envisions strong stakeholder participation in pro-
                                                                     ject monitoring and supervision activities through
                                                                     mechanisms such as online surveys, social media ap-
                                                                     plications and the project website.
22.       Condition the WB support upon elimination of con-          It is not the Bank's role or mandate to call/or resig-
          tlict of interest, government representation and po lit-   nations of government officials from public bod-
          ical control in higher education governance through        ieslentities in member states.



                                                         34
                                                                                              EQRP 2 and EIP



 No.                             Claim                                                     Response
        resignations of high ranking officials (i.e. the presi-    The Bank opted for remaining as a partner with some
        dent, the prime minister, etc.) from university gov-       influence rather than standing on the sidelines inactive.
        erning boards, establishment of periodic public re-        See Item 20 above for more details and the rationale
        porting mechanisms and separation of political and         for this strategic choice.
        educational spheres via internal university regula-
        tions.
 23.    Use clearly defined conditionality tools while work-       The Bank has a broad engagement in Armenia that
        ing with the Armenian Government. The main condi-          covers many sectors and includes different aspects,
        tionality tool in the given context is the reform of the   such as strategic dialogue, lending and analytical
        legislative framework to the effect of guaranteeing        reports. The use of conditionality is thus carefully
        freedom and independence of HE ls in accordance            considered as part of the overall country program.
        with the requirements of Armenian Constitution and         As indicated above, the Bank team has acted on two
        the Law on Education. Particular legal norms in-           fronts: first, by including in the EIP activities aimed at
        elude: SNCO law that allows exercise of undue ex-          gradually improving governance; and second, by main-
        ecutive control over university financial manage-          taining an ongoing dialogue on higher education gov-
        ment, university board governance and management,          ernance with the MoES and stakeholders. As part of
        government Decree that allows appointment ofpolit-         this dialogue, the MoES has indicated that a new draft
        ical figures and government officials as board chairs      Strategy for Higher Education in Armenia, which in-
        and majority representation in the university govern-      eludes a specific chapter on governance, is being pre-
        ance.                                                      pared during 2014. This strategy addresses many of the
                                                                   conflict of interest issues raised in the Bank's report.
                                                                   The Program for the Government of the Republic of
                                                                   Armenia calls for broadening the autonomy of HEls by
                                                                   introducing transparency and accountability instru-
                                                                   ments.
. 24.   In addition to institutional enhancement of internal       Management agrees with the Requesters. The EIP
        quality assurance, address internal quality improve-        will support efforts of the Mo ES to improve data-
        ment in practice based on clear measurement tools,          collection and monitoring of education system per-
        such as number of internationally competitive re-          formance.
        search projects and research outcomes by the faculty        The general EMIS and the TEMIS will be integrated in
        and students, random sampling of academic papers            a common platform for increased access to information
        written by faculty and students and checking of those       and accountability. This information system will serve
        against criteria of academic honesty, practice of aca-      as the basis for the University Ranking System that the
        demic freedoms, continuous and holistic plan of the         MoES is currently developing.
        training of faculty and staff, etc.
 25.    In consultation with a wide scope of beneficiaries         The Bank team recognizes that high schools face
        design quality measurement tools of specialized high       many challenges; the design of the EIP aims at im-
        school staff, its professional capacity, school facili-    proving the quality of the education provided in high
        ties, and access to high schools in support of high        schools.
        school reform. Design further WB support to high           Subcomponent 1.2 of the EIP on enrichment of high
        school reform based on the measurement.                    schools was included to give a response to the concerns
                                                                   voiced by parents in the consultations and by MoES in
                                                                   relation to the poor infrastructure and equipment avail-
                                                                   able in the high schools. A needs assessment of all 107
                                                                   high schools was carried out by the MoES to be used
                                                                   for investment planning and for dialogue with intema-
                                                                   tional organizations on funding needed civil works.
                                                                   The selection of the high schools was based on an in-
                                                                   dex of infrastructure needs in which the struc'ture and
                                                                   foundation, roof, floor, walls, and heating and electri-
                                                                   cal systems accounted for most of the weight in the
                                                                   index. The index gave a higher score to older schools,



                                                       35
Armenia



No.                               Claim                                                     Response
                                                                     to schools with a larger number of students and schools
                                                                     which service more villages.
                                                                     Also as noted earlier, the EIP will support the provision
                                                                     of contextualized digital learning materials, modem
                                                                     equipment and school furniture to all high schools in
                                                                     Armenia to enrich the learning environment. Further-
                                                                     more, the EIP envisions strong stakeholder participa-
                                                                     tion in project monitoring and supervision activities
                                                                     through mechanisms such as online surveys, social
                                                                     media applications and project website.
26.   Prior to deciding main directions of WB support,               Management disagrees. The complete list of consulta-
      create a platform where wide circles of beneficiaries          tions is included in Annex 3. See also Item 21.
      will come to reflect upon the directions and means of
      reform implementation consecutively contributing to
      the popularization of the education reform agenda
      itself.
27.   Case studies:                                                  The individual testimonies (referred to as "case stud-
      Case 1: The case shows lack of academic independ-              ies'') presented in the Request which seek to present
      ence for credibility and sustainability ofresearch,            anecdotal support for the governance issues in the
      censorship of research and politicization in academ-           education system in Armenia as seen by the Re-
      ia.                                                            questers do not offer any reasonable indication or
                                                                     evidence that the alleged incidents stem from the sup-
      Case 2: The case is illustrative of lack of academic
                                                                     port granted under the two projects, or that they are
      freedom in research, irregular mechanisms of re-
                                                                     related to the projects in any way.
      search within universities, political control and viola-
      tion of secularity of university.                              Case 1: Management is not in a position to confirm or
                                                                     refute the due process of the cited decision. However,
          Case 3: This case demonstrates that due to dubious
                                                                     it is not clear how the two Bank-supported operations
          legislative field executive control over universities is
                                                                     could be related to the individual decisions of profes-
          made possible
                                                                     sors or faculties regarding the acceptance or refusal of
                                                                     a proposed Ph.D. thesis topic.
                                                                     Case 2: Management is not in a position to confirm or
                                                                     refute the due process of the cited decision. However,
                                                                     as the case study explains, the dispute that took place
                                                                     focused on different faculties ' views and the examina-
                                                                     tion board let the candidate fail. Again, it is not clear
                                                                     how the two Bank-supported operations could be relat-
                                                                     ed to these individual decisions of professors or facul-
                                                                     ties regarding the acceptance or refusal ofa Ph.D. the-
                                                                     SIS.

                                                                     Case 3: Management is not in a position to confirm or
                                                                     refute the due process of the cited decision. However,
                                                                     the testimony confirms that the cited dismissal of the
                                                                     Rector was possible due to stipulations of existing
                                                                     laws, and not caused or supported by the Bank-
                                                                     supported projects.
          Contact with the World Bank
28.       We presented our facts and analyses to senior World        Since the Requesters have asked that their identity be
          Bank staff in both Yerevan and in Washington DC.           kept as confidential, Management has no means of
          Meeting with [ ... the] Country Director, World Bank       verifying the cited prior contact
          Armenia office in November 2013. Official corre-           At the same time, Manal!ement notes that the meet-



                                                         36
                                                                                    EQRP 2 and EIP



No.                         Claim                                               Response
      spondence to [the Country Director] following the   ings cited by the Requesters pertain to meetings and
      meeting dated December 9, 2013. Meetings with       exchanges between the Bank and OSF-Armenia.
      education team, Armenian ED's office and a round-   The Bank team met OSF-Armenia three times during
      table presentation at the World Bank Washington     preparation of the EIP. First, the Country Director met
      office in DC, February 2014.                        with OSF-Armenia in December 2013. The Bank team
                                                          then met OSF-Armenia during its February 19-20,
                                                          2014 visit to Bank headquarters; OSF-Armenia was
                                                          accompanied by the Bank Information Center (BIC).
                                                          OSF-Armenia met separately with the Armenian advi-
                                                          sor to the Dutch ED and with the US ED. As part of the
                                                          visit, a meeting with other EDs on the topic of corrup-
                                                          tion in Armenia was organized by the US ED. During
                                                          this meeting, OSF-Armenia presented its higher educa-
                                                          tion report. The Bank's education team attended the
                                                          presentation, which included a useful discussion on the
                                                          Project's design during the Q&A.
                                                          As a follow-up to the February 2014 meeting in Wash-
                                                          ington and at the Bank's initiative, the Bank team met
                                                          with OSF-Armenia at the Bank's office in Armenia
                                                          (March 31- April 4, 2014) to continue dialogue, learn
                                                          more about OSF-Armenia's activities and obtain re-
                                                          ports which could be useful for the Bank's work on
                                                          education in Armenia.
                                                          OSF-Armenia's main concerns on higher education -
                                                          including the issues raised in OSF's letter dated De-
                                                          cember 9, 2013 - have been discussed with the MoES,
                                                          as part of the ongoing dialogue following publication
                                                          of the Bank' s 2013 report on higher education in Ar-
                                                          menia.
29.   On OP/BP 4.01                                       Management notes that the Requesters do not raise
                                                          any issue pertinent to this policy. Management has
                                                          reviewed the related documents that were prepared to
                                                          address environmental and social impacts from the
                                                          construction activities supported under the project and
                                                          found them to be consistent with the related policy.
                                                          The draft of the Environmental and Social Manage-
                                                          ment Framework (ESMF) for the EIP was disclosed in-
                                                          country on December 4, 2013 in Armenian and Eng-
                                                          lish. The ESMF was posted on the web site of the
                                                          Mo ES, including the announcement of public consulta-
                                                          tion date, time and venue. 10
                                                          A public consultation meeting on the draft ESMF was
                                                          held in Yerevan on December 10, 2013 . The ESMF
                                                          was then finalized and re-disclosed in-country and
                                                          through the InfoShop (on December 11 , 2013). Site-
                                                          specific Environmental Management Plans (EMPs),
                                                          once drafted, will also be disclosed nationwide, with
                                                          special emphasis on their accessibility to project-

10
  The link to the Ministry's web site is: http://edu.am/index.php?id=-6432&topMenu=4&menul =-
l&menu2=4&arch=O.




                                                37
Armenia



No.                          Claim                                                   Response
                                                             affected local communities. Draft EMPs will be open
                                                             for public feedback, after which they will be finalized
                                                             and included in tender packages. EMPs will be at-
                                                             tached to contracts to be signed with works providers,
                                                             and their implementation will be mandatory.
30.   On OP/BP I 0.00 (specifically on lessons learned and   Lessons from previous Bank projects were considered
      consultations).                                        in the design of the EIP. The design of the EIP has
                                                             benefited from the following key aspects: (i) lessons
                                                             learned from previous Bank supported education pro-
                                                             jects in Armenia as formally documented in their ICRs;
                                                             (ii) the implementation experience gained as part of the
                                                             ongoing EQRP2 in Armenia, the successful elements
                                                             of which were integrated into the EIP' s design; (iii)
                                                             lessons learned from international experience and best
                                                             practices supported by the corresponding literature and
                                                             evidence from the implementation of Bank education
                                                             projects in different parts of the world; and (iv) analyt-
                                                             ic work and stakeholder consultations undertaken by
                                                             the Bank. Annex 2 documents in greater detail the key
                                                             lessons, studies and processes underpinning the EIP' s
                                                             design.




                                                 38
                                                                                                 EQRP 2 and EIP




                                    Annex 2
      Lessons from Previous Bank Projects Considered in the Design of the EIP


The table below details the key lessons, studies and processes underpinning the EIP's de-
sign.

Sources of the Lessons                                       Consideration under the Project
A. ICR lessons from previous projects in Arme-
    nia

 I . Despite changes of Ministers, continuity and            I . There has been a continuity of key actors at both
commitment of senior level Ministry officials during         the MoES and the PIU level.
the project's life are the key to smooth project im-
plementation, and therefore to overall project suc-
cess.
                                                             2. The Bank team and the MoES held extensive con-
2. Achieving public consensus on reform issues by            sultations and discussions with key stakeholders
sharing with the public the work accomplished and            during project preparation.
conducting open discussions on issues affecting
beneficiaries are essential for building ownership           On the Bank' s side, these included (i) extensive con-
and commitment to reforms and developing the cul-            sultations with various stakeholders during prepara-
ture of accountability. In particular, when big              tion visits (students, teachers, principals, community
changes are expected.                                        members, HEis, employers ' associations, among
                                                             others); and (ii) dissemination workshops on the
                                                             analytical products delivered in FY13 and used to
                                                             inform project design and dialogue with the MoES
                                                             and with stakeholders.

                                                             On the side of the MoES, these included several
                                                             consultations during the preparation of the social
                                                             assessment in the areas of: (i) preschool; (ii) high
                                                             school reforms; and (iii) process assessment of the
                                                             pilot CIF. In addition, the Environmental and Social
                                                             Management Framework was developed, dissemi-
                                                             nated and consulted in country prior to the disclo-
                                                             sure in the Bank' s InfoShop.

                                                             3. Four analytical reports were launched in FY 13
3. Good analytical work to inform project design,            and delivered in FY14 as background analysis for
competent technical assistance as well as envisaging         the new project. These included: (i) analysis of
adequate time for the education system to accept             higher education governance; (ii) case study on link-
changes and innovations (and for preparing it for the        ing higher education and human capital needs in a
changes) at the initial stage are crucial when funda-        priority industry; (iii) assessment of early childhood
mental reforms are expected.                                 development in Armenia; and (iv) review of the
                                                             quality of the general education review. The reports
                                                             were disseminated and discussed in country in May
                                                             2013 . Over I 00 stakeholders were consulted on the
                                                             findings and policy options arising from the reports
                                                             during the two-day dissemination event.

                                                             4. The Bank team has held regular implementation
4. Providing continuous guidance in the context of           suooort visits and kept a continuous dialogue with



                                                        39
Armenia


Sources of the Lessons                                        Consideration under the Project
an ambitious reform agenda is essential. IDA super-           the MoES during FY13 and FY14.
vision must be continuous and intensive. Proactive
and timely monitoring and support by the Bank team
are crucial for project success.
                                                               5. Rigorous evaluation studies under the ongoing
5. In order to get a "story behind the numbers," pro-          project have been contracted by the MoES: (i) Quan-
jects should include an impact evaluation or at least          titative and Qualitative Assessment to evaluate the
an independent assessment of outcome indicators to             impact ofthe preschool component on the Education
evaluate the quality of training provided by the pro-          Development Index (EDI) of project beneficiaries
ject, behavioral changes of teachers and effective             vis-a-vis a control group. Results indicate a positive
use of technology.                                             and statistically significant impact on EDI for the
                                                               project's beneficiaries as compared to the control
                                                               group; and (ii) quality assessment of teacher training
                                                               providers. Regardless of the evaluation results,
                                                               which showed heterogeneity in the quality of train-
                                                               ing provided, in 2013 the MoES adopted a new poli-
                                                               cy requiring that all teacher training needs to be un-
                                                               dertaken by the NIE and 20 percent of teachers need
                                                               to go through mandatory training every year (so that
                                                               100 percent of teachers are trained over a 5 year
                                                               period). Finally, regular information on usage of
                                                              ·technology for education purposes is monitored
                                                               through intranet usage (all schools in Armeilla are
                                                               now connected to intranet) and regularly assessed by
                                                               inspectors in their visits to schools.
B. Lessons from the ongoing project

1. Rigorous evaluation studies undertaken under the           1. The EIP will continue the emphasis on school
ongoing project show the important positive impact            readiness of Armenian chlldren through supporting
of preschool services on school readiness, as meas-           increases in both access and quality of preschool
ured by the Early Development Index of children in            education in poorer communities.
the project's supported preschools as compared with
students with no preschool experience.

2. Under the EQRP2, a pilot application of a Com-             2. The lessons learned from the CIF process assess-
petitive Innovation Fund (CIF) was undertaken. A              ment are being incorporated into the Project Opera-
process assessment of the CIF was conducted as it is          tional Manual (POM) before proceeding to main-
too early to assess the actual impact of the grants.          stream the CIF under the EIP. In particular, the
The study revealed a relative shortage in competen-           POM will incorporate under the EIP the provision of
cies in hjgher education institutions to produce qual-        technical assistance and training to the academic
ity proposals for the ClF.                                    community, in particular to smaller institutions, to
                                                              assist with drafting proposals for the CIF. The POM
                                                              is an effectiveness condition for the EIP.

3. Objectivity, impartiality and transparency of the          3. The Bank team has discussed and provided tech-
selection criteria and processes are prerequisites for        nical and fiduciary advice on the respective chapters
allocation of grants for preschool subprojects and            of the Project Operational. Manual covering pre-
CIF, and are essential for the schemes to be credible.        school and CIF grants.
Awareness campaigns and relevant training ahead of
time (and throughout) are also necessary. Finally,
building procurement and financial management
capacities at the grant beneficiary level are also crit-
ical as cumbersome procurement arrangements can
stall the implementation of preschool subprojects
and innovation funds .



                                                         40
                                                                                                 EQRP 2 and EIP


Sources of the Lessons                                       Consideration under the Project

4. Lack ofreliable and timely information can ham-           4. The EIP will support the efforts of the MoES to
per policy makers ' role in fostering the development        improve data-collection and monitoring of education
of a relevant and cost-effective education sector; it        system performance, while integrating into a com-
can also mislead families and students and reduce            mon platform the general EMIS and the TEMIS for
accountability of schools and teachers to citizens.          increased access to information and accountability.
C. Lessons from International Experience

1. Preschool Education: Worldwide evidence doc-              1. Promoting school readiness and equal opportuni-
uments the significant impact of quality preschool           ties at the start of general education is incorporated
education on children's school readiness and on              under the EIP as one of the key components to: (i)
their capacity to become productive citizens. Fur-           increase preschool access and enrollment, focusing
thermore, investments in the early years (i.e., up to        on vulnerable populations, as a means of improving
the age of six) are deemed to be the most cost-              the school readiness of five- and six-year-old chil-
effective a government can make in the education of          dren entering primary education; and (ii) improve
its people. Lack of access to preschool has been in-         the quality of preschool education offered by com-
ternationally documented as detrimental to chil-             munity-based preschool initiatives.
dren ' s capacity to learn in Grade 1 and beyond, to
transition succe~sfully from one grade to another, to
complete their education and to eventually become
fully contributing and productive members of socie-
ty."

2. Impact of improvements in the learning envi-              2. An enrichment of Upper Secondary Schools is
ronment on student learning: Glewwe et al con-               included to strengthen 17 high schools that do not
ducted a literature review followed by a meta-               meet Armenia' s construction and safety standards
analysis study (based on 79 studies) of the relation-        (including seismic stability). The EIP will also sup-
ship between school resources and test scores. Bran-         port the provision of contextualized digital learning
ham studied over 200 schools in the Houston Inde-            materials, modem equipment and school furniture to
pendent School District and Cuyvers et al analyzed           all high schools in Armenia to enrich the learning
the impact of school infrastructure on the well-being        environment.
of students in Flemish secondary schools. It is im-
portant to underscore the fact that the evidence
available is drawn mainly from regions whose needs
may differ from those of Armenia in substantive
ways. However, the overall assessment from this
literature is that regardless of the region, improving
infrastructure would lead to better learning outcomes
by strengthening the motivation of teachers and stu-
dents and reducing absenteeism. 12



11
    References on preschool education:
- Cunha, F., and J. Heckman. 2007. "The Technology of Skill Formation." American Economic Review
97(2):31-47.
- Heckman, J. 2006. "Skill Formation and the Economics of Investing in Disadvantaged Children." Science
312(5782): 1900--02.
- SABER. 2013. What Matters Most for Early Childhood Development: A Framework Paper. Working
Paper Series No 5. The World Bank.
12
  · References on impacts of learning environment on student learning:
- Glewwe, P., E. Hanushek, S. Humpage, and R. Ravina. 2011. School Resources and Educational Out-
comes in Developing Countries: A Review of the Literature from 1990 to 2010, NBER Working Paper
17554.




                                                        41
Armenia


Sources of the Lessons                                        Consideration under the Project

3. Competitive Innovation Funds. More than 30                 3. The mainstreaming of the CIF was incorporated
innovation funds are being used in various parts of           into the EIP to enhance diversification of sources of
the world. International experience suggests that             funding for higher education targeted at quality, rel-
innovation funds are highly effective mechanisms              evance and efficiency improvements in universities
for improving transparency and efficiency of the              in Armenia. This builds upon a pilot CIF implemen-
budget allocation for tertiary education, for boosting        tation under the EQRP2. A process assessment of
educational quality, relevance and innovation within          the pilot CIF covering the areas of transparency,
tertiary institutions, and for improving governance           relevance, efficiency and preliminary impacts was
in higher education.                                          undertaken to inform project design .

The Bank has supported higher education systems
through introducing CIF in several countries. The
Bangladesh Higher Education Quality Enhancement
Project (Pl06216), the Chile Higher Education Im-
provement Project (P05548 I) and the Tertiary Edu-
cation Finance for Results project (P088498); the
Cambodia Higher Education Quality and Capacity
Improvement Project (PI 0605) and the Ghana Skills
and Technology Development Project (P 118 I 12) are
some of the examples. The experience accumulated
in the Bank indicates (i) the value of establishing
diversified funding mechanisms for higher education
that are demand-driven and have transparent proce-
dures, as opposed to designating resources to nar-
rowly defined purposes and in a top-down fashion ;
and (ii) the flexibility of competitive funds to re-
spond, with transparent procedures, to specific sec-
tor development needs and to reorient resources
from investments in teaching facilities to improve-
ment of curricula and the learning process. 13
D. Recommendations from Analytical Studies:                   The recommendations arising from the higher edu-
                                                              cation governance report of: diversifying higher ed-
The design of the new education project was in-               ucation financing, building system-wide and institu-
formed by the following analytical studies delivered          tional capacity, and establishing a diversified,
in FY13 : (i) analysis of higher education govern-            integrated tertiary education system were addressed
ance; (ii) case study on linking higher education and         by the CIF. The international evidence suggests that
human capital needs in a priority. industry; (iii) as-        the CIF can be a successful bottom-up catalyst to
sessment of early childhood development in Arme-              incentivize HEis, even when the overall system gov-
nia; and (iv) review of the quality of general educa-         ernance is stiB weak. At the same time, through one
tion.                                                         of the funding windows, the CIF can be used to fos-
                                                              ter a closer link with a priority industry as recom-
                                                              mended by one of the analytical studies.


- Branham, D. 2004. "The Wise Man Builds His House Upon the Rock: Effects of Inadequate School
Building Infrastructure and Attendance." Social Science Quarterly, 85 (5), p. I I 12-1128.
- Cuyvers, K. , G. De Weerd, S. Dupont, S. Mots, and C. Nuytten. 2011. "Well-being at school: does infra-
structure matter." CELE Exchange 2011110. OECD.
13
   Ref erences on CJF in higher education:
- Saint, W. 2006. Innovation Funds for Higher Education: A Users ' guide for World Bank Funded Projects,
The World Bank.
- Fehnel, R. 2004. Higher Education Reforms and Demand Responsive Innovation Funds: Dimensions of
Difference. The World Bank.




                                                         42
                                                                                                 EQRP 2 and EIP


Sources of the Lessons                                        Consideration under the Project
The main recommendations arising from the                     Two recommendations from the higher education
higher education governance report included: (i)              governance report were not included in the EIP.
diversifying hjgher education financing; (ii) building        First, the recommendation on strengthening Anne-
system-wide and institutional capacity; (iii) estab-          nia's Quality Assurance system was not included in
lishing a diversified, integrated tertiary education          the new project as the remaining required changes in
system; (iv) strengthening the country' s quality as-         ANQA governance structure are of legislative nature
surance system; and (v) overhauling the regulatory            and without a clear role for the Bank. Second, the
framework for higher education.                               regulatory reform on higher education recommenda-
                                                              tion was not included in the EIP as the government
                                                              is currently designing a draft strategy on higher edu-
                                                              cation, which still needs to be discussed and agreed
                                                              with multiple stakeholders. The Bank team also be-
                                                              lieves that the CIF's design will foster and model
                                                              governance and financing that may facilitate the
                                                              decision making on the strategy.

                                                              The recommendations arising from the Early Child-
                                                              hood Development assessment regarding continuing
                                                              the support to the expansion of the coverage of the
                                                              one year National School Readiness Program and
                                                              revising the requirements of contributions from poor
                                                              communities for preschool expansion were incorpo-
                                                              rated in the EIP.

                                                              Finally, recommendations arising from the analysis
                                                              of quality of general education revie~ and the need
                                                              to strengthen student learning assessment systems
                                                              were incorporated in the support to assessment ac-
                                                              tivities that the Bank is providing under the Armenja
                                                              READ program. Notwithstanding, the EIP does con-
                                                              sider the funding of the application of the interna-
                                                              tional student assessment TIM SS 2015 to increase
                                                              public information (and accountability to citizens)
                                                              on student learning in Armenia.




                                                         43
Armenia


                                              Annex 3
                                   Consultations and Due Diligence



Consultations in Preparation of EIP

During preparation the MoES prepared the following reports as part of the Social As-
sessment. Extensive stakeholder consultations were conducted during their elaboration:

              Report                         Consultations with              Reports and Timing of Con-
                                                                                      sultations
  Evaluation of the CIF pilot       - Interviews with CIF applicants         September - November 2013
  phase mechanisms                    (state and non-state HEis): 5 se-
                                      lected projects and 4 non selected
                                      projects.
                                    - Interviews with CIF Secretariat.
     CIF evaluation                 - Interviews with CIF Decision Mak-
 .report_final (!)_For_'              ing Body .
  [Deliberative document
  available in the ro 'ect zles.
  School Readiness Enhance-         - 8 focus groups with heads of the         October - November 2013
  ment program (preschools)           communities and with parents.
                                    - 9 in-depth interviews with pre-
                                      school principals and teachers.

  Report_preschool_e
        ng.doc
  [Deliberative document
  available in the ro ·eel zles.
  Current Situation of High         - 4 focus groups with students, par-       October - November 2013
  School Reforms in Armenia           ents, school principals and teach-
                                      ers.
                                    - 29 expert interviews with high
                                      school directors (10), high school
  Report High Schools                 teachers ( 12), and representatives
    Eng-finaI. docx                   of the national and subnational lev-
  [Deliberative document              el (7) .
  available in the ro ·ect zles.
  Environmental and Social          - ESMF disclosed December 4, 2013        Consultation held on December
  Management Framework for            on the web page of the MoES and                   10, 2013.
  the Infrastructure Component        on the PIU web page in Armenian
                                      and English.
                                    - 14 people attended the public con-
                                      sultation on December 10, 2013.
  CEP_ESMF_1 0Dec20
      13. fin.doc




                                                      44
                                                                                          EQRP 2 and EIP


Meeting with Stakeholders during Supervision and Preparation Missions

During all visits 14 to Armenia, the Bank team carried out field visits and interacted with
various stakeholders. These included:

     •   Teachers and community members to gauge their perception on the Early Child-
         hood Development micro-projects to be supported by the project;
     •   High schools to interact with students, teachers and principals;
     •   Universities to learn more about their challenges, advances on quality assurance
         and their experiences with CIF; and
     •   Employers ' associations (Union of Manufactures and Employers of Armenia and
         the Chamber of Commerce and Industry) to learn more about the perception of
         mismatch between the demands of the labor market and the skills provided by the
         higher education system.

The Bank team also had informative meetings with the EU/EC European Training Foun-
dation local experts, Eurasian Development Bank, GIZ, UNICEF, and USAID.

Dissemination and Discussions with Stakeholders on Education Sector Work

The analytical reports were disseminated and discussed with various stakeholders, as
shown in the table below.




14
  Source: Aide memoires from November 12-16, 2012; December 10-14, 2012; March 25-29, 2013 ; June
17-21 , 2013 ; July 22-25, 2013 ; and September 23-27, 2013 visits. Aide Memoires are not available to the
public as they are classified as "official use only" due to their deliberative nature.




                                                    45
Armenia


    Date                   Topic                                      Attendance
May 7, 2013     Higher Education Conference    About one hundred stakeholders from the Armenian
                                               higher education community participated in the event,

                        -,:
                         --
                                               including representatives of HEls, colleges, research in-
                                               stitutions, and government officials from various minis-
                                               tries. In his opening remarks, the Minister informed the
                   Addressing                  audience that a working group had been established to
               Governance at the O             reform the legislative framework on university govern-
                                               ance and urged HEis to strengthen their capacity and ac-
                                               countability to exercise autonomy. The conference in-
                                               eluded a group discussion session centered on the main
                                               conclusions of the report.*

May 8, 2013     Quality and Equity in Arme-    15 key stakeholders in general education, including offi-
                nian General Education         cials of the MoES and MoF, representatives from schools,
                                               and donor partners.


                        ~
                        --
               Quality and Equity in
               Arrrenai General Educ

May 8, 2013     Early Childhood Develop-       15 key stakeholders including officials of the Ministries
                ment                           of Education and Science, Labor and Social Protection,
                                               and Health, and donor partners.


                        ~
                        --
                   SABER ECD.pdf


May 8, 2013     Pharmaceutical Case Study -    10 key stakeholders from HEls and the private sector
                Linking Higher Education       working on the pharmaceutical industry.
                and Economic Development


                        -,:
                         --
                   Pharmaceutical
                    Report.pdf
* More mformat1on on the May 7 dissemination event for the Higher Education report can be found in the
following link: http://www.worldbank.org/en/news/press-release/2013/05/07/world-bank-places-
govemance-at-the-heart-of-higher-education-reform




Supervision of the EQRP2 and Missions (OP/BP 13.05)

Appropriate supervision was conducted on the EQRP2. Project files contain nine Imple-
mentation Supervision Reports (ISRs), as follows:




                                                  46
