Report No. PID11510
Project Name             INDIA-Maharashtra Rural Water Supply...
and Sanitation Project
Region                   South Asia Regional Office
Sector                   Water supply (509); Sanitation (50%)
Project ID               P073369
Borrower(s)              GOVERNMENT OF INDIA
Implementing Agency
GOVERNMENT OF MAHARASHTRA
Department of Water Supply and
Sanitation
Address:
Contact Person: Mr. Sudhir Thakre
Tel: 91-22-2023338
Fax: 91-22-284-5499
Email: dirppmu@bom3.vsnl.net.in
Environment Category     B
Date PID Prepared        November 5, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      March 13, 2003
Bank Approval Date       July 31, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
At the National level:
At the national Level: In India, drinking water and sanitation is a state
subject. However the Government of India (GOI) plays a major role in the
sector. It formulates guiding policies, sets standards and provides
technical assistance as well as substantial financial assistance to the
states. Since the beginning of the Sixth Five Year Plan (1980-85) and the
launch of International Drinking Water Supply and Sanitation Decade, India
has increased its commitment to the water supply and sanitation sector.
Sector investments have increased and now constitute about 3% of the
national budget (of which 60% is allocated to rural areas). GOI funding
constitutes about 40W of the total investment in the sector. The balance
is provided by the states and only a small amount (less than 5%) comes
from external support agencies.
Despite huge investments, a large proportion of the rural population is
still without access to sustainable and safe drinking water and sanitation
facilities. Rural drinking water policy in India is at an interesting
cross-roads. The bulk of the drinking water program follows a traditional,
top-down system of financing and delivery. Significant subsidies are
provided by GOI and state level governments to finance state agencies to
deliver engineering intensive systems with little attention to community
demand and choice of technology or willingness to pay for such schemes.
The planning of Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (RWSS) services also
takes place without due attention to resource availability or quality, and
are rarely financially viable, resulting in a government dominated and
target driven service that has become unsustainable institutionally,
financially and environmentally. Not surprisingly, the level of failure



of this system is widespread and well documented.
At the State Level
Drinking water is a major priority in Maharashtra.   About 60% of the
population lives in rural areas, and groundwater is the main source of
drinking water supply.   Only 609 of villages and hamlets are fully
covered, where successful and adequate groundwater source is created at 40
liters per capita per day (lpcd). About 28% of villages are partially
covered, where groundwater source is created but is less than 40 lpcd, and
the remaining 12% are not covered at all, where there are no safe sources
available or identified currently for drinking water supply. As per
Government of Maharashtra (GOM) guidelines, about 62% of villages and
hamlets are categorized as "difficult" villages, where no source of water
is available within a distance of 500 meters, and GOM has decided to give
priority to these villages. Key RWSS issues in Maharashtra are as follows:
(a) Poor Operational Performance of Existing Water Supply Facilities:
Inefficient management of existing water supply infrastructure is a major
issue. Unreliable and unstable power supply also affects the reliability
of water supply service.
(b) Lack of Ownership and Willingness to Charge: User financing of
operation and maintenance (O&M) is currently insignificant. Experiences
so far have demonstrated that users are willing to pay if they have
greater control over scheme planning and operation management. However,
in the past there has been a general unwillingness on the part of
government to levy and collect adequate user charges. GOM's direct and
indirect subsidy to the local governments to meet the O&M expenditure of
water service also acts as a disincentive to levy and collect sufficient
user charges.
(c) Inadequate Capacity of Local Governments and User Groups: With
decentralization, GOM has to, and will continue to, increasingly transfer
the function of RWSS service delivery to local governments. However, the
local institutions lack capacity to plan, construct and manage the RWSS
schemes. Simultaneously, the role of the government sector institutions
will have to fundamentally change from direct service delivery to
providing capacity support to local institutions. This is a challenging
task.
GOI and GOM have recognized the need to improve the functionality and
sustainability of the sector and have launched significant sector
reforms.  GOI has started reserving 20% of the central funds allocated for
rural water supply, about US$80 million annually, to States implementing
reforms in the sector. The GOI is using the following principles to
allocate sector reform funds to States: (i) adoption of a demand driven
approach and empowerment of villagers; (ii) focus on village level
capacity building; (iii) maintenance of an integrated approach to water
supply, sanitation and hygiene promotion; (iv) requirement for partial
capital cost recovery and 100% O&M financing by users; and (v) promotion
of groundwater conservation and recharge measures (Ref: Accelerated Rural
Water Supply Programme Guidelines, GOI, and Rajiv Gandhi National Drinking
Water Mission, 1999).
GOM follows national policies and priorities for its RWSS program. It has
- 2 -



developed a new sector reform strategy which adopts a more demand
responsive approach, implementing cost recovery policy, and in a phased
manner, further devolution of RWSS responsibilities to local bodies and
village communities.
2. Objectives
The project will assist the GOM in: (i) increasing rural communities'
access to improved and sustainable drinking water and sanitation services;
and (ii) decentralizing RWSS service delivery to village Panchayats
(village governments) and communities.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
GOI has requested the Bank to assist the GOM in implementing these
reforms. It believes that Bank support will provide a strong
demonstration effect nationwide. For Maharashtra, given the long-term
nature of undertaking such reforms statewide and the sizeable investments
required to meet the needs in this sector, the Bank is uniquely positioned
to support both the reform process and the associated investment program.
In addition, the Bank can make available to Maharashtra its considerable
knowledge of national and international experience and best practices in
the RWSS sector. The Bank's support to Maharashtra in other water sector
projects and support to fiscal and Governance reforms through analytical
work, will be a significant value addition in improving RWSS sector
performance in the state.
4. Description
The key proposed project components would include:
(A)    Community Development and Infrastructure Building:
The subcomponent on Community Development will consist of: (i) support for
Community Building at Village Panchayats, user groups and community levels
to plan, implement schemes and manage service delivery on a sustainable
basis; (ii) support for women's development initiatives; and (iii) a pilot
village development initiatives fund.
The subcomponent on Infrastructure Building will finance (i) rural water
supply schemes; (ii) ground water recharge and conservation measures; and
(iii) household latrines, household sanitation and community sanitation.
(B) Component on Institutional Development will consist of: (i)
strengthening of state government institutions and district level local
government institutions and building their capacity to be responsive to
community demand and participatory processes; and (ii) sanitation and
hygiene promotion; and
(C) Component on Sector Strengthening Programs will finance technical
assistance to GOM to strengthen RWSS sector reforms and management.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $34.00
IBRD $0.00
IDA $150.00
LOCAL COMMUNITIES $16.00
LOCAL GOVTS. (PROV., DISTRICT, CITY) OF BORROWING COUNTRY $0.00
Total Project Cost $200.00
-3-



6. Implementation
The project would be implemented by using a model in which Village
Panchayats and Village Water Supply Committees (VWSCs) will be the focal
point for project implementation, and will be responsible for planning,
procurement, construction and O&M of schemes, with technical support
provided by suitable staffed/strengthened district Panchayats, and other
support agencies (e.g. Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs), Community
Based Organizations (CBOs), private sector consultants). At the district
level, the Zilla Panchayat (ZP) will be the final authority for all
project related administrative, financial and technical approvals.
7. Sustainability
Sustainability implies that the system works throughout its normal life,
and is able to generate adequate cash flows for future expansion/renewal.
Though full cost recovery may not be possible in the Indian (and even
global) RWSS context in the immediate future, the project makes a
significant progress in partial capital cost financing and 100l of O&M
financing by the users. The project has design rules to ensure
sustainability. These are derived from the successes and lessons learned
from the previous RWSS projects in India and elsewhere. If these do not
work, the annual review process will be used to recalibrate/change the
design rules. The main design elements of the project that help ensure
long-term sustainability are:
building capacity of village communities, user groups and village
panchayats;
emphasizing a demand responsive approach to ensure that communities choose
an option best suited to their particular conditions and environment, and
fully own the operation and maintenance of the selected option after the
project is completed;
developing and strengthening linkages between communities, local
governments, the private sector and other stakeholders to help ensure that
access to technical expertise and finance is sustained even after the
project is completed;
ensuring that there is inclusion of all sections of society (particularly
poor, women, and the more vulnerable groups) in decision making,
implementation and receiving project benefits, which is essential for
sustainability. The project's rules and specific interventions targeting
these groups (women's development program, Indigenous People's development
program, poverty focus in Village Panchayat selection criteria, etc.)
should have a positive influence on sustainability.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
International experience: The sector reform principles from the
Dublin-Rio conference (1992), the Global Community water and sanitation
conference (Washington, May 1998) organized by the World Bank Institute
and the findings of the Bank's Operations Evaluation Department's (OED's)
global study of 12 RWSS projects (February 1999) synthesize the lessons
learned from international experiences in the past two decades in
implementing RWSS projects. The emerged international practice is to
treat water as an economic and social good managed at the lowest
appropriate level. For the provision of RWSS, this requires that the
consumer be engaged in the process of selecting, financing, implementing
and managing systems that meet their demands and willingness to pay. Yet
putting demand responsive principles into practice presents significant
- 4 -



challenges. The experience from Bank-assisted projects in Paraguay,
Bolivia, Ghana, China, Indonesia, Nepal and Sri Lanka have demonstrated
the effectiveness of these approaches in improving the sustainability of
investments.
Indian experience: In India, the GOI and Bank partnership over the past
decade has made impressive progress in successively developing and
implementing innovative strategies to improve the sector's performance.
The OED's Impact Evaluation Report of five recent Bank-assisted RWSS
projects (May 1998) as well as lessons learned from projects supported by
other donors, agencies (Dutch, DANDIA, DFID) in India, have also provided
valuable lessons to designing participatory projects. These are being
reflected in project design. Some experiences and key lessons learned so
far from these national experiences and particularly from the previous
RWSS projects are:
(a) Policy: Ownership of the project design, at political, bureaucratic
and operational levels, is a prerequisite for project success. A
conducive policy environment and willingness to learn by doing are equally
vital for success. Project design should respond to villagers' needs and
desires for high service standards. Prospects of sustainability are
directly proportional to the degree of control the beneficiaries have in
the planning and implementation of their development programs.
(b) Institutional:   The state and district level institutions should have
the appropriate mandate and functional autonomy to play an effective
facilitating role. The design of project management structures should be
amenable to scaling up and the local government institutions should be
well integrated into the project's institutional design. Organic links
between the VWSCs and village panchayats are essential for
sustainability. The local governments and village communities would be
strengthened through NGOs. Careful NGO selection and their capacity
building in project-specific needs and approaches are vital. To
facilitate scaling up, private sector participation would be promoted.
Beneficiary participation takes time, and this should be factored into
project design and implementation.
(c) Implementation: Changing staff skill mix and reorienting mind-sets of
state agencies, along with capacity building of all stakeholders, need to
be at the core of project design. Capacity building efforts for project
staff should address motivation, team building and managerial aspects.
Implementation arrangements and procurement procedures should be in line
with community empowerment principles in participatory projects.
Concurrent monitoring and evaluation, innovating and experimenting,
learning from experiences and adapting these into implementation
strategies contribute positively to improving project performance. The
concept of project cycle and correct activity sequencing have to be fully
developed and well entrenched in the project's design. Observing,
listening and learning through cross visits to best practice examples,
within the state, country and overseas pays rich dividends towards
increasing ownership and the quality of implementation.
(d) Financial: Partial financing of capital costs by the users has been
proven to be a viable development concept; however, the cost recovery
rules should be simple and their administration user-friendly. User
- 5-



management and financing of operations and maintenance has also proved to
be viable. However, even though rural water projects have made great
strides in getting rural villagers to cover more of the operating costs of
their systems, nowhere in the developing world are communities yet ready
to cover the costs of a major overhaul and/or the complete replacement of
the most expensive components of their systems after only one project.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The key environmental issues related to the project
are: (i) Water Quantity Aspects: declining groundwater tables, drying up
of drinking water sources, and over abstraction of groundwater for
agricultural purposes. Competing demands for scarce groundwater sources
appear to be a major issue. There is inefficient inter-sectoral water
allocation due to lack of comprehensive water resources management policy
and plans. Water is becoming increasingly scarce, creating tighter
competition within and among sectors; and (ii) Water Quality Aspects
chemical contamination of drinking water sources mainly due to fluorides,
nitrates and salinity; and (iii) Household and Environmental Sanitation
Issues : Latrines coverage is low (10-139 rural households have private
latrines); there is a need for soak pits, drains for sanitary disposal of
sullage and storm water; indoor air pollution problems due to usage of
fuel wood/agricultural residues and poor ventilation in kitchens.
Studies: The following studies will be carried out in the preparatory
phase of the project:
(a) A detailed analysis of environmental issues, and report on
'Environmental Analysis' prior to appraisal of the project.
(b) Bacteriological and chemical water quality testing (including
arsenic), for a representative sample of drinking water sources to be
carried out in pilot project districts, prior to appraisal of the
project.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Meena M. Munshi
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-0762
Fax:   (202) 522-2420
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 6 -



This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
November 22, 2002.
-7 -



