ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                            AWorld Frce ol Poverty
'InfoShop
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 11/13/2002                             25122
Section I - Basic Information                               November 13, 2002
A. Basic Pro ect Data
Country: INDIA                                    Project ID: P073369
Project: Maharashtra Rural Water Supply and Sanitation  Task Team Leader: Meena M. Munshi
Project
Authorized to Appraise Date: March 13, 2003       IBRD Amount ($m): 0.00
Bank Approval: July 31, 2003                      IDA Amount ($m): 150.00
Managing Unit: SASRD                              Sector: Water supply (50%); Sanitation (50%)
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P);
Status: Lending                                   Decentralization (S)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The objectives of the proposed project would be to: (i) increase rural communities' access to improved
and sustainable drinking water and sanitation services; and (ii) institutionalize decentralization of Rural
Water Supply and Sanitation (RWSS) service delivery to Rural Local Governments and communities.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The key proposed project components include: (a) Community Development and Infrastructure Building:
It will consist of: (i) support for Community Building at Village Panchayat, Village Water Supply
Committees (VWSC) and project community levels to plan, implement schemes and manage service
delivery on a sustainable basis; (ii) support women development initiatives; and (iii) Infrastructure
Building that will finance rural water supply schemes, ground water recharge measures, household
latrines, household sanitation and community sanitation; (blnstitutional Development that will consist
of: (i) strengthening of state and district level institutions and building their capacity to be responsive to
community demand and participatory processes; and (ii) sanitation and hygiene promotion; and (c)
Sector Strengthening Programsthat will finance technical assistance to Government of Maharashtra
(GOM) to strengthen RWSS sector reforms and management, sector information system and monitoring.
In addition, there will be a targeted support to Scheduled Tribes through an Indigenous Peoples'
Development Plan (IPDP) in conformity with the Bank's Operational Directive 4.20.
I.A.4. Project Locatibn: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
GOM has taken a policy decision to implement the RWSS reform program statewide, and has requested
the Bank support for the entire state rather than only a few districts.



2
ISDS
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: The project is specifically designed to bring about positive health and environmental benefits
through supply of "safe" drinking water from sustainable sources and creation of sanitary conditions in the
village. As a result, the environmental and health conditions in the rural villages are expected to improve
considerably as compared to the without project situation. However, given the baseline water quantity and
quality issues, if appropriate mitigation strategies are not designed and implemented properly, there could be
adverse impacts and for this reason the project has been classified as Category B project
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                    * Yes C0 No   C) TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                       3 Yes * No    'TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                               O Yes * No    OTBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                 ; Yes * No    C TBD
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   D Yes * No    C TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                       * Yes C No    C} TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                C Yes * No    O TBD
Cultural Property (OP 4.1 1)                                C Yes * No    C TBD
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*           0 Yes * No    C TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)         0 Yes 0 No    C TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties'claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Environmental Safeguard Issues
The project is specially designed to bring about positive health and environmental benefits through
supply of 'safe' drinking water from sustainable sources and creation of sanitary conditions in the
village. As a result, the environmental and health conditions in the rural villages are expected to improve
considerably as compared to the without project situation. However, if the appropriate mitigation
measures are not planned, designed and implemented properly the project could result in some adverse
impacts and for this reason the project may be classified as Category B project.  A preliminary
assessment of the potential adverse impacts are summarized below.
Water Quantitv Aspects
Based on GSDA's assessment of the groundwater situation in the state, there are 34 dark watersheds
(development > 85%) and 57 grey watersheds (development between 65-85%). Following are the main
issues related to water quantity aspects in the state:
(i)    Declining groundwater tables: Water levels have shown an average decline of about 2 m over the



3
ISDS
last decade in about 53% of wells in Maharashtra, mostly in Greater Mumbai, Buldhana, Aurangabad,
Dhule, Jalgaon, Nasik, Thane, Raigad, Sindhudurg, Satara, Chandrapur and Yavatmal districts. A few
places in Ahmednagar, Aurangabad and Jalgaon districts observed more than 4 m fall, constituting 7% of
the total wells in the state.
(ii)   Drying up of water sources Major sources of drinking water supply in rural areas are dug wells,
bore wells with hand pumps/power pumps and piped water supply schemes from surface water sources.
Due to high abstraction from groundwater sources and unmatched recharging of aquifers, sources of
drinking water supply schemes go dry in the summer months every year. Hence, scarcity of drinking
water has been a regular experience in an increasing number of villages and hamlets.
There is considerable over abstraction of groundwater for agricultural purposes, mainly in the sugar belt
area of Maharashtra, leading to drinking water scarcity in specific areas. Currently 65% of the cultivable
area is under groundwater irrigation, and 35% under surface irrigation. There are 2.10 lakh drinking
water borewells, as against 24 lakh irrigation borewells in the State.
Water Quality aspects
Chemical contamination: Chemical analysis of about 10% drinking water sources completed in all rural
districts by the Health Department. For the water quality affected areas, 100% sources have been
analyzed for chemical (14 parameters) analysis and arsenic. About 53,462 habitations out of 86,681
habitations are currently experiencing problems of scarcity/supply of contaminated water. The Table
below gives the results from the Water Quality Random Sample Survey carried out in 2000-01.
Water Quality Random Sample Survey 2000-01 (All Districts: Rural Areas)
Parameters                  No. of samples    Percentage
contaminated
Fluoride                          1787             8.3
Iron                               91             0.42
Brackishness (salinity)            241             1.12
Nitrate                           2147            10.01
Arsenic                            15             0.07
Total Samples Tested = 21,440
Source: Health Department, GOM
Following districts are mostly affected by water quality problems: Fluorides (occurring in natural tracts):
Yavatmal, Chandrapur, Nagpur, Satara, Sindhudurg, Bhandara, Buldhana, Wardha, Ahmednagar,
Nanded, Beed, Jalana, Jalgaon, SolapirTackishness (mainly coastal areas): Akola, Amravati,
Buldhana, Thane, Sindhudurg.Nitrates and other chemicalAindustrial effluents - sugar factories,
distilleries, fertilizers, pesticides; agricultural run offs; large scale open defecation): Raigad, Thane,
Nagpur, Sindhudurg. Arsenic (possibly due to effluents from chemical industries): Nagpur.
There are 56 distilleries in the State, with only 25 distilleries practicing 'zero discharge' and complying
with standards. Others are possibly contributing to the contamination of surrounding groundwater
aquifers. Most of these are located in the sugar belt: Nasik, Pune, Satara, Sangli, Ahmednagar,
Aurangabad, Latur and Osmanabad. [More information is needed regarding the distillery effluents].
Bacteriological contamination: The bacteriological contamination reports of the Health Department show



4
ISDS
30% samples in 1999; 26% samples in 2000 and 25% samples in 2001 to be contaminated. Morbidity and
mortality from acute diarrheal diseases and viral hepatitis have been widespread across the State.
Household and Environmental Sanitation Issues
Most of the villages do not have facilities for storm water drainage, or sanitary disposal of sullage, cattle
dung and agricultural residues; and very few households have latrines. Open defecation is a common
practice. The GOM toilet construction program is in implementation since 1996-97, with Rs 500 subsidy
for construction of two pits. However, the rural areas have a very low coverage of household latrines,
with only 10-13% houses having individual latrines and there are very few community latrines which are
in use. All these contribute significantly to poor environmental sanitation conditions in the villages.
Households use fuel wood/agricultural residues for cooking. The kitchens are not ventilated properly and
women folk generally suffer from respiratory ailments.
A huge IEC campaign for promoting environmental sanitation, personal hygiene and health measures is
on going under the Sant Gadge Baba Gram Swachhata Abhiyan. It has gained tremendous success,
mobilizing rural masses to voluntarily clean their houses, environment and villages, without any financial
support from the Government. The program needs to be scaled up.
SOCIAL SAFEGUARD ISSUES:
Involuntary Resttlement ( OP/BP 4.12):
The extent of land requirement is dependent on technology (Hand pump, mini water supply or
Piped water supply), coverage (single or multi village), deisgn approach (new construction or
rehabilitation/augmentation of existing schemes) and the type of source (ground water or surface
source). In the case of rehabilitation, requirements of additional land are expected to be minimal.
The extent of land acquisition is expected to be minimal for single village schemes (piped water
supply schemes, mini piped water supply schemes and Hand pumps). Multi village piped water
supply schemes, which are likely to be based on surface water sources will warrant some
additional extent of land for construction of common water treatment facilities and master
balancing reservoirs. Even in such a case, there is some   flexibility in selection of the
construction site. The relative mix of single village schemes and multi village schemes is yet to
be determined and the preliminary proposal prepared by Government of Maharashtra (GOM)
lays more emphasis on single village schemes and rejuvenation/rehabilitation of existing schemes
( data indicates that there are already 3.5 schemes per habitation constructed over the years). In
this context, the land acquisition is not expected to be substantial. Much of the land required will
be from public/government lands. In limited cases, land may have to be acquired through out
right purchase from willing seller or through voluntary donations.Assurances will how ever be
sought from borrower that:
(a)    the project will not resort to involuntary land acquisition
(b)    the project will resort to minimize land acquisition and take up construction activities as
far as possible in Government lands free of encroachments
(c)    when some acquisition is inevitable, it will ensure that (i) land free of dispute or



5
ISDS
encumberances is procured at market rates accompanied by registered transfer of legal rights to
the appropriate institution (GP/VWSC) through a sale deed or memorandum of understanding
(MOU); and (ii) such acquisition will not bring the sellers holdings below economically viable
holding size (Normal economic holding size is considered as I Ha or 2.5 acres) or cause significant adverse
effect on livelihood/incomes or involve physical displacement.
(d)   in the case of voluntary land donations, (i) the land should be free of squatters,
encroachments and encumberances and (ii) the legal rights transferred to the appropriate
institutions (VP/VWSC) through a registered deed or MOU.
(e)   District Panchayat (ZP) will arrange for an examination of all land purchases and
donations by an independent agency and provision will be made for redressing grievances
before commencement of construction activities.
Under such an arrangement, World Bank's policy on involuntary resettlement will not be
triggered.
Indigenous People (OD 4.20):
Bank Policy: The Bank policy on indigenous peoples outlined in its Operational Directive (OD)
4.20 stipulates that they: (i) benefit from development projects, and (ii) avoid or mitigate
potentially adverse effects on them, if any caused by Bank-assisted activities. Special actions are
required where Bank investment affect whose social and economic status restricts their capacity
to assert their interests and rights. The OD's reference to IPs is quite broad, meant to describe all
those social groups with a social and cultural identity distinct from the dominant society that
makes them vulnerable to being disadvantaged in the development processes. The OD advocates
for the development of an agreed processes for identifying indigenous people (IP) (to be covered
under it) rather than prescribing a definition for them. Once the identification is through, the OD
stipulates developing a separate Development Plan to enable project reach the IPs.
STs/SCs in Maharashtra :Maharashtra has a rural population of 60 millio(based on provisional
figures, Census 2001)spread over its 33 rural districts. Socio-culturally, the State comprises five
broad regions of Konkan, Western Maharashtra,, Marathwada, Vidarbha and Khandesh . The
population includes 6.2 million (10.5%) of Scheduled Castes (SC) and 6.9 million (11.6%) of
Scheduled Tribes (ST). STs are prevalent (constituting 10% or more of the population) in 13 of
the 33 districts of the State (Dhule, Nandurbar, Hingoli, Thane, Nashik, Yawatmal, Amravati,
Wardha, Akola, Raigad, Nanded, Jalgaon, and Parbhani). In the preliminary list of 16 districts
identified Govt. of Maharashtra (GOM), the total population is estimated at 24 million. The SC
and ST population in these districts is estimated to constitute 11.7% and 11.2% respectively.
As can be seen from this data, Maharashtra has significant tribal population (11 %). While the
project iwill not have adverse impact on tribals, it is considered essntial that the project should
aim to proactively improve access of tribal groups to drinking water through an appropriately
designed development plan. While such a plan will focus on the districts with sizeable tribal
population ( for eg., Thane, Nashik, Nandurbar and Hingoli), provisions would be made for



6
ISDS
addressing concerns of STs and other vulnerable groups in other districts based on the findings
of the Social Assessment (SA) exercise. Initial preliminary visits to tribal areas indicate the need
for a broader view of their needs and corresponding capacity building support to achieve
sustainable outcomes.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
Many of the project components will have complementary positive impact on the environment.
For example, a combination of rural water supply schemes, ground water recharge measures,
household latrines, household sanitation and community sanitation, along with greater ownership
by local communities will contribute to reduction in water borne diseases and lead to better
health and hygiene of rural people, as well as sustainability of drinking water sources.
Also proactive application of the OD on Indigenous people will help vulnerable groups get
access to safe and potable water supply and sanitation services on a sustainable basis
II.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
Not anticipated
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
Not required
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Agency for implementation of Safeguards is: Village Panchayat with monitoring by District Panchayat
(local government).
The institutional arrangements and the process for monitoring safeguard issues will be detailed in the
Operational Manual.
Studies and assessments
(i) A detailed analysis of environmental issues, and report on 'Environmental Analysis' prior to
appraisal of the project.
(ii)   Bacteriological and chemical water quality testing (including arsenic), for a representative
sample of drinking water sources to be carried out in pilot project districts, prior to appraisal of
the project.
(iii) A social assessment (integrated with environmental assessment) will be carried out to design
project processes and local level institutional framework which are inclusive, accountable and
transparent.
Environmental Safeguard Measures
Following are the likely envisaged safeguard measure for addressing the vnvironmental issues:
Water quantity issues



7
ISDS
The State has a three pronged strategy for water conservation, preservation and utilization (G.R.
28/9/2000) for increasing drinking water supply through conventional and unconventional methods,
managing demand and regulating over abstraction. The Groundwater Protection Act, 1993, allows
District Collectors to declare water scarcity areas and restrict extraction of water within I km from such
sources. However, the problem is how to effectively operationalize and implement the strategy and
Groundwater Act. Following measures are suggested:
o  Direct recharge of drinking water sources through rainwater harvesting and other conventional
and unconventional measures to enhance the availability of drinking water in a source.
o  Soil and water conservation works to be scaled up. These works have already been initiated by
the Soil and Water Conservation Department: contour bunding, terracing, loose boulder
structures, land development and horticulture, nala bunds, afforestation, contour cultivation,
earthen structures, etc.
o  Use of Hydrology Information System (HIS) for a periodic assessment of the groundwater
situation, under the World Bank funded Hydrology Project.
o  Information strategy for public awareness. and sensitization of local agencies/institutions for
management of drinking water sources.
o  Appropriate amendments to the Groundwater Act to give a legal back up to the communities for
self-management, self-monitoring and self-controlling of their water sources. Inter village
conflicts and issues will need special attention in designing community managed schemes.
o   Reforms in related sectors, especially energy and irrigation sectors which impinge upon the
drinking water sector, need to be taken up on a priority basis. The energy and irrigation tariff
regime should be revamped and rationalized. (Some steps in this direction have already been
taken. GOM has increased water tariffs from September 1, 2001 and is following a differential
pricing strategy for different categories of water use and introduction of tariffs 'per unit of
energy consumption' in the agriculture sector, rather than on the basis of 'HP' used. These
reforms need to be implemented urgently).
Water quality issues
o  Monitoring drinking water quality: The Department of Health has the responsibility of
monitoring drinking water quality. The new sector reforms package envisages a three tier
structure for water quality testing and monitoring, involving local organizations, rural hospitals,
educational/technical institutions etc. The monitoring strategy needs to be reviewed for effective
implementation, involving private sector and NGOs.
o Measures for addressing chemical/bacteriological contamination:
Fluorides: Need to create awareness about the ill effects of high fluorides and symptoms of
fluorosis. Use of preventive measures (safe water and nutritional diet). Short term measures: If'
alternate water sources not available locally, domestic defluoridation units (DDUs) can be provided.
Long term measure: Steps to be taken to identify an alternate safe source.
Salinity/Nitrates: Use of alternate local or distant ground/surface sources for single/multi village
schemes, as appropriate.
Chemicals and arsenic Use of alternate local or distant ground/surface sources for single/multi
village schemes, as appropriate. State Pollution Control Board to identify grossly polluting industries
impacting rural water sources and strengthen monitoring; action to be taken for non-complying
industries; dissemination of industrial effluent information. Promotion of 'zero discharge and



8
ISDS
ferti-irrigation' for distillery industry effluents. Causes of arsenic contamination to be identified for
taking appropriate measures.
Bacteriological contamination:
o  Effective and continuous chlorination programs of existing and new water supplies, along with
regular 'residual chlorine' testing at local levels;
o  Independent water quality surveillance, on sample basis in hotspot areas, to ensure quality
compliance; and
o  Sanitation and Hygiene Promotion (SHP) programs; dissemination of lEC material, both
interpersonal and mass media.
Household and environmental sanitation issues
The project will have a major sanitation and hygiene promotion component, which should lead to
improved sanitation and hygienic behavior. Following are a few measures for addressing household and
environmental issues.
o  Installation of 'safe' household latrines suiting local soil types and hydro-geological conditions.
'Group latrines' in public land, on ownership basis to be constructed where there is constraint of
household space.
o  Disposal of sullage and solid waste in a sanitary manner: roadside common gutters/drains, soak
pits constructed adjacent to the dwelling houses; use of sullage in kitchen garden for growing
vegetables and other plants. Construction of compost/garbage pits for recycling solid waste.
o  Sanitation and Hygiene Promotion (SHP): health and hygiene promotion programs focusing on
hand washing, water collection, storage and handling practices; dissemination of IEC material,
both interpersonal and mass media.
o  Promotion of smokeless chulhas/biogas plants.
O  Technical manual to provide guidelines and codes of practices on technology options for
household latrines, drainage schemes/soak pits, smokeless chullahs/biogas plants and compost
pits. These need to be prepared in regional language and disseminated to GPs and households.
SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS:
Land acquisition procedures:
Given the limited land acquisition expected to take place, GOM will follow agreed procedures.
Firstly, the project will not resort to involuntary land acquisition. As far as possible,
unencroached public/government lands would be utilised. If this is not possible, land will be
acquired through either purchase from a willing seller or received from a willing donor with
accompanying documentation. Assurances from GOM will be obtained that:
(a)    the project will not resort to involuntary land acquisition
(b)    the project will resort to minimize land acquisition and take up construction activities as
far as possible in Government lands free of encroachments
(c)    when some acquisition is inevitable, it will ensure that (i) land free of dispute or
encumberances is procured at market rates accompanied by registered transfer of legal rights to
the appropriate institution (VP/VWSC) through a sale deed or memorandum of understanding
(MOU); and (ii) such acquisition will not bring the sellers holdings below economically viable



9
ISDS
holding size (Normal economic holding size is considered as I Ha or 2.5 acres) or cause significant adverse
effect on livelihood/incomes or involve physical displacement.
(d)    in the case of voluntary land donations, (i) the land should be free of squatters,
encroachments and encumberances and (ii) the legal rights transferred to the appropriate
institutions (VP/VWSC) through a registered deed or MOU.
(e)    ZP will arrange for an examination of all land purchases and donations by an independent
agency and provision will be made for redressing grievances before commencement of
construction activities.
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan (IPDP):
The Social Assessment, conducted with expert professional assistance, will comprehensively map
tribal habitations in project districts and an IPDP will be prepared outlining procedures,
processes, institutional arrangements for planning, implementation, management, capacity
building and monitoring.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
Stakeholders:
The stakeholders could be viewed at different levels.
(i) Village/Habitation level: benefiting households in the habitation (including spcific poor and
vulnerable subgroups such as landless laborers; marginal farmers; backward castes; women, and women
headed households).
(ii) Village Panchayat (VP) level : elected representatives (men/ women; SC/ST/others), non-elected
government personnel, and unemployed youth and other skilled workers, local community based
organisations (youth, mahila mandals), contractors, consultants, NGOs, social and religious groups and
traders.
(iii) District/Block: Zilla Panchayat/ Block Panchayat members and staff; and the staff of ZP; state
government departments and agencies such as MJP, GSDA, agriculture, watershed, health;
manufacturers; traders; consultants; and researchers.
(iv) State level : Elected representatives, State Government departments and agencies (including WSS,
irrigation, power, agriculture), regulatory authorities, NGOs, consultants
Consultations and Disclosure:
Preliminary consultations : During the identification mission, first round of consultations took
place in six districts and at the State capital with communities, Govt. departments/agencies,
NGOs, andConsultants. Salient observations based on these limited field visits/consultations are
as follows:



10
ISDS
*      Supply driven approach has made the RWS sector unsustainable and adversely affected
the quality of services
*      There are some excellent examples in the field, outside the governmental delivery system,
that have demonstrated the value and utility of community involvement and ownership of water
supply systems. Interesting examples of integrating irrigation and drinking water supply in a
tribal settlement and role of women self help groups in successfully managing water supply came
to light. In these cases, the social capital was built entirely built either by dedicated local teachers
or NGOs.
*      Phenomenal success of the Sant Gadge Baba Campaign was evident in some of the
villages visited. The campaign, despite being in its very second year, has helped catalyze local
communities into collective action. The social capital built in this villages is visible. About
25-30% of the villages are estimated to have internalized the spirit of the campaign. The sense of
pride, shared common values and confidence in these villages is very encouraging. There is a lot
to learn from this campaign and incorporate these lessons in the proposed project.
*      In general, response to sector reform approach seems favorable. Where ever there is a
genuine need, the capital cost sharing does not seem to be a problem. There does not appear to be
serious problem of willingness to pay for 0 & M. Where ever recovery is poor, the cause seems
to be related to "unwillingness to collect" by the authorities or poor performance of the system.
*      Rain water harvesting will have to be given serious consideration in difficult areas to
meet drinking water requirements.
*      Information sharing and positive action with respect to industrial pollution has been
lacking.
*      There is evidence that higher bureaucracy in the districts have ownership of the reforms.
However, substantial capacity building is needed among line department staff. While there has
been some change in the attitudes of these staff due to training imparted, there is still lot of work
to do.
*      Women in rural areas are eager and keen to improve their quality of life. There is
tremendous energy just waiting to be tapped. The sector reform and Sant Gadge sanitation
campaign activities have provided them with an opportunity to come together.
Public consultations will be carried out, as part of the integrated Social and Environmental Assessment
and preparation of IPDPS and environmental screening in representative project districts. It is envisaged
that preparatory meetings will be held with CEOs and officials of various departments, including RWS,
Health and Family Welfare, Groundwater, Watershed, Irrigation, etc. as well as target groups at the
village / panchayat level. Focus group discussions will be held with vulnerable groups (including rural
poor, women) to elicit their views during the assessments.Advance intimation in local language,
including details of the proposed project components will be distributed to the rural public, elected
representatives and other functionaries at GP and district levels. Information will also be displayed in
local panchayat offices and public places like village temples, schools, local media / newspapers etc.
A pilot phase will be implemented during project preparation and experience gained will be utilised for
modifying project design and consultation/disclosure mechanisms.
Disclosures. Both the Social and Environmental Assessments and IPDPs will be summarized and
translated in to local language. Copies of these will be shared with PRI institutions at ZP, Block
Panchayat and VP levels, local government and non-government agencies including NGOs and



11
ISDS
academics. Once the project becomes effective, special campaign towards creating awareness on the
project/lPDP will be made through NGOs among the local/tribal communities and PRI representatives.
The summary (in local language) of the draft EA report, including environmental issues, proposed
mitigatory measures and performance indicators will be placed at GP offices of the representative
districts, public health sub-centres, bus stops and big shops.
Monitoring system will include participatory mechanisms for transparency during project
implementation.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. -No safeguard issues
] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.



12
ISDS
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan.          Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 2/15/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                         Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:              Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 2/15/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:                                       Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                 Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Meena M. Munshi                             11/07/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  R. R. Mohan                            11/07/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:  Smita Misra                            11/07/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: L. Panneer Selvam                        11/07/2002
Sector Manager/Director:      Constance A. Bernard                        11/07/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
SEARCH         FEEDUACK      sr_ E MAP-- _  _ j  ___]



