                                      Document of
                                     The World Bank



                                                         Report No: ICR00001393



             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              (IDA-38210)

                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 128.8 MILLION

                           ($181.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                                 REPUBLIC OF INDIA

                                       FOR THE

       MAHARASHTRA RURAL WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION PROJECT
                          "JALSWARAJYA"




                                      June 28, 2010




Sustainable Development Department
Urban and Water Unit
India Country Management Unit
South Asia Region
                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                        (Exchange Rate Effective March 19, 2010)
                             Currency Unit = Indian Rupee
                                  INR 1.00 = US$0.02
                                 US$1.00 = INR 46.68

                                     FISCAL YEAR

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AG      Auditor General                     PDO        Project Development Objective
AWMA    Aquifer Level Water                 PHRD       Policy and Human Resources
        Management Association                         Development Fund
AWMP    Aquifer Water Management Pilot      PIP        Project Implementation Plan
BPL     Below Poverty Line                  PMU        Project Management Unit
CA      Chartered Accountant                PRA        Participatory Rural Appraisal
CAG     Comptroller and Auditor General     PRI        Panchayati Raj Institutions
        of Government of India
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy         PWD        Public Works Department
CBC     Capacity Building Consortium        PWSS       Piped Water Supply Schemes
CBO     Community-Based Organization        QAE        Quality at Entry
CDD     Community-Driven Development        QAG        Quality Assurance Group
COM     Community Operations Manual         QSA        Quality of Supervision
                                                       Assessment
DAMT    District Appraisal and Monitoring   RF         Regional Facilitator
        Team
DFMT    District Financial Management       RSPMU      Reform Support and Project
        Team                                           Management Unit
DFT     District Facilitation Team          RSU        Regional Support Unit
DO      Development Objective               RWSS       Rural Water Supply and
                                                       Sanitation
DWMSC   District Water Management and       SAC        Social Audit Committee
        Sanitation Committee
EA      Environmental Assessment            SASDE      South Asia Sustainable
                                                       Development Environment
EMP     Environmental Management Plan       SDR        Special Drawing Rights
ERR     Economic Rate Return                SEE        Sustainability Evaluation
                                                       Exercise
ESR     Elevated Service Reservoir          SHG        Self-Help Group
GoI     Government of India                 SIL        Specific Investment Loan

GoM     Government of Maharashtra           SO         Support Organization
GP      Gram Panchayat                      SOE        Statement of Expenditure
GR      Government Resolution               TDP        Tribal Development Plan
GSDA    Groundwater Survey                  TOT        Training of Trainers
        Development Agency
GSR       Ground Service Reservoirs         TSC           Total Sanitation Campaign
ICBF      Initial Capacity Building Fund    TSP           Technical Service Provider
ICRR      Implementation Completion and     UC            Utilization Certificate
          Results Report
IDA       International Development         UNICEF        United Nations Children's Fund
          Association
IEC       Information, Education, and       VAP           Village Action Plan
          Communication
IGSs      Income-Generating Schemes         VP            Village Panchayat
KFW       Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau-   VPSF          Village Panchayat Strengthening
          (German Funding Agency)                         Fund
KM        Knowledge Management              VWSC          Village Water Supply and
                                                          Sanitation Committee
lpcd      Litres Per Capita Per Day         WASM          Water and Sanitation Mission
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation         WASSO         Water and Sanitation Support
                                                          Organization
MB        Measurement Book                  WATSAN        Water and Sanitation
MDG       Millennium Development Goals      WDC           Women's Development
                                                          Committee
MIS       Management Information System     WEF           Women Empowerment Fund
MJP       Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran    WSS           Water Supply and Sanitation
MOU       Memorandum of Understanding       WSSC          Water Supply and Sanitation
                                                          Committee
MRD       Ministry of Rural Development     WSSD          Water Supply and Sanitation
                                                          Department
MTR       Mid-Term Review                   WTP           Water Treatment Plant
NGO       Non-Government Organization       ZP            Zilla Parishad
NPV       Net Present Value
NRDWQSP   National Rural Drinking Water
          Quality Surveillance Program
O&M       Operation and Maintenance
ODF       Open Defecation Free
OFA       Overall Financing Agreement
OMT       Operations and Monitoring Team
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PC        Public Contribution

                               Vice President: Isabel M. Guerrero
                            Country Director: N. Roberto Zagha
                      Acting Sector Manager: William Kingdom
                         Project Team Leader: N. V. V. Raghava
                           ICR Team Leader: Rosanna Nitti
                               INDIA
        MAHARASHTRA RURAL WATER SUPPLY & SANITATION PROJECT
                          "JALSWARAJYA"


                                                        CONTENTS


Data Sheet

  A. Basic information
  B. Key dates
  C. Ratings summary
  D. Sector and theme codes
  E. Bank staff
  F. Results framework analysis
  G. Ratings of project performance in ISRs
  H. Restructuring (if any)
  I. Disbursement profile

  1        Project context, development objectives, and design .......................................... 1
  2.       Key factors affecting implementation and outcomes .......................................... 4
  3.       Assessment of outcomes .................................................................................... 10
  4.       Assessment of risk to development outcomes ................................................... 15
  5.       Assessment of Bank and borrower performance ............................................... 16
  6.       Lessons learned.................................................................................................. 18
  7.       Comments on issues raised by borrower/implementing agencies/partners ....... 20

  Annex 1. Project costs and financing ........................................................................... 22
  Annex 2. Outputs by component .................................................................................. 23
  Annex 3. Fiduciary issues............................................................................................. 37
  Annex 4. Economic and financial analysis................................................................... 40
  Annex 5. Bank lending and implementation support/supervision processes ............... 46
  Annex 6. Beneficiary survey results ............................................................................. 48
  Annex 7. Stakeholder workshop report and results ...................................................... 54
  Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR .................... 55
  Annex 9. Comments of cofinanciers and other partners/stakeholders ......................... 65
  Annex 10. List of supporting documents...................................................................... 66
  Annex 11. List of participating districts (26)................................................................ 67
  Map IBRD 32546
A. Basic information
                                                                       Maharashtra Rural
                                                                       Water Supply and
Country:               India                 Project name:
                                                                       Sanitation Project
                                                                       "Jalswarajya"
Project ID:           P073369              L/C/TF number(s):           IDA-38210
ICR date:             06/28/2010           ICR type:                   Core ICR
Lending instrument:   SIL                  Borrower:                   Government of India
Original total
                      SDR 128.8 million    Disbursed amount:      SDR 128.8 million
commitment:
Revised amount:       SDR 128.8 million
Environmental category: B
Implementing agencies: Government of Maharashtra, Water Supply and Sanitation Department
Cofinanciers and other external partners:

B. Key dates
                                                                             Revised/actual
     Process             Date             Process            Original date
                                                                                date(s)
Concept review:        11/12/2002   Effectiveness:            10/29/2003      10/29/2003
Appraisal:             05/08/2003   Restructuring(s):             NA              NA
Approval:              08/26/2003   Midterm review:           09/30/2006      01/05/2007
                                    Closing:                  09/30/2009      09/30/2009

C. Ratings summary
C.1 Performance rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to development outcome:                  Low
Bank performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower performance:                         Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed ratings of bank and borrower performance (by ICR)
           Bank                  Ratings         Borrower               Ratings
Quality at entry (QAE): Satisfactory        Government:        Satisfactory
Quality of supervision                      Implementing
                          Satisfactory                         Satisfactory
(QSA):                                      agency/agencies:
Overall Bank                                Overall borrower
                          Satisfactory                         Satisfactory
Performance:                                Performance:
C.3 Quality at entry and implementation performance indicators
                                                     Quality assurance
                                                       group (QAG)
   Implementation performance         Indicators                                    Rating
                                                      assessments (if
                                                            any)
 Potential problem project at any                                               Moderately
                                          Yes        QAE:
time (yes/no):                                                                  Satisfactory
 Problem project at any time
                                          Yes        QSA:                           None
(yes/no):
 Development objective (DO) rating
                                      Satisfactory
Before closing:

D. Sector and theme codes
                                                              Original              Actual
Sector code (as % of total Bank financing)
Other social services                                            5                    5
Sanitation                                                      15                   15
Subnational government administration                           40                   40
Water supply                                                    40                   40


Theme code (as % of total Bank financing)
Decentralization                                                 22                  22
Indigenous peoples                                               11                  11
Other human development                                          22                  22
Participation and civic engagement                               22                  22
Rural services and infrastructure                                23                  23

E. Bank staff
        Positions                   At ICR                            At approval
Vice president:          Isabel M. Guerrero              Praful C. Patel
Country director:        N. Roberto Zagha                Michael F. Carter
Sector manager:          William Kingdom                 Gajanand Pathmanathan
Project team leader:     N. V. V. Raghava                Meena M. Munshi
ICR team leader:         Rosanna Nitti

F. Results framework analysis

Project development objectives (PDOs)
To: (i) increase rural households' access to improved and sustainable drinking water supply and
sanitation (WSS) services; and (ii) institutionalize decentralization of rural water supply and
sanitation (RWSS) service delivery to rural local governments and communities.
Revised project development objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

Not applicable.

(a) PDO indicator(s)

                                                           Original
                                                                             Formally
                                                         target values                         Actual value
                                          Baseline                            revised
               Indicator                                    (from                            achieved at credit
                                           value                               target
                                                           approval                               closure2
                                                                              values1
                                                          documents)
    % of gram panchayats (GPs)3
    where water schemes are fully            NA              100%               100%               76%
    functional and are delivering                          (for base           (3,216)       (2,298 GPs where
    potable water to households as                        2,800 GPs)                            water supply
    per Government of                                                                         commissioned)
    Maharashtra (GoM) criteria4
    % of households5 using
    sanitation facilities in project
    villages.                                19%              50%6              50%                 77%
                                                                                                  (898,351)
    % of GPs where 100% open
    defecation free (ODF) status             0%                NA               40%                  61%
    has been achieved                                                          (1,286)              (1,848)
    % of GPs where community
    perception of environmental              5%                NA               60%                  87%
    sanitation is satisfactory                                                 (1,930)              (2,629)
    No. of GPs that demanded,
    planned, implemented, and
    completed RWSS schemes                     0             2,800              3,216          841 (GPs that
    following project processes                                                               have exited from
    and then exited from the                                                                    the project)7
    project



1
  The percentage targets in this column were fixed at the midterm review (MTR), to be achieved by credit closure.
The total GPs in the project at the time of the MTR were 3,216. The figures in parentheses are the actual numbers at
the time of the MTR, based on the percentage of total GPs at that time.
2
  Credit closed on September 30, 2009. The GPs in the project at credit closure were 3,021. The percentage shown is
out of 3,021. The figures in parentheses are the actual numbers at credit closure.
3
  The gram panchayat (GP) is the local government at the village level. A GP can include more than one village for
the purpose of local governance.
4
  To be reachable within 1.6 kilometers (km) distance, 30 meter (m) vertical distance.
5
  Total project households at credit closure were 1,162,606.
6
  PAD indicator A3.4, annex-1.
7
  Though only 841 GPs exited from the project, overall water service is operational in 2,298 GPs. Beyond credit
closure, the GoM plans to follow up with other exiting GPs.
    No. of GPs where full
    community capital
    contributions have been
    achieved by the release of a               0             2,800             3,216                 3,021
    second fund installment 8
    % of GPs holding a minimum
    of 6 gram sabhas9 per year on
    the planning, implementation,            0%              90%10             80%                   93%11
    and operation and maintenance                          (for base          (2,573)               (2,810)
    (O&M) of RWSS                                         2,800 GPs)

    % of GPs having more than
    the stipulated 40% average
    attendance in the gram sabha             5%                                75%                   93%12
    during planning and                                        NA             (2,412)               (2,810)
    implementation phases
    % participation of women in
    the gram sabha meetings,                 5%                NA               33%                  53%
    across all GPs

(b) Intermediate outcome indicator(s)

                                                      Original target          Formally
                                                                                               Actual value
                                       Baseline        values (from             revised
             Indicator                                                                       achieved at credit
                                        value           approval                 target
                                                                                                 closure13
                                                       documents)               values
% of GPs where the scheme is
functional and O&M is fully               0%                70%14                80%                100%
financed by community                                                           (2,573)         (in 2298 GPs
contributions                                                                                 having functional
                                                                                                  schemes)
% of GPs with more than 33%
of leadership positions in all
village committees held by                                                       60%                 89%
women                                     0%                 NA                 (1,930)             (2,690)




8
  This represents the critical stage of implementation.
9
  A gram sabha is a village assembly that makes decisions concerning village development or other local issues.
10
   PAD indicator A1.2, annex-1.
11
   Last assessed in March 2008.
12
   Last assessed in March 2008.
13
   International Development Association (IDA) credit closed on September 30, 2009.
14
   PAD indicator A3.1, annex-1.
G. Ratings of project performance in ISRs

                                                                            Actual
          Date ISR
No.                             DO                     IP               disbursements
          archived
                                                                        (US$ millions)
  1      10/09/2003         Satisfactory         Satisfactory                     0.00
  2      05/14/2004         Satisfactory         Satisfactory                     9.00
  3      12/22/2004         Satisfactory         Satisfactory                   10.41
  4      06/07/2005         Satisfactory         Satisfactory                   11.24
  5      01/03/2006         Satisfactory    Moderately unsatisfactory           15.41
  6      09/20/2006         Satisfactory    Moderately unsatisfactory           72.52
  7      01/27/2007         Satisfactory         Satisfactory                  102.98
  8      08/21/2007         Satisfactory         Satisfactory                  149.56
  9      03/26/2008         Satisfactory         Satisfactory                  171.70
 10      08/29/2008         Satisfactory     Moderately satisfactory           194.12
 11      07/29/2009         Satisfactory     Moderately satisfactory           194.45

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not applicable.

I. Disbursement profile
1.      Project context, development objectives, and design

1.1   Status at time of appraisal

Maharashtra is located in western India. It has a total population of about 97 million (58% rural),
in 35 districts. Two of these are urban districts (Mumbai and Mumbai suburban). For
administrative purposes the state has six revenue divisions.15 The rural population resides in
40,785 villages in 45,500 habitations. The project included 26 selected districts (see list in
Annex-11).
Water supply and sanitation (WSS) policies. At the project's start in 2003, Maharashtra was the
only state in India with a uniform policy regime in the rural water supply and sanitation (RWSS)
sector, in line with a national reform agenda. Since July 200016 policies have been in place to
promote demand-driven approach over the traditional top-down, supply-driven approach; to
support decision making at the community level.
Rural water supply sector. At the start of the project, state line agencies such as Maharashtra
Jeevan Pradhikaran (MJP),17 the Groundwater Surveys and Development Agency (GSDA), and
zilla parishads (ZPs)18 were responsible for identifying needs and designing and commissioning
schemes. Village communities had little say in these matters but contributed toward operation
and maintenance (O&M) by way of water charges.
Water resources. Maharashtra receives an average annual rainfall of 650 to 1,360 millimeters
(mm), most of it during June through September, with some areas receiving less than others. The
state has five major river basins.19 Groundwater has been the primary source of water supply for
domestic (meeting nearly 80 percent of rural water demand), agricultural, and industrial uses.
Irrigation claims the largest share (over 50 percent of total irrigated area). Groundwater
development, as well as its judicious management, is a major challenge faced by the state.
Rural water quality. Groundwater in the state is generally potable; however, in certain areas
concentrations of fluoride, nitrate, iron, and salinity are higher than permissible limits. In 2005
the Government of Maharashtra (GoM) tested public water sources for contamination; in all
districts, almost 10 percent of public drinking water sources were affected by chemical
contamination leading to serious health hazards.
Rural sanitation. Prior to 1997, the government did little to promote the use of household toilets.
In 1996­97, a program was initiated to motivate communities to construct individual toilets and
to achieve universal coverage. In 2000 subsidies were provided for an additional 1.7 million
toilets; however, only about 57 percent of the toilets constructed were used. In 2004 only 4
million of Maharashtra's 10.9 million rural households (37 percent) had sanitation facilities.
Total Sanitation Campaign. The Total Sanitation Campaign (TSC) of the Government of India
(GoI), initiated in 1999, is a comprehensive program to build sanitation facilities in rural areas,
with the broader goal of eradicating the practice of open defecation, with nominal subsidies to
poor households and a strong emphasis on information, education, and communication (IEC);

15
   Konkan, Pune, Nashik, Aurangabad, Nagpur, and Amravati.
16
   Government Regulation (GR) No. GPP-1099/CR328/WS-07 Mantralaya, Mumbai, dated July 27, 2000.
17
   MJP is the state's water sector institution.
18
   The zilla parishad is the local government at the district level.
19
   The Godavari, Krishna, Tapi, Narmada, and west-flowing rivers in the Konkan coastal strip.

                                                   1
      capacity building; and hygiene education to effect behavior change. To help this endeavor, the
      GoI also launched the Nirmal Gram Puraskar,20 which uses cash awards to recognize the efforts
      of panchayati raj institutions (PRIs). At the start of the project, the GoM had fully adopted this
      program.

      1.2    Original project development objectives (PDOs) and key indicators
      To address urgent RWSS needs while setting the stage for the gradual assumption of
      responsibility by communities themselves, the project was expected to: (i) increase rural
      households' access to improved and sustainable drinking water supply and sanitation services;
      and (ii) institutionalize the decentralization of RWSS service delivery to local governments and
      communities. The project was expected to cover roughly about 10 percent of the total GPs in the
      state. Several key performance indicators are used to measure progress toward the two major
      development objectives:
      ·     For objective 1: (i) an increase in the number (or percentage) of households with access to
            safe sources of water and improved sanitation services; (ii) an increase in the number (or
            percentage) of tribal households with access to safe sources of water and improved sanitation
            services; (iii) a decrease in the incidence of water-related and waterborne diseases; and (iv)
            an improved outlook on the part of households toward the quality and safety of WSS--and
            access to it.
      ·     For objective 2: (i) an increase in the number of GPs planning, implementing, and managing
            sustainable rural water and sanitation services; and (ii) an increase in the proportion of state
            and district investment funds for WSS transferred to GPs.

      1.3    Revised PDOs and key indicators, and reasons/justifications
      The PDOs were not revised. The project team nevertheless dropped an activity related to the
      Zilla Parishad (ZP) Incentive Fund, and the operation and maintenance pilot under component D
      (the pilot component) because of a lack of sufficient response from the beneficiaries. This was
      done following the midterm review (MTR) team's recommendations given in 2007. Since the
      change was minor, it did not warrant formal project restructuring.
      In addition, based on the recommendations of a quality at entry (QAE) review conducted by the
      Bank's quality assurance group (QAG), the indicators were reviewed and simplified at the time
      of the MTR, to ensure that they were more realistic and measurable.

1.4          Main beneficiaries
      By credit closure on September 30, 2009, water schemes in 2,298 GPs were fully functional,
      delivering potable water services to around 0.9 million rural households and covering a
      population of 6.7 million. Schemes in 423 tribal GPs were fully functional, delivering potable
      water services to 154,219 tribal households and covering an estimated tribal population of 1.1
      million.21


      20
        Literally, "award for clean village."
      21
        It is important to note that after the closing of credit on September 30, 2009, the GoM continued to implement the
      project, with the aim of completing all the committed activities by September 30, 2010. By then the project is
      expected to benefit all 3,021 GPs that were included by credit closure, in 26 out of the 33 rural districts of

                                                               2
      On the sanitation front, by credit closure, around 1,848 GPs (out of which 346 are tribal) were
      declared open defecation free (ODF), and about 898,351 project households (out of which
      162,529 are tribal) benefitted from access to safe sanitation facilities.
      The women in the project GPs benefited by being able to participate in the gram sabhas, where
      female attendance rose from almost zero at the start of the project to 53 percent by project
      closure. The project empowered women to play an affective role in village planning far beyond
      WSS issues, laying the foundation for women's empowerment and participation in local
      governance and overall development activities.
      The GoM has also benefited through the saving of O&M subsidies; by September 30, 2009, the
      communities of about 2,298 GPs were fully meeting this cost on their own.
      Finally, the GoI has witnessed the tangible benefits enjoyed by village communities because of
      improved WSS services. Around 1,159 project GPs received the Nirmal Gram Puraskar (clean
      village award) by March 2008 at the hands of the President of India and, significantly,
      approximately 23 percent of the award-winning GPs in the state were from the project.

1.5         Original components (as approved)
      The project consists of four components: (i) community development and infrastructure building,
      (ii) institutional strengthening, (iii) sector development and strengthening, and (iv) piloting new
      initiatives (also called the pilot component). The total project cost, including contingencies, is
      estimated at $268.6 million, of which respective estimated shares were: the International
      Development Association (IDA) - $181 million, local communities - $14 million, and
      government - $73.6 million. The following is a full list of components and sub-components.
      Component objectives and outputs by credit closure are indicated in Annex-2.

      Component A: Community development and capacity building (cost at appraisal $187
      million; revised cost22 $250.90 million)
          A1 Community development
                    Community capacity building.
                   Women Empowerment Fund (WEF).
                   Village panchayat (VP) strengthening.
          A2 Community infrastructure
                    Groundwater recharge and source strengthening.
                    Water-supply schemes.
                    Community, school, and environmental sanitation infrastructure.
          A3 Tribal development program

      Maharashtra, covering an estimated population of about 8.9 million people. Out of the total project GPs, around 626
      are tribal GPs comprising 1,293 villages and 1,663 padas (hamlets) in 17 major districts (Thane, Nashik, Nandurbar,
      Buldhana, Yavatmal, Gadchiroli, Chandrapur, Gondiya, Bhandara, Wardha, Nagpur, and six other districts--
      Parbhani, Hingoli, Solapur, Akola, Washim, and Jalgoan), which translates into 228,236 households (over 1.646
      million people), possibly the largest tribal population benefitting from any IDA-financed project.
      22
         Revised costs in this section represent the GoM's total estimated cost (computed as of credit closure) for
      completing all the project's components, as expected by September 2010.

                                                               3
      Component B: Institutional strengthening (cost at appraisal $54.6 million; revised cost
      $28.74 million)
            B1 Capacity building
            B2 Information, education, and communication (IEC), including sanitation and hygiene
            promotion
            B3 Monitoring and learning
            B4 Project management

      Component C: Sector development and strengthening (cost at appraisal $4.5 million; actual
      cost: $0.69 million)
            C1 Knowledge management (KM) and policy support
            C2 Water-quality monitoring

      Component D: Pilot components (cost at appraisal $12.5 million; revised cost $5.77 million)
            D1 Local government incentive fund
            D2 Groundwater aquifer management pilot
            D3 O&M pilot fund

1.6          Revised components
      At the MTR, the subcomponent D1 (local government incentive fund) was slightly changed to
      delete the ZP incentive fund portion; subcomponent D3 (O&M pilot fund) was removed
      completely. The deleted subcomponent constituted less than 2 percent of the total project cost
      and did not have any negative impact on achieving the PDOs.

1.7          Other significant changes

      Not applicable.

      2.       Key factors affecting implementation and outcomes

      2.1    Project preparation, design, and quality at entry (QAE)

      The project started in a facilitating environment. The year 2000 was a watershed year in the
      history of the RWSS sector in Maharashtra. From this year onward, the GoM operationalized
      RWSS sector reforms across the state, adopting community-driven development (CDD)
      approaches, much ahead of the Jalswarajya project's start in October 2003. Maharashtra was the
      first state in India to declare a statewide RWSS policy.23 The GoM's strong focus on sanitation,
      evident in programs like the Sant Gadge Baba Campaign24 and the TSC (both launched in 2000),

      23
       GR No. GPP-1099/CR 328/WS-07 Mantralaya, Mumbai, dated July 27, 2000.
      24
       To promote health and hygiene awareness in the community and thereby reduce the incidence of water-related and
      waterborne diseases, the GoM introduced the Sant Gadge Baba Clean Village Sanitation Campaign. Under this

                                                            4
catalyzed the process. As communities mobilized, program results were quick and visible.
Banking on these returns, Maharashtra's strong PRI25 system effectively adopted new
approaches, and village communities started seeing the benefits. With the many initiatives taken
up by Maharashtra, the state served as a source of information and experience for implementing
large programs across wide geographical areas. It is against this backdrop that the project was
conceived.
Quality at entry. The World Bank team prepared the project in close consultation with the GoM,
specifically the WSSD. The project design was based on the successful results of two previous
IDA-supported RWSS projects--Kerala and Karnataka II--that supported broad sector reform
programs in both states. The project's institutional structure was based on a careful analysis of
the Kerala and Karnataka models and lessons learned from the failures of the institutional
arrangements of previous RWSS projects. As part of its strategy to deepen the broad
decentralization process down to the GPs, the GoM focused on empowering existing district and
local governments and making them accountable, with necessary checks and balances. The
project introduced the devolution of substantial management and financial powers to the GPs,
which was a major breakthrough for Maharashtra's decentralization effort. At the time of
appraisal, such devolution stopped at the district level.
The project's development objectives at appraisal were wholly consistent with and in support of
the overall Country Strategy for India (CAS document No. 22541), specifically the aims of
strengthening the environment for development and growth, and of supporting interventions that
benefit the poor and disadvantaged. The project specifically implemented the CAS program
priorities of: (i) supporting effective and inclusive decentralization by empowering local
communities in rural areas; (ii) building and implementing consensus on key policy and
institutional reforms; (iii) funding investments in rural infrastructure linked to reforms in service
delivery; (iv) using NGOs and alternative service providers; (v) promoting cost sharing; (vi)
targeting the poorest areas and most vulnerable groups; and (vii) integrating interventions for
maximum impact.
The project fully supported the Millennium Development Goals (MDGS) of: (i) promoting
gender equality and empowering women (goal 3, target 4); (ii) providing sustainable access to
safe drinking water (goal 7, target 10); (iii) improving access to sanitation (goal 7, target 11); and
(iv) increasing the proportion of development assistance allocated to basic social services (goal
8, target 12).
Institutional design. The project adopted a distinct institutional structure at the district level with
the creation of a separate District Facilitation Team (DFT), District Appraisal and Monitoring
Team (DAMT), and District Financial Management Team (DFMT). These teams had the
respective roles of capacity building, appraisal and monitoring, and financial control. They drew
staff from the government on deputation (government employees, paid under the project with
financial incentives) and supplemented them with professionals from the private sector (a first-
time occurrence at the district level); all reported to the head of the district, called the chief

campaign the rural community would be oriented toward health and hygiene habits by the Panchayati Raj
Institutions and the villages would then be motivated to participate in clean village competitions, based on
government-prescribed indicators. No financial support from the government was given under this program and
villages participated voluntarily. This program received overwhelming support. Villages were awarded prizes for
achieving a clean village status. This program turned out to be a great success in mobilizing and motivating the
community toward the common cause of village development.
25
   PRIs are local self-governments in rural areas.

                                                         5
executive officer. The sub-district-level institutions (called blocks) and the village-level gram
sevaks, however, were not involved in the project, mainly with a view to keep the supply-driven
approaches of traditional RWSS delivery practices from prevailing.
In this setup, the collaboration of the government and private sector staff took time to develop.
For example, the private staff looked ahead to regular salary increments, but these were not
considered by the GoM. As the subdistrict machinery was not involved in the project from the
beginning, coordinating implementation at the district level was found to be overwhelming and
the opportunity of building closer relations with villages (possible through subdistrict units) was
missed. It was only toward the end of project implementation that the GoM started to mobilize
subdistrict institutions.
With the help of the districts, the project GPs have also hired a number of support organizations
(SOs) and technical service providers (TSPs) to support them on social and technical aspects.

2.2      Implementation
Project readiness. The project was implemented by the GoM with the support of the WSSD. The
project was supported by a PHRD grant (TF26724) of $720,000, which covered a range of
technical expertise needed to assist the GoM in project preparation. The IDA supported this
process through several preparation missions that utilized specialists in relevant areas. The
government also carried out intensive learning studies that were critical to the project design.
In addition, given the innovative nature of this demand-driven project, the GoM chose three
districts26 to implement the initial pilot of the intensive hands-on "learning by doing" phase. The
lessons learned from the pilot phase were then incorporated into the overall project design.
Project implementation. Despite the initial efforts and resources mobilized to ensure readiness,
in the early stages of implementation it soon became clear that some project subcomponents and
addendums (or sub-sub components) were not fully designed during the project appraisal, but
instead stated in only general terms in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD). Consequently, the
implementing agency had to dedicate considerable effort to designing the implementation
mechanisms for each subcomponent (for example, women's empowerment, the income
generation fund, and the groundwater aquifer management pilot). Within this context, the initial
pilot phase was useful in consolidating the project design.
Other than this initial shortcoming, there was good overall operational performance and both
PDOs were achieved. Action plans and work programs were, for the most part, fully
implemented and followed through within the agreed time frame after each project supervision
mission and MTR. But procurement and financial management (FM) remained somewhat weak.
This weakness was repeatedly reflected in the Bank's implementation status reports, particularly
in the later stages of project implementation. On hindsight, the Bank could have taken a more
hands-on approach by (i) providing recommendations on how to improve control over the
project-related procurement and FM functions, (ii) addressing specific constraints on
implementing the CDD approach, and (iii) providing additional training. These actions could
have helped the implementing unit perform better.
Midterm review (MTR). The MTR was carried out on November 27, 2007. The MTR revealed
good results; that is, most participating communities had by then accepted that their participation

26
     Thane, Satara, and Osmanabad.

                                                6
was important for the effectiveness, efficiency, and sustainability of WSS services. It was
observed that the WSS reform initiatives were gradually changing the social environment, and
enabling rural communities to come together in new ways. For example, one spin-off benefit was
an impressive revival of gram sabhas as forums for participatory dialogue among village
communities. Women were observed to be coming forward in unprecedented numbers to express
their views on village development issues and were actively taking part in key decisions. More
and more villages were becoming ODF, with recognition due to the GoM's emphasis on
sanitation programs. Finally, the MTR noted that the institutions at the state, district, and village
levels were working harmoniously, responding to community needs, and mobilizing skills both
from within the government and the private sector. The project's implementation progress, which
had been rated as unsatisfactory a year earlier, was upgraded to satisfactory in view of the targets
met.
Because of the project's satisfactory status, no major changes were proposed other than to
simplify the project by reducing the scope of some pilot components and by improving project-
monitoring indicators. The MTR team also encouraged the closer monitoring of activities.
Implementation performance ratings. The project teams adequately highlighted risks to the
project throughout its life and suggested mitigating measures. At credit closure, there were no
major implementation issues. It was suggested that the teams continue to focus on accelerating
the pace of implementation and exit from the project GPs after appropriate capacity building,
handing over the project to the ZPs for integration into regular programs.

2.3      Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) design, implementation, and utilization
The project successfully developed a management information system (MIS)27 capable of
generating information on project performance and progress, and disseminated it among all the
stakeholders. The MIS helped monitor implementation, share lessons learned, and work in
partnership to achieve project objectives. It is worth mentioning that the MIS was developed
internally, within the Reform Support and Project Management Unit (RSPMU), which was
testimony to a well-built institutional capacity. The MIS team is capable of customizing it as
required based on advice received from the project management, the RSPMU specialists, and
Bank teams. All the districts use this system regularly and provide constructive feedback.
Seeing the benefits of this system, the GoM is taking steps to scale it up to integrate a number of
thematic databases and to apply it across all its programs as part of its effort to streamline
institutions. An integrated MIS would also be a more reliable tool for future interventions in the
sector.
The GoM piloted the concept of peer-to-peer learning through community monitoring of
interventions done in neighboring villages. The GoM found this approach to be low cost but of
high value for communities. Moving forward, the RSPMU expects to engage some of the more
efficient GPs as the GoM's terminal nodes to monitor a cluster of nearby GPs (five or six), train
them, and intervene as the GoM's extended arm. This would reduce the cost of capacity building
to the state and ultimately generate sizeable local resources to implement RWSS programs across
the state (spreading over more than 250,000 sq km). This would also serve to better monitor the
pulse of the programs in real time.


27
     A fully functional online web-based MIS system with facility to track project progress and outcomes.

                                                           7
2.4   Safeguards and fiduciary compliance
Environmental safeguard. The project design took into account the Bank's policies and
included procedures to ensure full compliance with environmental safeguards in accordance with
OP 4.01. Guidelines on procedures for environmental screening, environmental assessment,
consultation disclosures, and the Environmental Management Framework stated in the
Community Operational Manual were further refined following the QAE in 2005, and team
supervision was strengthened. Major issues addressed through the environmental framework
were water quality, sanitation and environmental management in large schemes, and the
environmental sustainability of different project schemes. To ensure compliance each village, as
part of its village action plan (VAP), developed an environmental management plan (EMP)
appropriate to its situation using the project environmental checklist. There were two separate
checklists, for large and small schemes, supported by a set of implementation guidelines. The
major issue to be addressed in large schemes is the appropriate disposal of: (i) sullage,
considering that the amount of wastewater generated is too great to be managed at the individual
household level; and (ii) backwash water from the water treatment plants (WTPs).
Some villages, such as Rendal, have developed innovative plans to sell the wastewater generated
to farmers for irrigation, with the earnings to be used for the management of the water-supply
system. Such possible trade-offs and alternate ways for the management of wastewater are worth
documenting and disseminating as good practices for other RWSS projects and programs.
Social safeguard. The project has not resorted to involuntary land acquisition and hence OP 4.12
has not been triggered. Available information indicates that land acquisition activities have been
consistent with the guidelines provided by project authorities, which were fully in line with the
Bank's requirements.
Indigenous people. The Bank's operational policy relating to indigenous people (OD 4.20 at
project appraisal, currently replaced by OP 4.10) was triggered by the tribal component of the
project. The project presents best practices for tribal development as it represents the largest
coverage of tribal groups in any Bank-funded project to date. By credit closure, schemes in 423
tribal GPs were fully functional, delivering water to 154,219 tribal households (both individual
and group) and covering about 1.1 million members of the state's tribal population. Noticeably,
sanitation coverage (access to toilets at the household level) of tribal habitations has reached 71
percent, a sustainable number by all indications. In fact, the target communities have met all their
contribution requirements and have participated in the construction of good-quality WSS
schemes. Tribal youths have also been trained as paraprofessionals, who were used to ensure
culturally appropriate communication in support of the scheme.
Financial management. Potential weaknesses in the area of FM, identified at the time of
appraisal, did materialize in the early stages of project implementation. A major issue was GPs'
lack of capacity to move from simple bookkeeping to actual FM and to maintaining accounting
records at required standards. Despite the availability of a Financial Management Manual and
guidelines for financial reporting and monitoring, it was clear from the early phases of project
implementation that these tools were still too complex and not fully adequate to support the
project's CDD approach, and therefore needed to be revised to reflect the reality on the ground.
In addition, while the PAD and, subsequently, the Bank supervision team insisted that village
accounting staff be trained in the maintenance of records (such as ledgers, asset and materials
registers, and so on), more attention should have been paid to the actual constraints that the


                                                 8
implementing agency was encountering on the ground. As a result, the maintenance of
accounting records at the GP level remained an area of concern throughout implementation.
Compliance with annual village-auditing requirements was generally satisfactory. In most cases,
the quality of audits was also satisfactory, though some delays were observed in the submission
of audit reports, mostly due to the sheer number of project villages to be audited.
The recording and treatment of community contributions at the district level for accounting and
auditing purposes was a problem, going up to the level of suspension of disbursements for non
submission of acceptable audit reports by RSPMU (details in Annex-3). The issue could have
been prevented had there been clear guidelines and a common understanding between the Bank
and the RSPMU early in the project.
The legal covenant requiring a computerized FM system to be in place by September 30, 2005,
was met in 2007; thus, there was a two-year lag before the accounting software was finally
installed and made operational.
Procurement. Most project procurement was the responsibility of the villages, coordinated
through the VWSCs, and monitored by the district units. The main procurement risk, already
identified at appraisal, was related to the fact that the project's demand-based approach was
relatively new and required simplified procurement procedures and processes. In addition, an
effective but decentralized procurement management system was needed to manage the large
volume of contracting done at the community level and to review the relevance of procedures.
To mitigate the risks, the implementing agency, through the IEC campaign, provided
procurement orientation to the VWSCs. While the VAPs contained implementation plans, only
limited information was provided on the specifics of the Bank procurement procedures for
shopping and recordkeeping. Admittedly, the project faced daunting challenges and institutional
capacity weaknesses in conforming to the project procurement guidelines. These included delays
in providing and updating procurement plans and inadequate compliance with shopping
procedures, adoption of model bid documents, and monitoring of procurement by the districts
and RSPMU (further details in Annex-3).
Apart from procedural issues, on hindsight some CDD procurement issues could have been
solved earlier in the project's implementation if a more proactive and hands-on approach had
been adopted, both by the Bank and the implementing agency. But thanks to a demand-driven
and participatory approach, the project maintained good performance overall in terms of
transparency and accountability.

2.5   Post-completion operation/next phase
The sustainability evaluation exercise (SEE) conducted by the GoM in August 2009 clearly
showed that the project had laid a solid base for the long-term sustainability of interventions (see
section 3.6 for more details). An impact assessment study28 conducted midway through project
implementation in 2005 and 2007 also pointed to the positive impacts of increased access to
water supply, increased toilet usage, and reduced coping costs for village communities while at
the same time highlighting the need for more focus on hygiene awareness. By credit closure, the


28
  Study titled: "Of Taps and Toilets: Evaluating Community-Demand-Driven Projects in Rural India", conducted
by the Environment Unit of the Bank



                                                      9
GoM was considering another such impact assessment study with Bank assistance. The SEE was
also useful in identifying some general issues to be addressed in order to strengthen the prospects
of sustainability, including the need to: (i) install multiple programmable controllers in pump
houses to tide over disruptions in power supply; (ii) install online chlorinators to replace the
current manual practice of adding a bleaching powder solution to overhead tanks; and (iii)
establish separate O&M bank accounts for every scheme in a GP. As part of its sustainability
initiatives, the GoM is following up on these measures.
Exit process. In every GP, the implementing agency carries out a systematic exit process, with a
detailed checklist of actions, to confirm that all remaining activities are properly completed. This
includes the closing of books of accounts and audits, sustained capacity building for O&M, and
the further strengthening and institutionalizing of district support. Since this process is time
consuming, at credit closure, the Bank committed to further continue to provide technical
assistance support for a year.
Statewide scaling up of the Jalswarajya approach. The GoM has decided to institutionalize
Jalswarajya's demand response and decentralized service-delivery approach across the RWSS
sector in Maharashtra, with immediate effect. The government resolution--dated August 1 and
August 25, 2009--provides detailed guidelines for new policies, procedures, institutional
structures, and implementation arrangements for the planning, implementation, and O&M of the
state's RWSS schemes. One of the important features of the new institutional structure is that its
staff will be multidisciplinary, like that of the Jalswarajya project, whose experienced staff will
be absorbed into the new institutions. The GoM is planning to request continued Bank support of
this new initiative.

3.     Assessment of outcomes
Overall rating: Satisfactory
3.1   Relevance of objectives, design, and implementation
The relevance of PDOs is high--they are as relevant to the country's water sector development
needs today as they were at appraisal. They rightly focus on streamlining institutions, at both the
state and district levels, and on making sustainable WSS services available in Maharashtra.
At the state level, the project effectively catalyzed reform initiatives, providing new institutional
models for decentralized service delivery. It has helped increase acceptance of community
participation and demand-responsive principles on the part of all stakeholders, including
politicians, government functionaries, and community members. It has also triggered the creation
of support agencies in districts, which sets the stage for future government programs. Most
importantly, thanks to the project, Maharashtra, a predominantly male-dominated society, has
now accepted the involvement of women in village governance as a must for its development.
At the village level, the gram sabha has become an active forum for local self-governance,
decision making, and accountability. New initiatives, such as local governance incentive funds
and aquifer management processes, have been tested for wider replication across the state.
Linkages with the Geological Survey and Development Agency have also been successfully
established to use existing technical skills in groundwater management.


3.2   Achievement of project development objectives


                                                 10
PDO 1. Increase rural households' access to improved and sustainable drinking WSS services.
The project has delivered results on the ground by increasing water access and improving
sanitation in the project GPs. By credit closure, water service was fully operational in about
2,298 GPs (76 percent of the project total), constituting around 0.9 million households and 6.7
million people. After credit closure, the GoM plans to commission water services in all 3,021
project GPs, to reach all 8.9 million targeted beneficiaries by September 30, 2010, 29 and to then
formally exit from these GPs.
By credit closure, the project had built around 4,140 new piped water schemes, with increased
service levels and household connections--on average covering about 78 percent house
connections (HSCs) (57 percent ­ direct; 21 percent ­ group) and the remaining 22 percent of
households depended on either borewells or handpumps. The communities, including tribal
groups, have contributed their fair share to the capital costs ($20.72 million). The fact that over
65 percent of the GPs collected O&M costs from consumers for 3­6 months in advance is an
indicator of the project's sustainability.
Around 1,848 GPs in the project (including tribal GPs) have also become ODF, thanks to the
project's awareness-raising efforts, backed by the intensive TSC adopted by the GoM across the
state. The project has provided capacity-building support for sanitation, while the GoM has
financed toilet construction through the TSC program. Apart from making the areas ODF,
increased awareness of solid waste management has led to improved levels of environmental
sanitation at the village level. The project has also provided support for building soak pits and
compost pits, connecting drains for sullage water, and building end-of-village sullage treatment
units.
Rural water services in about 423 out of the 626 tribal GPs are already fully operational,
benefiting about 1.1 million tribal members; and about 346 tribal GPs (55 percent) have become
ODF. The tribal GPs are now enjoying reliable and safe WSS services for the first time ever.
PDO 2. Decentralize rural WSS service delivery to local governments and communities. At the
village level, the GPs and VWSCs have successfully planned, designed, and constructed water-
supply schemes and sanitation facilities that are fully functional, against which a tariff is being
collected for O&M purposes.
Governance and accountability have been strengthened through gram sabhas and social audits.
Gram sabha attendance and the regularity of meetings have significantly improved; women's
participation in gram sabhas has increased considerably. Seeing this success, the GoM is now
adopting more or less the same approach in all programs across the state, irrespective of funding
source. The new approach involves the principles of demand-driven selection, community
participation, decentralized planning, and devolvement of power to the GPs and VWSCs.
With a new government regulation (GR) issued in August 2009, this new approach has been
formalized and is going to be scaled up. In order to operationalize and implement the GR, the
RSPMU created under the project will be retained and institutionalized as the WSS organization
to lead the sector reform process. These are the greatest indicators of the success of Jalswarajya
in achieving PDO2.




29
     The ultimate population that will be reached in these villages after 15 years.

                                                             11
In addition, another GR was issued in August 2009 to ensure that the GP's sarpanch30 become
the president of the VWSCs and a gram sevak31 become its secretary. This would consolidate the
position of the VWSCs as an integral part of the GP. Moreover, the GSDA has been given the
role of strengthening the water-supply sources in tanker-fed villages, villages facing
overdeveloped watersheds, and in low rainfall zones.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net present value [NPV]/economic rate of return [ERR]; cost effectiveness, for example, unit
rate norms, least cost, and comparisons; and financial rate of return)
An ex-post economic analysis of water-supply investment was carried out. Based on the key
benefits (derived and expected) from the project, at a project cost of $286 million, the ERR for
the project at credit closing was calculated at 23.22 percent. The NPV of the project (at an
assumed discount rate of 12.5 percent) was calculated at INR 7,594 million ($165.1 million, at
an exchange rate of INR 46=$1). This compares well with a similar analysis done at the time of
project conceptualization. The design cost of the project at that time was $268 million, projected
ERR was 19.85 percent, and the NPV of projected costs and benefits was $89 million. For a
project with such far-reaching and intangible impacts, the actual scale of benefits was far beyond
the financially computed return.
Unit rate efficiency comparison. Capital cost per capita for the Jalswarajya schemes is lower
than that of other schemes in Maharashtra (INR 1,043 in the Jalswarajya schemes as compared to
INR 2,116­2,346 in other schemes, resulting in a saving of about INR 1,188 per capita). In
another study, the "Effectiveness of Rural Water Supply Schemes in India," conducted by the
Bank in June 2008, it was estimated that in the Jalswarajya villages, at a consumption level of 40
liters per capita per day (lpcd) on average, the savings in O&M cost per household per month
would be around INR 69.1 due to the improved efficiency of operations. The cost of water
supply in demand-driven schemes is lower than that of supply-driven schemes.

3.4 Justification of overall outcome rating
(Combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory
The overall outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory on the basis of the high relevance of
the project, the level of achieving of PDOs, the efficiency of investments made, and community
members' satisfaction as revealed during the beneficiary surveys conducted before the ICR
mission.32 While a satisfactory rating has been provided, some aspects of the project outcomes
could be considered highly satisfactory, in particular tribal coverage, the mobilization and
empowerment of women, and the GoM adoption of Jalswarajya at the state level, including the
integration of the RSPMU's project management system across all its programs.
An impact assessment study was carried out by the Bank's environment unit (SASDE) during
project implementation (in 2005 and 2007), covering about 10,000 households in 95 project
villages of 4 project districts (Nasik, Buldana, Osmanabad, and Sangli) and in 147 control
villages of the same profile in the same 4 districts. At that time, when the project was yet to be
30
   The sarpanch is the elected head of the GP.
31
   Nominated secretary of the GP--an administrative representative of the government.
32
   The assessments carried out were: sustainability evaluation through community participation, intervillage
community monitoring, and assessment of benefits to tribal GPs.

                                                         12
completed, the study concluded that investments were reaching the people, who are using more
water and enjoying the benefits of better sanitation, and that there was a good chance of
sustainability in the project villages. The other conclusions of the study are given in section 3.6.

3.5   Overarching themes, other outcomes, and impacts
(a) Poverty impacts, gender aspects, and social development
Poverty impact. The project has reached the poor population at the grassroots (village) level,
people who otherwise would not have been reached through public sector agencies. Supporting
villages implies reaching more people living below the poverty line. The project also boasts a
best practice example for tribal development as it represents the largest coverage of tribal groups
of any Bank project to date--by credit closure it had reached close to 1.1 million tribal people
with improved water supply.
The SHGs created at the village level have successfully taken up income-generation activities.
About 28,340 out of the 49,308 SHGs under the project have earned an average of INR 1,500­
2,000 per month per female member. There are 49,308 SHGs in the project GPs, with 739,626
women members, 28,851 of whom are engaged in income-generating schemes (IGSs). Field
experience shows that these women earn, on average, INR 40­60 per day (around $1­1.5) from
IGSs.
Gender aspects. In more than 3,000 GPs, women have benefitted from being able to participate
in gram sabhas. The project has thus empowered women to play an effective role in village
planning, implementation, and management, and their involvement has gone far beyond WSS
issues. The project has laid down the foundation for women to participate in local governance
systems and overall development activities.
Social development. The project has helped empower local communities and improved their
voice and choice. The transparent processes employed, inclusive of local-level social audit
mechanisms, and the emphasis on gram sabhas have helped strengthen local governance systems.
Community management of groundwater. The project has adopted the concept of water
budgeting at the village level. Under this approach, each project GP displays the water
availability data (water received through precipitation, run off, irrigation use, domestic use, and
so on). While the scientific validity of the exercise is questionable, this approach helped focus
community attention on the need to conserve water and put indirect pressure on an controlled
extraction by private farmers. Through this exercise, the villagers know the overall water
replenishment and withdrawals for various purposes, resulting in effective local initiatives for
control of groundwater use. The aquifer management pilot, with early indications of success, also
contributed to changing the sector approach to managing groundwater giving a strong focus to
community based actions. Further scale-up can lead to sustainable use of groundwater in a state
with predominantly hard-rock strata.
(b)   Institutional change/strengthening
The institutional objectives vis-à-vis implementation of the decentralized service-delivery
approach through GPs and communities were not only achieved but far exceeded; the project
was instrumental in preparing the state for further scaling up.
The creation of a Water and Sanitation Mission (WASM) at the state level, with representation
from various senior administrative officials as a policy-making body; the GoM's plans to


                                                13
upgrade the RSPMU as a water supply and sanitation support organization (WASSO), with
expertise derived from the market and other government agencies as an executive body
supporting the WASM; and the GoM's plans for creation of similar units at the district level are
critical indicators of the project's contribution to the long-term strengthening of state institutions.
The GoM's plan to integrate the RSPMU's project management systems across all its programs
has considerably increased the capacity of the GoM to manage projects and monitor performance
on a regular basis.
The SHGs created at the village level are expanding their capacities to take up roles as O&M
operators at the village level for WSS schemes.
The project has also set out to restructure the state's water sector institution, the MJP, to improve
its effectiveness. This institution was earlier involved in the execution and maintenance of water-
supply facilities for both municipal bodies and regional rural water schemes. By credit closure, a
plan was prepared to set up two separate companies from the MJP to provide need-based support
to the municipalities and multivillage schemes--one focusing on the execution of major capital
works and the other on supporting O&M. The GoM is expected to further refine the plan and to
respond appropriately, based on its strategies in both the urban and rural water sectors.

(c)   Other unintended outcomes and impacts (positive or negative)
One stand-out benefit was the employment that the project was able to generate by being
implemented at the village level, and the creation of SOs and TSPs at the district and village
levels as resources for the future--not only for the WSS sector but for all other sectors. Also, the
increased capacities of the VWSCs have helped villages to apply similar approaches to the
development of other sectors.
The project has also created local leadership capacities. Many of the committee
presidents/members of the VWSC/Women's Development Committee (WDC)/social audit
committee (SAC) were subsequently elected as local leaders to the PRI institutions.33 In addition,
the women SHGs have been encouraged to become small-scale service providers for the GP,
managing O&M and collecting water fees. This shift is possible and sustainable thanks to a new
culture of paying for services received--a culture that was introduced by the project.
In recognition of all its positive direct and indirect impacts and outcomes, the project received
the "People's First Award" from the Social Development Unit of the Bank at the Bank's
Sustainable Development Forum in 2010, where it competed against other projects financed by
the IDA/Bank.

3.6   Summary of findings of beneficiary survey and/or stakeholder workshops
The following assessments were carried out during project implementation:
       Impact assessment study (conducted in 2005 and 2007; see section 3.4)
      Sustainability evaluation through community participation (August 2009)
      Intervillage community monitoring (August­December 2009)


33
  For example, an internal assessment carried out by the GoM in 538 GPs where elections were held during the
project period indicated that the VWSC members of these GPs have been elected as follows: 281--GP presidents;
33--ZP members; 1--member of the state legislative assembly.

                                                      14
Impact assessment study. This study indicated that, even as the project was under
implementation, about 10 percent of additional households had gained access to water supply;
toilet use went up from 16 to 34 percent; household water consumption went up by 11 lpcd (from
30 to 41 lpcd); monthly coping costs reduced by about INR 500/household/month in summer and
INR 378/household/month in the rainy season. Further, the study concluded that there was a 50
percent higher chance of communities contributing to the water-supply scheme and 25 percent of
having an active VWSC. Even better results were reported in the villages, with more than 50
percent of households having access to water (through HSCs) and toilets. But the study could not
find significant behavioral changes in terms of hygiene, and no change in water quality, and so
could not document health impacts during the study period. The study therefore recommended:
(i) increasing water-supply access to households through HSCs and increasing access to
sanitation through toilets; and (ii) strategizing the IEC and capacity-building efforts to support
desired hygiene practices. The GoM is actively implementing these recommendations and also
planning to carry out another round of impact evaluations after the project is completed.
Sustainability evaluation through community participation. In August 2009, the RSPMU,
through its district teams, carried out a participatory SEE (on source, institutional, technical, and
financial parameters) in a representative sample of 52 project GPs (two per GP) in Phase I, and
later in October 2009, in 104 other GPs. The results showed that out of the 156 GPs participating
in Phases I and II, scheme operations were highly sustainable in 26 GPs (17 percent), highly
likely for 115 GPs (74 percent), likely for 13 GPs (8 percent), and uncertain for 2 GPs (1
percent). With only 1 percent of the sample showing uncertain sustainability, the project is very
likely to sustain this success over the years after its closing date (further details in Annex-6).
Community monitoring. The project undertook intervillage community monitoring exercises
between August and December 2009, covering 60 GPs in all 26 districts. This is the first-of-its-
kind exercise in any of the Bank-supported RWSS projects in India, wherein the community of
one village visits another village for observation of its services, systems, and institutions. The
objective is to develop a forum for sharing, analysis, and learning. The results indicated: i) high
levels of satisfaction (99 percent) of community with improved service levels; ii) provided
pointers to sustainability of schemes (high source sustainability ­ 90 percent; tariff collections in
all GPs ­ 81% GPs collected O&M funds more than required expenditure); and other benefits to
community in terms of time savings in collection of water etc (further details in Annex-6).

4.   Assessment of risk to development outcomes
Rating: Low
The likelihood of changes that would be detrimental to the ultimate achievement of the project's
outcome is low. The GoM has already adopted similar initiatives across statewide RWSS
programs. At present there is sufficient political commitment to policy reforms by the GoM and
GoI to scale-up successful endeavors. Most of the elected gram sabha leaders have shown great
interest in continuing this trend and have signaled to the GoM their willingness to request an
even larger amount if a new IDA/World Bank project were to become available in future.




                                                 15
5.    Assessment of Bank and borrower performance
5.1   Bank performance
Overall Rating: Satisfactory
(a) Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry
Rating: Satisfactory
The project was formally reviewed through the QAE process by the QAG on July 19, 2005. The
panel rated the overall QAE of this operation as moderately satisfactory while the dimension of
Strategic Relevance and Approach was rated as highly satisfactory. With two minor exceptions,
all the other quality dimensions and the Bank inputs and processes were rated as fully
satisfactory. One exception was the implementation arrangements, rated as moderately
satisfactory because of the failure to further advance the introduction of an M&E system during
project preparation, leaving much of it to the implementation stage. The other exception was the
moderately unsatisfactory rating of environmental aspects, largely due to insufficient quantitative
analysis on how to deal with adverse environmental issues. In retrospect, the project may be
considered fully satisfactory as it successfully met its objectives of increasing rural household
access to improved drinking water and sanitation services and decentralizing WSS to local
governments and communities.
(b) Quality of supervision
Rating: Satisfactory
The supervision teams worked extensively with the GoM during the first 2 years of
implementation in 26 districts, and selected GPs to carry out project activities. The supervision
teams continued their hands-on approach and remained close to the clients, which earned them
praise throughout the country as well as in the Bank. The field presence of the Bank supervision
team, from September 16, 2005, onward (TTL based in India) was instrumental in maintaining a
continuous dialogue with the GoM, specially with the changing leadership within the WSSD and
RSPMU.34 This partnership was also essential in maintaining effective coordination with other
partners (donors, NGOs).
Procurement. The implementing agency did not fully appreciate the significance of procurement
in improving the overall quality of project implementation and mobilizing much-needed
institutional capacity early. Meanwhile, Bank guidelines were mostly applied in a rigid manner,
without much effort to adapt them to the specific requirements of the CDD project and the reality
on the ground. The procurement postreviews could have been conducted earlier in the project to
identify problem issues and find solutions. In addition, the scope of postreviews did not generally
include field visits; instead, villages' procurement documentation was brought to the state level.
Field visits by the postreview team, supplemented by a greater investment of time and energy by
the Bank team in supporting communities and providing guidance on a real-time basis, could
have fostered the due diligence lacking in many instances. The sheer size of the program and its
logistical constraints could be seen only in hindsight and may be a lesson to be kept in view
while preparing future CDD projects.


34
  The principal secretary of the WSSD changed thrice during the course of project implementation (Mr. B. C.
Khatua; Mr. V. S. Dhumal; and Mr. A. K. Jain). Similarly, the project director of the RSPMU has also changed
thrice (Mr. Sudhir Thakre; M. Sanjev Kumar; Mr. Rajan Khobragade).

                                                       16
Financial management. Because of a decentralized implementation arrangement, FM
supervision remained somewhat challenging at the district and village level. Bank-accredited FM
specialists were part of every supervision mission in an attempt to maintain a hands-on approach.
During the supervision missions, an FM team of two to three members conducted intensive field
visits to a sample of districts including the GPs. During these visits, the FM arrangements were
reviewed, issues identified and discussed with the project management, and mitigation measures
agreed upon. The Bank also helped by participating in the meetings between the implementing
agency and the auditor general (AG) offices to enhance the understanding of the issues by all
parties. Despite these efforts, the treatment and handling of community contributions in district
accounts remained a prickly issue. This and other issues led to the project remaining under
statement of expenditure (SOE) suspension for nine months under OP/BP 10.02. A clear
guideline on the treatment of community contributions and a focused review of compliance from
the beginning of the project could have avoided such problems.

(c) Justification of rating for overall Bank performance

Rating: Satisfactory
The overall quality of Bank supervision was rated as satisfactory. In the context of achieving the
PDOs, it must be highlighted that the borrower and the sectoral stakeholders widely
acknowledged the Bank's support during project supervision. This support went far toward
setting the stage for future development in the WSS sector and for Maharashtra becoming a role
model for the rest of India.
5.2   Borrower performance
Overall rating: Satisfactory
(a) Government performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The government's performance is rated as satisfactory on the basis of its strong supporting role
during project preparation and implementation. Because of the good dialogue maintained, the
project always enjoyed support from both the old and new governments, whose top priorities
matched perfectly with the PDOs, especially the decentralizing of WSS services at the village
levels. The government also repeatedly hinted at scaling up the model to eventually cover the
entire country.
(b) Implementing agency or agencies performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The implementing agency's performance was rated as satisfactory. The reform support project
management unit, under the WSSD, implemented the overall project and went the extra mile to
achieve the PDOs. It organized several workshops to introduce the projects to 26 selected
districts, disseminating technical information. It was successful in developing a robust MIS
database to track real-time progress of project activities. The implementing unit succeeded in
establishing a good rapport with the district teams, various regional facilitation units, as well as
the gram sabha (at the village level), an element considered essential to effectively implementing
activities in over 3,000 GPs. Its institutional capacity was also proven to be adequate to provide
technical assistance to an increasing number of districts.


                                                17
The RSPMU nevertheless fell short of adequately carrying out the required fiduciary activities
(such as timely financial audits and financial monitoring reports, procurement monitoring, and so
on). In the districts, there was lack of clarity regarding procurement oversight. In this process,
there was too much reliance on the VWSCs to handle procurement and inadequate support at the
village level, which led to weaknesses in compliance with the agreed procurement guidelines.
(c) Justification of rating for overall borrower performance
Rating: Satisfactory
Overall borrower performance takes into consideration both the government and the
implementing agency's performance during preparation and implementation. On the basis of the
justification provided above, the borrower's overall performance was rated as satisfactory. At the
time of project closing, the borrower had complied with most of the covenants and agreements
needed to achieve development outcomes.

6.     Lessons learned
The design and implementation of the project offers the following considerations that might be
useful in shaping future projects of this nature:
(1)   Demand-driven approach and participation are critical to the sustainable delivery of
      RWSS. While the VWSCs were created in 2001, it was only through the implementation of
      the project that the approach to the delivery of the RWSS in Maharashtra witnessed a real
      shift from being supply driven to demand driven. The project clearly demonstrated that
      investing in participatory processes to identify, articulate, and satisfy the demand for WSS
      services at the level of the GPs might start slow, as it requires time to develop local
      capacity and decentralize delivery, but that the process pays off over time. In fact, the
      project registered a slow disbursement curve during the first two years of implementation
      and a very fast acceleration over the last three years, once capacities and local systems for
      service delivery were in place. The strategic use of community-empowering tools--for
      example, peer-to-peer learning, start-up grants for capacity building and women's
      empowerment, and incentives for good behavior--greatly contributed toward activating the
      VWSCs, building trust in the program, and fostering innovative approaches for sustainable
      service delivery and O&M.
(2)   Initial capacity building is an important activity to prioritize before the formation of local
      committees. The project introduced an initial capacity building fund (ICBF) through which
      a sum of INR 40,000 (around $1,000) was released immediately once the villages were
      selected. This money was used for organizing observational visits for a substantial number
      of villagers to model villages. Interestingly, this had several impacts: (i) the immediate
      release of money, however small, improved project credibility, and people realized that this
      was not a routine government project; (ii) exposure to other villages motivated
      communities to initiate implementation (seeing is believing) even before any investments
      were made; (iii) the selection process for village committees improved after the visits were
      organized (a busload of men and women went on each visit), and this created a threshold
      level of willingness and motivation.
(3)   Sustainable operation and maintenance (O&M). Despite the fact that fully sustainable
      O&M of the assets delivered by the project has not yet been achieved across all the target
      GPs, the project created a basis for future sustainability by introducing the culture of

                                                18
      paying for a service. This was a new concept for villages, which for decades had been
      accustomed to expecting free service delivery from the government, and the shift was
      possible only thanks to community participation and a high level of transparency. End
      users are now aware of the costs of delivering services and are more than willing to pay
      them. In addition, the project supported outsourcing the collection of water-use fees to
      women's SHGs, leading to very successful outcomes in terms of cost recovery and O&M.
      As a result, the use of SHGs as small-scale water providers was institutionalized in the GR
      of August 2009, to be extended to the whole of Maharashtra.
(4)   Special needs of quasiurban and periurban areas. A key lesson emerging from project
      implementation is that communities can be more effectively mobilized in smaller villages
      with more cohesive social backgrounds. When the population is in the range of 10,000,
      implementation becomes increasingly complex and requires different approaches. In fact,
      larger villages behave like small municipalities, where the end users are less willing to
      become directly involved in implementation and O&M, and politics play a stronger role.
      Different processes for delivery and O&M are then required. The situation becomes even
      more complex in the case of periurban areas, where the additional dimension of having to
      coordinate with a large urban area further complicates sustainable WSS delivery.
(5)   Integrated village development and the need for coordination among different sectors at
      different levels. Through the delivery of WSS services, the project has provided a new
      model at the village level that could be extended to and/or bundled with other services (for
      example, health, education, street lighting, solid waste management), depending on specific
      village needs, in order to achieve the multiplier effects of integrated development. But
      coordinating sectors and programs is a challenge; in some of the most successful villages,
      the GPs took the lead in promoting such integration. A similar level of integration would
      ideally be achieved at the block and district levels, and the GoM is committed to launching
      a statewide policy to promote such integration.
(6)   Aquifer management and multivillage collaborations. Even if on a limited scale, the
      Component D2 (groundwater aquifer management pilot) has demonstrated that villages
      sharing common aquifers can successfully work together to recharge groundwater tables.
      This is an important lesson that should be scaled up to the national level to ensure the
      future sustainability of critical water sources that are otherwise quickly depleted.
(7)   Integrated M&E system and monitoring cycle. While the project successfully
      implemented an MIS system to manage all project data, the system was never fully
      integrated to measure indicators across project components and to produce comparable
      data. For example, each subcomponent had its own data set and M&E system; data
      collected using different methodologies could not be integrated across components. In
      addition to weak horizontal integration, the data collection systems did not always allow
      the easy transfer of data between the local and central levels due to lack of vertical
      integration. Based on this lesson, the GoM is currently assessing the M&E system to
      identify weaknesses and gaps and to develop an integrated MIS to support the next phase
      of the project.
(8) Adaptation of fiduciary requirements to the demand-driven approach and large-scale
    intervention approach. Several lessons can be drawn from the experience of the project
    both in terms of procurement and FM.


                                               19
     · First, a hands-on approach was needed to adapt fiduciary guidelines and procedures to the
       reality on the ground. In this regard, the Bank team should have regularly visited sample
       villages to gauge the evolving situation and identify innovative solutions. A simpler
       version of direct contracting up to a realistic contract value threshold could have better
       facilitated village-level procurement. Similarly, a simpler version of the procurement plan
       suitable to CDD projects could have been provided. Postprocurement reviews should have
       been conducted regularly from early on, by visiting the sample villages rather than asking
       that procurement documents be brought to the state level. The reviews should have also
       assessed institutional weaknesses and clarified staff roles. This could have revealed
       systemic problems early on in the project.
       Similarly, a simpler accounting method suitable to village accounting (such as cash books,
       stock records, and so on) and more aligned to the systems adopted by the GoM under its
       own acts would have been helpful. The handling of community contributions, a critical
       issue, should have been clarified with clear guidelines to be reviewed by the implementing
       units.
       In addition, a greater amount of knowledge exchange across similar projects would have
       increased overall efficiency.
     · The project utilized an iterative approach that required a good monitoring and learning
       system to ensure compliance. To this end an MIS system was developed, but it needs to be
       further strengthened and built upon to support the future scale-up of interventions
       (particularly in light of the RSPMU's likely transformation into a WSS organization for
       the GoM).
     · Also, given the vast scale of the project's coverage and the future scale-up of its approach
       to the entire state, it is very important to build as much as possible on existing local human
       resources and capacities. This is a better approach than simply increasing the number of
       staff or creating new functions at the local level. For example, gram sevaks who are
       already familiar with the GoM's procurement and FM procedures could more easily learn
       about additional project requirements and provide the necessary support to GPs. The staff
       at the block level (subdistrict) could better monitor fiduciary aspects as well as issues
       related to project implementation. Also, experienced villages in exit status could transfer
       their experience to other villages. Overall, the simplified guidelines and procedures
       developed under the project should be formalized and used as a reference for the future
       scale-up of interventions.

7.      Comments on issues raised by borrower/implementing agencies/partners

      (a) Borrower / implementing agency

      The Government of Maharashtra provided comments on an earlier draft of the ICR (see
      Annex 8 for the detailed comments) expressing overall satisfaction with the quality of the
      document and the way it captured outcomes and performance, commending the capacity of
      the ICR to capture lessons both in terms of best practices and shortcomings. In addition, the
      GoM strongly recommended to objectively capture the key lessons with regard to
      Procurement and Financial Management, which was done in the revised ICR under Section
      6 above. Other generic comments provided by the GoM focused on the need to provide

                                                 20
additional documentation with regard to project impact and its future institutional
sustainability, which were responded to under the relevant sections and annexes in the
revised ICR.

(b) Co-financiers

Not applicable.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders (e.g., NGOs/Private Sector/Civil Society)
Not applicable.




                                       21
                                     Annex 1. Project costs and financing

(a) Project cost by component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                         Actual/latest
                                    Appraisal estimate                                               Percentage of
          Components                                    estimate (US$
                                     (US$ millions)                                                    appraisal
                                                           millions)
  A. Community development and
                                                174.00             250.90                                          144.19
            infrastructure building
     B. Institutional strengthening               52.00              28.74                                          55.27
       C. Sector development and
                                                   4.50               0.69                                          15.33
                      strengthening
                D. Pilot component                11.50               5.77                                          50.17
                    E. Unallocated                10.00                0.0                                              ­

                Total baseline cost                          252.00                     286.10                     113.53
             Physical contingencies                            4.10                          0
                 Price contingencies                          12.50                          0
              Total project costs35                          268.60                     286.10                     113.53
          Total financing required                             0.00                     286.10                     113.53


(b) Financing
                                                      Appraisal       Actual/latest
                                          Type of co-                                 Percentage
Source of funds                                       estimate        estimate36
                                          financing                                   of appraisal
                                                      (US$ millions) (US$ millions)
                                 Borrower                       73.60           70.93        96.37
                        Local communities                       14.00           20.72       148.00
                                     IDA                       181.00         194.45        107.44
                                                               268.60         286.10




35
   Total project costs estimated to complete the project in all respects, even after credit closure (target set by the
GoM for completion is September 30, 2010).
36
   By credit closure, this was the position.

                                                            22
                                                                          37
                                        Annex 2. Outputs by component

Component A: Community development and capacity building

(i) Community capacity building
Objectives. The objective of this component is to facilitate the formation of an inclusive,
responsible, and skilled VWSC and to build its capacity so as to empower it to plan, implement,
operate, and maintain the WSS facilities through a participatory process of informed decision-
making and collective action within the sphere of the gram sabha and GP.

                                                                                         Status at
 No                                     Item                             PAD target       closing
 1           No. of districts undertaking project implementation             26             26
 2           No. of GPs selected                                           2,800           3,021
 3           OFAs signed                                                   2,800           3,288
 4           GPs conducting mahila and gram sabhas (per month)             2,800           3,021
 5           Release of ICBF                                               2,800           3,277
 6           Formation of committees (VWSC, SAC, WDC)                      2,800           3,218
 7           Capacity-building plan prepared and appraised                 2,800           3,164
 8           SOs appointed                                                  NA             3,277
 9           Baseline surveys completed                                    2,800           3,215
 10          PRA completed for source identification/strengthening         2,800           3,194
 11          VAP appraised                                                 2,800           3,119
 12          Community contribution collected                              100%            98%
 13          No. of schemes commissioned                                    NA             2,298
 14          No. of paraprofessionals appointed/trained                     NA            15,200

Village-level institutional achievements are the following:

    Institution/                                                                         Institutions
    committees                                     Functions                               formed
 VWSC                     Planning and implementation arm of GP                             3,218
 WDC                      Facilitates empowerment of women (voice and choice)               3,218
 SAC                      Oversees project processes/outcomes                               3,218
 VWSC
 subcommittees            Assists VWSC in procurement/finance/supervision                  9,708
                          functions
 Gram sabha               Final decision-making authority                                 108,792
 Mahila gram
 sabha                    Ensures active participation of women in the gram sabha         108,792
                          Maintains water-supply/sanitation facility for a habitation
 Pada committee           (tribal GPs formed; tribal committees formed)                   577/573
 GPs                      Decentralized local government accountable to local citizens     3,021




37
     Shows status at credit closing, that is, by September 30, 2009.

                                                            23
  Training
   No. of training workshops conducted                                                 56,728
   No. of persons trained                                                             2,097,325

(ii) Women Empowerment Fund
Objective. This component aims to empower women to play an effective role in villages in the
planning, implementation, and management of WSS facilities.
                                                                                         Status
                                                                              PAD          at
  No                                   Item                                  target     closing

  1    No. of districts undertaking project implementation                    26           26
  2    No. of GPs selected                                                   2,800       3,391
  3    No. of WEF proposals appraised and approved                           2,800       3,045
  4    Additional SHGs promoted by Jalswarajya                                NA         29,976
  5    Existing/defunct SHGs revived                                          NA         19,332
  6    GPs where % of women members in VWSC/SAC/WDC >= 50%                   2,800       3,021
  7    No. of GPs where SHGs linked to other departmental programs            NA         20,203
  8    New economic activities promoted                                       NA         28,851
  9    No. of GPs conducting mahila/gram sabhas regularly                    2,800       3,021
  10   No. of GPs where women attendance in gram sabhas >=40%                2,800       3,021
  11   No. of SHGs functioning                                                NA         49,308
  12   WEF plan prepared                                                     2,800       3,021


(iii) Village Panchayat Strengthening Fund (VPSF)

Objective. To build the institutional capacity of the VPs to enable them to perform a guiding,
coordinating, and monitoring role of project implementation at the village level.

                           Activities under VPSF                              PAD       Status as
                                                                             target     of closing
  Procurement of furniture, loudspeaker set, camera, library books, and
  stationary; printing expenses; remuneration of accountant; purchasing of   2,800     3,163
  computer, TV, VCD player, chairs, tables, cupboards, mandap, and
  generator; painting expenses; resource center; and so on.

  A2 Community infrastructure

  (i) Groundwater recharge and source strengthening

  Objective. To ensure that rural water-supply schemes are constructed around a groundwater
  resource that is dependable.


                                                     24
Sources. Under the groundwater management component, the GPs have sourced their water
supply from different kinds of sources--both groundwater and surface water. A majority of
sources are groundwater based (almost 98 percent), with a limited number of surface water
sources such as rivers, canals, and irrigation tanks tapped through trench galleries/jackwells.
Wherever possible the existing dug wells have been deepened/repaired.

Achievements. The key strength of the project was to involve the community in identifying
potential source locations and then using the district geologists' technical expertise to confirm
the sources. Due to this practice, the community was very satisfied and the sustainability of the
sources was 97 percent. An unintended benefit is that by credit closing, out of the 1,114 project
villages/hamlets that were being supplied water through tankers earlier, 981 villages now have
sustainable water sources and thus no need of tankers.

Different types of sources and their completion status

                                                                        Ongoing        Not
 Groundwater source type                        Total     Completed                  started
 Dug well existing--deepening                   1,025       1,005           7           13
 Dug wells existing--minor repairs               524         484            25          15
 New dug wells                                   786         739            47           0
 New dug wells w/piped water schemes            2,277       2,248           29           0
 Borewell with hand pump                        1,805       1,798            2           5
 Borewell/tubewell w/power pump                  365         362             1           2
                                        Total   6,782       6,636          111          35
                                                            98%           1.6%        0.5%

From the above table, it can be seen that about 98 percent of the groundwater sources have been
completed, with a limited number yet to be started while others are ongoing. Out of the sources
selected, a small number have failed due to (i) unfavorable hydrogeological conditions, that is,
hard-rock strata, a limited aquifer, or high run-off rates; (ii) inadequate rainfall; or (iii) a
collapsing of sources (particularly in the Nandurbar district). Due to this failure, 76 wadis had to
be supplied with tankers, particularly in drought-prone districts with rocky strata, when the water
availability reduced/sources failed.

Type                                                        Total       Inadequate       %
                                                                           Yield
New dug wells                                               3,065           102         3.32
Bore wells/tube wells                                       2,170            66         3.04
                                                  Total     5,235           168         3.21

Various types of strengthening measures and their status

Rooftop rainwater harvesting                                 939           12          1.2
Cement Nalla Bandhara (local term for concrete bund)         346           1            -
Hydrofracturing of borewell                                  454            1           -
Unconventional measures                                       9             0           0
Other structures                                             903            9           1
Total                                                       2,651          23          0.9


                                                 25
Best practices. Various existing practices of the GSDA for source strengthening--including
innovations developed by the GSDA such as bore-blast techniques, fracture sealing by
cementation, and hydrofracturing--have been adopted vigorously under the project. The village
sources have been located nearer to habitations as far as possible, integrating the traditional
wisdom of villagers with the technical skills of district geologists. This has reduced the overall
cost of source development and increased sustainability.

(ii)       Water-supply schemes

The objective of this subcomponent is to develop cost-effective and sustainable water-supply
facilities either by improving existing facilities or by setting up new facilities through a process
of community consultation, collective action, and technical facilitation.

Achievements. Apart from creating highly sustainable water-supply facilities, the project has
many notable achievements to its credit. These include: (i) design and successful implementation
of water-supply schemes, with per capita supply of 40 lpcd, and provision of HSCs for about 77
percent of households with 100 percent HSCs in several schemes resulting in the removal of
public standposts; (ii) planning of almost all water supply schemes as single-village schemes
with local sources and ensuring sustainability of the sources; (iii) a per capita cost for
implementing water-supply schemes of $23 (INR 46=$1), which includes the cost of physical
infrastructure and is less than the prevailing norms in the state (ranging from $46 in the non-
Konkan region to $51 in the Konkan region); (iv) provision of disinfection facilities and prompt
use of the same to ensure supply of safe drinking water; (v) community operating schemes
controlling pumping hours to suit their water requirements despite erratic power supply (beyond
the control of communities and the water-supply department), and also installation of multiple
programmable pump controllers (ROBOTs) to ensure control of pumping hours for power and
water conservation; (vi) ensuring full-cost recovery including provision for depreciation with
minimum average levels of six months of tariffs in O&M accounts (with tariffs ranging from
$7.8 to $26 per year); and (vii) installation of water-recycling facilities for agriculture reuse at
some places.

Best practices. Best practices were adopted by several community in the project. Notable
practices are: (i) in Kharsundi village (Atpadi Taluk), where the women persuaded the
community to opt for the rejuvenation of the existing water-supply scheme over a new scheme,
thus saving about INR 100 lakhs ($217,400) in construction and O&M costs; and (ii) the
artificial recharge for development of sustainable sources, through a participatory approach in
Ussara village (Bhandara district).

Status of house connections. As a policy, the GoM aims to achieve 100 percent coverage either
with individual HSCs or group connections,38 thus eliminating standposts. The RSPMU had also
targeted a minimum 80 percent coverage with HSCs before exiting from the GP and is making
efforts toward this. By credit closure, 78 percent of project households (57% - direct, rest -
group) had been provided with HSCs.


38
     Wherever households cannot afford individual connections, they come together and establish a group connection.

                                                          26
A3 Tribal development program

The objective of this subcomponent is to build the institutional capacity of tribal groups and to
improve their access to sustainable WSS services with specific focus on tribal settlements. The
Tribal Development Plan (TDP) includes financing of the following activities: (i) community
development, including technical assistance in building the community-level capacity of tribal
populations to self-manage their activities; (ii) support of infrastructure for drinking water supply
including source strengthening, water conservation and recharge measures, community
sanitation, and environmental and hygiene promotion; (iii) development of paraprofessionals
especially for supporting health initiatives; and (iv) empowerment of tribal women and youth by
implementing the WEF.

Tribal Development Plan (TDP). Consistent with Bank policy (OP 4.10, formerly OD 4.20), a
TDP has been prepared as an integral part of this project. Recognizing local needs, the plan
provided for nearly 12 percent39 of project costs, the largest single allocation dedicated to tribal
communities. The component objective is to build institutional capacity of tribal groups and to
improve their access to sustainable WSS services.

Out of the 26 Jalswarajya districts, this subcomponent was implemented in 626 tribal GPs of 17
districts of Maharashtra.

Progress to date:
                                                                                 PAD         Status as
 No                                  Item                                       targets      of closing
 1      No. of districts undertaking project implementation                        26            17
 2      No. of tribal GPs selected                                                671           626
 3      OFAs signed                                                               671           626
 4      GPs conducting mahila and general grama sabhas (p/m)                      671           626
 5      Release of ICBF                                                           671           626
 6      Formation of committees (VWSC, SAC, WDC)                                  671           626
 7      Capacity-building plan prepared and appraised                             671           626
 8      SOs appointed                                                             671           626
 9      Baseline surveys completed                                                671           626
 10     PRA completed for source identification/strengthening                     671           626
 11     WEF plan appraised                                                        671           626
 12     Average percentage of Public Contribution collected (cash +               100            98
        labour)
 13     VAP (addendum 2) appraised                                                671           626
 14     No. of GPs which started civil works                                      671           626
 15     No. of GPs which completed water-supply works                             671           438
 16     No. of GPs where WSS operational                                          671           423
 17     No. of GPs becoming ODF                                                   671           346




39
  The tribal population of Maharashtra was estimated at 8 percent of total population at the time of project
preparation.

                                                         27
To create awareness of WSS issues in tribal communities, a program of developing sanitation
and hygiene promotion centers (SHPCs) in ashram schools run by the GoM in tribal areas has
been taken as an entry point activity. Out of 26 project districts, this program was implemented
in 414 tribal ashram schools in 21 districts.

Progress on SHPCs in government tribal ashram schools

No. of districts                                                     : 021
No. of ashram schools                                                : 414
No. of ashram schools seeking water-supply facilities                : 238
No. of ashram schools started water-supply works                     : 205
No. of ashram schools seeking repairs in sanitation facilities       : 175
No. of ashram schools started repairs in sanitation works            : 161
No. of ashram schools seeking new sanitation facilities              : 152
No. of ashram schools started new sanitation works                   : 147
No. of ashram schools due for swachhata doot40 trainings             : 414
No. of ashram schools completed swachhata doot trainings             : 414

Key achievements

The project has served a crucial role in tribal communities, which are mainly outside the range of
normal developmental benefits. Some key achievements are: (i) over 1.6 million tribal people
have benefited from Jalswarajya, perhaps the largest tribal population to be benefitted by any
Bank-supported project; (ii) tribal groups have mobilized community contributions (cash and
kind) to the tune of INR 88.2 million ($1.92 million); and (iii) for the first time ever, many of the
tribal GPs have enjoyed piped-water supply. Despite their location in difficult-to-access areas
and dispersed settlements, the per capita cost of water-supply infrastructure has been below INR
1,215 ($26.4). Initial studies indicate that tribal habitations are recovering 100 percent of their
O&M costs through user fees. Over 420 tribal GPs have collected advance O&M tariffs of up to
6 months, 162,529 tribal households and 346 tribal GPs have become ODF, and sanitation
coverage has risen to 71 percent.

Component B: Institutional strengthening

B1 Capacity building

The objective of this component is to develop a shared vision and build competencies among key
stakeholders at the state and district levels to enable them to perform their respective roles.

Status. The project has contributed significantly to the capacity building of officials, contracted
professionals, support organizations, TSPs and nonofficials, and village communities. These in
turn have contributed toward community capacity building. The project strategy of using
capacity-building consortiums (CBCs) to carry out this process has been constrained by the lack
of availability of a sufficient number of capable agencies and uneven performance by those
selected to undertake the job. The project had to step in and, with the help of district teams and

40
     Swachhata doot is a messenger on sanitation and hygiene.

                                                         28
other institutions, take the responsibility of organizing a large number of programs. The project
has also used the training of trainers (TOT) approach by the community to multiply capacity-
building efforts across a wide range of GPs/villages, districts, and stakeholders. Capacity-
building programs have evolved continuously over the project period, adjusting to needs on the
ground and the project context. The project has also piloted a SEE in six GPs in each project
district, using in-house resources.

The cumulative annual achievements on capacity building are summarized below:

 Year           State level    District level             Village level             Total
            Program Persons Program Persons          Program Persons        Program Persons
 2003­04        4        187   4          175           63          699         72       1,061
 2004­05        2        300  339       24,834         3,304      222,175     3,645    247,309
 2005­06       10        390  719       38,694         9,573      393,222    10,302    432,306
 2006­07        3         78 1,706       2,584         9,464      388,116    11,173    413,998
 2007­08        7        276 4,104      11,928        23,506      690,769    27,617    702,973
 2008­09        7       220      10,736    405,871   10,613     399,417     21,356    805,508
 2009­10        1        52        27       1,381      205        2,927       142      4,360
  (part)
  Total       3,434    1,503     17,635    512,747   56,728    2,097,325    74,307   2,607,515

From the above table it can be seen that there has been a massive effort to impart training to over
2.6 million stakeholders across 26 districts and over 3,000 GPs.

B 2 Information, education, and communication (IEC) including Sanitation, and Hygiene
Promotion

The objective of this subcomponent is to develop and implement a development communication
strategy in the state that will focus on promoting behavioral changes among all stakeholders in
improved sanitation and hygiene practices and on empowering the rural poor in their interactions
with partnering institutions.

IEC Status. IEC has played a key role in supporting all project components and has adopted a
diverse range of innovative approaches. The IEC programs have continuously evolved over the
project period, responding to the project context and needs. The campaign has progressively
travelled from initial awareness creation, mobilization, and planning implementation to O&M
phases. The focus of the IEC at Credit closure was on: (i) water quality, (ii) O&M systems, (iii)
collection and dissemination of success stories, and (iv) sharing lessons learned.

The operations and monitoring team (OMT) at the state level was provided with the services of
an IEC specialist and a health and sanitation specialist, and the DFTs at the district level with
funds for communication and dissemination equipment, access to the media, and production and
distribution of display posters, folders, and pamphlets to households, wall writings and paintings,
street plays, and other media events. IEC primarily focused on a core set of the most crucial
health protection messages relating to the importance of: (i) water disinfections and safe home
storage; (ii) hand washing after defecation and before preparing food; and (iii) using latrines and



                                                29
toilets versus open-field defecation. Innovative demonstration methods were used to enhance
learning effectiveness.

Status of Sanitation and Hygiene promotion: The Sanitation and hygiene promotion included
supporting the GoM's sanitation strategy of stopping open defecation and hygiene behavior
change of village community. The key targets on Sanitation front have been the following. The
achievements by Credit closure on these targets are listed below.

                           Outputs against Sanitation targets at Credit Closure

 Indicator                                                         Baseline          Target         Actual achieved
                                                                    value            values
 % of households41 using sanitation facilities in
 project villages.
                                                                     19%              50%                77%
                                                                                                       (898,351)
 % of GPs where 100% open defecation free
 (ODF) status has been achieved                                      0%               40%                61%
                                                                                     (1,286)            (1,848)
 % of GPs where community perception of
 environmental sanitation is satisfactory                            5%               60%                87%
                                                                                     (1,930)            (2,629)
 % GPs where environmental sanitation works                                                              84%
 are complete
 % schools with sanitation coverage                                                                     100%

While the overall sanitation achievements have been above the planned target values, there are
regional variations. All divisions show a large percent of GPs having achieved a 50% ODF
status, with the lowest being in Aurangabad division at 74 percent and Konkan and Pune leading
with 94%. At the district level, two districts which are below the 50% ODF status, Osmanabad
and Nandubar have slower achievements due to the remoteness of tribal areas with scattered
settlements and low availability of adequate water for sanitation purposes in the summer. The
Table below summarises achievements at the division level.

                            Sanitation performance of regions, at credit closure

         Particulars              Pune      Aurangabad            Konkan      Nashik      Nagpur         Amravati
                                (% GPs)        (% GPs)            (% GPs)     (% GPs)     (% GPs)         (% GPs)
                                      Toilet coverage and ODF status
        ·    GPs having            89         44         90       54                           65           37
             achieved full
             ODF status
        ·    Households            84             65                94          73             84           70
             with Toilets


41
     Total project households at credit closure were 1,162,606.

                                                           30
    ·    Schools with     100         100          100        100        100           100
         Toilets
                                   Environmental sanitation
    ·    GPs where         82         95         94         78          81             69
         environmenta
         l sanitation
         works are
         complete
    ·    Total             78          91           73        76        68             64
         sanitation
         works
         completed

The overall access to household toilets in Jalswarajaya villages has increased from 25% to 77%.

Aurangabad and Konkan divisions have lead overall on improved environmental sanitation in
project villages, at 95 and 94% each. The district with the highest percent of sanitation works
completed by Credit closure is Aurangabad at 91% with the lowest achievements in Amravati at
64%. The environmental sanitation works in the villages largely consist of the development of
drains and their management, sullage management and the collection and disposal of solid waste.
However there have been some concerns, specifically on environmental sanitation. These
mainly pertain to the proper management and maintenance of the systems, which varies from
village to village in the project area, which are being addressed by Government of Maharashtra.

B3 Monitoring and learning

The objective of this component is to generate information on the performance and progress of
the project and to disseminate it among all the stakeholders for monitoring project
implementation, learning lessons, and empowering them to work in partnership with one another
for the attainment of project objectives.

Status

Monitoring system

The online web-based MIS system--with a facility for tracking project progress and outcomes--
has evolved over time through improvements made to it in terms of format, indicators, and so on.
The best news is that this system was developed internally within the RSPMU. The team
working on the MIS at the RSPMU can customize it as required based on the advice received
from the project management and RSPMU specialists. Seeing the benefits of such a system, the
GoM now wants to scale it up and apply it across all its programs, as part of its plan for
streamlining institutions. The district teams also have accepted this system and are providing
regular feedback and updates.




                                              31
B4 Project management

The objective of this subcomponent is to: (i) strengthen the capacity of the ZP to perform its new
facilitating roles successfully and (ii) set up and strengthen state-level institutional arrangements
for policy development and coordination and monitoring so that the reform programs in the WSS
sector are scaled up throughout the state. This subcomponent will finance project management
costs at the district and state levels. At the district levels, the expenditures would include setting
up the district water management and sanitation committees (DWMSCs) including costs of
contracted professional services, office furniture and equipment, transportation, and incremental
operating costs such as government staff incentives, travel, and subsistence. At the state level,
the subcomponent will finance setting up of OMT, RSU, and six small units at the division level
(including professional costs, transportation, and associated incremental operating costs).

The GoM mobilized a new project manager on August 1, 2009, who stayed with the project until
credit closure and is continuing beyond. Out of 245 staff positions in the districts, about 48 were
vacant (20 percent) as of September 2009, 30 of which were leadership positions. The GoM
recognizes this critical issue and has promised the mobilization of its staff.

Component C: Sector development and strengthening

C1 Knowledge management

The objective of this component is to establish an optimally linked learning network, involving
state-, district-, and community-level stakeholders aimed at exchanging and using information
and knowledge relating to various aspects of the sector and supporting policy development.

Under this component, the following work was done:

   (i)     Maintenance of a sector website, and various sector data (habitation data, census data,
           water-quality data, TSC data, Jalswarajya project data, comprehensive action plan
           data)
   (ii)    Maintenance of an online help desk providing online help on queries from districts
   (iii)   Regular capturing and dissemination of best practices from the field on a quarterly
           basis
   (iv)    Organizing of exposure visits and workshops as needed

As part of the scaling up of the RWSS programs in the state, the GoM would like to establish a
permanent setup at the state level to manage knowledge and learning across the state.

C2 Water-quality monitoring

The objective of this subcomponent is to institute an effective water-quality-monitoring system
so as to provide safe water to all communities. This subcomponent will finance: (i) statewide
one-time testing of all drinking water sources and subsequent follow-up measures; (ii) water-
quality monitoring and surveillance activities of state agencies; and (iii) the introduction of a
system to empower village communities to monitor the performance of state agencies.
Expenditure will include testing, analysis, and mapping of water quality on a statewide basis;

                                                 32
incentives to water-quality-testing staff at the district level; and costs of village-level sample
testing for bacteriological contamination. At the village level, a simple water-quality-monitoring
system will be developed, taking into consideration the lessons learned from the Kerala and
Karnataka II RWSS projects. Mahila mandals will be trained to monitor the water quality using
simple kits and communities will be empowered to demand independent testing of water if a
doubt arises as to its quality.

Status. Chemical water-quality testing of all public drinking water sources had been completed in
the project districts as well as in the nonproject districts of the state in 2005­06. Based on the
results, both within and outside the project, measures were taken to address the issues of villages
affected by poor-quality water.

In the initial phase of the project, community awareness was created through IEC about the
importance of water quality and monitoring. Field-test kits for chemical and bacteriological
contamination were distributed to all GPs. Training was also given to communities at the GP
level for use of these kits under the National Rural Drinking Water Quality Surveillance Program
(NRDWQSP). In the project, many leading SHGs have come forward for O&M of the water-
supply scheme, under which they would also be responsible for water-quality monitoring. Much
attention is paid to water-quality-monitoring issues in the O&M training given to selected
personnel at the GP level. At present, related activities are being monitored under the
NRDWQSP.

Component D: Pilot components

D1 Local government incentive fund

ZP/GP incentive fund pilot

The objective of this subcomponent is to support selected GPs and ZPs to develop beyond the
needs of the RWSS sector; to establish a more effective, accountable, and responsive approach to
institutional building; and to contribute toward improving the quality of local governance in
Maharashtra and furthering its decentralization.

ZP incentive fund. The idea was to generate a baseline for ZP governance and service delivery
through an assessment of three selected ZPs. But this subcomponent did not take off due to a
lack of response and hence was dropped at the MTR.

GP incentive fund. The GP incentive fund pilot is being implemented in nine districts; namely,
Thane, Nashik, Satara, Sangli, Osmanabad, Yavatmal, Chandrapur, Nagpur, and Buldhana. The
pilot, titled "Amchaya Gavat Amhi Sarkar" (meaning "we are the government in our village"),
was formally launched on April 30, 2005. In an awareness campaign, various IEC activities such
as distribution of posters, street plays, and so on were carried out to encourage GPs to participate
in the competition. A workshop was organized for sarpanchs and gram sevaks to create
awareness of the pilot and to motivate the GPs to participate in large numbers after project
launch. All the GPs in these nine districts were entitled to participate in the pilot. Sensitization
workshops were conducted from August to September 2005 for the sarpanchs and gram sevaks
of the GPs participating in the campaign. As a result of the extensive IEC campaign for

                                                33
community mobilization, as many as 1,200 GPs participated. Through a careful selection
process, one GP in each block was selected in the project districts. GPs were given a capacity-
building fund of INR 50,000 to cover the costs of exposure visits, baseline surveys, GP-level
capacity building, IEC, and the formation of a village committee.

Orientation workshops in the selected GPs were undertaken from April to July 2006 in all
districts. Development officers of the blocks from which GPs were selected for this project were
trained at Yashada, Pune, for capacity building during May to June 2006. One hundred and five
GPs were selected for this pilot project from these nine districts in a competition, out of which
seven GPs proved unable to implement the pilot project. This phase provided an incentive of no
more than INR 10 lakhs for preparing and implementing the Village Development Plan (VDP)
and Panchayat Development Plan. GPs could undertake any innovative activities based on the
resources available to them, to promote self-sufficiency in the VPs. GPs were free to decide
village development plans as per their needs. CBOs like self-help groups, mahila mandals, and
youth mandals could be actively involved in preparing the VDPs. The community managed the
economic activities under the VDP. But while this approach was carefully administered, the very
selection process made it into a reward program (rather than an incentive program). VDPs were
to be approved by the district committee headed by the additional CEO of the concerned ZPs.

Physical progress (GP incentive fund pilot):

    Item                                                                 No. of GPs
 No
 1 GPs selected for this project                                               98
 2  No. of GPs that signed OFA                                                 98
 3  No. of GPs that received capacity-building fund                            98
 4  No. of GPs that formed GP-level committees                                 98
 5 GPs that completed baseline survey                                          98
 6  No. of GPs that did Participatory Rural Appraisal                          98
 7 GPs that prepared draft VDPs                                                62
 8  No. of GPs whose VDPs were approved by the district committee              32
 9  No. of GPs that started documentation                                      26
 10 No. of GPs that started income generation                                  26

D2 Aquifer water management pilot (AWMP)

To objective of this sub-component is to develop and test approaches for the holistic and
sustainable management of water resources with the involvement of key stakeholders.
Over years it has been seen that isolated village- or watershed-based groundwater management
approaches have not resulted in sustainable groundwater management. It is observed that as
groundwater aquifers do not confine themselves to village, block, or district boundaries, there
must be concerted efforts to act at the aquifer level beyond such artificial boundaries. The
existence of such an aquifer must be clearly defined and managed by the local community.

The project has successfully implemented a novel concept of aquifer-level water management
(previously untried in India), extending the concept of community participation to groundwater
management in three districts of Maharashtra--Aurangabad, Pune, and Buldana. For this


                                               34
purpose federations of the aquifer water management associations (AWMAs) were formed out of
village-level committees. At the district level, technical and monitoring teams have been formed
to oversee implementation of this pilot component.

The committees, with technical facilitation from district geologists, have planned and
implemented low-cost structural measures to arrest the additional available run-off, which
otherwise would have been wasted. At the aquifer level, nonstructural measures such as
changing cropping patterns, and controlling and monitoring the groundwater withdrawals have
been conceived and implemented by all the villages identified as part of the aquifer. As in the
main project, each community has to contribute 10 percent against the capital cost of these
measures. Support organizations have been hired to undertake capacity building.

The pilot proved to be useful and has emerged as a rational tool in ensuring the sustainability of
groundwater to meet various needs such as drinking, domestic needs, and agricultural and even
industrial needs. What is interesting and encouraging is that this model is found to be replicable
elsewhere.

                                          Aquifer water management pilot
                                                    Benefit statement
                                                                          Districts
     No          Particulars                  Details                                               Total
                                                           Aurangabad       Pune        Buldana
     I     Technical details
           Area covered in sq km                                 178.25       95.74       159.68       433.67
           Area in hectares           1 sq km 100 ha            17,825        9,574       15,968       43,367
           Average rainfall in mm
                                                                    630         394          795        1,819
           per year
           Total run-off in hectares
                                      Area x rainfall           11,230        3,772       12,695       27,697
           meter per year
     II    Groundwater availability (ham)42
           Availability of
           groundwater before                                       410         218          354            982
           AWMP
           Additional availability
                                                                    175           75         225            475
           due to AWMP
           Total available
                                                                    585         293          579        1,457
           groundwater after AWMP
     III   Net available water from run-off [based on item I above]
           15% of total run-off
                                      15% of run-off             1,685          566        1,904        4,155
           (ham)
           80% dependability (ham)    80% above                  1,348          453        1,523        3,324
           Net available water in     1 ham = 10,000
                                                            13,480,000    4,530,000    15,230,000   33,240,000
           kilo litre (KL) per year   KL
     IV     Benefits per head/family
           Project population in the
                                      Pop 2001 x 1.5            40,371       15,626       42,238       98,235
           aquifer areas
           Gross availability of      Total run-                 2,782        2,414        3,006        2,819
                                         43

42
     Water that would have percolated to ground from run-off. Based on assessments by the GSDA.

                                                          35
          water per head (KL)/year     off43/population
          Net availability of water Net available
                                                               334          290                 361                  338
          per head (KL)/year        water44/ pop
          Net availability of water 1 family = 5
                                                             1,670       1,450                1,805                 1,690
          per family (KL)/year      persons
     V    Area that can come under irrigation based on groundwater (item II)
          Area under irrigation
                                                               588       4,661                3,642                 8,891
          before AWMP (ha)
          Additional area after
                                                             2,000          500               1,400                 3,900
          AWMP (ha)
          Total area (ha)
                                                             2,588       5,161                5,042             12,791

     VI   Irrigation potential for crops (area in hectares that can be irrigated, based on groundwater (Item II))
          Jowar OR                      900 KL/year               14,978        5,033        16,922             36,933
          Wheat OR                      1,800 KL/year              7,489        2,517         8,461             18,467
          Cotton OR                     3,300 KL/year              4,085        1,373         4,615             10,073
          Sugarcane                    11,500 KL/year              1,172          394         1,324                 2,890
                                                                   45
 VII      Indirect benefits (through reduction in tanker usage)
          No. of tankers/year for
                                                                  49               54              4                 107
          last 5 years
          Expenditure on tankers
          (INR mill) in the last 5                              37.9               3.9           2.1                 43.9
          years
          Cost saved on
          tankers/year (INR mill)
          since they are no longer                               7.6               0.8           0.4                  8.8
          Required in the aquifer
          areas

D3 O&M Pilot Fund

The objective is to develop (i) an O&M capacity-building model for ongoing drinking-water-
supply schemes that are outside the purview of the proposed project's community infrastructure
component and (ii) an action plan for scaling up the model to eventually cover the entire state.

This sub-component was dropped from the project.




43
   From item (I).
44
   From item (III).
45
   Some of the villages in the aquifer areas were being provided with water by mobile tankers in summer.

                                                           36
                                    Annex 3. Fiduciary issues

Financial Management

1.    This annex provides details on issues related to the treatment of community contributions
to the project.

2.     As per the project design, the community has to contribute 10 percent of the costs of village
water-supply subprojects in cash/kind in nontribal areas and 5 percent in tribal areas; the rest will
be financed by bank credit and the GoM counterpart financing. Against the "subprojects"
category, the Bank reimburses 90 percent of expenditure. On disbursements to villages, the
project has adopted a new model in CDD projects of providing advances to communities in
installments, which the districts reconcile after appraisal of the expenditure made against
certificates of progress (called utilization certificates, UCs) given by the community. Each
installment follows satisfactory appraisal of the previous one. Before the installment is received,
the community mobilizes its cash portion, and along with the installment money received,
executes the work.

3.    On treatment of community contribution in the accounts at the districts, the FM manual
states:

     Even though contributions from the beneficiaries (particularly cash) will not flow into
     the ZP (District) Bank account, it is necessary that the same be recorded for
     accounting and FM purposes, as well as from an MIS point of view. Accounting
     entries in ZP books to record Beneficiary Contributions will thus be required at first
     payment on signing of MoU and then on completion of each milestone.

4.    During the early phases of implementation of the project and until early 2008, there were
no regular updates at the district level on actual community contribution figures received. The
community contributions were shown on a pro-rata basis in the financial statements, while the
actual data were being collected and updated from the villages.

5.     The client was initially claiming only 90 percent of the GoM plus the Bank portion (see
paragraph 2, above), for three fiscal years: 2003­04, 2004­05, and 2005­06. On discovery of
this, just before the MTR, the Bank team advised the client to claim the entire eligible amount,
that is, 90 percent of the subproject costs. The client had then shown the consolidated community
contribution part (10 percent of subproject cost) on a pro-rata basis, for the first time in the FY
2006­07 accounts. The statutory auditor disallowed these expenses to the tune of $10 million for
that fiscal year, stating that they were not actual expenses. These claims were later recertified by
the auditor upon submission of the actual figures by the client in 2008.

6.    But the process of reflection of community contributions on a pro-rata basis in the district
accounts continued in FY 2007­08 as well. After continuing discussions with the auditor in 2008
on audit objections and the handling of community contributions, the client decided to stop
recording community contributions in the district accounts for the last quarter. The financial
statements for FY 2007­08 were submitted to the auditor, with community contributions shown
in three quarters on a pro-rata basis and without it in the last quarter. To this effect, notes were

                                                 37
not included in the financial statements. As in 2006­07, the auditor disallowed the community
contribution provision and certified the other eligible expenses. Such an audit report was
submitted to the Bank, but was not accepted by the Bank, which stated that this was a material
change that affected the within-year consistency of accounts. The Bank's advice to the client was
to either include community contributions for the whole year or remove them completely, with
the disclosure clause added accordingly, and to get the financial statements recertified with the
auditor.

7.    Due to the volume of work involved in compiling the actual village expenditure and in
balancing figures at the district level, the client expressed its inability to reflect these figures in
the district accounts of FY 2007­08, by the target date for submitting the financial statements
(May 15, 2008), which meant the auditor would not be able to complete the work in time.
Therefore, the client did not show these figures for the entire FY 2007­08, and followed the
same process for FY 2008­09 as well. The Bank and the client agreed that at the time of final
claims, the community contribution portion could be reconciled.

8.   In the above process, the recertification of the FY 2007­08 audit report by the auditor, its
resubmission, and the acceptance by the Bank took time. The project went into suspension of
disbursements against SOEs under OP/BP 10.02 in February 2009, which was lifted only in
November 2009. The pending claims could be settled only during the four-months grace period
given for the submission of claims after the project closure in September 2009.

9.     As can be seen from the case above, the discovery of partial claims by the client (against
full eligibility of 90 percent against subproject costs, the treatment of community contribution at
the district level, its reflection in the district accounts, and so on) could have been better
addressed had there been clarity both on the part of the Bank and the client from the beginning.

Procurement

10. Although the Community Operations Manual (COM) contained details of procurement
procedures, it soon became evident that these were too complex to easily adapt to the reality on
the ground. For example, factors such as an insufficient number of suppliers and contractors in
remote areas, the unwillingness of available suppliers to give quotes for the relatively long
holding period of 30 days before VWSCs could make decisions, and the suppliers' demands to
be paid "in cash" immediately for the delivery of goods affected compliance with Bank
procedures. The Bank's requirement of a report compiling annual procurement information from
all villages remained unfulfilled or delayed in most cases. Similarly, some of the Bank's review
requirements remained unfulfilled because of a lack of fully accredited procurement staff at the
state level and designated procurement specialists at the district level. In addition, the Bank's
procurement procedures were different from those of the GoM, which were more widely used at
the local level, adding to the general confusion. It was only in September 2006 that a revised and
simplified procurement manual for the communities was prepared; the much-needed training of
procurement staff materialized only later, during project implementation. The Bank did provide
training workshops on some occasions, but the project could not derive the intended benefit due
to a lack of experienced procurement staff, particularly at the district level. The much-needed
procurement specialist to the RSPMU could be mobilized only toward the end of the project,
along with the coordinators for procurement and FM at the district level. For a significant part of

                                                  38
the project implementation, the project's procurement function at the RSPMU level was
overseen by the accounts coordinator, juggling work on the FM side. The implementing agency
also did not fully realize the importance of procurement in the effective delivery of outputs until
late in project implementation.




                                                39
                           Annex 4. Economic and financial analysis
                             (including assumptions in the analysis)

Socioeconomic and financial analysis
Jalswarajya, which literally means "water self-governance," was launched in Maharashtra by the
World Bank in 2003; credit closure occured in September 2009. The project aimed at improving
rural households' access to better and sustainable drinking water-supply and sanitation services,
and institutionalizing decentralization of WSS service delivery to rural local governments and
communities. This analysis attempted to arrive at a socioeconomic and financial return on the
project. At credit closure, the project covered 3,021 GPs from 26 districts with a total population
of about 6.7 million (1.16 million households).

Summary of economic returns of the project
Based on the economic analysis carried out for the project at credit closure, the economic
benefits from Jalswarajya have been mapped for the next 15 years. The project has demonstrated
the direct benefits of improving access to water and sanitation to rural communities and the
consequent reduction in costs/time including the cost of illnesses borne by community members.
The income of rural women has also been increasing through the credit support program taken
up under the project. Also, for the government there was a reduction in the capital cost and
removal of subsidies on O&M for the project villages.

Based on these key benefits, at a project cost of $286 million, the ERR for the project at credit
closing was calculated at 23.22 percent. The NPV of the project (at an assumed discount rate of
12.5 percent) was calculated at INR 7,594 million ($165.1 million). This compared well with a
similar analysis done at the time of project conceptualization. The design cost of the project at
that time was $268 million, projected ERR was 19.85 percent, and the NPV of projected costs
and benefits was $89 million. For a project with such far-reaching and intangible impacts, the
actual scale of benefits was far beyond the financially computed return.

                                              Estimated at project    Estimated at credit
                                                  design stage             closure
Project cost (US$ million)                            268                    286
ERR (%)                                              19.85                  23.22
NPV
INR million                                           4,460                7,594.4
US$ million                                             89                  165.1
Exchange rate (US$ to INR )                             50                   46

Detailed analysis
Overall project statistics upon credit closure (September 30, 2009)
 Number of districts                                                                  26
 Number of GPs                                                                     3,021
 Major tribal districts                                                               11
 Minor tribal districts                                                                6
 Tribal GPs                                                                          626
 Total population                                                              67,00,000

                                                 40
 Average size of household                                                           5.8
 Total number of households in the project                                    11,62,606
 Tribal population                                                            16,46,000
 Tribal households                                                             2,28,236
 Average size of tribal household                                                      7
 Water supply completion rate in GPs                                               76%
 Water supply completion rate targeted (by September 2010)                        100%
 Water supply post project completion (lpcd)                                          40
 Water supply at the time of project start (lpcd)                                    27
 Number of women in project SHGs                                                739,626
 Number of women engaged in IGS                                                  28,851
 Average income per day (INR)                                                         50
Source: Internal data from Jalswarajya team.

Components of financial and economic analysis

Project cost. The total project cost estimated at Credit closure was $268 million. At an exchange
rate of INR 46 per dollar, the total investment into the project is INR 13,160 million. The cost
from 2004 to 2010 was apportioned at 1.8 percent, 13.7 percent, 34.7 percent, 23.9 percent, 8.1
percent, 10.8 percent, and 6.9 percent for each project year, respectively. The expenditure made
before 2004 was insignificant, and was therefore added to 2004.

For the analysis, it was assumed that the GoM would complete the entire project by September
30, 2010, and the full targets and benefits would reach all targeted beneficiaries. Therefore, in
the analysis, the total costs that would be spent by the GoM by project closure ($286 million)
have been used. The benefits as assessed at credit closure (September 30, 2009) have been
projected for future years.

Benefits from the project. Social projects are driven by various tangible and intangible benefits
that accrue to the recipient society over the years of project sustenance. Jalswarajya has played a
key role in triggering several direct and indirect, tangible and intangible benefits to the
households in the project area. Improvement in WSS facilities has resulted in time saved by
households who had to go some distance to collect water; health benefits from drinking better
and safer water, reduction in capital and O&M expenses; time saved by not going to open areas
for defecation; better health of the entire community due to reduction in open defecation, and
reduction in the incidence of malaria, diarrhea, and typhoid. The project also focused on
community participation in the delivery of services and women empowerment through extensive
IEC and release of seed money for ventures through WEFs. These benefits have been used in the
analysis. The analysis is available in project files.

In addition, there are other intangible benefits such as induced behavioral changes both in the
rural community and particularly among women through their increased participation in decision
making at the village level, which have also been discussed below.

Basis of analysis. The following section discusses the basis used in the analysis against each
benefit referred to in paragraph 2 above.




                                                 41
     a.   Time saved by households in the collection of water. Though water in most rural
          households is collected by women, this analysis has not been done for time saved by men
          and women separately, but is focused on time saved for individuals collectively in the dry
          and rainy seasons. The percentage of time saved in various activities is assumed based on
          the Handbook for the Economic Analysis of Water Supply, Chapter 6, Asian
          Development Bank, 1997.

            i. Benefits in the dry season. On average, time saved by an individual either by way of
               access to house connection or a public shared connection is about 1646 minutes per
               day. This results from a reduction in commuting time to and waiting time at the
               nearest water source before the implementation of the Jalswarajya in their GP. This
               is discounted for the actual time put to economic use out of the total time saved and
               multiplied by the minimum per day wage rate for agricultural labor in Maharashtra
               as per Schedule of Rates provided by the Public Works Department.

           ii. Benefits in the rainy season. Time saved during the rainy season is lower, on
               average, by about 7 minutes per person per day. The remaining formula for
               computing value of benefits remains the same.

     b.   Incremental water. Water supply in Jalswarajya GPs before the start of the project was
          estimated to be about 27 lpcd.47 The project design is for the delivery of 40 lpcd for the
          projected population for the next 15 years. The existing population is benefiting from the
          increased water supply at design capacity. By credit closing, incremental water supply
          was benefiting 76 percent of the project GPs48 at an average cost of INR 1,043 per capita
          in 2009. It is assumed that by full completion of the project by the GoM by September
          30, 2010, benefits of incremental water supply will reach 100 percent of the population of
          the targeted GPs. This is being considered as a one-time benefit.

     c.   Savings in O&M (power, water, maintenance) costs. One of the achievements of
          Jalswarajya has been the full cost recovery for O&M including provision for depreciation
          with minimum average levels of six months of tariffs in O&M accounts, with tariffs
          ranging from $7.8 to $26 (tariff data from RSPMU). As per a study done by World Bank
          in June 2008, the "Review of Effectiveness of Rural Water Supply Schemes in India," if
          the "cost of water in demand-driven schemes is brought down compared to that of the
          supply-driven schemes; there would be savings of resources of about INR 10 per KL". In
          Jalswarajya villages, at a consumption level of 40 lpcd, the savings in O&M per
          household per month (because of demand-driven schemes) is INR 69.1 per month per
          household due to the improved efficiency of operations.

     d.   Capital costs saved. Another achievement of Jalswarajya has been the competitive per
          capita costs achieved for implementing water-supply schemes at $23 (INR 46=$1), which
          includes the cost of physical infrastructure. This is less than the prevailing norms in the

46
   Data from RSPMU
47
   Descriptive Statistics of Heath Outcomes: Of Taps and Toilets: Evaluating Community-Demand-Driven Projects
in Rural India, 2009.
48
   Data from RSPMU

                                                     42
          state, ranging from $46 in non-Konkan region and $51 in the Konkan region. This
          translates to a per capita capital cost saving of INR 1,188 (INR 1,043 in Jalswarajya
          schemes as compared to INR 2,116­2,346 in other schemes, resulting in a saving of INR
          1,188 per capita). The benefit has been derived by multiplying a one-time savings in
          project execution cost to 76 percent (WSS completion rate in GPs by credit closure49) in
          2009 and the balance 24 percent in 2010. INR 1,043 is the average capital cost per capita
          across all 26 districts under Jalswarajya. District-level per capita capital cost data are also
          available at the RSPMU. It is evident that scheme execution has been done in a cost-
          effective and efficient manner under Jalswarajya.

     e.   Reduction in household coping costs due to better WSS. As against 61 percent
          households with access to better water supply in 2005, 74 percent reported the same in
          2007.50This resulted in a reduction of monthly coping costs of households from INR
          1,064 to INR 562. The benefit has been calculated for 13 percent (74 percent minus 61
          percent) households in Jalswarajya.

     f.   Value of time saved by using private and public toilets. On average, a person took 8.1
          minutes51 (0.13 hours) to go to a community sanitation site before project
          implementation. Use of private toilets reduces this time to almost zero and about 7.5
          minutes are saved per trip. This, discounted for the actual time put to economic use out of
          the total time saved52 and multiplied by the per hour wage rate as given in the Schedule
          of Rates, PWD, gives the benefits accruing from the use of private toilets. Households
          using sanitation facilities have increased from 19 percent to 77 percent; 75 percent of the
          increased households with access to toilets are assumed to be using private toilets after
          project completion, while the remaining 25 percent use public toilets. Use of public
          toilets reduces time to 6.1 minutes and hence 1.5 minutes (0.025 hours) are saved per trip.
          On average, five trips to the sanitation site are assumed per day.

     g.   Reduction in household cost of illness, such as diarrhea. As against 27 percent of
          households reporting at least one case of diarrhea in 2005, only 22 percent reported the
          same in 2007.53 During this period, the household cost of illness due to diarrhea came
          down from INR 391 to INR 289.54 The benefit has been calculated for 5 percent of the
          households in Jalswarajya.

     h.   Women empowerment and income multiplier through credit support. Seed money of
          INR 206 million55 has been given to WEFs (run by women SHGs) being on-lent to needy

49
   Data from RSPMU
50
   Descriptive Statistics of Heath Outcomes: Of Taps and Toilets: Evaluating Community-Demand-Driven Projects
in Rural India, 2009.
51
   Descriptive Statistics of Heath Outcomes: Of Taps and Toilets: Evaluating Community-Demand-Driven Projects
in Rural India, 2009.
52
   As referred in item 3 (a).
53
   Descriptive Statistics of Heath Outcomes: Of Taps and Toilets: Evaluating Community-Demand-Driven Projects
in Rural India, 2009.
54
   Descriptive Statistics of Heath Outcomes: Of Taps and Toilets: Evaluating Community-Demand-Driven Projects
in Rural India, 2009.
55
   RSPMU data.

                                                     43
     women to set up their own ventures and gain financial independence. An average return
     of 15 percent has been assumed on this seed money on a year-to-year basis. Additionally,
     there are 49,308 SHGs in the project GPs, which include 739,626 women of whom
     28,851 are engaged in IGSs. Field experience shows that these women earn on average
     about INR 40­60/day (around $1­1.5) from IGSs, assuming they are gainfully employed
     for 250 days/year.

i.   Benefits of communication and capacity building. The program supports IEC specialists
     in various locations who take on KM, capacity building, and sharing of best practices as
     their key areas of work. In its last year, the program got free media coverage due to the
     relationships and goodwill of these IEC specialists. This coverage was very useful in
     spreading best practices and knowledge across GPs. On a paid basis, the media coverage
     would have cost at least INR 10 million. This is conservative because the economic
     benefits of knowledge dispersion are intangible. The GoM is planning to continue similar
     institutional arrangements in future across the districts, and it is assumed that similar
     benefits will accrue in future as well.

j.   Other intangible benefits (not used in the analysis):

        i.   Tanker-free villages. It needs to be noted that out of 1,114 villages included in
             Jalswarajya that were tanker fed before the project started, 981 are now tanker
             free. Supply of water through tankers is slow, costly, and unsafe for the supplier
             and consumer. The economic benefit of this development is over and above the
             ERR stated in the analysis.

      ii.    Governance and accountability have been strengthened through the gram sabhas
             and social audits. Gram sabha attendance and meeting regularity have
             significantly improved.

      iii.   Participation of women in gram sabhas. Attendance of women in gram sabhas
             has risen from almost 0 to 53 percent. The project has empowered women to play
             a role (in village planning, implementing, and managing) that has gone far beyond
             WSS issues--it has laid the foundation for women's participation/empowerment
             in local governance systems and overall development activities. The indirect
             economic benefits of this change are over and above the ERR stated in the
             analysis.

      iv.    IEC and capacity building. Besides sharing best practices and building awareness
             among village communities, IEC is resulting in the active functioning of the
             VWSC committees, their willingness to contribute to the share of capital and
             O&M costs of WSS, and behavioral changes (to value water as a resource and
             avoid wastage, regularly hand wash, achieve 100 percent ODF, and so on) over a
             longer period of time, which will result in economic health benefits over the long
             run.




                                             44
         v.    61% percent of the project's GPs have also become ODF, due to the awareness-
               raising efforts of the project, backed by the intensive TSC adopted by the GoM
               across the state.

Other assumptions used for the analysis
Exchange rate $ to INR                                                 46
Population growth rate                                                 2%
GDP growth rate                                                        4%
Economic usage of time saved on various activities                     52%
Number of working hours in a day                                       8
Number of days a person is gainfully employed                          250
Minimum daily wage of an agricultural laborer in Maharashtra           INR 68
Annual increase in wages                                               2.98%
Cost per KL in supply-driven schemes                                   INR 36
Cost per KL in demand-driven schemes                                   INR 26
Return on investment on seed money provided by the WEF                 15%
Expected reduction in diarrheal morbidity due to improvement in WSS    37.5%
Man days lost due to diarrhea (direct)                                 2
Average expenditure per diarrheal ailment in Maharashtra               INR 163
Social discount rate for NPV workings                                  12.5%




                                                45
        Annex 5. Bank lending and implementation support/supervision processes

(a) Task team members
                                                                                 Responsibility/
       Names                              Title                        Unit
                                                                                   specialty
Lending
Meena Munshi           Sr. Economist                                 SASDA              TTL
R. R. Mohan            Sr. Social Development Specialist             SASDI           Co-TTL
Vivek Srivastava       Sr. Public Sector Specialist                  AFTPR    Institutions Specialist
Smita Misra            Sr. Economist                                 SASDU     Economic Analysis
P. C. Mohan            Lead IEC Specialist                           AFTRL              IEC
Manvinder Mamak        Sr. Financial Management Specialist           SARFM              FM
M. Balachandran        Financial Management Specialist               SDNCA              FM
Kiran R Baral          Sr. Procurement Officer                       SARPS         Procurement
R. S. Pathak           Sr. Irrigation Engineer                       SASDA      Water Resources
Rachel Beth Kaufmann   Health Specialist                             SASEI       Health Aspects
Parmesh Shah           Lead Rural Development Specialist             SASDA             CDD
N. V. V. Raghava       Sr. Infrastructure Specialist                 SASDU         Engineering
S. Satish              Sr. Social Development Specialist             SASDI        Tribal Aspects
N. R. Tankhiwale       Consultant                                    SASDU         Groundwater
R. Soopramanien        Council                                       LEGMS             Legal
Priti Kumar            Sr. Environmental Specialist                  SASDI         Environment
Barbara Verardo        Sr. Rural Development Specialist              SASDA    Social Anthropologist
Ghazali Raheem         Consultant                                    SASDA       Implementation
Ramesh Deshpande       Consultant                                    SASDA       Implementation
Vijaylakshmi Das       Consultant                                    SASDA            Gender
Jacqueline Julian      Sr. Program Assistant                         SASDA      Costab Specialist
Sujata Pradhan         Program Assistant                             SASDU       Project Support
Theodosaias Karmiris   Program Assistant                             SASDA       Project Support

Supervision
Meena Munshi           Sr. Economist                                  SASDA      TTL (till 2005)
N. V. V. Raghava       Sr. Infrastructure Specialist                  SASDU     TTL (Sep.2005)
R.R. Mohan             Social Development Specialist                  SASDI         Co-TTL
Rosanna Nitti          Economist                                      SASDU        TTL ICR
Parmesh Shah           Lead Rural Development Specialist              SASDA          CDD
Priya Goel             Sr. Financial Management Specialist            SARFM            FM
Asha Bhagat            Financial Management Consultant                SARFM            FM
J. V. R. Murthy        Water Institutions Development Specialist      ETWSA     Water Institutions
Ranjan Samantaray      Sr. Natural Resources Management Specialist    SASDA       Environment
Priti Kumar            Sr. Environmental Specialist                   SASDI       Environment
Sanjay Pahuja          Sr. Water Resources Specialist                 SASDI       Groundwater
P. C. Mohan            Lead IEC Specialist                            AFTRL           IEC
G. V. Abhyankar        Consultant                                     SASDU       Engineering
Moho Chaturvedi        Environment Consultant                         SASDI       Environment
Asit Nema              Sanitation Consultant                          SASDU        Sanitation


                                                  46
Manmohan Bajaj            Sr. Procurement Specialist                    SARPS         Procurement
D. M. Mohan               Engineering Consultant                        SASDU         Engineering
N. R. Tankhiwale          Groundwater Consultant                        SASDU         Groundwater
Shivendar Kumar           Procurement Consultant                        SARPS         Procurement
Geeta Shivdasani          Program Assistant                             SARPS         Procurement
Puneet Kapoor             Financial Management Consultant               SARFM              FM
Hemant Chadha             Financial Management Consultant               SARFM              FM
Kaushik Mehta             Financial Management Consultant               SARFM              FM
Ramola Bhuyan             Financial Management Specialist               SARFM              FM
Neha Dhoundiyal           Financial Management Specialist               SARFM              FM
D. K. Baxi                Sr. Procurement Specialist                    SARPS         Procurement
Manvinder Mamak           Sr. Financial Management Specialist           SARFM           Financial
Vidya Mahesh              Program Assistant                             SASDU        Project Support
Lilian Macarthur          Program Assistant                             SASDU        Project Support

ICR
Richard James        Operations Consultant                              SASDU        Primary Author
Michael John Webster Senior Water Supply and Sanitation Specialist      ECSS6        Peer Reviewer
Mohammad Benouahi Consultant                                            MNSSD        Peer Reviewer

(b) Staff time and cost
                                                    Staff time and cost (Bank budget only)
Stage of project cycle                                                     US$ thousands (including
                                               No. of staff weeks
                                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                                2                              7.94
  FY02                                               45                            193.45
  FY03                                              101                            425.91
  FY04                                               11                             41.18
  FY05                                                                               0.00
  FY06                                                                               0.00
  FY07                                                                               0.00
  FY08                                                                               0.00
                                  Total:            159                            668.48
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                                                               0.00
  FY02                                                                               0.00
  FY03                                                                               0.00
  FY04                                               32                            111.63
  FY05                                               33                            112.45
  FY06                                               32                             81.00
  FY07                                               31                             84.90
  FY08                                               26                            103.37
  FY09                                               32                              0.00
                                  Total:            186                            493.35



                                                   47
                              Annex 6. Beneficiary survey results

As part of the beneficiary assessments at credit closure, the RSPMU conducted beneficiary
surveys to gauge the level of the project's benefits and impacts. Overall, the assessments
concluded that the project's benefits were reaching the community and that the community has
accepted the project model positively. These assessments have also raised issues to be considered
by the GoM in its future programs/policies, in terms of increased support of GPs in O&M
capacity building and in ensuring sustainability of institutional arrangements (that is, VWSCs'
increased monitoring role and backup support from districts). This annex presents the results of
these surveys. The assessments conducted by the RSPMU are:

   1. Sustainability evaluation through community participation (August 2009)
   2. Intervillage community monitoring (August­December 2009)

1. Sustainability evaluation

The SEE was conducted in August 2009 to assess the likelihood of the sustainability of schemes
built under the project. The parameters covered for this evaluation were (i) source sustainability,
(ii) functioning of water-supply schemes (technical), (iii) financial sustainability, and (iv)
institutional sustainability. A total of 156 GPs--6 in each district--that are in the O&M phase
for more than 6 months were selected.

A team comprising one person each from the social, technical, and accounting skills teams was
selected from among the district team members. The team was selected by the respective heads
of the RSPMU, based on their knowledge of the field and their proven ability to carry out such
assessments. Initial orientation programs were carried out for the district teams. About 11
parameters (see attachment-1) were to be judged on a scale from 1 to 5 by each group as they
visited the GPs. Various sub parameters and formats were developed by the RSPMU to guide the
evaluation teams.

Process used. The assessment was conducted using the following process:

 1. Assessment was done during the regular water-supply cycles in the GPs, without altering or
    modifying them.

 2. Assessment was done following the participatory approach by involving the committee
    members and the community. The regional facilitators (RFs) and district team leaders
    attended the process at the GP level and monitored the process.

 3. Initially a transect walk was conducted on day one to know the scheme and its components,
    plan for observations under the supply cycle, and collect basic information on the GP
    regarding technical, financial, and record-related issues.


 4. A second transect walk was conducted with the community during the actual supply cycle
    to observe the distribution pattern, disinfection arrangements, quantity of water supply,
    equity in distribution, supply pressure, and so on.

                                                48
 5. Finally, in a village gathering, votes by raising hands were given on a scale of 1­5 for
    various parameters selected and the actual situation observed.

 6. The results were shared in a wrap-up meeting with the community to highlight the required
    corrections to be carried out.

Summary of results

       The results are summarized as follows:

       Sustainability category                           No. of GPs            %
       Highly likely (>90% score)                            26               16.7
       Likely (70­90% score)                                115               73.7
       Uncertain (50­70% score)                              13                8.3
       Unlikely (<50% score)                                  2                1.2

       In terms of specific parameters: source sustainability is 92 percent, functioning of water-
       supply schemes 87 percent, financial sustainability 60 percent, and institutional
       sustainability 69 percent. As can be seen, financial and institutional sustainability has to
       be focused by ensuring adequate support at the VWSC level and by regular and ongoing
       capacity building, which has to be taken care of by the GoM as part of its sustainability
       improvement measures.

Key lessons

The assessment reconfirmed that the following issues must be addressed by the GoM in order to
better support GPs and thus improve sustainability after project closure.

       a. For sustainability, water tax charges should be according to O&M expenditure, which
          needs to be revised from time to time. Special efforts are required for inculcating the
          habit of the rational water tariff setting by the committees in general and the GPs in
          particular. Proper documentation of water tax collection and expenditure is required.

       b. To make the scheme more sustainable, facilitation and training on the O&M aspect is
          required and regular reminders will be required post project for at least 6 months.

       c. Specific intervention is required on the aspects of judicious use of water. Adequate
          water supply promotes sustainable use of individual toilets by villagers.

       d. In terms of institutional sustainability, regular community monitoring is a must for
          sustainability. The VWSC should have adequate capacity for such monitoring. A
          greater involvement of women in such monitoring and O&M would also enhance
          sustainability. The SHG movement under the project has promoted good habits in
          coordination, cooperation, and participation, which is leading to the development of
          professional views among female members.



                                                49
2. Community monitoring

The project undertook an intervillage community-monitoring exercise between August and
December 2009, covering 60 GPs in all 26 districts. This was a first-of-its-kind exercise in any of
the Bank-supported RWSS projects in India, wherein the community from one village visited
another village to observe its services, systems, and institutions.

The objective was to develop a forum for sharing lessons across villages.

Process used

The exercise was done in GPs in which the systems were functioning for more than one year.
Out of 60 GPs selected, about 43 had exited from the project. The visiting community group
included the chairman/secretary of the VWSC, head/secretary of the GP, chairman of the WDC,
the water operator, and SHG members. The exercise was facilitated by the district teams. The
format of monitoring included focused group discussions, interviews of villagers, site visits, and
desk reviews (attachment-2 presents the format used).

Results

The exercise concluded that: (i) almost all GPs (99 percent) were satisfied with the improved
service levels; (ii) 90 percent of the sources were sustainable during the summer season; (iii)
schemes in 96 percent of the GPs were functioning on the day of the visit; (iv) in 61 percent of
GPs, women were involved in O&M activities; (v) in all GPs tariffs were being collected, and
separate O&M accounts were being maintained in 93 percent of the GPs; (vi) 81 percent of the
GPs collected O&M funds more than the required expenditure; and (vii) in all GPs chlorination
was satisfactorily functioning, but in 15 percent cases, record maintenance had to improve.
Regarding sanitation, in 54 percent of GPs, 100 percent of households had access to toilets. In
terms of impacts: (i) in about 76 percent of cases, GPs reported a reduction in waterborne
diseases; (ii) on average there was a time savings of 1­5 hours in the collection of water; and (iii)
people could now avoid traveling to far-off sources (0.5­5 km) due to improved sources
available nearer to their habitations.
Specific results of this exercise are the following:
Sl.    Parameter measured                                               Yes   No    Remarks
No                                                                       %     %
                                                                        GPs   GPs
1      Has any source-strengthening measure been implemented?           57    43
2      Did the source go dry during the last summer?                    10    90
3      Whether the scheme is functioning satisfactorily on the day of   97    3     Proxy indicator
       visit?                                                                       of sustainability
4      Whether water supplied from the scheme is sufficient?            98     2
5      Whether the community is involved in monitoring of               88    12    Need to improve
       disinfection/chlorination?

6      Whether women are involved in O&M activities (for example,       60    40    Can improve
       any one--disinfection, proper use of hand pumps, timely                      further for
       collection of O&M charges, and so on)                                        sustainability

                                                  50
7     Whether a tariff collection system exists?                      100   0
8     Does the VWSC maintain O&M account books?                        93   7    Handholding
                                                                                 shall be done for
                                                                                 the remaining
                                                                                 3%
9     Whether a regular person is appointed for O&M?                  95     5
10    Whether water tax collection is more than O&M expenditure       82    18
      including power charges?
11    What is the situation of waterborne diseases before and after   77    23   Need to focus
      Jalswarajya project? Whether it has improved?                              IEC and hygiene
                                                                                 improvement

Other measures
      Parameters
1     What is the percentage of collection of O&M charges in the Upto 100% collection--38%
      last six months?                                           GPs
                                                                 50­80% collection--35% GPs
                                                                 <50% collection--27% GPs

2     What is the percentage of household connections?             Upto 50% households
      Less than 50%, up to 80%, 100%                               connected--20% GPs
                                                                   50­80% connected--60% GPs
                                                                   100% connected--20% GPs
3     Is there any system for chlorination and are records being Yes--85%
      maintained?                                                  Exists, but records not
                                                                   maintained--15%
4     How many households are having toilet facilities in village? 55% GPs have 100% household
                                                                   coverage with toilets; others
                                                                   catching up
5     How much distance is traveled by women for drinking water 15% GPs saved up to 0.5 km
      before the Jalswarajya Project (which is now saved)?         47% GPs saved 0.5­1.5 km
                                                                   38% GPs saved > 1.5 km
6     How much time women can save due to Jalswarajya (because Regions
      of water availability)?                                      Amrawati--2 to 3 hours
                                                                   Kokan--1 to 4 hours
                                                                   Aurangabad--1 to 5 hours
                                                                   Nashik--1 to 5 hours
                                                                   Nagpur--1 to 4 hours




                                                51
                                                                                     Attachment 1

Sustainability assessment format

Name of scheme/habitation/village:              _____________________
Name of GP:                                     _____________________
Name of taluka/district:                        _____________________
Date commissioning of water:
Supply scheme:                                  _____________________
Date of visit:                                  _____________________
Name of district team leader:                   _____________________
Name of VWSC president:                         _____________________

Scoring criteria:

Always = 5; > 90 percent of the days = 4; between 70­90 percent days = 3; between 50­70
percent days = 2; less than 50 percent of the days = 1

Parameter score on a scale 1­5 (poor to best)
Sl.     Parameter                                                                            Score
No.
        Source sustainability
1       Is water source delivering as per design capacity since commissioning of the WSS
        scheme?
2       Are all system components working satisfactorily--pumping station, overhead tank,
        distribution system, and so on?
3       Is water supply provided every day for at least 2 hrs?
4       Do all group/house connections covered by the scheme receive water every day?
        Water-supply system functioning
5       Do schedule caste households receive water supply every day through group or house
        connections?
6       Are distribution pressures adequate--especially at the tail end?
7       Is the disinfection system functioning?
8       Has the quantity of water supply per household increased after Jalswarajya?
        Financial sustainability
9       O&M expenses fully met from user charges only? (excluding 6-month advance
        deposit). Are project funds never used for meeting O&M expenditure?
10      Are people regularly paying water bills?
        Institutional sustainability
11      VWSC is functional and effective?

Sustainability assessment: Highly likely = > 90 percent; likely = 70­90 percent; uncertain = 50­70
percent; and unlikely = < 50 percent.




                                                  52
                                                                                     Attachment 2

Community monitoring format
Sr.   Indicators                                              Methodology           Remark
No.
1     Has any source strengthening measure been               Transit walk
      implemented?
2     Did the source go dry during the last summer?           Discussion with the
                                                              VWSC
3     Whether the scheme is functioning satisfactorily on     Transit walk
      the day of visit?
4     Whether water supplied from the scheme is sufficient?   Discussion with the   Individual household
                                                              VWSC and              taps should be
                                                              beneficiaries         observed
5     Whether the community is involved in monitoring of      Discussion with the
      disinfection/chlorination?                              VWSC
6     Whether women are involved in O&M activities (for       Discussion with the
      example, any one of disinfection, proper use of hand    VWSC and WDC
      pumps, timely collection of O&M charges, and so
      on)?
7     Whether a tariff-collection system exists?              Registers             Check the registers
                                                                                    and O&M receipts
8     Does the VWSC maintain O&M account books?               Registers
9     Whether a regular person is appointed for O&M?          Registers
10    What is the percentage of collection of O&M charges     Registers             50%, 75%, or more?
      in the last six months?
11    Whether water tax collection is more than O&M           Registers
      expenditure including power charges?
12    What is the percentage of household connections?        Registers             Verify household
      Less than 50%, up to 80%, 100%.                                               connections
13    Is there any system for chlorination and whether        Registers
      records are maintained?
14    How many households are having toilet facilities in
      the village?
15    How much is the fund balance in the O&M bank            Registers
      account?
16    How much distance is traveled by women for              Registers and         Direct discussion
      collecting drinking water before the Jalswarajya        interview             with women
      Project (which is now saved)?
17    How much time women can save due to Jalswarajya         Interview             Direct discussion
      (because of water availability)?                                              with women
18    What is the situation of waterborne diseases before     Registers and group   Review records of
      and after Jalswarajya project?                          discussions           aanganwadis and
                                                                                    public health centres




                                               53
Annex 7. Stakeholder workshop report and results
                    (if any)
                 Not Applicable




                      54
            Annex 8. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

                        Part A: Project Evaluation Report from the GoM

             Maharashtra Rural Water Supply & Sanitation Project (Jalswarajya)

Project Details
Name of the Project    : INDIA: Maharashtra Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Project (Jalswarajya)
Project ID             : P073369,       Area of Operation : 26 Rural districts of Maharashtra
Project Implementation Period: 2003-2009

Project Finance Data
Project Outlay:   IDA ­US $181 Mn, GoM-US$ 73.60 Mn, Beneficieries ­ US$ 14.00 Mn
Terms: Standard Credit, Grace Period: Nil

1.      Consolidated Physical Achievement end of September 2009

Demography
     No. of Districts                                                       26
     No. of GPs                                                             3021
     No. of Villages                                                        4391
     Habitations                                                            5120
     Population                                                             8,846,000
     Households                                                             11,62,606

Water Supply (The figures show the progress achieved by Sept 2009)
     Existing Dug Wells rejuvenated                                         1483 / 1745
     Only Dug Wells as the Access Point                                     739 / 786
     New Dug Wells with Piped Water Supply                                  2248 / 2277
     Bore Well with Handpump as the Access Point                            1798 / 1806
     Bore/ Tube Well with Power pump for Mini Piped Water Supply            357 / 360
     Storage Created (New ESRs & GSRs )                                     2979 / 3319
     Water Quality affected habitations tackled                             396 / 547
     Slipped Back & Not Covered habitations tackled                         976 / 1560
     Source Strengthening Measures                                          2638 / 2731
     Individual Household connections 62%                                   720815 / 1162606
     Water Supply started GPs                                               2298 / 3021

Sanitation
     Gutters                                                                1538 / 1843
     Soak pits                                                              651 / 803
     Compost Pits                                                           333 / 390
     Sanitary Complex                                                       26 / 28
     ODF GPs                                                                1848 / 3021




                                                 55
Other Components
   Aqifer Pilot
   No. of Aquifers                                                           3
   Area                                                                      433.6 Km2
   Soil Conservation Works                                                   10%
   Percolation Works                                                         10%
   Direct Recharge Works                                                     80%
   Total No. of Works                                                        261 / 937
   PC Collection                                                             96%
   Additional Storage                                                        475 Ham
   Additional Irrigation Potential                                           3900 Ha
   GP Incentive Fund
   No of GPs prepared draft Village Development Plan (VDP)                   62
   No of GPs of which VDPs approved by the District Committee                32
   NO of GPs started documentation                                           26
   No of GPs started income generation                                       26
   Tribal Development
   Sanitation & Hygiène Promotion Centres (SHPC)                             414


Cost Analysis
   (A) Total Project Costs                                                  $ 286.10 Million
    (B) Cost of water Supply and Sanitation                                 $216.23Million
   % of B to A                                                              75.58 %
   Project Population                                                       8.846 Million
   Per Capita Cost                                                          $24.44
   Cost of Community Development, pilots and project Management             $69.87 Million

Project Cost by Component
      Component             Original Allocation        Actual           Reasons for variation
                            in %                       Expenditure in
                                                       %
  A   Community             70.55                      85.70            No of VPs increased from
      Development and                                                   2800 to 3021. Project
      Infrastructure                                                    population increased from
                                                                        5.6 million to 8.85 million
  B   Institutional         19.32                      10.04            The reduction in costs is due
      Strengthening                                                     to reduced project
                                                                        management costs, effective
                                                                        IEC and capacity building
                                                                        with lesser costs, in- house
                                                                        MIS system resulting in
                                                                        savings.
  C   Sector Development    1.63                       0.24             State Water Quality
                                                                        Analysis with lesser costs
                                                                        dropping of some of the
                                                                        activities during
                                                                        implementation resulting in
                                                                        lower costs

                                                  56
     D   Pilots                  4.70                   2.02             Dropping of two pilots and
                                                                         reducing the size of the
                                                                         pilots due to complexity and
                                                                         pressures of timely
                                                                         completion of the project.
     E   Un Allocated            3.80                   2.00

2.       Development Objectives

         Achievements on Development Objectives

         a)       Outcomes:

                  i % of GPs with more than 33% women representation in leadership position in all
                    village committees (indicates women empowerment) ­ 89%.

                  ii % GPs wherever the scheme is functional, there the O&M is fully financed
                     through tariff contribution by community ­ 98%.

                   The biggest outcome of this whole project has been the lesson that water supply is
                   no more a mere `dry' and technical thing. In fact it is much more than the
                   estimates and the MB recording. For the first time the engineers learnt the
                   importance of having dialogue with the community. Putting belief in the
                   community at the same time maintaining a strict quality check was not an easy
                   job, however the way project has unfolded it has established the fact that rural
                   water supply is more a `social engineering' than civil engineering.

         b)       Outputs:

                 i. 874,000 households gained access to safe drinking water (this covers a
                    population of 6,700,000 people) ­ 1,646,000 tribal people covered under the
                    project
                ii. Sustainability Audit shows that the probable sustainability of the Project is above
                    80%
              iii. 3219 (out of 3908) Piped Water Supply schemes operational
               iv. Overall in 2298 GPs (out of 3021) where water supply facilities operational
                    (76%)
                v. 1848 GPs (out of 3021) fully Open Defecation Free including 346 Tribal GPs
               vi. 1159 GPs received Nirmal Gram Puraskar form Govt. of India
              vii. Sanitation Coverage - 991,000 (out of 1,162,606 HH) households

3.       Other Key Project achievements

              Aquifer Pilot ­ Institutionalization of groundwater management in 3 Aquifers has
              created a way forward for implementation of Aquifer based source protection. People
              have completely removed water guzzling crops like sugarcane, grapes etc. Water
              availability is monitored continuously & usage is planned in the peoples' meetings.


                                                   57
   M&E System ­ A comprehensive M&E system developed in house is able to provide
   data required for day to day monitoring. One can get idea of any particular work in a
   GP instantly. Various reports generated from online data have been found very useful.
   Unique review formats are available online and the system saves a lot of time and
   man power required for collection of data.
   Sanitary Napkin ­ In Jalswarajya beyond the project target innovative activity of
   manufacturing sanitary napkin carried out. The brand name of Nirmal Sanitary
   Napkin is established. This product manufactured by rural women for the rural
   women to get affordability & availability ate village level. State Government is
   looking forward to exempt vat of raw material & market linkage with Government
   institutions for sustainability of the project.
   Khambegaon Pattern - Khambegaon is one of ideal village in Jalswarajya which has
   taken up of operation & maintenance of water supply scheme as an income
   generation activity of SHG. Due to their smooth functioning of scheme and regular
   water tax collection State Government have decided to scale up the activity. Thus
   Government has issued GR in favor of SHG to create more and more Khambegaon
   Pattern in State.
   Sanitation & Hygiene Promotion Centers (SHPC) ­ To create an awareness in the
   tribal community on water supply and sanitation issues, the programme of developing
   SHPC in govt. tribal ashram schools has been taken as an entry point activity in 414
   Govt. Tribal Ashram Schools in 21 districts of Maharashtra; which consists,
   Swachhata doot (a Messenger on Sanitation & Hygiene) trainings to the students,
   teachers, staff & parents in 414 ashram schools (40 swachhata doots per ashram
   school = 16560 ) ; Drinking water supply facility in 230 ashram schools; Sanitation
   (new) facility in 154 ashram schools & Sanitation (repairs) facility in 173 ashram
   schools, which has been helpful for 1,46,627 tribal students in 414 govt. tribal ashram
   schools directly & the families of all those students indirectly.
   Development of Cadre of TSPs & SOs ­ Around 1000 TSPs & 400 SOs (NGOs)
   were engaged in implementation of Jalswarajya project. More than 15000 village
   motivators were trained and are serving the people.
   Cholrinator - Chlorinator is invented by Kikwari & Bhagurdi village of Nashik
   district; it is an easy tool which directly chlorinates water through the rising main pipe
   line. This is comparatively reduced the dangerous practice of man climbing on ESR.
   Other Jalswarajya villages are adopting this invention.
   Underground Gutter (Washim Pattern) - To enhance sanitation & environmental
   hygiene, washim district have started underground gutter system from which almost
   GPs were covered in district & thus became the washim patter for underground
   gutter. Underground waste water management play important role in personal &
   community health, project is replicating these activities.
   Ladder Railing - Innovative practices carried out in project to reduce the risk of
   waterman life. Almost in all GP's railing is done on the ladder.
   Roof Top Rain Water Harvesting - Looking at the non-maintenance of the similar
   projects, aquifer level water management          is demonstrating use of quality material
   in the project. To avoid any contamination to ground water a nine stage water filter is
   used. To avoid leakages a shaft is also used in the project for the sustainable
   development. This is replicated in almost entire mini watershed (in 9 villages / 12
   wadi) for the common cause.

                                        58
        Mobile Connection - A village of Mohomuk, Nashik District has adopted sprinkler
        system for individual connection which reduces 75% of amount for distribution
        system. Jalswarajya is promoting this low cost effective system to those villages who
        cannot afford individual connection this activity is running successfully in trial
        villages.
        Overflow Connected to Distribution - Generally in all WSS, ESR has two pipes one
        inlet & second outlet also small opening for over flow. In Jalswarajya project in all
        GP's overflow pipe is fitted from ESR & connected to the distribution pipe so as to
        use water by villagers in case of tank overflow.
        Earthquake Resistant Design - In Jalswarajya project all ESR are designed under
        earthquake resistance design. These designs are adopted according to earthquake
        zones. Disaster risk management is implemented in the project.
        Acrylic Colour for ESR - Generally normal paint was painted to ESR & pump house
        which gets off within a year leaving dark spots. In project acrylic colour is made
        compulsory to paint ESR & Pump house which gives beautiful appearance for 6-7
        years. All GP's adopted these practices.
        In Sindhudurg district, a unique idea has been evolved by the TSP and district team in
        which wss network of some adjoining habitation has been established and in case of
        failure of any one habitation wss, the same can be served by the adjoining habitation
        wss. This system can remove the inconvenience of habitant and administration
        worried for emergency arrangement
        All government schools under the project are covered with the toilet facilities with
        the help of GoI funded TSC programme
   Project Benefits and Beneficiaries

           Increase access to safe drinking water ­ WS started in 2294 (76%) GPs & 1848
           (61%) GPs achieved ODF status
           49291 Women SHGs are formed and 28340 Income Generation activities started.
           Community Participation achieved by organizing Gram Sabha (assembly of all
           voters of village through which there is a listening to the voices of the poor as
           Gram sabha is organized in free and fair manner.
           Average 53% Women attendance was recorded in Gram Sabha, which is
           unprecedented.
           Strengthening of PRIs at different level with more accountability and
           transparency.
           Better convergence of WATSAN development, health, tribal and secrtorial
           activities as the project has various components
           Improvement in health & hygiene awareness at all the level of stakeholders
           Informed decision making & increased ownership by community with their
           participation in various stages of the project and financial contribution.
           Project benefits have largely accrued to all the stake holders. Rural population
           especially women and tribal have immensely benefited. Water at the doorsteps
           has not only reduced drudgery and saved time but also has contributed
           significantly to other development parameters like reduction in the health
           expenses, increased school attendance especially of girl child. Involvement of
           women in the decision making process has been a welcome step and has helped in


                                            59
            removing/diluting the traditional gender roles. Apart from that the project has
            tremendously helped in raising the overall capacities of the government officers,
            contractual staff, SOs, TSPs, which will help GOM in a longer run.

4.   Institutional building and Project support

            GoM has given legal status to VWSCs by amending the existing Gram Panchayat
            Act.
            Decentralization of decision making is achieved in RWSS sector with emphasis
            on peoples' participation and sustainability.
            Various committees are formed at GP level and have a statutory status given by
            GoM
            Structured capacity building plans as per the phase of the Project ,for all
            stakeholders
            Large scale Capacity Building & IEC resulted in responsive community
            Women participation in decision making was assured by way of Women Gram
            Sabha preceding general Gram Sabha.
            Some existing provision like countersignature of district officials before making
            payments, issuing work orders etc. were removed before stating the project.
            No per capita cost norms were prescribed, which gave a greater freedom to the
            people while framing their projects through Gram Sabha
            Creation of separate bank account for the project enabled VWSC & WDC to carry
            out their activities independently
            In Project need based IEC activities were conceptualized and implemented in the
            village.
            The project helped in establishing VWSCs as the basic institution at the village
            level. GOM through amendment in the village panchayats act 1958 provided legal
            status to them. Apart from that creation of the dedicated teams at the district
            levels also facilitated the whole process. Now GOM is thinking to create similar
            dedicated teams at the district level WSSO for facilitating the processes in all
            rural water supply schemes.

5.   Bank's performance

     a) Lending: Bank finances were made available within short time intervals and in
        general there were no hiccups. Overall support received in this respect was
        Satisfactory.
     b) Supervision: Bank Missions visited the project twice a year and issued timely
        guidance. Overall support received in this respect was Satisfactory.
     c) Overall Performance of Bank Overall support extended was satisfactory barring the
        Procurement & Accounts issues. Procurement processes were not insisted rigorously
        initially. Bank insisted more upon compliance of remarks of Accountant General in
        the later stage, which was not the condition set at the beginning.
     d) In Finance Management Bank provided discrete and conflicting opinion on record of
        Beneficiary contribution, which resulted in suspension of Project disbursement.




                                           60
       e) Since Bank official have global experience project expected to provide cross learning
          in various states and out of India which could not happen to the expectation of
          Project.
       f) Bank's performance was over all satisfactory and good. Reimbursements were timely
          and institutional support in terms of setting processes and principles of the project
          were good. The only problem areas were little sharing of global best practices &
          knowledge management. It could have been more. Accounting of beneficiaries'
          contribution was another area where Bank could have guided in more detail, which
          would have helped in timely completion and thereby avoiding brief suspension of the
          project reimbursements.

6.     Borrower Performance

       e. During Preparation ­ Performance at Govt. and RSPMU level was satisfactory.
          Performance of districts was varied. Mostly, preparation stage was over by 2006,
          which is satisfactory.
       f. During Implementation ­ A system of Ranking of districts and regions was
          introduced, which created a spirit of competition, which helped in expediting the
          project. 76% target was achieved by the end of original target date, which is
          satisfactory.
       g. Overall ­ Satisfactory.

7.     Long Term Impact

              Decentralization of powers to PRIs
              Govt. machinery was molded in Social mode ­ Engineers became Social
              Engineers and Social Specialist & villagers got acquainted with the day to day
              technical skills.
              Villagers gained enough capacity to implement other projects also

        Long term impact of the project can be gauged from the fact that GOM issued a circular
dated 1st August 2009, wherein it decided that from now on wards all the rural water supply
scheme shall be implemented on the lines of the Jal Swarajya. Further GOI has also come up
with their NRDWP guideline which is inspired by the success of WASMO & WB aided water
supply project like Jal Swarajya, Jal Nidhi, etc. GOM has clearly given its mandate to accept the
principles and the processes of the project for better planning, implementation and the
management of the rural water supply schemes.

8. Lessons Learnt

              It is possible to entrust development works to the community
              Institutionalization is possible, if there are enough incentives ­ ownership, status,
              decision making powers etc.
               There is reduction in cost, as the involvement of large scale Govt. machinery is
              not required




                                               61
       The biggest lesson learnt during this project is the way community operates itself to plan,
implement and manage the water supply schemes. Communities operating through the VWSC
showed tremendous amount of capacity and effort to implement and run the scheme. There were
obvious risks and dangers associated regarding mal practices, theft etc, however barring few
VWSCs, most of them worked in a responsible manner. This project has really galvanized the
VWSCs into a vibrant and capable body, which is the sync with the true spirit of the 73rd & 74th
amendment of the constitution.
10. Hurdles / difficulties/Risks faced:

               Frequent transfers of Govt staff and quitting the jobs by private sector specialists
               Dearth of good quality TSPs & availability throughout the districts
               Attitudinal problems ­ once an officer/ specialist is changed he brings new/
               different approach/ attitude
               Following all the CDD Process
               Change in the policy in case there is a change in leadership at various level
               Capacity Building component not upto the mark
               The biggest hurdle the project faced was the attitude of set institutions like
               bureaucracy, Zillah parishads, also gram panchayats to some extent. How a
               nascent institution like VWSC can really implement such big schemes? Initially
               very few people believed that this project can be a success. However as VWSCs
               started performing, all other hurdles/difficulties/risks slowly gave way. Of course
               capacity building played a great role; however in some areas like procurement
               policies, contract management, etc. it was not up to the mark to some extent.

9. Looking forward

          ·    Convergence of all development at GP level
          ·    Delegating more powers to GP
          ·    Creation of cross sector linkages
          ·    Jalswarajya principles have influenced all other major programs in the sector e.g.
               Bharat Nirman Program (NRDWP) guidelines are based on Jalswarajya principles
          ·    Capacity Building of the community on greater scale
          ·    Achieving higher degree of sustainability

10.    Sustainability

               All the programs in the sector shall be based on Jalswarajya principles.
               Involvement of the community in planning, implementation and O&M will lead
               to greater level of sustainability.




                                                62
                       Part B: Comments from GoM on the draft ICR

Overall quality of the draft ICR is good and it adequately captures the all relevant development
indicators and the processes. It has successfully painted a clear picture as to what was expected
out of the project and what the project has really achieved. Overall outcome rating of the project
as `satisfactory' seems justified. Similarly the Bank and borrowers' performances have also been
pegged at satisfactory level which also seems justified.

The ICR puts borrower's performance regarding financial and procurement management
somehow under poor light. Under Financial management the ICR says" Compliance on audits
was weak and the legal covenant on audit submission in a timely manner was seldom met".
Probably if that is true, then financial management team with the Bank have also failed to guide
the project implementing agency in a timely manner. Borrower strongly resent this sweeping
statement. Similarly under procurement management also it says that "some of the requirements
of review by the World Bank remained unfulfilled because of the absence of a fully accredited
procurement staff at the state level". Again it has to be mentioned that procurement issues were
not highlighted from the very beginning with the same urgency as it was in the later stage of the
project. Necessary guidance was found lacking on this front also. It would have been better if
borrower's performance could be judged more objectively with a due regard to the overall socio-
economic conditions. Also a thorough understanding of the government processes would have
definitely helped a lot.

2. General Comments on the ICR:

A.    There could be a mention of number of missions (visits) with time line, along with major
      outcomes associated with each mission.
B.    Incremental benefits have been shown with respect to earlier conditions, but a kind of pre-
      post table could have been better.
C.    In the Economical Analysis part, importance of use of online monitoring system, man-
      hours saved, accuracy achieved could have been also analysed and emphasised.
D.    Probably the road ahead could have been dealt in a more detail. A broad future map could
      have been made in consultation with the borrower. This would have helped the borrower
      tremendously.
E.    A comparative chart or analysis with other similar programs could have been done. This
      would have helped to understand the project more objectively.

Over all the draft ICR is a well written document highlighting the efforts taken over past six
years. It is essentially a part of knowledge management system which the Bank has carefully
built over the years. Not only it gives in depth analysis of the processes involved but also it
highlights the lessons learnt, best practices which have emerged, along with the shortcomings
and failures which project faced. It will certainly help both the Bank as well as the borrower
immensely in achieving common goals and objectives. It will also serve the purpose of ready

                                               63
made reference for other state governments who are planning similar projects, people working in
the rural water and sanitation sector, academic institutions etc.




                                              64
Annex 9. Comments of cofinanciers and other partners/stakeholders

                         Not Applicable




                               65
                       Annex 10. List of supporting documents


1.   Project Appraisal Document, July 17, 2003
2.   Project Implementation Plan (PIP), Government of Maharashtra, Water Supply and
     Sanitation Department, June 2003
3.   Community Operational Manual, June 2003
4.   Project preparation/appraisal mission documents, May 2002­May 2003
5.   Back to office reports and aide-memoires
6.   Implementation status reports--October 2003 through September 2009
7.   Midterm Review, January 2007
8.   Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) (Document No. 22541), June 27, 2001




                                          66
                         Annex 11. List of participating districts (26)

                                           No. of GPs     No. of villages    Projected
No.   Name of district                     in this        in this district   ultimate
                                           district                          population to
                                                                             be served in
                                                                             this district
                                                                             (million)
1     Thane                                117            210                      3.98
2     Sindhudurg                           75             135                      2.41
3     Ratnagiri                            131            249                      3.63
4     Satara                               141            135                      3.76
5     Sangli                               119            119                      5.91
6     Solapur                              100            102                       3.5
7     Kolhapur                             115            117                      4.56
8     Nasik                                130            129                      5.08
9     Nandurbar                            58             156                      3.07
10    Jalgaon                              100            123                      3.52
11    Buldhana                             141            211                      4.16
12    Yavatmal                             126            221                      2.83
13    Akola                                98             135                      2.26
14    Washim                               110            144                      2.54
15    Nagpur                               133            326                      2.41
16    Chandrapur                           114            242                      2.79
17    Bhandara                             112            150                      2.67
18    Gondia                               102            150                      3.44
19    Gadchiroli                           76             251                      2.41
20    Wardha                               109            201                      1.79
21    Osmanabad                            143            152                       4.4
22    Beed                                 139            145                      4.68
23    Latur                                146            159                      3.83
24    Hingoli                              138            138                       2.8
25    Parbhani                             130            146                      3.12
26    Jalna                                118            145                      2.91




                                              67
MAP




68
