Report No. PID8080
Project Name                     Mexico-Federal Highway Maintenance (@)
Project
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Highways
Project ID                       MXPE65779
Borrower(s)                      Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos,
S.N.C. (BANOBRAS)
Implementing Agency
Address SECRETARIA DE COMUNICACIONES Y
TRANSPORTES (SCT)
Guarantor: United Mexican States
Calle Magdalena 21
Colonia del Valle
03100 Mexico City, Mexico
Contact Person: Ing. Mario Gonzalez
Tel: (52-5) 682-8615
Fax: (52-5)682-8928
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                November 17, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         June 12, 2000
Projected Board Date             December 14, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
Road transport is by far the dominant mode for both passenger and freight
transportation in Mexico, accounting for about 98t of intercity passenger
movement and about 89t of cargo movement by land. In general, road
traffic grew by 10t per annum in the 1970s and by about 5t per annum
thereafter. Traffic growth occurred despite periodic economic recessions
and substantial real price increases for road freight. Within the context
of NAFTA, traffic growth on the major road corridors, currently estimated
at about 10t annually, is expected to continue at a similar rate or
higher.The 302,000 km of interurban roads in Mexico, of which about 93,000
km are paved, are classified as federal, toll, state and rural roads in
accordance with the source of funding for the various segments and their
economic and strategic roles. The states have jurisdiction over some
83,000 km of mostly secondary links in the road network. Control and
responsibility for the approximately 170,000 km of rural roads is shared
by local governments, the states and the Federal Government. The Federal
Government has primary responsibility for the 41,865 km of highways
managed by SCT and for the 7,135 km of toll highways managed by the
Federal Toll Roads and Bridges Authority (CAPUFE) and the Unidad de
Autopistas de Cuota (UAC). The Mexican Government has taken substantial
steps in reforming the sector and in privatizing and deregulating key
modes. While there is a still a need for strengthening the regulatory and
related institutional framework as well as in addressing key growing urban
transport issues, the Bank's main focus presently is with regard to the
highway sector. The main concerns with regard to road transport are the:
(i) persistent challenge to avoid the deterioration of the condition of
the national road network in the face of seriously constrained budgets;



and (ii) declining level of service of the national network as traffic
levels increase faster than improvements can be funded. Although there is
much variance between regions, average conditions on SCT's or the Federal
Highway network appear to have worsened in the 1980s due mainly to the
decline in real terms of budgetary allocations for the Highway Maintenance
Program (HMP). Because it has had to operate with inadequate budgets for
several years, SCT generally limited maintenance to emergencies and to
repair works, thereby resulting in a road network with only 45t in good
and fair condition in 1995. However, there has been significant
improvement in recent years as SCT's budget was restored to near adequate
levels during the period 1995-1999.   About 60t of the budget was assigned
to rehabilitation works and 60t to routine and periodic maintenance and
accordingly the condition of the federal network was improved
significantly with 57T being in good and fair condition by 1999. The Bank
complemented this effort through the Highway Rehabilitation and Traffic
Safety (HRTS) Project which helped to increase SCT's efficiency in using
available maintenance funds through staff training and strengthening of
the maintenance management system. The future management of the SCT
network will be affected also by the decentralization process. There was
an attempt in 1997 to transfer about 11,000 km of this road network to
states, but it was unsuccessful, due mostly to lack of adequate funds to
support the transfer and insufficient monitoring and accountability of the
recipient states. Moreover, the states' highway administrations, which
generally have far less capacity than the SCT, will need considerable
strengthening to handle the decentralized responsibilities adequately. So
far the Bank has been concentrating on the technical issues of
decentralization, however, following a request from the government, Bank
assistance will be extended to include a comparative study of different
models of decentralization in Europe and Latin America, to select those
considered suitable for Mexico, to propose one or several decentralization
options to the new Government.The proposed Project was hence designed as
the culmination of the Bank's efforts to support the improvement of the
national network as well as to lay the groundwork for future efforts to
support the states in the management of their portion of the network. It
is therefore focused mainly on the maintenance needs of the SCT managed
federal network; to a limited extent it will also support the
implementation of a mechanism for maintenance financing, decentralization
and financial restructuring for toll roads.
2. Objectives
The proposed project will assist in providing Mexico with a road
transport system that can support the needs of a rapidly modernizing and
expanding economy and to enable meeting its NAFTA competitiveness
challenges. The overarching development objective is to improve transport
efficiency on the road network. The complementary objectives include:
(i) improving SCT's rehabilitation and maintenance planning performance;
and (ii) enhancing private-sector participation in road maintenance.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
There is a continuing need to further improve all aspects of road
maintenance, decentralization of road management, and toll roads
management; these are areas in which the Bank has wide experience in
Latin America. Continuing Bank support would prove helpful in assuring
adequate attention is paid to maintenance as Mexico is entering a decade
in which, given the strong prospects for NAFTA countries, there will be
- 2-



significant pressures for expansion of the road network. Also, the
introduction of effective approaches to road maintenance by contract, and
the implementation of the HDM-4 would significantly improve efficiency in
the use of scarce resources.
4. Description
The project would support ongoing efforts intended to protect and enhance
past investments in the federal highway network, and introduce a more
efficient maintenance management system. It would help SCT to sustain
the current annual investment level for the rehabilitation and maintenance
of federal highways, while the government seeks solutions to the country's
overall highway sector financing problem. The technical assistance
component is geared to institutional improvements and to the development
of strategies for highway financing and road decentralization. The main
components of the project are: (1) Support for the SCT's 2001-2003
programs for Highway Maintenance (HMP) and Bridge Rehabilitation (BRP)
along key segments of the 41,865 km federal road network, by providing
financing for key components of those programs. The HMP is based on the
results of a series of simulations of various strategies of road
maintenance using a well documented planning model. Subprojects from the
HMP and BRP will be selected for project financing based on the key
criteria such as having: (i) an ERR calculated in accordance with a
method satisfactory to the Bank of at least 12W; and (ii) neither
environmental or social implications, nor requiring changes in the road
geometrical design.(2) Introduction of comprehensive maintenance by
contract through a pilot program, including technical assistance for
design and implementation. This three-year program includes comprehensive
maintenance (periodic and routine), minor rehabilitation of selected
segments of roads and of bridges, preparation of short term
implementation programs, training and management of the program. This
component has been deemed a pilot because there has been no experience
with comprehensive maintenance contracts in Mexico. These contracts are
also a first step towards the design and implementation of rehabilitation
and maintenance contracts based on performance in Mexico. (3) Construction
of vehicle weight control stations. The principle being proposed is for
slow speed weigh-in-motion scales, since this allows for faster processing
of vehicles and only infringing vehicles would then be stopped and
inspected. This project component will complement the existing mobile
scales by piloting the use of fixed scales at 2 stations within the
overall program of national vehicle control. The project will finance
only the station's civil works. The equipment, including its
installation, will be financed by the Government.(4) An institutional and
technical development component to support the:(i) implementation of the
Highway Development Management Model (HDM-4) in the departments
responsible for road maintenance management. HDM-4 will gradually
complement and replace the current system being used in Mexico for
maintenance works planning, thereby introducing the capability for
prediction of road conditions and facilitating a wider range of
functionality including strategic planning, programming and project
evaluation. This sub-component includes the acquisition of road survey
equipment needed for the installation and operation of the model and
office equipment; (ii) development of a strategy for road
decentralization. This sub-component will support the decentralization
strategy to be selected by the Government from the decentralization
alternatives to be proposed by a study being carried out under separate
-3 -



financing. The study will analyze decentralization models in Europe and
America and, based on their experiences, propose one or several options to
the Government; (iii) implementation of a road financing mechanism.
Currently, a study is underway, financed by the HRTS Project, which should
provide recommendations on road financing strategies and resource
mobilization options. This sub-component will support the implementation
of the agreed recommendations; (iv) implementation of a strategy for toll
roads. Another study is underway to analyze and then discuss the possible
alternatives to solve the problem created by the toll roads financial
sustainability issues. Once the study is completed, its recommendations
will be discussed with the Government, and this sub-component would assist
the SCT in implementing any agreed strategies; and (v) staff training for
the SCT directorates most involved in the project, emphasizing technical,
managerial and administrative training. It would include equipment,
formal training courses, attendance at conferences and study tours, both
in Mexico and abroad. Table 1 - Summary of Project Costs
I. Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance:
(i) Rehabilitation (1,000 km);
(ii) Periodic maintenance (1,200) km;
(iii) Bridge rehabilitation (100 bridges); and
(iv) Supervision (DGCC 2001-2003 programs).
II. Pilot program of comprehensive maintenance (routine, periodic, and
some rehabilitation) by contract of an additional 240 km including
provision of consulting services works supervision, and for preparing and
managing the program:
(i) Civil works; and
(ii) Consulting services.
III. Construction of 2 (one single, and one twin) weight-and dimensions
control stations
IV. Institutional Strengthening
Provision of technical assistance and training for:
(i) installing the HDM-4 model (including equipment acquisition);
(ii) developing a strategy for decentralization of road administration;
(iii) implementing a road financing mechanism;
(iv) implementing the Government strategy on toll roads; and
(v) training.
V. Contingencies
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT               91
IBRD                     218
IDA
Total Project Cost       309
6. Implementation
Implementation Agencies.    BANOBRAS will be the Borrower and will transfer
the loan proceeds to SCT under the same terms and conditions as the Bank
loan, with the Government bearing the foreign exchange and interest rate
risks. No separate project management unit will be required. The project
will rely for its implementation on existing institutions, especially the
- 4 -



SCT, which has overall responsibility for the transport sector. It would
be responsible for the execution of the project through its various
Directorates. All of the above agencies have sufficient capacity to play
their roles in executing the project.Implementation Period. Project
implementation is expected to start in April of year 2001 and be completed
by December 31, 2004.Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing
Arrangements. SCT has good administrative capacity and ample experience
in managing IBRD projects. The financial management, accounting system,
and internal controls are already in place, and have been utilized by
previous Bank projects. They have been operating satisfactorily and their
use would be continued under the   project. Resources and mechanisms that
would permit financial monitoring and reporting of the project will be in
place prior to effectiveness. SCT has begun to take steps to adapt its
financial management systems in line with Bank's Financial Management
Initiative (LACI) for project management.Banco Nacional de Obras y
Servicios Publicos (BANOBRAS) will be responsible for managing the Special
Account. This local development bank has ample experience on IBRD
requirements on disbursement, auditing and traditional reporting. The
project will feature PMR reporting but excludes PMR-based disbursements.
An annual audit report of project accounts, and a separate opinion with
respect to the Statements of Expenditures and the Special Account prepared
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank will be submitted to the
Bank no more than six months after completion for each fiscal year.
SECODAM via its SCT internal audit department, will audit all project
operations annually. Disbursement. Loan disbursements, similar to the HRTS
project, will be via traditional Statement of Expenditures (SOEs), Direct
payments (DP) and Special Commitments. Nevertheless, for project
management, SCT will produce satisfactory PMRs within the first year after
project effectiveness.Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements. Biannual
reviews, in April and in October of each year would be held to review the
progress in project implementation and to agree on the program for the
following year's activities. The review would focus on: (a) the progress
with respect to the previous year's implementation schedule; (b) the level
and composition of the SCT road maintenance budget for the fiscal year in
which the review takes place; (c) the performance with respect to the
project monitoring indicators; and (d) the finalization of the selection
of sub-projects for the next year, taking into consideration the balance
of the SCT road maintenance budget. SCT would provide update reports on
the progress of each component of the project, prior to the annual
review.Mid-Term Review. In April 2003, the Government and the Bank would
conduct a mid-term review of the progress in implementation, which in
addition to the items covered in the annual review, would focus on the:
(a) adequacy of funding for the maintenance of the federal network; (b)
progress on the institutional strengthening being supported under the
project; (c) progress being made in bringing the federal road network to
good condition; (d) progress of the training program; and (e) confirmation
that no resettlement would be needed under the project.
7. Sustainability
The sustainability of the project would be defined by the condition of the
road network and the continued application of the improved maintenance
management systems. Regarding road maintenance funding, the government is
currently carrying out a comprehensive review of SCT's highway financing
issues with Bank assistance under another operation. The review is
expected to lead ultimately to the establishment of financing mechanisms
- 5-



that will ensure the financial sustainability of the sector. On the
application of systems and skills to be developed under the project, SCT
has demonstrated its commitment to continue using them through its
performance under the ongoing HRTS.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The overall conclusion is that, after slow and at times halting starts,
the Borrower has become progressively more effective in implementing
highway projects. Furthermore, although the implementation of
institutional measures has taken longer than expected, progress has been
substantive.Most of the lessons learned are reflected in the project
design as follows:(i) the budgetary reductions generated by the economic
crises forced SCT to postpone rehabilitation of important segments of the
federal highway. Instead, they had to assign most of the resources
available to heavy maintenance of longer segments so as to avoid their
further deterioration. The proposed project, includes a Bank financing
participation   of 70- so as, to help mitigate the risks associated with
budgetary fluctuations;(ii) the adoption of standard bidding documents
agreed by the Bank with the Mexican Government should help to streamline
procurement;(iii) the change in the criteria to prepare annual federal
highway maintenance programs, from an empirical assessment of the
physical conditions of the federal highway network to a maintenance
management system, will permit a better definition of annual investments
required under various scenarios; and (iv) the environmental assessment
model developed under the previous project, is to be applied by all SCT
agencies, as appropriate.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  Most proposed works involve the maintenance and
repaving of existing federal highways along long established right of ways
(RoW). As such, direct impacts on sensitive ecosystems and human
populations along the RoW will be minimal. An initial screening of the
proposed projects identified no potentially significant direct or indirect
impacts. As such, the subprojects do not require independent, stand-alone
environmental analysis. The scope and type of works to be carried out
will not entail any resettlement of population along the RoW.Other:
Construction related nuisances and disturbances along the right of
way.Justification/Rationale for category rating:Most impacts are related
to the civil works and can be managed through the application of good
environmental practices. A review of similar road rehabilitation projects
recently carried out in Mexico showed that good environmental practices
are being adopted satisfactorily for the design and implementation of road
rehabilitation and maintenance. However, the project will help to
standardize these measures through the preparation of standard
environmental manuals for road rehabilitation. In addition, the road
sector is applying standard procedures for environmental assessment of
road projects (Modelo de Evaluaci6n Ambiental: automatizacion de la
information y modelo de simulaci6n - Manual del Usuario). This manual
relies on the application of Geographical Information Systems (GIS) to
categorize and identify environmental issues and mitigatory measures for
road and other transport infrastructure. Proposed Actions: Construction
related impacts would be managed through the application of environmental
clauses in construction contracts. These clauses will focus on the
- 6 -



implementation of good housekeeping measures to reduce nuisances during
construction. These measures include dust, noise and pollution control,
protection of construction sites, final landscaping, proper disposal of
construction wastes, selection, exploitation and restoration of burrow
pits and quarries, traffic management and pedestrian safety, health and
safety of workers and public relations. The application of these good
housekeeping measures will be ensured by their inclusion in the tender
documents and construction contracts. The contractors will be responsible
for complying with these measures and the Supervision Engineer will be
responsible for ensuring that contractors are in compliance.All
subprojects will comply with existing environmental requirements in
Mexico. The General law of Ecological Equilibrium and Environmental
protection stipulates that a very limited Type 1 Environmental Statement,
requiring the presentation to the environmental agency of very basic
project information and following simplified administrative procedures be
prepared for this type of project.Status of any other environmental
studies: No stand alone environmental studies are required.
ResettlementThe type of maintenance and repaving works will not entail any
resettlement of population along the RoW.The 2001-2003 programs of the
DGCC, of which the loan would finance about 25w, include only pavement and
drainage rehabilitation and pavement maintenance activities, that are all
to be implemented within the existing road platform and with no need to
resettle any people.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Jose Alonso-Biarge
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-8647
Fax:   (202) 676-9594
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
- 7 -



