Doument of
The World Bank
RepoGieo: 2043 -ixE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$218 MILLION
TO THE BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C. (BANOBRAS)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR THE
FEDERAL HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
NOVEMBER 17, 2000
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Country Management Unit - LCC1C
Latin America and Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 9/11/2000)
Currency Unit = New Peso (N$)
N$ 1.00 = US$0.1055
US$1.00 = N$ 9.478
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL                                     -          Adjustable Program Loan
BANOBRAS                                -          National Infrastructure Development Bank
BRP                                     -          Bridge Rehabilitation Program
CAPUFE                                  -          Public Toll Roads Agency
CAS                                     -          Country Assistance Strategy
CREMA                                   -          Contrato de Recuperacion y Mantenimiento
COMPRANET                               -          Sistema Electronico de Contrataciones Gubernamentales
EA                                      -          Environmental Assessment
EMP                                     -          Environmental Management Plan
DGAF                                    -          General Directorate for Federal Transport
DGCC                                    -          General Directorate for Maintenance of Roads
DP                                      -          Direct Payment
FARAC                                   -          Toll Roads Restructuring Agency
FARAH                                   -          Financial Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook
GIS                                     -          Geographical Information Systems
HDM                                     -          Highway Development and Management Model
HMP                                     -          Highway Maintenance Program
HRTS                                    -          Highway Rehabilitation and Traffic Safety Project
IBRD                                    -          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB                                     -          Competitive Bidding
IDB                                     -          Inter-American Development Bank
IF                                      -          Implementation Framework
IRR                                     -          Internal Rate of Retum
LACI                                    -          Bank Financial Managemen. Initizaii
MET                                     -          Memorandum de Fundamen .r-nra
MIRR                                    -          Modified Internal Rate of Ret
NAFTA                                   -          North American Free Trade A,reent
NCB                                     -          National Competitive Bidding
NGO                                     -          Non Govemrmental Organiztfimon
NPV                                     -          Net Present Value
PMR                                     -          Project Management Reporting
RED                                     -          Road Economic Decision Model
PCD                                     -          Project Concept Document
QAT                                     -          Quality Assurance Team
SBD                                     -          Bank Standard Bidding Document
SECAL                                   -          Sectorial Adjustment Loan
SECODAM                                 -          Secretariat of Control and Administration
SCT                                     -          Secretariat of Communications and Transport
SHCP                                    -          Secretariat for Finance and Public Credit
SISTER                                  -          Simulation Model of Highway Maintenance Strategies
Simulation de Strategies d'Entretien Routier
SOE                                     -          Statement of Expenditures
VOC                                     -          Vehicle Operation Costs
UAC                                     -          Unidad de Autopista de Cuota
Vice President:          David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:               Oliver Lafourcade
Sector Manager/Director:             Danny Leipziger
Team Leader/Task Manager:   Jose Maria Alonso-Biarge



MEXICO
FEDERAL HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 4
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 '5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       '
3. Benefits and target population                                                     S3
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      19
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         10
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         11
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                          I1
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   12
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       12
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         1]2
2. Financial                                                                         1]3
3. Technical                                                                          14
4. Institutional                                                                      !14
5. Environmental                                                                      15
6. Social                                                                             16
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                20
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    20
2. Critical risks                                                                     21
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    21



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           22
2. Other                                                                             22
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                         22
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                        23
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         24
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   27
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        34
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                  35
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                              44
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      45
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    52
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  53
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 54
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           57
Annex 11: Social Assessment                                                              59
Annex 12: Implementation Framework                                                      64
MAP(S)
No. 31077



MEXICO
FEDERAL HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSFT
Date: November 17, 2000                           Team Leader: Jose Alonso-Biarge
Country Manager/Director: Olivier Lafourcade      Sector Manager/Director: Danny M. Leipziger
Project ID: P065779                               Sector(s): TH - Highways
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[X] Loan     [ ] Credit    1 Grant      [ ] Guarantee    r ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 218.00
Proposed Terms: Fixed-Spread Loan (FSL)
Grace period (years): 5                                Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.85% for first 4                      Service charge: 0.00%
years, and 0.75% thereafter
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan:    Source                                    Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                       91.00           0.00         91.00
IBRD                                                           20.00         198.00        218.00
Total:                                                        111.00         198.00        3(9.00
Borrower: Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos, S.N.C. (BANOBRAS)
Responsible agency: SECRETARIA DE COMUNICACIONES Y TRANSPORTES (SCT)
Guarantor: United Mexican States
Address: Calle Magdalena 21
Colonia del Valle
03100 Mexico City, Mexico
Contact Person: Ing. Mario Gonzalez
Tel: (52-5) 682-8615               Fax: (52-5)682-8928                Email:
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUSSM):
FY         2001       2002       2003       2004       2005
Annual    8.00       40.00      70.00!     75.00      25.00
Cumulative    8.00       48.00     118.00     193.00    218.00
Project implementation period: 4 years
Expected effectiveness date: 02/01/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2005
Front-end fee: US$2.18 million
Loan amount including front-end fee: US$218 million
OC PAD F-m PRM, Ma0



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The proposed project has been designed to assist the Government in providing Mexico with a road
transport system that can support the needs of a rapidly modemizing and expanding economy and to
enable meeting the NAFTA competitive challenges. The overarching development objective is to primarily
improve transport efficiency on the federal road network. Complementary objectives include: (i) improving
SCT's rehabilitation and maintenance planning performance; and (ii) enhancing private-sector participation
in road maintenance.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The project will support the ongoing qualitative improvement and preservation of the Federal highway
network during the 2001-2003 planning period and beyond. The key indicators include: (i) reduction in
vehicle operation costs (VOC) on project roads (an average reduction of 20% compared with the current
costs); (ii) improvement in the condition of roads after rehabilitation in terms of roughness reduction; (iii)
timely preparation of annual highway and bridge rehabilitation and maintenance programs; and (iv)
progress achieved in the design and implementation of highway financing and of decentralization strategies.
Other indicators are detailed in Annex 1.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: R99-92 (IFC/R 99-82)           Date of latest CAS discussion: 06/08/99
The CAS for Mexico seeks to support the Government in achieving three overall objectives: social
improvement; removing obstacles to sustainable growth and maintaining macroeconomic stability in the
context of globalization; and enhancing public govemance.
This project is linked to the CAS objective related to sustainable growth and macroeconomic stability.
Specifically it will support Government and Bank strategies related to: (i) removing impediments to private
sector growth and competitiveness; and (ii) ensuring the provision of quality infrastructure.
Several risks are implicit:  the potential for fiscal imbalances in the short- to medium-terms,
macroeconomic and financial stability, unexpected deterioration in social conditions, and budgetary
constraints. However, suitable risk-mitigating factors as well as encouraging government policy positions
are in place.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Road transport is by far the dominant mode for both passenger and freight transportation in Mexico,
accounting for about 98% of intercity passenger movement and about 89% of cargo movement by land. In
general, road traffic grew by 10% per annum in the 1970s and by about 5% per annum thereafter. Traffic
growth occurred despite periodic economic recessions and substantial real price increases for road freight.
Within the context of NAFTA, traffic growth on roads comprising the major trade corridors, currently
estimated at about 10% annually, is expected to continue at a similar rate or higher.
The 302,000 km of interurban roads in Mexico, of which about 31% are asphalt or concrete paved, are
classified as federal, toll, state and rural roads in accordance with the source of funds for the respective
segments and their economic and strategic roles. The states have jurisdiction over some 83,000 km of
- 2-



mostly secondary links in the road network. Control and responsibility for the approximately 170,000 km
of rural roads is shared by local governments, the states and the Federal Government. The Federal
Government has primary responsibility for the 41,865 km of highways managed by SCT and for the 7,135
km of toll highways managed by the Federal Toll Roads and Bridges Authority (CAPUFE) and the Unid,ad
de Autopistas de Cuota (UAC).
The Mexican Government has taken substantial steps in reforming the sector and in privatizing and
deregulating key modes. While there is a still a need for strengthening the regulatory and related
institutional framework as well as for addressing key urban transport issues, the Bank's main focus
presently is with regard to the highway sector. The main issues with regard to intercity road transport are:
(i) the persistent challenge to avoid the deterioration of the condition of the national road network in the
face of seriously constrained budgets and of the need for institutional and financial reforms to ensure
sustainability; (ii) the declining level of service of the national network as traffic levels increase faster than
capital works can be funded. The situation is exacerbated as access to private capital is hampered by the
lack of a clear solution to the issue of toll roads financing; (iii) the growth of similar maintenance and
capacity issues at the State level and the challenges in light of the Govermment's decentralization policy;
and (iv) the low level and poor quality of access available to low income rural populations in the more
isolated parts of the country.
In general, there are no serious capacity bottlenecks in the SCT, or federal highway network. However,
qualitatively, the latest 1999 inventory showed that about 24% of it is in very poor condition, 19% in poor
condition, 34% in fair condition and the remaining 23% in good condition. This does not represent a
network that can support national development goals efficiently and it arises from the fact that the
government has not been allocating sufficient funds to maintain or to modernize the road network.
However, as a rule, the sections in poor and fair condition comprise mostly the 19,060 km portion of the
SCT network that do not serve as major trade axes and can be classified as being of regional or secondary
importance. Although there is much variance between regions, average conditions on SCT's network
appear to have worsened in the 1980s due mainly to the decline in real terms of budgetary allocations for
the Highway Maintenance Program (HMP), from about US$230 million in 1983 to US$120 million in
1989. Because it has had to operate with inadequate budgets for several years, SCT generally limited
maintenance to emergencies and to repair works; this resulted in a road network with only 45% in good and
fair condition by 1995. However, there has been significant improvement in recent years as SCT's budget
averaged US$310 million during the period 1995-1999, of which 40% were assigned to rehabilitation
works and 60% to routine and periodic maintenance. The condition of the federal network thereby
improved correspondingly during the second half of the 1990s (to 57% in good and fair condition in 1999).
The Bank complemented the Government's efforts through the HRTS Project which apart from providing
resources has helped to increase SCT's efficiency in using available maintenance funds through staff
training and strengthening of the maintenance management system.
During the period 2001-2004, based on the HMP and BRP it is estimated that SCT's budget will average
around US$370 million, of which 22% will be assigned to minor rehabilitation works and 78% to routine
and periodic maintenance. The HMP is based on the results of a series of simulations of various strategies
of road maintenance using the SCT's planning model. The proposed maintenance program for 2001-2004,
will yield, according to the Simulation Model of Highway Maintenance Strategies (SISTER) planning
system used by SCT, a network with 75% in good to fair condition in year 2004.
With respect to toll roads, conditions are generally better than on the federal highways. CAPUFE, which
has higher financial resources per km, has been able to maintain its toll roads in a very satisfactory manner.
However, long-term sustainability may be affected adversely by financial management problems of the
- 3 -



recent past. Currently, there is a debt of over US$9 billion, arising out of the government's rescue of 23
unsuccessful private toll roads. At the government's request, the Bank will prepare a separate operation to
assist the SCT on highway financing issues, mainly related to restructuring the debt in the toll road system.
Also, a study being financed under the ongoing Loan 3628-ME is aimed at establishing a road financing
mechanism, based on a tariff on road users, to ensure the availability of reliable funds for the maintenance
of the entire non-tolled road network. The proposed project would support follow-up design and
implementation for both items.
The future management of the SCT network will be also affected by the decentralization process. There
was an attempt in 1997 to transfer about 11,000 km of the more regional roads in the SCT road network
to the states, but it was unsuccessful, due mostly to lack of adequate funds to support the transfer and to
insufficient monitoring and accountability on the part of the recipient states. Moreover, the states highway
administrations, which generally have far less capacity than the SCT, will need considerable strengthening
to handle the decentralized responsibilities adequately. So far the Bank has been concentrating on the
technical issues of decentralization, however, following a request from the government, Bank assistance
will be extended to include a comparative study of different models of decentralization in Europe and Latin
America, in order to identify models considered suitable for Mexico and to subsequently propose one or
several decentralization options to the new Government.
An equally serious deficiency of Mexico's road network is its inability to provide sufficient accessibility for
the rural poor. The rural roads network needs both expansion, to obtain adequate road density, and
improvement, to ensure year-round passability. The CAS for Mexico provides assistance for a State Roads
Project in the form of an Adjustable Program Loan (APL) that will address the states management options
in a decentralized environment as well as the need to expand and improve the rural road network.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
SCT has prepared a plan for management of the federal highway network, which is based on economic and
governmental priorities. The strategy seeks to: (i) adequately manage the federal network; (ii) support
institutional reforms required for the development of better road network management practices; and (iii)
focus investments on minor rehabilitation and maintenance of the network. In response, the Bank has
launched a multi-faceted program to compliment this effort through a combination of lending and
non-lending services. Sector work is underway and also the preparation of a SECAL related to the private
financing of highways and the restructuring of the toll road system. In addition, as mentioned earlier a
study is underway on the design of a road financing mechanism for the non-tolled system, both federal and
state.
The proposed Project was designed as the culmination of the Bank's efforts to support the improvement of
the maintenance of the national network as well as to lay the groundwork for future efforts to support the
states. It is therefore focused mainly on the maintenance needs of the SCT managed federal highway
network; to a limited extent it will also support the implementation of a mechanism for maintenance
financing, decentralization, and the financial restructuring for toll roads.
The project will support the ongoing preservation of the federal network during the transition to
decentralization. It would provide funds for SCT to safeguard its past investments in the federal highway
network, as another Bank operation will try to implement solutions to the highway financing issues
mentioned above, which will take some time. The project would also provide for the development of a
strategy for the decentralization of highway administration in support of the decisions to be made by the
Government (once the results of the study on different decentralization alternatives is completed) to be
- 4 -



implemented under the above mentioned State Roads Project. Lastly, the project would improve upon the
road maintenance management systems through rehabilitation and maintenance contracts, the introduction
of a pilot program on comprehensive maintenance by contract, and the implementation of the Highway
Development and Management Model (HDM4), and would support the government strategy on toll road
management.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The main components of the project are:
(1) Support for the SCT's 2001-2003 programs for highway maintenance (HMP) and bridge rehabilitation
(BRP) along key segments of the federal highway network, which together amount to more than US$ 1,000
million. Subprojects from these programs will be selected for Bank financing based on the following
criteria: (i) having an ERR calculated in accordance with a method satisfactory to the Bank of at least
12%; (ii) neither having environmental or social implications nor requiring changes in the road geometrical
design; and (iii) having a structural design life of at least 15 years in the case of highway rehabilitation
subprojects.
(2) Introduction of comprehensive maintenance by contract through a pilot program, including technical
assistance for design and implementation. This three-year program will include comprehensive maintenance
(periodic and routine), rehabilitation of selected segments of roads and of bridges, some minor works
preparation of short term implementation programs, training and management of the program. This
component is being piloted because there has been no experience with comprehensive maintenance
contracts in Mexico. These contracts are also a first step towards the implementation of rehabilitation and
maintenance contracts based on performance (or CREMA contracts, as they are called in Latin America).
(3) Construction of vehicle weight control stations. The principle being proposed is for slow speed
weigh-in-motion scales, since this allows for faster processing of vehicles and only infringing vehicles
would then be stopped and inspected. Under the HRTS Project, a study to control weights and dimensions
of vehicles in Mexico was financed. This resulted in a program for the acquisition and operation of some
37 mobile scales. This project component will complement the mobile program by piloting the use of fixed
scales at 2 stations (one single station, for only northbound traffic, on the route to the US border in Nuevo
Laredo, and one twin station to serve both traffic directions for another route in the state of Queretaro)
within a pilot program of national vehicle control. The project will finance only the station's civil works.
The equipment, including its installation, will be financed by the Government.
(4) An institutional and technical development component to support the:
(i) implementation of the Highway Development and Management Model (HDM-4) in the DGCC and its
departamental offices so as to help improve road maintenance management. The HDM-4 will gradually
complement and replace the current system being used in Mexico for maintenance works planning
(SISTER), which was implemented in Mexico in 1994. This change is justified because the SISTER model
lacks capabilities for prediction of road conditions and HDM-4 has a wider range of functionality including
strategic planning, programming and project evaluation. The cost of this sub-component includes
acquisition of road survey equipment needed for the installation and operation of the model and also office
equipment (all to be SCT financed);
-5-



(ii) development of a strategy for road decentralization. This sub-component will support the
decentralization strategy as selected by the Govenmment from the altematives to be proposed by another
study being carried out under separate financing. The study will analyze various decentralization models
in Europe and America and will select those considered suitable for Mexico, in order to formulate an
adequate basis for proposing one or several options to the Government;
(iii) implementation of a road financing mechanism. Currently, a study is underway, financed by the
HRTS Project, which will provide recommendations on road financing strategies and resource mobilization
options. Subsequently, the Govermment will prepare, and thereafter carry out, an action plan satisfactory
to the Bank with respect to the implementation of such recommendations. This sub-component will
support implementation of the plan;
(iv) implementation of a strategy for toll roads. Another study is underway to analyze and then discuss
with the Mexican authorities the possible altematives to solve the problem created by the rescued toll roads
(FARAC). Once the study is completed, its recommendations will be discussed with the govemment.
Subsequently, this sub-component would assist the SCT in implementing the recommended strategy; and
(v) staff training for the SCT directorates most involved in the project, emphasizing technical, managerial
and administrative training. It would include formal training courses, attendance at conferences and study
tours, both in Mexico and abroad.
The project components and their costs are summarized in the table overleaf.
- 6-



Table 1 - Summary of Project Costs
Indicative            Bank-    %N, of
Component                  Sector        Costs     % of    financing   Sank-
(US$M)   Total    (USSM)  financing
I. Highway Maintenance and        Highways          150.00      48.5    105.00      48.2
Rehabilitation:
(i) Rehabilitation (1,000 km)
(ii) Periodic maintenance (1,200) km  Highways       60.00       19.4    42.00       19.3
(iii) Bridge rehabilitation (100 bridges)  Highways  20.00        6.5     14.00       6.4
(iv) Supervision (DGCC 2001-2003  Highways           15.00        4.9     10.50       4.8
programs)
11. Pilot program of comprehensive  Highways         18.00        5.8     12.60       5.8
maintenance (routine, periodic and
minor rehabilitation) by contract of an
additional 240 km two lane road
equivalent, including provision of
consulting services for works
supervision and for preparing and
managing the program:
(i) Civil works
(ii) Consulting services          Institutional       1.50       0.5       1.05       0.5
Development
III. Construction of 2 (one single, plus   Highways   4.50        1.5     3.15        1.4
one twin) weight-and dimensions
control stations
IV. Institutional Strengthening   Institutional       1.70        0.6      1.70       0.8
Provision of technical assistance and    Development
training for:
(i) installing the HDM-4 model
(ii) developing a strategy for                        0.60        0.2      0.60       0.3
decentralization of road administration
(iii) implementing a road financing                   0.50        0.2      0.50       0.2
mechanism;
(iv) implementing the selected strategy               1.20        0.4      1.20       0.6
on toll roads; and (v) training
V. Contingencies                                     33.82       10.9    23.52       10.8
Total Project Costs                 306.82       99.3   215.82       99.0
Front-end fee                   2.18        0.7      2.18       1.0
Total Financing Required                  309.00     100.0   218.00       100.0
-7 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
These focus on helping SCT to: (a) upgrade the planning and programming needed for the preservation of
the road network, through the installation of the HDM4 as part of the maintenance management system;
(b) introduce the use of multi-year comprehensive road rehabilitation and maintenance contracts for
executing road rehabilitation and maintenance; (c) develop a strategy for highway decentralization; (d)
implement a road financing mechanism; and (e) rationalize, both administratively and financially the two
sets of toll roads currently under its responsibility, namely the CAPUFE roads and the rescued toll roads
(UAC managed) following the recommendations to be formulated under a separate Bank operation that is
being prepared now.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits. Completion of the project would result in improvements to the physical condition of the federal
highways and thereby reduce transport costs and also help to enhance the competitiveness of Mexico's
products in international markets. Also, through the timely rehabilitation of rapidly deteriorating roads, the
project would delay the need for costly reconstruction and help to conserve the already limited public funds.
There are also many other benefits associated with each component:
- supporting the program of vehicle weight control would help to reduce damages on highways, pavements
and bridges and to also improve road safety;
- introduction of an HDM-4 based road maintenance management system would result in better allocation
of resources between rehabilitation and maintenance needs;
- implementing the strategy for road decentralization would help to strengthen the capacity of State
Governments to better plan and implement sectoral development strategies;
- rationalizing the administration and financing of the CAPUFE and the rescued toll roads would contribute
significantly to optimizing the benefits from the most costly assets in the road sub-sector; and
- project implementation would temporarily increase employment directly associated with the civil works
components.
Tarzet Population. The project's benefits would accrue primarily to direct road users. They would benefit
primarily from the reduced vehicle operating costs and increased safety. The population in the corridors
served by the project roads would benefit from eventual reductions in the price of transported commodities
as the reduction in transport costs are passed on to shippers. This is expected to happen because road
freight transport is de-regulated fully in Mexico.
-8 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Agencies. BANOBRAS will be the Borrower and will transfer the loan proceeds to the
United Mexican States (the Guarantor) through SCT under the same terms and conditions as the Bank
loan, with the Guarantor bearing the foreign exchange and interest rate risks. It was agreed at negotiations
that, as  a condition of effectiveness, the Borrower and the Guarantor will enter into contractual
arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the transfer of loan funds. No separate project management unit
will be required. The project will rely for its implementation on existing institutions, especially the S'CT,
which has overall responsibility for the transport sector. It would be responsible for the execution of the
project through its various Directorates. All of the above agencies have sufficient capacity to play their
roles in executing the project, as demonstrated by the excellent implementation of the ongoing HRkTS
Project.
Implementation Period. Project implementation is expected to start in April of year 2001 and be completed
by December 31, 2004.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements. SCT has a good administrative capacity and
ample experience in managing Bank projects. The financial management, accounting system, and internal
controls are already in place and have been operating satisfactorily, and their use would be continued urnder
the present project. SCT has begun to take steps to adapt its financial management systems in line with
Bank's Financial Management Initiative (LACI) for project management.
BANOBRAS will be the financial agent, and hence will be responsible for the Special Account. This local
development bank has ample experience on Bank requirements for disbursement, auditing and traditional
reporting. The project will feature Project Management Reporting (PMR) but excludes PMR-based
disbursements during the initial stages of Project Implementation.
Project accounts will be maintained by SCT and by BANOBRAS in accordance with accounting practices
intemationally accepted by the profession and satisfactory to the Bank, as required by the Financial
Accounting, Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH).
An annual audit report of project accounts, and a separate opinion with respect to the Statements of
Expenditures or PMAs, as the case may be, and the Special Account prepared by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, and in accordance with both Bank documents: (i) "Guidelines and Temis of
Reference for audits of projects with financing by the World Bank in the Latin America and Caribbean
Region" and (ii) FARAH; will be submitted to the Bank no more than six months after completion for each
fiscal year. SECODAM via its SCT internal audit department, will audit all project operations (annually),
as described in the Operation Manual and as established in the MET (Memorandum de Entendimiento
Tecnico).
Project expenditures will be recorded in such a way that all related sources of funds and types of
expenditures are clearly identified. SCT will: (i) establish a consistent financial, accounting and reporting
system for the project; (ii) maintain all required information and supporting documentation corresponding
to project implementation; and (iii) be responsible for the preparation of PMRs with the suppcrt of
BANOBRAS.
Disbursement. During preparation, disbursement arrangements were discussed in detail and agreed upon
with SCT. As a consequence of the findings of the financial management assessment, as of today SCT is
not eligible for PMR-based disbursements. Hence the disbursement procedure will be via the traditional
-9-



mechanism such as Statement of Expenditures (SOEs), Direct payments (DP) and Special commitments.
Nevertheless, for project management, SCT will produce satisfactory PMRs within the first year after
project effectiveness.
SCT will provide required information to BANOBRAS, which will submit to the Bank all applications for
withdrawals regarding expenditures to be financed with the loan proceeds.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements. SCT will monitor the project closely and will prepare and issue
biannual reports, in March and in September, that will summarize the progress in project implementation.
The SCT's reviews and the reports would focus on the: (a) progress against the previous annual project
implementation schedule; (b) level and composition of the SCT road maintenance budget for the fiscal year
in which the review takes place; (c) performance against the project monitoring indicators; and (d)
finalization of the selection of sub-projects for the current year, taking into consideration the balance of the
SCT road maintenance budget. SCT will take necessary actions update reports on the progress of each
component of the project, at least one month before the date fixed for the Annual Bank Review.
Mid-Term Review. In April 2003, the Government and the Bank will conduct a mid-term review of the
implementation progress, which in addition to the items covered in the Annual Review, would focus on the:
(a) adequacy of funding for the maintenance of the federal network; (b) progress on the institutional
strengthening being supported under the project; (c) progress being made in bringing the federal road
network to good condition; and (d) progress of the training program.
Agreement was reached at negotiations that SCT would provide: (a) every six months, progress reports to
the Bank for monitoring purposes on the basis of a format and methodology acceptable to the Bank; and (b)
within six months of the closing date, an input to the project's Implementation Completion Report.
Bank Supervision. It is estimated that an average of about 18 staff weeks a year will be required for
supervising the project.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Other Lending Options. A supplemental loan to the ongoing Loan 3628-ME (HRTS) was considered and
rejected at the time of the PCD discussion since it did not meet the criteria for supplemental loans.
Other Project Design Options. The possibility of including a pilot CREMA program (a rehabilitation and
maintenance by contract program based on performance standards being implemented in Argentina and
Uruguay and introduced in Brazil) was discussed for about 500 km of rehabilitation and subsequent
maintenance at the PCD stage, but the SCT requested that it be dropped since it would involve changes in
policy on contracting, which the then government did not want to commnit the incoming administration to. A
pilot program of comprehensive maintenance by contract was included instead, which doesn't require policy
changes and is an important step in the same direction and will provide the SCT with the necessary
expertise to consider the possibility of a CREMA program in the future. In general, CREMA contracts are
practically the same as comprehensive maintenance by contract. They include routine and periodic
maintenance, some minor occasional activities, preparation of short term implementation programs, even
training and management of the program. The only difference between CREMA and the comprehensive
maintenance program that is proposed here is that a CREMA contract is based on performance while the
comprehensive maintenance contract is based on unit prices and lump sums. If SCT were to include
- 1 0 -



CREMA contracts in this project then it would be necessary to modify their procurement policy; such
modifications are not feasible now. Comprehensive maintenance contracts are consistent with the existing
procurement policy.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue           I          Project                  (PSR) Ratings
Bank-fin d                    (Bank-financed projects onIL
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Roads rehabilitation and maintenance, Highway Rehabilitation and     S             S
traffic safety improvements,      Traffic Safety Project (Loan
introduction of a road maintenance  3628-ME)
management system and staff training
Other development agencies
Inter-American Development Bank    Transportation and
Communications
Improvement
Modernization of Feeder
Highways
Rural Roads Rehabilitation and
Modernization
Urban Development
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The overall conclusion is that, after slow and at times halting starts, the Borrower has become
progressively more effective in implementing highway projects. Furthermore, although the implementation
of institutional measures has taken longer than expected, progress has been substantive.
Most of the lessons learned are reflected in the project design as follows:
(i) the budgetary reductions generated by the economic crises forced DGCC to postpone rehabilitation of
important segments of the federal highway. Instead, they had to assign most of the resources available to
heavy maintenance of longer segments so as to avoid their further deterioration. The proposed project,
includes a higher Bank financing participation (70%), to help mitigate the risks associated with budgetary
restrictions;
(ii) the adoption of standard bidding documents agreed by the Bank with the Mexican Government, under
previous projects should help to streamline procurement;
(iii) the change in the criteria to prepare DGCC annual highway maintenance programs, from an empirical
assessment of the physical conditions of the federal highway network to a maintenance managernent
system, will permit a better definition of annual investments required under different scenarios. The project
- 11 -



will build on this experience in order to facilitate the transition from SISTER to HDM-4 modeling;
(iv) the environmental assessment model developed under the previous project, is expected to be applied by
all SCT agencies, especially DGCC, as required; and
(v) the study of alternative mechanisms to finance the highway sector, being financed through the previous
project, is expected to be completed by December 2000. Its recommendations are to be discussed with the
Government and steps will be taken for its implementation under the project.
The Project Files include a comprehensive summary of the Bank's experience in the highway sector since
1960.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The government has shown full support for the implementation of the ongoing HRTS Project to which the
proposed project represents a continuation. The government has demonstrated its priority for road
maintenance by protecting as much as possible SCT's maintenance budget in the face of the last
across-the-board reductions in public expenditure. SCT never waivered in its conimitment to HRTS or to
the subsequently prepared Federal Highway Modernization Project (1997). However, the severity of the
fiscal situation at that time prevented the Government (SHCP) from meeting its counterpart requirements
for the Federal Highway Modernization Project and hence the Loan never became effective and was
cancelled. Currently the situation has improved and the proposed project will feature lower counterpart
requirements given the higher proposed disbursement percentage. SHCP is strongly committed to this
proposed project because it will cover the majority of the foreign exchange needs for the annual
maintenance and rehabilitation programs.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
There is a continuing need to further improve all aspects of road maintenance, decentralization of road
management, and toll roads management; these are areas in which the Bank has wide experience in Latin
America. Continuing Bank support would prove helpful in assuring adequate attention is paid to
maintenance as Mexico is entering a decade in which, given the strong prospects for NAFTA countries,
there will be significant pressures for expansion of the road network. Also, the introduction of an
innovative and effective approach to road maintenance by contract, and the implementation of the HDM-4
would significantly improve efficiency in the use of scarce resources.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$395 million; ERR = 115% % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
Currently 57% of the SCT managed network is in good or fair condition. The objective over the next 4
years is to increase this percentage to 75% by rehabilitation of selected sections in poor condition, by
periodic maintenance for selected portions in fair condition and by routine maintenance for the segments in
good condition, as well as the strengthening of selected bridges. Therefore, it is expected during the
program period that SCT will prioritize economically and carry out:  (i) 22,000 km of periodic
maintenance; (ii) routine maintenance on at least 25,000 km in good and fair condition; (iii) 2,000 km of
road rehabilitation (really pavement replacement); and (iv) rehabilitation of 350 bridges.
- 12 -



SCT evaluated each section to be maintained or rehabilitated during the first year of the project (2001)
using the RED model, with current data for road, vehicle fleet and road works characteristics and costs.
The resulting rates of return are much greater than the 12% minimum required, which is consistent with the
HRTS project. The RED model adopts unit road user costs computed using the HDM-III model and
simplifies the economic evaluation by maintaining a constant level of service (roughness) with and without
the project over the evaluation period, which was set to ten years for rehabilitation works and five years for
periodic maintenance works. With more detailed data to be available in the near future, the econonnic
evaluation of the second year program (2002) will be done by SCT using the HDM4 model to be
introduced under the project.
SCT evaluated the bridge rehabilitation component by determining the road user benefits of the bridge
improvements in terms of savings in vehicle operating costs and time costs. The without project case
considers weight restrictions on the bridges implying that heavy vehicles are forced to use alternative routes
or reduce their weight by transferring some of the cargo to other vehicles. The with project case considers
structural strengthening of the bridges that eliminates travel restrictions.
The net present value (NPV) of the selected road rehabilitation and maintenance strategy over the next 20
years is US$395.00 million. The NPV of the resulting first year road rehabilitation and maintenance works
(85% of civil works) financed under the project is US$250 million with an internal rate of return (IRR) of
114% and a modified internal rate of return (MIRR) of 36%, considering a financing and reinvestment rate
of 12%. Assuming there is an increase of 20% in agency costs, the IRR decreases to 97% and the MIRR. to
33%. A 20% decrease in traffic decreases the IRR to 91% and the MIRR to 32%. A combination of an
increase in agency costs by 20% and decrease in traffic by 20%, decreases the IRR to 77% and the MIRR
to 30%. To have a net present value equal to zero, agency costs have to be 560% higher than the estimated
costs, or traffic levels only 18% of the estimated traffic. These events have a very low probability of
occurrence indicating that the project's economic viability is very robust. The NPV of the comprehensive
maintenance program is US$65 million with an IRR of 140% and a MIRR of 38%. The NPV of the first
year bridge maintenance program is US$220 million with an IRR of 68% and a MIRR of 57%. The
combined IRR of the three project components evaluated is 115% with a MIRR of 40%.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Financing Plan: The project's financing plan is shown on the cover sheet. The proposed loan of US$218
million would cover about 70% of project costs; the government would finance the remaining US$85
million.
Financial Management and Controls: BANOBRAS and SCT's financial management system and inteimal
controls for Bank-financed projects are adequate. The current system and controls would be used for the
proposed project.
Proiect Costs: (Details in Annex 3). Project costs are based on bids for similar works being carried out
under the ongoing HRTS project and the prevailing costs of consultant services and training in Mexico.
The government agreed at negotiations to provide timely counterpart funds for the project.
Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal impact will be small because the annual project investments represent less than 5% of the
revenues collected from the road subsector through licenses fees and taxes on fuels, vehicle spare parts, etc.
Also, by covering such a large part of the foreign cost of the program, the project will contribute to a
-13 -



reduction in net Government financing requirements.
3. Technical:
The maintenance and rehabilitation works included under the proposed project are similar to those being
carried out under the ongoing HRTS project. The works are not technically complex and well within the
capacity and capability of the consultants who will complete the design of the second and third years of the
program and carryout work supervision, and also of the contractors who will execute the works. The
DGCC has completed the designs of the works for the first year, which are expected to be procured within
calendar year 2000 and awarded in early 2001.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The SCT's Direcci6n General de Conservaci6n de Carreteras (DGCC) will be the executing agency for
the following components of the project: (i) highway rehabilitation and maintenance; (ii) comprehensive
maintenance pilot program; and (iii) improvement of road-maintenance management. The SCT's Direcci6n
General de Autotransporte Federal (DGAF) will be the executing agency for constructing and equipping
the two weight and dimensions control stations. The Unidad de Autopistas de Cuota, SCT's toll roads
regulating agency, will be responsible for the technical assistance required to implement a financing
mechanism and the toll road management. The DGCC and the DGAF have significantly improved their
capacity for road maintenance management, and for contracting and supervising the execution of highway
rehabilitation/periodic maintenance works under the recently completed HRTS project. The proposed
project would include further technical assistance and training in these areas.
4.2 Project management:
There is no specific coordinating unit for the project; instead, as was the case for the HRTS, project
management will be integrated into the responsibilities of existing SCT directorates. For instance DGCC
and DGAF have successfully managed the HRTS project, while BANOBRAS, in its role as the Borrower,
has performed the liaison function with the Bank efficiently. All of these agencies are fully familiar with
Bank procedures.
4.3 Procurement issues:
None. Standard Bank documents will be used.
A procurement assessment was carried out to determine if the Borrower and Guarantor have in place the
appropriate procurement procedures and standards. During the discussions of the assessment the present
authorities in BANOBRAS and SCT expressed their commitment to adhere to competitive selection and
transparency in all activities. The Federal Government's Secretariat of Control and Administration
(SECODAM) has an office in the SCT to perform internal audits and implement activities to promote and
improve transparency. In addition, to increase governance, all complaints and their resolutions are
available to the public through the Internet (COMPRANET).
In addition to external auditors, who conduct annual financial audits for the project, a procurement audit
was performed, both of which show satisfactory performance by SCT.
A copy of the Assessment is included in the Project Files.
4.4 Financial management issues:
- 14 -



None. BANOBRAS will be responsible for project auditing and financial reporting.
A Financial Management assessment was carried out and it demonstrated that SCT has an appropriate
financial management system in place.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Major: The proposed works involve the maintenance and rehabilitation (repaving) of existing federal
highways along well-consolidated right of ways (RoW) and no impacts on sensitive ecosystems and human
populations are expected. An initial screening of the proposed projects identified no direct or indirect
impacts. As such, the subprojects do not require independent, stand-alone environmental analysis; instead
the well tested SCT procedures used under HRTS, will be applied. The type of rehabilitation and repaving
works will not entail any resettlement of population along the RoW.
Other: Construction related nuisances and disturbances along the right of way.
Justification/Rationale for category rating:
Any potential impacts related to the construction works will be minor and can be managed through the
application of good environmental practices. A review of similar road rehabilitation projects recently
carried out in the country showed that good environmental practices are being implemented satisfactorily
for the design and construction of road rehabilitation and maintenance. In addition, the road sector is
applying standard procedures for environmental assessment of road and transport projects (Modelo de
Evaluaci6n Ambiental: automatizaci6nde la informaci6n y modelo de simulaci6n - Manual del Usuario).
This manual relies on the application of Geographical Information Systems (GIS) to categorize and identify
environmental issues and mitigatory measures for road and other transport infrastructure.
Proposed Actions:  Construction related impacts would be managed through the application of
environmental clauses in construction contracts. These clauses will focus on the implementation of good
housekeeping measures to reduce nuisances during construction. These measures include dust, noise and
pollution control, protection of construction sites, final landscaping, proper disposal of construction wastes,
selection, exploitation and restoration of borrow pits and quarries, traffic management and pedesitrian
safety, health and safety of.workers and public relations. The application of these good housekeeping
measures will be ensured by their inclusion in the tender documents and construction contracts. The
contractors will be responsible for complying with these measures and the supervision engineers will help
to ensure this.
All subprojects will comply with existing environmental requirements in Mexico. The General Law of
Ecological Equilibrium and Environmental protection requires for this type of project the preparation of a
very limited Type 1 Environmental Statement and the presentation to the environmental agency of very
basic project inforrmation that follows simplified administrative procedures.
Status of any other environmental studies: No further environmental studies are required.
Resettlement
The type of rehabilitation of repaving works will not entail any resettlement of population along the RoW.
- 15 -



The 2001-2003 programs of the DGCC, of which the loan could finance about 25%, include only pavement
and drainage rehabilitation and pavement maintenance activities, that are all to be implemented within the
existing road platform and with no need for resettlement.
With respect to the construction of vehicle weight and dimension control stations in Nuevo Laredo, State of
Tamaulipas and in Palmillas, State of Queretaro, it was agreed that the land (which is unoccupied) will be
acquired by SCT in accordance with the provisions of OD 4.30. Adequate covenants were included in the
Guarantee Agreement to help enforce the above mentioned arrangements.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not applicable
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
The project involves only pavement repair works within the existing platform. There are adequate
provisions and procedures in the SCT manuals for the environmental management requirements. Further
studies would only duplicate the manuals recommendations which are based on SCT implementation
experience with Bank projects. Hence no stand alone environmental assessment was required. Please refer
to Section 5. 1.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Extensive consultations were carried out as part of the Social Assessment; these included local municipal
authorities, user groups, and residents in influence areas. All groups expressed support for the project (see
Section 6).
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Not applicable
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The rehabilitation and maintenance works under the proposed project, like those financed by the ongoing
HRTS project, are not expected to cause any adverse social impacts since the works are on the existing
road alignments and within the existing road platform. The project would have a positive social impact by
generating short-term increases in employment in the areas of influence of the project roads during
implementation and will support regional development in the long run by providing improved access to
markets and services.
The main outcomes of the HRTS project, of which the proposed project is a follow up, indicate that no
land purchases nor involuntary resettlement, nor any other perceptible social impacts occurred during its
six year implementation period. The ICR under preparation will document fully these results.
To confirm the above expectations, a social assessment was prepared in order to: (i) ensure that the project
will not cause involuntary resettlement as defined in OD 4.30; (ii) identify possible impacts on indigenous
peoples in compliance with OD 4.20; (iii) identify any other social impacts and design mitigation measures
if necessary; (iv) better identify the project benefits; and (v) propose a simple method of monitoring any
possible social impact arising from the project during its implementation.
- 16 -



The social assessment comprised field research of subprojects completed under the HRTS project and also
subprojects to be implemented under the 2001 program in two social, economic and culturally distinct
regions, the Western Region, comprising coastal areas of Jalisco, Nayarit and Sinaloa states; and the-Gulf
Region, including Veracruz, Tamaulipas and San Luis Potosi states. Overall, the survey analized 398 km
of road subprojects and six bridges along a total distance of more than 4,000 km (a summary of the social
assessment is included as Annex 11; the full report is available in the Project Files).
Possible Social Impacts
The social assessment confirmed that the rehabilitation and maintenance works under the project will not
cause any social impacts and is in compliance with Bank policies, OD 4.30 Involuntary Resettlement or
OD 4.20 Indigenous Peoples. On the contrary, municipal and local authorities, as well as beneficiaries
interviewed during the social assessment pointed out that road improvement is a priority and they expect
to benefit from better access to markets and services.
(a)    Resettlement
The Bank has reviewed the overall three year program of said works to be carried out under the proposed
Project and assessed in detail the year 2001 program thus removing any uncertainty about resettlement
issues. Moreover, as project implementation proceeds, no resettlement is expected because of the
following reasons:
Scope. The project focuses on maintenance and rehabilitation of the long existing (30 year old) federal
network that features high volumes of traffic and that connects by definition the country's capital
(Mexico City) with state capitals, main ports and major cities. Thus the federal network connects long
developed regions rather than incorporating new areas that may incur the risk of resettlement. As a result
the focus of this project will be primarily on maintaining the competitiveness of the country.
Technical. The project is a follow-up of the HRTS project, which did not incur any involuntary
resettlement or land acquisitions. All works are to be carried out within the existing platform of the road;
there are no changes in road alignment, elevated ways, or bypasses or any other work beyond the existing
geometrical design. The field research proved that this is the case of the proposed works for the year
2001. The Bank will review and agree in advance on the work program for the following years to ensure
that only works that fit the technical, economic and social criteria are implemented.
Institutional. SCT's internal regulations do not allow the project executing agency (DGCC) to undertake
works that require land acquisition, occupy land beyond the original right of way or incur any involuntary
resettlement.
Legal. Several articles of Mexico's applicable laws (the Ley de Vias Generales de Comunicacion and
Ley General de Bienes Nacionales) specifically forbid occupation of the right of way of federal roads.
Illegal occupation of the right of way is a federal violation that has been strongly enforced. Centros SCT
(decentralized SCT units, one in each state) through their Right of Way Units, are in charge of enforcing
this regulation. This process has discouraged irregular occupation of the right of way of the federal roads.
Social. The high traffic levels of the federal roads, of which approximately 25% is heavy vehicles, make
it difficult and dangerous to establish irregular settlements along these roads. There are however, seasonal
and occasional vendors in some segments of the roads (during harvests for instance). SCT has tolerated
- 17 -



this occasional use of the right of way but it issues a "notice of advice" that fixed structures are forbidden.
Established businesses are careful to keep out of the right of way to avoid sanctions and they support this
control as it helps to minimize "unfair competition" from merchants operating illegally within the RoW.
Following the survey of some 4,000 km of roads, the social assessment corroborated these findings. (The
Project Files contain further details and photos).
(b)    Indigenous People
Because the proposed project involves only works within the long established federal highway network
serving major cities and well developed urban areas, indigenous communities are not affected. The Social
assessment verified that no indigenous communities will be affected adversely by the proposed Project, as
proved by the field visits to states with important indigenous populations such as Nayarit and Veracruz.
On the contrary, rural communities that live in isolation, including some with indigenous population can
benefit from the access, through feeder roads, to existing federal roads. Indigenous communities around
Ixmiquilpan in the Mezquital Valley, visited during project preparation, are a good example of such
benefits. In the opinion of local authorities and beneficiaries interviewed, having access to roads is a
priority demand for most indigenous communities.
(c)    Cultural Assets
There is no danger of damaging cultural assets because of the scope of the project and above-mentioned
technical reasons. Any occasional (chance) findings are protected under the contracts with the private
firms executing the works and Mexican regulations.
(d)    Other Social Issues
Beneficiaries mentioned other minor social issues that may occur during execution of the works such as
delays in finishing the works, deviations, inadequate signaling, etc. All of these aspects are governed by
specific clauses of the construction contracts with SCT and will be enforced during implementation.
(e)    Weigh Stations
Under the proposed project two such stations will be built: (i) one twin scale station near Palmillas in
Queretaro State; and (ii) a single scale station in Nuevo Laredo, near the border with USA in the State of
Tamaulipas. According to SCT, this type of infrastructure requires a strip of land one kilometer long by
6 meters wide on average, largely to provide deceleration and acceleration lanes. Because a station can be
built at any point along any given road it is possible to avoid sites that involve displacement of people or
any other social impact. The stations in Nuevo Laredo and Palmillas will be situated so as to meet similar
conditions and to avoid any social impact. This agreement has been reached at negotiations. The land in
the areas in which both stations will be located is unoccupied land and the purchase of said land will be
carried out in accordance with OD 4.30. It was further agreed during negotiations that no bidding
documents will be issued for the construction of said stations until the Bank has received, evidence
acceptable to the Bank, that the land on which each station will be located has been acquired in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank. Land has already been obtained for the Palmillas station.
Implementation Framework
To ensure that the rehabilitation and maintenance works under the Project are in compliance with Bank
policies during implementation, an "Implementation Framework", comprising technical, social, and
- 18 -



environmental criteria, has been prepared and included as Annex 12. This Implementation Framework
includes:
Proposed Subprojects: Starting in September 2001, SCT would submit to the Bank the HMP and
BRP detailing the subprojects to be carried out during the next year, under a letter to be signed by the
Sub-Secretario of Infrastructure.
*     Proof of compliance.  SCT will provide supporting information to ensure that all subprcect
candidates meet agreed criteria in terms of their- (i) technical; (ii) economic; and (iii) social aspects.
*      Verification. The SCT's letter would confirm that there is no land acquisition requirements nor the
need to resettle people.
*     Annual Reviews. The Bank supervision team will carry out annual reviews of compliance with the
social, environmental, and other policies.
Using as a model the social assessment recently carried out, subsequent social compliance reviews will
include: (i) reports on work progress to ensure that communities are not adversely affected; (ii) selection
and supervision of a sample from the proposed annual program to identify possible social impacts; and (iii)
quick consultations with municipal and local officials, as well as potential beneficiaries.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Because the federal network is long established and the type of works in the project require certain
specialization, direct involvement of local communities is limited. However, local people interviewed
during the social assessment mentioned these works as a source of temporary employment and an indiirect
source of income.
The SCT center in each state, which is responsible for supervising all works in federal roads, should inform
the community in adance about the type and duration of the works to be carried out under its jurisdiction
and address any conflicts that might arise during execution.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
See above
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
Mitigation measures and a framework to regulate project implementation was agreed during negotiations.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Not applicable
- 19 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the followin safeguard policies appIy to the project?
Policy   i                                 Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)             0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                     0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                      0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                         o Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                    0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                     O Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                               0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)     0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)           0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
See sections 5 and 6.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of the project would be determined by subsequent adequate maintenance of the
rehabilitated roads and the continued application of the improved maintenance management systems.
Regarding road maintenance funding, the government is currently carrying out a comprehensive review of
SCT's highway financing issues with Bank assistance under another operation. The review is expected to
lead ultimately to the establishment of financing mechanisms that will ensure the financial sustainability of
the sector. In terms of institution building, SCT has demonstrated its willingness and commitment to the
application of systems and skills to be developed under the project, through its performance under the
ongoing HRTS project.
- 20 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
(i) The Government does not increase its  M         Recent budgetary provisions have demonstrated
road maintenance funding to appropriate             an improving trend.
levels.
(ii) The procurement documents can not    M         The documents will be based on models being
be designed timely for comprehensive                used in other countries. Consultants will assist
maintenance.                                        SCT to adapt them to Mexico.
(iii) There will not be adequate          M         SCT through DGAF has adequate regulations
enforcement of weight and dimensions                and institutional arrangements in place ifor
regulations. -                                      enforcement.
(iv) The SCT does not place sufficient     N        Momentum will be maintained through the
emphasis on institutional development and           introduction of new modeling techniques
improvement in maintenance                          (HDM-4) and through staff training and study
management.                                         tours.
(v) The Government does not agree on a    M         Government has been implementing
decentralization strategy to be                     decentralization programs and their efforts are
implemented.                                        being reinforced by this and other Bank
programs.
(vi) The SHCP will not maintain dialogue  M         SHCP has accorded high priority to resolving
on financing issues.                                financing issues. Additional support will also be
provided under another Bank operation.
From Components to Outputs
Adequate counterpart funds are not        M         Timely supervision missions by the Bank will
available on a timely basis.                        help ensure the availability of counterpart funds
supported by loan covenants.
SCT does not follow Bank procurement      M         Use of Bank standard documents combined with
procedures.                                         continuous follow-up by Resident Mission staff.
SCT reduces priority assigned to          M         Project will finance training for SCT staff in
institutional development.                          management, policy and institutional issues.
Overall Risk Rating                       M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Not applicable.
-21 -



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The Borrower and the Guarantor will enter into contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for the
transfer of loan funds.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
(a) Dated Covenants for the Annual Highway and Bridge Programs:
(i) the DGCC will prepare an annual HMP, starting in year 2002, with the SISTER Model or the HDM-4
Model, provided that subprojects to be included in HMP for year 2003 shall be designed in accordance
with the HDM-4 Model, that will feature adequate expenditure balance between road rehabilitation,
resurfacing and maintenance needs;
(ii) the Government will review with the Bank, by October 31, of each year the budget proposals for the
following year, and by February 15 of such year the HMP and BRP budget approved for that fiscal year;
and
(iii) the annual HMP and BRP will comply with the criteria shown in the Implementation Framework (IF)
outlined in Annex 12.  The Borrower will submit the annual programs for Bank review in an
Implementation Letter covering the: (i) technical requirements; (ii) economic feasibility; (iii) environmental
procedures; and (iv) social compliance that includes: (a) legal certification of the right of way; and (b)
consultation with municipalities.
(b) Reporting:
(i) that the SCT will prepare and furnish to the Bank, 45 days after the end of each year, a summary report
assessing progress made in implementing the annual HMP and BRP;
(ii) on the arrangements for project monitoring; scope and timing of the annual and mid-term reviews and
scope and frequency of progress reports; and
(iii) that at the mid-term review, the performance of the project will be examined thoroughly.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
r 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
D 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
- 22 -



1. Compliance with Bank Policies
Z 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all ther applicable Bank policies.
Jos   onso-Biarge                Danny M. Leipziger                Olivier Lafourc de
Team Leader                      Sector Manager /                  Country Manager
- 23-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
MEXICO: FEDERAL HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
The project supports overall  Removal of transportation    Bank and Government annual That the Government would
CAS objectives related to  bottlenecks in key export    consultative meetings.  continue to pursue a
removing obstacles to     corridors.                                            development strategy which
sustainable growth and                                                          emphasizes the alleviation of
maintaining macroeconomic                                                       poverty and increased
stability in the context of                                                     economic growth.
globalization. Specifically, it
will support Government and
Bank strategies related to:
(i) removing impediments to  Improved financing      Review of work done on the   That the Government will
private sector growth and  mechanisms for road sector.  highway financing mechanism pursue its plan for enhanced
competitiveness; and      Improved contract          and on toll roads.         sustainability of road sector
management procedures.                               financing.
(ii) ensuring the provision of  Improving management of the Increasing from 57% to 64%   Timely implementation of the
quality infrastructure.   federal highway network.    the share of the network  project.
(41,865 km) in good and fair
condition.
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
To improve transport      Reduction in VOC on project Information from SCT surveys That counterpart funds will be
efficiency on the road network roads (an average reduction of and annual inventory.  provided in a timely manner
20% compared with the                                and at adequate levels.
current value)
To improve SCT's           Timely preparation of HMP   Analysis of rehabilitation and SCT willingness to phase out
rehabilitation and        and BRP economically       maintenance plans.        its SISTER model, and
maintenance planning      prioritized annual plans.                             upgrade staff capacity as well
performance.                                                                    as the collection and analysis
procedures needed for
HDM-4.
To enhance private-sector    Amounts invested and number Supervision consultants'  That SCT accords priority to
participation in road     of contracts managed       reports on maintenance    implementing maintenance by
maintenance.              annually, including the    programs, including the pilot contract and the pilot program
comprehensive maintenance  program of comprehensive    of comprehensive
contracts.                maintenance by contract.   maintenance.
- 24 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators         Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
A. Civil Works
(i) Highway Maintenance and (a) km of roads maintained   (a) Bank's supervision  That the Government
Rehabilitation            and rehabilitated under the    missions; (b) civil works  continues to increase its road
project; (b) number of bridges supervision consultants'  maintenance funding to match
rehabilitated; and (c)    reports; (c) field        the rehabilitation rate.
condition of roads in terms of measurements by SCT; and
roughness reduction.      (d) borrower's completion
report.
(ii) Comprehensive        Introduction of comprehensive SCT's annual reports and  That procurement documents
Maintenance               maintenance concept to     Bank's supervision missions.  can be designed timely for
Mexico.                                              comprehensive maintenance.
Successful implementation
and analysis of steps taken to
improve road maintenance.
(iii) Weight Control Stations  Effective operation and  SCT's annual reports and  That there will be adequate
subsequent reduction of   Bank's supervision missions.  enforcement of weight and
vehicle overloading.                                 dimensions regulations.
B. Capacity Building
(i) Annual Planning and   Establishment of HDM-4     SCT's annual reports and   That SCT continues to
Prioritizing              team.                      Bank's supervision missions.  consider institutional
Road condition inventories                           development and
carried out on time each year.                      improvement in maintenance
% of contracts completed on                          management as a high
time.                                                priority objective.
(ii) Decentralization Strategy  Decentralization strategies    Consultants' reports and  That the Government agrees
suitable for Mexico axe   Bank's supervision missions  on the decentralization
designed.                 and sector work.           strategy to be implernented.
(iii) Highway Financing   Analysis completed and     SCT's annual reports and    That SHCP is willing to
Mechanisms and Toll Roads  workshops on strategic options Bank's sector work.   maintain a dialogue on
held by SCT.                                         financing issues.
Solutions are designed for the
acute sector financing
problems.
- 25 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives         rIndicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                            Outputs)
I. Highway Maintenance    245.0
and Rehabilitation
Rehabilitation of selected                           Information from road work  I, II and III: (a) that adequate
federal roads and bridges                            consultants supervision    counterpart funds are
including supervision of the                         reports against benchmarks   available; and (b) that SCT
entire LIMP and BRP                                  established at appraisal.  continues to use the Bank's
(2001-2003).                                                                    standard documents for
procurement.
II. Pilot Program of
Comprehensive             19.5
Maintenance                                          Supervision reports.
Including provision of
consulting services for design
and supervision.
III. Construction of 2    4.5
Weight Control Stations
To support the pilot program                         Supervision reports.       II and IV: that SCT continues
of national vehicle weight and                                                  to give high priority to
dimensions control.                                                            institutional development.
IV. Institutional         4.0
Strengthening
Provision of consulting                              Supervision reports.
services for: implementing the
HDM-4; developing a strategy
for road decentralization;
implementing the selected
road financing mechanism;
implementing the strategy to
be recommended for toll
roads; and staff training.
V. Contingencies          33.82
VI. Front end fee         2.18
Total                     309.0
- 26 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
MEXICO: FEDERAL HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
By Component:
Project Component I - US$245.00 million
A. Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance - SCT has prepared the 2001-2003 HMP and BRP along
key segments of the 41,865 km federal highway network based on the results of a series of simulations of
various strategies of road maintenance rehabilitation and resurfacing using the SISTER model. The
programs require a total expenditure level of about US$380 million per year.
This component includes subprojects selected from those programs and is composed of:
Part Al. Rehabilitation of about 1000 km of highways, with an estimated cost of US$150 million, from
which the Bank would finance 70% of the total cost. The works are designed to improve the base, sub-base
and pavement bearing capacity required by the relatively high percentage of trucks in the traffic stream.
Rehabilitation works may also include the improvement/repair of drainage and sub-drainage systems and of
shoulders. The table below shows the first year rehabilitation program.
First Year Rehabilitation Propram
Condi
Initial  Final Length Jion Traffic  Cost
Road                                 State     km    km  (km) (1-20' ADT  (M US$)
El Sueco-Janos                       Chihua   97.6  112.0  14.4    1   2120       1.62
Monclova-Piedras Negras Cpo.A        Coahui  116.0  127.0  11.0    1   6495       1.24
Piedras Negras-Cd. Acufia            Coahui   14.0  17.0  3.0    1   2540         0.34
Lim.Edosqro./Gto.-Limedosgto./Slp.C.B   Guanaj  37.0  46.0  9.0    1   7717       1.01
Lim.Edosqro./Gto.-Limedosgto./Slp.C.B   Guanaj  46.0  62.0  16.0    1  6772       1.80
Lim.Edosqro./Gto.-Limedosgto./Slp.C.B   Guanaj  62.0  67.0  5.0    1  6772        0.56
Lim.Edos.Mex./Hgo.-Pachuca           Hidalg   49.0  50.0  1.0    1  10249         0.15
Lim.Edos.Mex./Hgo.-Pachuca           Hidalg   53.0  58.0  5.0    1   6943         0.75
Lim.Edos.Mich./Jal.-T.Acatlan        Jalisc    65.0  82.0  17.0    1   6300       2.55
Jiquilpan-Lim.Edos.Mich./Jal (2 Cpos)   Michoa   0.0   5.0  10.0    1  10781      1.50
Cuautla-Lim. Edos.Mor./Pue.          Morelo  77.1   89.0  11.9   3   12259        2.16
San Gregorio-Oaxtepec                Morelo  35.5  38.5  3.0    2   3992          0.54
Lib. Norte De Monterrey              Nvo. L   15.0  35.0  20.0    1   8655        3.00
Huajuapan De Leon-Oaxaca             Oaxaca  60.0  72.5  12.5    1   2470         1.41
Lim.Edos.Mex./Pue.-Puebla            Puebla   72.0  81.0  9.0    2  11790         1.15
Lim.Edos.Mex./Qro.-Palmillas         Queret  128.0  132.0  4.0    1   4563        0.60
Lim.Edos.Nay./Sin.-Mazatlan          Sinalo  144.6  160.0  15.4   5   5690        2.48
Lim.Edos.Nay./Sin.-Mazatlan          Sinalo  190.0  199.2  9.2    5   5690        1.38
Estacion Manuel-La Coma              Tamaul 107.0  132.0  25.0   2   2200         2.81
Tampico-Estacion Manuel Cpo.A        Tamaul  25.0  36.0  11.0    1   8292         1.24
Lib.Apizaco                          Tlaxca    0.0   10.5  10.5   5   9060        1.34
Cordoba-Veracruz                     Veracr   59.0  80.0  21.0   4   9490         3.78
Naranjos-Ozuluama                    Veracr   78.6  100.0  21.4    1   4455       3.85
Tihuatlan-Alazan                     Veracr   45.0  57.0  12.0    1   5275        2.16
Jalpa-Zacatecas                      Zacate  285.0  298.0  13.0   2   7060        1.95
Jalpa-Zacatecas                      Zacate  308.0  312.0  4.0    2   7060        0.60
Lim.Edos.Ags./Zac.-Jalpa             Zacate   78.5  85.0  6.5    4   1981         0.98
Total                                                      300.8                 42.93
Condition: 1-6 Very Bad, 7-11 Bad, 12-17 Regular, 18-20 Good
- 27 -



Part A2. Periodic maintenance of about 1200 km, with an estimated cost of US$60 million, from which the
Bank would finance 70% of the total cost. The works are designed to protect the pavement's useful life
and improve the physical conditions of the surface, shoulders and drainage ditches. The table below shows
the first year periodic maintenance program.
First Year Periodic Maintenance Pros am
Condi
Initial  Final Length _tion Traffic  Cost
Road                                 State     km    km  (km) (1-20' ADT  (M US$)
Leon-Aguascalientes (2 Cpos).       Aguasc  103.0  110.9  15.8   9  11190        0.49
Mexicali-Tecate                      Baja C    0.0  18.0  18.0   6   9624        1.49
Mexicali-Tecate                      Baja C  109.0  113.0  4.0    7   4447       0.21
Lim. Edos. Tab./Camp.-Cescarcega     Campec 200.0  230.0  30.0  11  2100         0.63
Delicias-Chihuahua (Cpo. B)          Chihua  186.0  203.0  17.0   6   4630       0.55
Saltillo-Monterrey (Cpo. A)         Coahui  15.3  32.9  17.6   9  11305          0.49
Colima-T. Tecoman (Cpo. A)           Colima   33.0  37.0  4.0    7   5655        0.17
Colima-T. Tecoman (Cpo. A)           Colima   12.0  16.5  4.5    7   5213        0.17
Colima-T. Tecoman (Cpo. B)           Colima   26.0  29.0  3.0    7   5374        0.06
Gom. Pa.-Li.Edo.Dgo./Chi.(2 Cps.)    Durang  25.0  40.0  30.0   7   7470         1.08
Celaya-Salamanca                     Guanaj  57.0  81.0  24.0   3   18077        0.77
Queretaro-San Luis Potosi (Cp. B)    Guanaj  67.0  89.0  22.0   2   6772         0.71
Acapulco-Zihuatanejo                 Guerre   69.0  74.0  5.0    1   5478        0.26
Acapulco-Zihuatanejo                 Guerre  135.0  144.0  9.0    1   5805       0.47
Iguala-Chilpancingo                  Guerre  124.0  140.0  16.0  12  13215       0.46
Guadalajara-Lim. Edos. Jal./Zac.     Jalisc    46.0  77.0  31.0    1   2853      1.33
Toluca-Cd. Altamirano                Mexico  49.0  80.0  31.0   5   4728         1.60
Libramiento Norte De Zamora          Michoa   0.0   7.0  7.0    1   5068         0.30
Cuemavaca-Lim. Edos. Mor./Gro.       Morelo  37.0  41.0  4.0    7   5500         0.10
Matehuala-Saltillo                   Nuevo  100.0  130.0  30.0    1   7940       1.29
Oaxaca-Tehuantepec                   Oaxaca  41.0  48.0  7.0    3   3370         0.23
Ent. San Hipolito-Tehuacan           Puebla   39.0  59.0  20.0    1  12360       1.17
San Juan Del Rio-Xilitla             Queret   43.0  55.0  12.0   4   2985        0.52
Reforma Agraria-Puerto Juarez        Quinta    0.0   9.0  9.0    9   3472        0.39
San Luis Potosi-Ojuelos              S.L.P.   40.0  45.0  5.0   11  3900         0.22
Lim. Edos. Chis./Tab.-EI Bellote     Tabasc  167.0  176.0  9.0    8   7315       0.28
Est. Gonzalez-Ent. Llera De Canales  Tamaul  30.0  60.0  30.0    1   3490        0.97
Lim. Edos. Mex./Tlax.-Apizaco       Tlaxca   74.0  87.0  13.0   5  10295         0.40
Cd. Aleman-Sayula                    Veracr  127.0  136.0  9.0    1   8540       0.75
Merida-Puerto Juarez                 Yucata  161.0  230.0  69.0   5   2662       2.23
Lim. Edos. Jal/.Zac.-Jalpa           Zacate   96.0  116.0  20.0    1  3770       1.38
Total                                                     525.9                 21.14
Condition: 1-6 Very Bad, 7-11 Bad, 12-17 Regular, 18-20 Good
Part A3. Rehabilitation of 100 bridges with an estimated cost of US$20 million, from which the Bank
would finance 70% of the total cost. The works are designed to ensure the superstructure's ability to
support the loads imposed by heavy traffic, and adapt its width to that of the road they are part of;
repair/reinforce the superstructure, supports, the structural elements, and their protection against erosion.
The table below shows the first year bridge rehabilitation program.
- 28 -



First Year Bridee Rehabilitation Pro nm
Condi
Length Jtion Traffic  Cost
Bridge                              State            knr  (m)  (0-5) ADT  (M US$)
Arroyo Seco Der. (100)              Baja C       26+600   47    4   12128       0.12
Arroyo Seco lzq. (100)              Baja C       26+600   47    4  12128        0.12
El Saltito (100)                    Baja C      122+250   85    4   1446        0.12
Icahao Izq. (100)                   Campec      155+000   17    4   3180        0.10
Si - Ho (100)                       Campec      166+458   17    4   3180        0.10
Candelaria Ii (100)                 Campec      218+240  125   4   2582         0.21
El Dorado N*3 (100)                 Coahui       74+580   19    5   3706        0.02
El Pilar Izq. (101)                 Coahui       16+600  21    4   5785         0.25
La Becerra (100)                    Coahui      182+700   50    4   4746        0.24
El Dorado N* I (100)                Coahui       72+200   23    4   3300        0.03
El Dorado N* 2 (100)                Coahui       73+700   24    4   3706        0.03
El Dorado N* 4 (100)                Coahui       75+400   17    4   3706        0.02
Marabascoli(101)                    Colima       53+200  117   4   1157         0.25
Cahuacan (100)                      Chiapa      296+300   78    5   9560        0.13
Peatonal Urbina (100)               Chiapa      138+720   35    5   5432        0.03
ElOjito(100)                        Chihua      181+750   23    4  10319        0.16
San Ignacio (100)                   Chihua       75+200   29    4   8009        0.12
Las Agujas (101)                    Chihua      368+600  100   4   1780         0.13
El Pastor(101)                      Chihua      105+500   23    4   1312        0.10
Canitas (100)                       Durang      136+000   22    4   6108        0.05
Providencia Iii (101)               Durang        4+700   11    4   850         0.02
Tecuescontitlan 1(100)              Guerre      147+950   26    4   7418        0.25
Ayutla (101 )                       Guerre       80+312   71    4   724         0.19
ElGuaricho(101)                     Jalisc       38+000   31    4   8069        0.18
Querendaro Izq. (100)               Michoa      134+500  21    4   3220         0.12
Guacamayas Ii lzq.                  Michoa         1+726   82    4   2866       0.11
Rio Santiago (100)                  Nayari       50+484  303    4   8750        0.25
Acaponeta (100)                     Nayari      132+859  168   4   7340         0.35
ElTropical(101)                     Nayari       11+020  31    4   3177         0.10
Chalma (101)                        Nayari       18+650   33    4   2697        0.03
Novillero (101)                     Nayari       33+096  181    4   2087        0.25
El Palillo(101)                     Nayari       13+929   75    4   1442        0.02
Carbajal Der, (100)                 Nuevo        54+600   59    4  17600        0.30
El Salado (100)                     Nuevo       155+100  111    4   17600       0.65
Palmeras (100)                      Nuevo        72+300   14    4   6570        0.07
Puente Bajo (100)                   Nuevo        74+400   12    4   6570        0.05
De La Cruz (100)                    Nuevo       110+600   14    4   6570        0.08
El Solitario Izq. (100)             Nuevo       180+400   14    4   6570        0.08
Atotonilco (100)                   Puebla       97+440   36    4   4836        0.10
Cafiones (101)                      San Lu       33+311   13    4   3384        0.12
Taman (101)                         San Lu      260+940   23    4   2807        0.12
Presidio Auxiliar (100)             Sinalo      268+554  132    5  17490        0.50
Nevarez (100)                       Sinalo       113+953   16    4   6033       0.07
Estacion (100)                      Sonora      114+600   11    4   8314        0.08
El Maraton (100)                    Sonora       25+970   11    4   6099        0.09
Corona Poniente (100)               Tamaul       25+880  117   4   6824         0.06
Las Casitas (100)                   Tamaul        9+050   6      4   3628       0.02
Peatonal El Naranjito               Veracr       28+500   35    5   4610        0.10
Tamosl(100)                         Veracr      123+200   26    4   8935        0.11
Tampamachoco (101)                  Veracr        8+000  145   4   4735         0.15
Jarillas (100)                      Zacate       44+590   10    4   14541       0.08
Total                                                     2754                  7.00
Condition: 0 - Excellent, 5 - Very Poor
- 29-



Part A4. Consultants services for the supervision of the 2001-2003 DGCC Highway Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Program and Bridge Rehabilitation Program, including those works not financed by the Bank,
with an estimated cost of US$15 million from which the Bank would finance 70% of the total cost. These
supervision services will be directly retained by DGCC's Directorate of Supervision and Control, at the
central offices, but performed at each of the 31 SCT Centers responsible for the execution of the works
through civil works contractors.
Subprojects from those programs will be selected for project financing based on the following criteria: (i)
have an ERR calculated in accordance with a method satisfactory to the Bank of at least 12% each; (ii)
neither have significant negative environmental or social implications nor require changes in the road
geometrical design; and (iii) have a structural design life of at least 15 years in the case of highway
rehabilitation subprojects.
Project Component 2 - US$19.50 million
Part B. Pilot Project for Comprehensive Maintenance by Contract
Introduction of comprehensive maintenance by contract through a pilot program, including technical
assistance for design and implementation. This three-year program includes comprehensive maintenance
(periodic and routine), rehabilitation of selected segments of roads and of bridges, some minor works,
operation of road side facilities for assistance to road users, preparation of short-term implementation
programs, training and management of the program. Maintenance by contract is being piloted because
there has been no experience with comprehensive maintenance contracts in Mexico. These contracts are
also a first step towards the implementation of rehabilitation and maintenance contracts based on
performance (or CREMA contracts, as they are called in Latin America), which are practically the same as
comprehensive maintenance by contract with the only difference being that the comprehensive maintenance
program as proposed here is based on unit prices and lump sums.
This pilot comprises a comprehensive maintenance program along two important routes covering 242.5 two
lane km equivalent of the federal highway network. The routes are number 136, a two-lane highway in the
State of Tlaxcala, between the limits with the states of Mexico and Puebla (121 km), and route number 110
in the State of Guanajuato, between Irapuato and La Piedad (42.5 km of a two-lane highway and 39.5 km
of a four-lane highway, totaling 121.5 of a two-lane highway). The component will be split into two
contracts of three years, one for each route. The comprehensive maintenance program is composed of:
Part B 1. Civil Works (US$18.0 million). Two contracts of three years duration and with activities grouped
as follows: (i) routine maintenance in the 242.5 km of both routes: operations that should be programmed
and performed at least once a year; (ii) periodic maintenance in 100 km (50 km in each contract):
operations that can be planned for and which must be carried out periodically, normally for periods
exceeding one year, to ensure the adequacy of the condition of the highways; (iii) depending on the
deficiencies presented by some of the sections of the highways in the contract, rehabilitation up to 15 km in
each route and other priority actions to be carried out in the first year of the contract; (iv) rehabilitation of
bridges in both routes as needed; (iv) minor works: occasional activities aimed at correcting deficiencies or
improving certain parts of the highway; (v) program management: all those tasks required to plan, monitor
and document the execution and evaluation of the work and activities carried out; and (vi) training in
comprehensive maintenance activities for maintenance professionals and specialists of the public and
private sectors. The proposed loan would finance 70% of this Part.
Part B2. Provision of consulting services for work supervision and for preparing and managing the
program (US$1.5 million). The proposed loan would finance 70%.
- 30-



Table - Comprehensive Maintenance by Contract Pro ram Routes
Length    Width               Traffic   Condition    Cost
Route  Start     End     (km)       (m)      Surface    (ADT)    Rafing  (USS'OOO)    State
10,500
Limite   Limite                                 (35-41%
Estado    Estado                                 heavy
136   Mexico   Puebla    121.0    7.50-8.00   AC      vehicles)    Fair    9,000    Tlaxcala
9,277-
13,593
(35%-40%
7.30/12             heavy
110  Irapuato  La Piedad  121.5 *  2 x 11     AC      vehicles)   Fair to    9,000   Guanajuato
good
Total             242.5                                            18,000
*42.5 km two-lane road.
* 39.5 mn four-lane road.
Project Component 3 - US$ 4.50 million
C. Vehicle Weight and Dimensions Control Stations.
Under the HRTS project a study to control weights and dimensions of vehicles in Mexico was financed.
The study defined the mechanisms needed to establish a weight and dimensions control program along the
federal highway network. As a result of the study, and also through the HRTS project, the Bank financed
the acquisition of 37 mobile scales that are currently in operation. However, the study recommended also
the establishment of fixed weigh stations at strategically located points on roads with the highest volumes
of heavy vehicles. The principle being proposed is for a low speed weigh-in-motion operation, since this
allows for faster processing of vehicles and then only infringing vehicles are stopped and inspected. This
project component will complement the mobile program by piloting the use of fixed scales at 2 stations (one
single station, for only one traffic direction, on the route to the US border in Nuevo Laredo, and one twin
station for both sides of another route in Palmillas in the state of Queretaro). The fixed scales can be very
helpful and will contribute to the already successfully started program of weights and dimension control,
but a strong emphasis will be placed on monitoring and on defining how to judge the results of their
effectiveness. The overall enforcement environment and provision for making the new stations effective
looks appropriate.
The project will finance only the civil works of the stations, including acceleration and deceleration lanes
and the station buildings with complementary services for physical-mechanical inspection of the vehicles,
and physical and medical examination of the drivers. The equipment, including its installation, will be
financed by the Government.
The project would finance 70% of Part C.
Project Component 4 - US$4.00 million
D. Institutional Strengthening. Provision of technical assistance to SCT for:
Part Dl. Implementing the HDM-4 in the DGCC and its departmental offices to improve road
maintenance management.
This project sub-component aims at implementing the Highway Development Management Model
(HDM-4) in Mexico for network level and project level technical economic evaluation of maintenance and
- 31 -



improvement options. HDM-4 will gradually complement and replace the current system being used in
Mexico for maintenance works planning (SISTER), which was implemented in Mexico in 1994. This
change is justified because SISTER lacks capability for prediction of road conditions and HDM-4 has a
wider range of functionality including strategic planning, programming and project evaluation.
The SISTER system is a useful planning tool at a network level because it systematically collects every
year the traffic and the condition of the network, by means of a surface quality index based on a detailed
visual survey, and has means of assessing the physical, agency and road user cost consequences of
implementing different maintenance policies. HDM4 will be a more comprehensive network planing tool,
because it also considers the roughness and strength of roads, has detailed models to predict the road
deterioration and road user costs under local conditions, and more evaluation options. HDM-4 will also be
more useful to the preparation of a more detailed work program, perform the economic evaluation of any
maintenance or improvement project, help fornulate technical policies, and help formulate proper road user
charges.
The HDM-4 implementation will involve the following steps: (a) definition of a working group to carry out
the implementation; (b) HDM-4 training and familiarization with the experience in other Latin American
countries either by means of inviting experts to visit Mexico or by the participation of Mexican
professionals at international HDM-4 events; (c) review and adaptation of the current SISTER visual
survey methodology for possible improvements; (d) definition of new network data to be collected
(roughness, deflections, etc.) and of the level of detail, extent and methods of collection of all data, to
determine the most sustainable approach for DGCC; (e) data collection at network and project levels; (e
project level and network level evaluations; and g) calibration and systematization of all of the processes.
Staff training, the definition of network data to be collected, and a pilot data collection for selected roads
will be carried in 2000 and 2001 with the objective of performing the economic evaluation of the road
maintenance works program of the second year of the project (2002) with HDM-4. A full network data
collection will be done in 2002 to start perforrning the planning and programming of maintenance works,
with HDM-4, starting in 2003. The cost of this Part includes acquisition of road survey
equipment needed for the installation and operation of the model and office equipment. -
Part D2. Developing a strategy for decentralizing road administration. The project will include technical
assistance to support the decentralization strategy to be followed, after the new Government analyzes and
selects among the alternatives to be proposed by a study being carried out under separate financing. This
study will analyze diverse decentralization models to select those considered suitable for Mexico, in order
to have sufficient elements to propose one or several options to the new Government. The project will
support the implementation of the selected alternative. Prior to the definition of the scope and final
composition of the technical assistance required, foreign experts that have participated in decentralization
processes in other countries/regions would visit Mexico and transmit to SCT and SHCP lessons learned in
other countries. The relationship between the decentralization process and the prospects for developing
sustainable road network financing mechanisms will be one of the major themes to be discussed.
Part D3. Implementing a road financing mechanism. After long delays, the Government finally agreed to
prepare the study and recommendations on the road financing strategies and resource mobilization options.
The study is currently underway and its completion is scheduled for December 2000.  Its
recommendations are expected to be discussed with the Government by February 2001 and, if the Bank and
the Government agree with regard to the suitability of such recommendations, the latter will prepare by
April 2001, and thereafter carry out, an action plan satisfactory to the Bank with respect to the
implementation of such recommendations.
- 32 -



Part D4. Implementing the government strategy on toll roads. There is a debt of over US$9 billion, arising
from government's rescue of 23 unsuccessful private toll roads. Private sector investments for additional
toll roads have dried up both due to Mexico's financial problems and to experience with the existing toll
roads. A study is underway to analyze and then discuss with the new authorities the possible alternatives to
solve the problem created by the rescued toll roads (FARAC). Beyond the immediate concerns of
managing the debt, the study analyzes the possibility to undertake a more strategic, long term view of toll
roads and their role in the national transportation framework and the potential to generate new revenues,
improve the utilization of existing and planned facilities, correct deterioration of FARAC infrastructure,
and facilitate private investment in new roads. Among other recommendations, the preliminary report of the
study proposes to replace both CAPUFE and FARAC with a new entity for managing, operating and
financing Mexico's public toll roads, with the existing entities as legal "shells" for purposes of preserving
prior financial obligations. This recommendation is intended to yield a functional realignment and
institutional framework for managing Mexico's road investment and maintenance needs more
comprehensively. Once the study is completed, its recommendations will be discussed with the Government.
In the meantime, at the government's request, the Bank will prepare a project to assist the SCT on highway
financing issues. When a strategy is adopted finally by the Government, the project would assist the SCT in
implementing that strategy.
Part D5. Staff training, for continuation of the training program started under the HRTS Project for the
SCT directorates most involved in the project, emphasizing technical, managerial and administrative
training. It would include equipment, fornal training courses, attendance at conferences and study tours,
both in Mexico and abroad.
The proposed loan would finance 100% of Parts DI to D5.
Project Component 5 - US$33.85 million
Project Component 6 - US$2.15 million
- 33 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
MEXICO: FEDERAL HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Local       Foreign       Total
ProJect Cost By Component              US $million   US $million   US $million
1. Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance               94.00       151.00       245.00
II. Pilot program for comprehensive maintenance by contract  5.20    14.30        19.50
III.Vehicle Weight and Dimensions Control Program        1.30         3.20         4.50
IV.Institutional Strengthening Program                   0.00         4.00         4.00
Total Baseline Cost                                    100.50       172.50       273.00
Physical Contingencies                                  7.55        19.20        26.75
Price Contingencies                                     2.95         4.12         7.07
Total Project Costs           111.00       195.82       306.82
Front-end fee                   2.18         2.18
Total Financing Required            111.00       198.00       309.00
Local       Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Category              US $million   US $million   US $million
0.00
Works                                                     95.05        157.45      252.50
Services                                                   5.45         14.85       20.30
Training                                                  0.00          0.20         0.20
Price contingencies                                       2.95          4.15         7.10
Physical contingencies                                     7.55         19.17       26.72
Total Project Costs   111.00        195.82       306.82
Front-end fee                   2.18         2.18
Total Financing Required   111.00        198.00       309.00
- 34 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
MEXICO: FEDERAL HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Rehab. &  Compreh.  Bridge
Maint.    Maint.    Maint.    All
Present Value of Flows   Program   Program   Program   Prozrams
Benefits (M$):         304        77       231       612
Costs (M$):             54        12       1 1       77
Net Benefits (M$):     250        65       220       535
IRR (%)                114%      140%     68%       111%
MIRR (%):              36%       38%       57%      40%
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The project's main objective is to reduce road transport costs and preserve the road network in an efficient
and sustainable manner. The proposed investments will reduce road user transport costs by lowering
vehicle operating and travel time costs. An economic analysis was done for the civil works programs under
the project consisting of: (i) rehabilitation and maintenance program (85% of civil works); (ii)
comprehensive maintenance by contract program (7% of civil works); and (iii) bridge rehabilitation
program (8% of civil works).The net present value (NPV) of the first year road rehabilitation and
maintenance works financed under the project is US$250 million with an internal rate of return (IRR) of
114% and a modified internal rate of return (MIRR) of 36%, considering a financing and reinvestment rate
of 12%. The NPV of the comprehensive maintenance program is US$65 million with an IRR of 140% and
a MIRR of 38%. The NPV of the first year bridge maintenance program is US$220 million with an IFIR
of 68% and a MIRR of 57%.
Main Assumptions:
Net benefits were evaluated using unit road user costs, estimated using the Highway Design and
Maintenance Standard Model (HDM-III), that were incorporated into the "Simulation de Strategies d'
Entretien Routier" (SISTER) planning system and the Road Economic Decision model (RED). SC.T
estimated maintenance and rehabilitation costs in financial and economic terms (net of taxes), economic
costs being on average 85 percent of financial costs; and defined vehicle fleet characteristics and unit costs
for five vehicle classes. Traffic growth rate was set to 3% based on past trends for the duration of the
analysis period. The discount rate was set to 12%. Typical economic road user costs as a function of
roughness and the typical traffic composition are given in the table below.
- 35 -



Tygical Vehicle Operating Costs ($/veh-km)
Roughness            Large    Light  Medium   Artic.
(IR1L      Car      Bus    Truck   Truck   Truck
2        0.22     0.65     0.21    0.42     1.09
3        0.23     0.66     0.21    0.43     1.10
4        0.23     0.68     0.22    0.46     1.15
5        0.24     0.70     0.23    0.50     1.22
6        0.25     0.72     0.24    0.53     1.28
7        0.26     0.74     0.25    0.57     1.35
8        0.28     0.77     0.27    0.61     1.42
9        0.30     0.80     0.28    0.65     1.49
10       0.32     0.83     0.29     0.69     1.56
11       0.34     0.87     0.31     0.74     1.63
12       0.36     0.90     0.33     0.78     1.71
TvDical Traffic Composition (%)
Paved Roads     70       6        2       17       5
Federal Network Rehabilitation and Periodic Maintenance Program
The road rehabilitation and periodic maintenance program and the comprehensive maintenance by contract
program are part of the investments of the Four-Year Rehabilitation and Maintenance Plan for 2001-2004
prepared by SCT. The 2001-2004 plan was defined by SCT evaluating the Federal Network (41,865 km)
using the SISTER planing system, that collects yearly data on network traffic and road condition, by means
of a surface quality index based on a detailed visual survey, and assesses the physical consequences and
road agency and road user costs of different maintenance strategies for a series of budget levels. An
analysis of the current network condition indicates that 23% of the network is in good condition, 34% in
fair condition (requiring seals or thin overlays), 19% in poor condition (requiring overlays) and 24% in
very poor condition (requiring thick overlays or reconstruction). The table below presents the 1999
condition and traffic distribution of the Federal Network.
I______      Mexico Federal Network in 1999 (km)
______          ~~~Road Condition
Daily                             Very
Traffic   Good    Fair    Poor    Poor    Total  Percent
500      871    2,003    1,555    1,831    6,259   15%
1500    2,627    5,145    3,020    3,480   14,271   34%
3000    4,519    5,301    2,753    3,824   16,398   39%
4500     1,271    1,381     733     874    4,259   10%
6000      248      266       82      82      678    2%
Total    9.536   14.096    8.142   10.092   41.865
Percent 123%      34%      19%      24%              100%
The Federal Network has a key subset called the Basic Network (22,805 km), which contains the most
functionally important roads. The table below presents the 1999 condition and traffic distribution of the
Basic Federal Network.
- 36 -



Mexico Basic Federal Network in 1999 (km)
Road Condition
Daily                               Very
Traffic   Good     Fair     Poor    Poor    Total   Percent
500       310      474       219      146    1,148    5%
1500     1,120    1,785    1,020      719    4,645   20%
3000     3,543    3,534    2,404    2,523   12,004   53%
4500     1,248    1,430      738       902    4,317   19%
6000       209      291       109       82      692    3%
Total    6.430    7.514    4.490    4.372   22.805
Percent   28%      33%       20%      19%               100%
The table below presents the federal network length and condition by state.
Mexico Federal Nletwor in 1999
Network Length (km)           Network Condition (%)
State                  Basic  Secondary    Total  Good    Fair   Poor  V. Poor
Aguascalientes          109         266     375    47%    21%    28%          4%
Baja California         838         674    1513    28%      29%     31%       13%
Baja Califonia Sur      943         253    1196      5%    55%    30%         9%
Campeche                836         441    1277    24%    25%    22%         29%
Coahuila               1045         515    1561    29%    46%       16%        9%
Colima                  176         129     305    49%      31%    20%         0%
Chiapas                1419         580    1999    50%    37%        6%       7%
Chihuahua              1072        1129    2201    18%    42%       17%      23%
Distrito Federal         40          61     101
Durango                 720        1155    1876    17%    28%    22%         32%
Guanajuato              472         643    1115    28%    25%       19%      28%
Guerrero                844        1068    1912    13%      17%     17%      54%
Hidalgo                 309         667     977    25%    29%       12%      34%
Jalisco                1097         949    2045    24%    43%       24%       10%
Mexico                  358         422     780    18%    42%       17%      22%
Michoacan              1391         900    2292    15%    40%       21%      24%
Morelos                 133         152     285    18%    41%       23%       18%
Nayarit                 400         400     800    24%    34%    20%         21%
Nuevo Leon              744         460    1205    29%      36%      9%      27%
Oaxaca                 1221        1572    2794    16%    25%    23%         36%
Puebla                  613         522    1134    13%    38%       16%      33%
Queretaro                65         387     452    27%    56%       16%        1%
Quintana Roo            508         364     872    32%      32%     15%      21%
San Luis Potosi         776         890    1667    27%    44%       23%        6%
Sinaloa                 693          55     748    26%    30%    23%         21%
Sonora                 1258         507    1765    25%      33%     15%      27%
Tabasco                 485          84      569    21%    43%    23%         13%
Tamaulipas             1421         765    2185    28%    22%       18%       32%
Tlaxcala                227         320      547    28%    37%    28%          7%
Veracruz               1238        1353    2591    21%      13%     16%       50%
Yucatan                 341         892    1233    17%    44%    29%          10%
Zacatecas              1010         484    1494    11%    37%    22%          30%
lTotal                22805       19060   41865    23%    34%       19%       24%
SCT evaluated three possible maintenance strategies, using the SISTER planning system, with levels of
expenditures of U$370 million, US$380 million and US$390 million per year for routine maintenance,
periodic maintenance and rehabilitation works from 2001 to 2004. For each strategy and corresponding
work program, SISTER estimated the future network condition and the present value of total society costs
(road agency plus road user costs). The comparison of strategies, which is shown on the graph below,
- 37 -



indicates that the strategy of US$380 million per year incurs the least total costs to society, therefore, it
was selected to be undertaken by SCT considering also that it was in line with prior and expected future
levels of expenditures of SCT.
Present Value of Total Society Costs
(Billion US$ at 12% discount rate)
250   -                            - -    -                              ......
200 -
150-
100
50
0
370 M$/year           380 M$/year            390 M$1year
Routine Maintenance, Periodic Maintenance and Rehabilitation Expenditures (2001-2004)
The overall rehabilitation and periodic maintenance program to be undertaken by SCT with local and
extemal financing has an estimated budget of around U$380 million per year for routine maintenance,
periodic maintenance and rehabilitation works in 2001 to 2004, for a network of 41,865 km, representing
around US$9,000 per km-year. The net present value of the overall maintenance and rehabilitation program
is estimated to be around US$39,500 million. The graph below presents the network condition from 1994
to 1999 and the expected condition from 2000 to 2004, which shows good improvement over the years. In
2004, if the program is implemented, the roads in good and fair condition will be 75%.
100%
90%
80%
70% 
60%/-
50%-
40%/
30%
20%-
10%
94   95   96   97   98   99   00   01   02   03   04
Year
Good *Fair Poor DVe Poor
- 38 -



First Year Program of Rehabilitation and Maintenance
SCT evaluated each section, financed by the Bank, to be rehabilitated or to receive periodic maintenance
during the first year of the project (2001), using the RED model, with current data for road, vehicle fleet
and road works characteristics and costs. The RED model adopts unit road user costs computed using the
HDM-III model and simplifies the economic evaluation by maintaining a constant level of senrice
(roughness) with and without the project over the evaluation period, which was set to ten years for
rehabilitation works and five years for periodic maintenance works. The current condition of each section is
given by the SISTER condition index, which varies from 1 (very bad) to 20 (very good). This index was
correlated to road roughness by adopting a road roughness of 6.5 IRI for very bad roads, 5.0 IRI for bad
roads, 3.5 IRI for regular roads and 2.0 IRI for good roads. With more detailed data (for example:
roughness, deflections, ages) to be available in the near fiture, the economic evaluation of the second yiear
program (2002) will be done by SCT using the HDM-4 model following the HDM4 to be implemelted
under the project. The table below presents the main section characteristics and corresponding results for
the first year rehabilitation program.
First Year Re abilitation Propram
Condi                     Base Case     IRR Sensitivit
Initial  Final Length _tion Traffic    Cost   NPV   IRR MIRR   Cost Traffic
Road                                 State     km    km  (km) (1-20' ADT (M US$) (M US$)   (%/6)  (Q/W +20%  -200/o
El Sueco -Janos                      Chihua  97.6  112.0  14.4    1   2120      1.62     2.3  46%   25%/  38%   36%
Monclova-Piedras Negras Cpo.A        Coahui 116.0  127.0  11.0    1   6495      1.24     7.7  145%  42%/o 121%  116%
Piedras Negras-Cd. Acufia            Coahui  14.0  17.0  3.0    1   2540        0.34     0.5  51%  260/o  42%   40%
Lim.Edosqro./Gto.-Limedosgto./Slp.C.B   Guanaj  37.0  46.0  9.0    1   7717     1.01     9.0  198%  47%0j 165%  159%
Lim.Edosqro./Gto.-Limedosgto./Slp.C.B   Guanaj  46.0  62.0  16.0    1   6772    1.80    13.9  174%  450%, 145%  139%
Lim.Edosqro./Gto.-Limedosgto./Slp.C.B   Guanaj  62.0  67.0  5.0    1   6772     0.56     4.3  174%  45%/a 110%  139%
Lim.Edos.Mex./Hgo.-Pachuca           Hidalg   49.0  50.0  1.0    1  10249    0.15        1.2  180%  450/6 150%  144%
Lim.Edos.Mex./Hgo.-Pachuca           Hidalg   53.0  58.0  5.0    1   6943       0.75     4.2  131%  40%  110%  105%
Lim.Edos.Mich./Jal.-T.Acatlan       Jalisc    65.0  82.0  17.0    1   6300      2.55    10.0  98%   36%   82%   78%
Jiquilpan-Lim.Edos.Mich./Jal (2 Cpos)   Michoa   0.0   5.0  10.0    1  10781    1.50    12.9  191%  46%  133%  154%
Cuautla-Lim. Edos.Mor./Pue.          Morelo  77.1  89.0  11.9   3  12259    2.16    13.2  142%  41%  143%  114%
San Gregorio-Oaxtepec                Morelo  35.5  38.5  3.0    2   3992        0.54     0.7  45%   25%O  45%   35%
Lib. Norte De Monterrey              Nvo. L   15.0  35.0  20.0    1   8655      3.00    21.9  166%  440%  139%  133%
Huajuapan De Leon-Oaxaca             Oaxaca  60.0  72.5  12.5    1   2470       1.41     2.5  54%  27%/o  45%   43%
Lim.Edos.Mex./Pue.-Puebla            Puebla  72.0  81.0  9.0    2  11790        1.15    12.8  243%   50%o 203%  195%
Lim.Edos.Mex./Qro.-Palmillas         Queret  128.0  132.0  4.0    1   4563      0.60     2.0  87%  34/o  73%   70%
Lim.Edos.Nay./Sin.-Mazatlan          Sinalo  144.6  160.0  15.4   5   5690      2.48     6.4  71%  31%/o  590/o  57%
Lim.Edos.Nay./Sin.-Mazatlan          Sinalo  190.0  199.2  9.2    5   5690      1.38     3.9  76%  32%/o  63%   61%
Estacion Manuel-La Coma              Tamaul 107.0  132.0  25.0   2   2200       2.81     4.1  47%   25%o  39%   37%
Tampico-Estacion Manuel Cpo.A        Tamaul  25.0  36.0  11.0    1   8292       1.24     9.9  180%  45%04  150%  144%
Lib.Apizaco                          Tlaxca    0.0  10.5  10.5   5   9060       1.34     7.2  127%  40%io 106%  102%
Cordoba-Veracruz                     Veracr   59.0  80.0  21.0   4   9490       3.78    19.4  122%  3990/  102%   98%
Naranjos-Ozuluama                    Veracr   78.6  100.0  21.4    1   4455     3.85     8.6  64%   29%   53%   50%
Tihuatlan-Alazan                     Veracr  45.0  57.0  12.0    1   5275       2.16     5.8  73%   31%   73%   58%
Jalpa-Zacatecas                      Zacate  285.0  298.0  13.0   2   7060      1.95    10.8  131%  40%  109%  105%
Jalpa-Zacatecas                      Zacate  308.0  312.0  4.0    2   7060      0.60     3.3  131%  40%  109%  105%
Lim.Edos.Ags./Zac.-Jalpa             Zacate   78.5  85.0  6.5    4   1981       0.98     0.2  19%  15%   14%   13%
Total                                                     300.8                42.93   198.7  112%  38'. 2950% 90/
Condition: 1-6 Very Bad, 7-11 Bad, 12-17 Regular, 18-20 Good
- 39 -



The rehabilitation sections have a median traffic of 7,000 ADT and a median cost of US$150,000 per km.
All sections yielded an IRR greater than 12%, even under the sensitivity scenarios of increasing the
rehabilitation costs by 20% or reducing the traffic by 20%. The table below presents the main section
characteristics and corresponding results for the periodic maintenance program.
First Year Periodic Maintenance ProRram
Condi                     Base Case     IRR Sensitivit-
Initial  Final Length _tion Traffic    Cost   NPV   IRR MIRR   Cost Traffic
Road                                 State     km    km  (km) (1 -20' ADT (M US$) (M US$)   (%)  (%f  +20%  -20%
Leon-Aguascalientes (2 Cpos).        Aguasc 103.0  110.9  15.8   9   11190    0.49       2.5  222%   82%  184%  176%
Mexicali-Tecate                      Baja C    0.0  18.0  18.0   6   9624       1.49     3.6  118%  57%   96%   91%
Mexicali-Tecate                      Baja C  109.0  113.0  4.0    7   4447      0.21     0.3  77%  43%   61%   57%
Lim. Edos. Tab./Camp.-Cescarcega     Campec 200.0  230.0  30.0   11  2100       0.63     0.3  40%   27%   28%   25%
Delicias-Chihuahua (Cpo. B)          Chihua  186.0  203.0  17.0   6   4630      0.55     1.0  97%  5OVo  780/%  74%
Saltillo-Monterrey (Cpo. A)          Coahui  15.3  32.9  17.6   9   11305    0.49        2.6  234%   85%  194%  186%
Colima-T. Tecoman (Cpo. A)           Colima  33.0  37.0  4.0    7   5655        0.17     0.2  64%   38%   81%   46%
Colima-T. Tecoman (Cpo. A)           Colima   12.0  16.5  4.5    7   5213       0.17     0.2  74%  42%   59%   55%
Colima-T. Tecoman (Cpo. B)           Colima  26.0  29.0  3.0    7   5374        0.06     0.2  138%   62%  113%  107%
Gom. Pa.-Li.Edo.Dgo./Chi.(2 Cps.)    Durang  25.0  40.0  30.0    7   7470       1.08     2.6  118%   57%   96%   91%
Celaya-Salamanca                     Guanaj  57.0  81.0  24.0   3   18077    0.77        8.0  418%  113%  348%  334%
Queretaro-San Luis Potosi (Cp. B)    Guanaj  67.0  89.0  22.0   2   6772        0.71     2.7  175%  72%  144%  138%
Acapulco-Zihuatanejo                 Guerre   69.0  74.0  5.0    1   5478       0.26     0.6  114%   55%   93%   88%
Acapulco-Zihuatanejo                 Guerre  135.0  144.0  9.0    1   5805      0.47     1.1  120%   57%   98%   93%
Iguala-Chilpancingo                  Guerre  124.0  140.0  16.0  12  13215    0.46       2.1  202%   78%  168%  160%
Guadalajara-Lim. Edos. Jal./Zac.     Jalisc    46.0  77.0  31.0    1   2853     1.33     0.6  34%  24%   48%   21%
Toluca-Cd. Altamirano                Mexico  49.0  80.0  31.0    5   4728       1.60     2.2  75%  42%   59%   56%
Libramiento Norte De Zamora          Michoa   0.0   7.0  7.0    1   5068        0.30     0.4  78%  43%   99%   58%
Cuernavaca-Lim. Edos. Mor./Gro.      Morelo  37.0  41.0  4.0    7   5500        0.10     0.3  131%   61%  108%  102%
Matehuala-Saltillo                   Nuevo  100.0  130.0  30.0    1   7940      1.29     4.2  151%  66%  186%  118%
Oaxaca-Tehuantepec                   Oaxaca. 41.0  48.0  7.0    3   3370        0.23     0.2  62%   37%   48%   44%
Ent. San Hipolito-Tehuacan           Puebla  39.0  59.0  20.0    1  12360    1.17        6.6  242%   86%  201%  192%
San Juan Del Rio-Xilitla             Queret  43.0  55.0  12.0   4   2985        0.52     0.2  31%   23%   44%   18%
Reforma Agraria-Puerto Juarez        Quinta   0.0   9.0  9.0    9   3472        0.39     0.1  26%   200/o  38%   14%
San LuisPotosi-Ojuelos               S.L.P.   40.0  45.0  5.0   11  3900        0.22     0.1  29%   21%   41%   16%
Lim. Edos. Chis./Tab.-EI Bellote     Tabasc  167.0  176.0  9.0    8   7315      0.28     0.9  152%   66%  125%  119%
Est. Gonzalez-Ent. Llera De Canales  Tamaul  30.0  60.0  30.0    1   3490       0.97     1.6  87%  46%   70%   65%
Lim. Edos. Mex.JTlax.-Apizaco        Tlaxca   74.0  87.0  13.0   5   10295    0.40       2.3  252%   88%  209%  200%
Cd. Aleman-Sayula                    Veracr  127.0  136.0  9.0    1   8540      0.75     1.5  104%   52%   85%   80%
Merida-Puerto Juarez                 Yucata  161.0  230.0  69.0   5   2662      2.23     1.1  36%   25%   25%   22%
Lim. Edos. Jal./Zac.-Jalpa           Zacate   96.0  116.0  20.0    1   3770     1.38     0.9  45%   30%   33%   31%
Total                                                     525.9                21.14    51.3  117%   56%  102%   92%
Condition: 1-6 Very Bad, 7-l1 Bad, 12-17 Regular, 18-20 Good
The periodic maintenance sections have a median traffic of 5,500 ADT and a median cost of US$38,000
per km. All sections yielded an IRR greater than 12%, even under the sensitivity scenarios of increasing the
periodic maintenance costs by 20% or reducing the traffic by 20%. The NPV of the first year road
rehabilitation and maintenance works financed under the project is US$250 million with an IRR of 114%
and a MIRR of 36% considering a financing and reinvestment rate of 12%.
Comprehensive Maintenance by Contract Program
The comprehensive maintenance contracts financed under the project include routine maintenance, periodic
maintenance and rehabilitation works on selected routes. These routes were identified at appraisal, but the
specific sections to be rehabilitated or to receive periodic maintenance on the selected routes will be
-40 -



selected by the contractors with SCTs approval. Therefore, a preliminary economic evaluation was done
for the routes following the same methodology as the rehabilitation and maintenance program. The table
below presents the main road characteristics and corresponding results.
Comnrehensive Maint nance bv Contract Proeram    _
Condi                   Base Case     [RR Sensitivi
Length _tion Traffic   Cost   NPV   IRR MIRR  Cost Traffic
Works                             State              (km) (1-20' ADT (M US  (M US$)  (No)  0/6) +20%  -20%
Riita 11; - I im;tP Piing Mey /T,ly
Rehabilitation Works              Tlaxca              15.0   1  10500     3.0   20.4  156%  43%  130%  125%
Periodic Maintenance Works        Tlaxca              50.0   7  10500     4.0    9.4  116%  56%  95%   90%
Total                                                 65.0                 7.0   29.8  134%  37%  111%  106%
Ruta90 - TrapuatolLT P iedad
Rehabilitation Works              Guanaj              15.0   1  14000      3.0   28.0 207%  48%  173%  166%
Periodic Maintenance Works        Guanaj              50.0   7  9000      4.0    7.6  97%  50%  79%  74%
Total                                                 65.0                 7.0   35.6  147%  39%- 122%  117%
Condition: 1-6 Very Bad, 7-11 Bad, 12-17 Regular, 18-20 Good
The two routes included for comprehensive maintenance have a median traffic of 10,000 ADT and an
estimated rehabilitation cost of US$200,000 per km and periodic maintenance cost of US$80,000 per km.
Both routes yielded an IRR greater than 12%, even under the sensitivity scenarios of increasing the works
costs by 20% or reducing the traffic by 20%. The NPV of the comprehensive maintenance works is US$65
million with an IRR of 140% and a MIRR of 38% considering a financing and reinvestment rate of 12%.
Bridge Rehabilitation
The bridge rehabilitation component economic benefits were evaluated by SCT by estimating the road user
benefits of the bridge improvements in terms of savings in vehicle operating costs and time cost. The
without project case considers the weight restrictions on the bridges implying that only light vehicles can
circulate while heavy vehicles are forced to use alternative routes or reduce their weight by transferring
some of the cargo to other vehicles. The "with" project case considers a strengthening of the bridges that
eliminates travel restrictions. The table below presents the main bridges characteristics and correspondiing
results.
- 41 -



First Year Bridee Rehabilitation Program
Condi                      Base Case      IRR Sensitivi
Length jion Traffic    Cost   NPV    IRR MIRR   Cost Traffic
Bridee                                State            km   (m)  (0-5) ADT (M US$ (M US$)   (%)  (%) +20%  -20%
ArroyoSecoDer.(100)                   BajaC        26+600   47    4   12128       0.12     4.6  80%   74%   76%   75%
ArroyoSecolzq.(100)                   Baja C       26+600   47    4   12128       0.12     4.6  80%   74%   76%   75%
ElSaltito(I00)                        Baja C      122+250   85    4   1446        0.12     0.4  38%   36%   35%   34%
Icahao Izq. (100)                     Campec      155+000   17    4   3180        0.10     2.3  45%   40%   41%   40%
Si - Ho (100)                         Campec      166+458   17    4   3180        0.10     2.3  45%   40%   41%   40%
Candelaria Ii (100)                   Campec      218+240  125    4   2582        0.21      1.5  57%   54%   54%   53%
El Dorado N*3 (100)                   Coahui       74+580   19    5   3706        0.02      1.5  57%   54%   54%   53%
El Pilar lzq. (101)                   Coahui        16+600   21    4   5785       0.25    10.3   75%   53%   70%/o  69%
La Becerra (100)                      Coahui      182+700   50    4   4746        0.24     4.9   58%   51%   54%   54%
El Dorado N* I (100)                  Coahui       72+200   23    4   3300        0.03     0.7   52%   52%   49%   48%
El Dorado N* 2 (100)                  Coahui       73+700   24    4   3706        0.03      1.5  57%   54%   54%   53%
El Dorado N* 4 (100)                  Coahui       75+400   17    4   3706        0.02      0.7   52%   52%   49%   48%
Marabasco Ii (101)                    Colima       53+200  117    4   1157        0.25     0.4  38%   36%   35%   34%
Cahuacan (100)                        Chiapa      296+300   78    5   9560        0.13      4.6  80%   74%   76%   75%
Peatonal Urbina (100)                 Chiapa       138+720   35    5   5432       0.03      5.1   73%   63%   69%   68%
El Ojito (100)                        Chihua       181+750   23    4   10319      0.16      7.5  67%   58%   63%   62%
San Ignacio (100)                     Chihua       75+200   29    4   8009        0.12      7.7  83%   70%   78%   77%
Las Agujas (101)                      Chihua      368+600  100    4   1780        0.13      0.4  38%   36%   35%   34%
El Pastor(101)                        Chihua       105+500   23    4   1312       0.10      0.6  30%   28%   27%   27%
Canitas (100)                         Durang      136+000   22    4   6108        0.05      3.1   71%   66%   67%   67%
Providencia lii (101)                 Durang        4+700   11    4    850        0.02      0.4  38%   36%   35%   34%
Tecuescontitlan I (100)               Guerre       147+950   26    4   7418       0.25      4.9   58%   51%   54%   54%
Ayutla (101)                          Guerre       80+312   71    4    724        0.19      0.7   37%   34%   34%   33%
El Guaricho (101)                     Jalisc       38+000   31    4   8069        0.18      7.7  83%   70%   78%   77%
Querendaro Izq. (100)                 Michoa       134+500   21    4   3220       0.12      2.3  45%   40%   41%   40%
Guacamayas Ii Izq.                    Michoa         1+726   82    4   2866       0.11      0.7   52%   52%   49%   48%
Rio Santiago (I 00)                   Nayari       50+484  303    4   8750        0.25      2.1   72%   72%   68%   68%
Acaponeta(100)                        Nayari       132+859  168    4   7340       0.35      5.1   73%   63%   69%   68%
ElTropical(101)                       Nayari        11+020   31    4   3177       0.10      2.4  58%   51%   54%   54%
Chalma(101)                           Nayari        18+650   33    4   2697       0.03      0.7  52%   52%   49%   48%
Novillero (101)                       Nayari       33+096  181    4   2087        0.25      1.5  57%   54%   54%   53%
El Palillo (101)                      Nayari        13+929   75    4   1442       0.02      0.2  35%   35%   32%   31%
Carbajal Der, (100)                   Nuevo         54+600   59    4   17600      0.30    13.0  96%   80%   91%   90%
El Salado (100)                       Nuevo        155+100  IIl    4   17600      0.65    12.8  78%   67%   74%   73%
Palmeras (100)                        Nuevo        72+300   14    4   6570        0.07      5.1  73%   63%   69%   68%
Puente Bajo (100)                     Nuevo        74+400   12    4   6570        0.05      5.1   73%   63%   69%   68%
De La Cruz (100)                      Nuevo        110+600   14    4   6570       0.08      5.0  64%   56%   60%   60%
El Solitario Izq. (100)               Nuevo        180+400   14    4   6570       0.08      5.0  64%   56%   60%   60%/
Atotonilco (100)                      Puebla        97+440   36    4   4836       0.10      5.1  73%   63%   69%   68%
Cafiones(101)                         SanLu         33+311   13    4   3384       0.12      4.8   56%  41%   51%   50%
Taman (101)                           San Lu      260+940   23    4   2807        0.12      2.4  500/o  44%   47%   46%
Presidio Auxiliar (100)               Sinalo      268+554  132    5   17490       0.50    12.9   85%   72%   81%   80%
Nevarez (100)                         Sinalo       113+953   16    4   6033       0.07      5.1   73%   63%   69%   68%
Estacion (100)                        Sonora       114+600   11    4   8314       0.08      7.6   73%   63%   69%   68%
El Maraton (100)                      Sonora       25+970   11    4   6099        0.09      7.4   68%   54%   64%   63%
Corona Poniente (100)                 Tamaul        25+880  117    4   6824       0.06      1.4  64%  64%   61%   60%
Las Casitas (100)                     Tamaul        9+050   6       4   3628      0.02      2.4   58%   51%   54%   54%
Peatonal El Naranjito                 Veracr       28+500   35    5   4610        0.10    10.3   75%   53%   700/o  69%
Tamos I (100)                         Veracr       123+200   26    4   8935       0.11      7.6   73%   63%   69%   68%
Tampamachoco (101)                    Veracr         8+000  145    4   4735       0.15      1.4  64%  64%   61%   60%
Jarillas (100)                        Zacate       44+590   10    4   14541       0.08    12.8   78%   67%   74%   73%
Total                                                       2754                  7.00   220.1   68%   57%
Condition: 0 - Excellent, 5 - Very Poor
- 42 -



The bridge maintenance roads have a median traffic of 5,000 ADT and a median bridge rehabilitation cost
of US$110,000 per bridge All bridges yielded an IRR greater than 12%, even under the sensitivity
scenarios of increasing the works costs by 20% or reducing the traffic by 20%. The NPV of the bridge
maintenance program is US$220 million with an IRR of 68% and a MIRR of 57% considering a financing
and reinvestment rate of 12%.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
The first year rehabilitation and maintenance program (85% of civil works) IRR is 114% and the MIRR is
36%. Assuming there is an increase of 20% in agency costs, the IRR decreases to 97% and the MIRR to
33%. A 20% decrease in traffic decreases the IRR to 91% and the MIRR to 32%. A combination of
increase in agency costs by 20% and decrease in traffic by 20%, decreases the IRR to 77% and the MIRR
to 30%. To have a net present value equal to zero, agency costs have to be 560% higher than the estimated
costs or traffic levels reduced to only 18% of the estimated traffic. These events have a very low
probability of occurrence indicating that the project economic viability is very robust.
-43 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
MEXICO: FEDERAL HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Years Ending
Bank's Fiscal Years
I Year1 I   Year 2  1 Year 3  I Year 4  I Year 5  L Year6  L Year 7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs          65.9      99.2      106.3      35.5        0.0       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0      0.0
Total Project Costs         65.9      99.2      106.3      35.5        0.0       0.0       0.0
Front-end fee    2.1        0     .0        0.0       0.0             0.0      0.0
Total Financing             68.0      99.2      106.3      35.5        0.0       0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                 48.0       70.0      75.0       25.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Government               20.0       29.2      31.3       10.5       0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial             0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
User FeeslBeneficiaries   0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                    0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing    68.0      99.2      106.3      35.5        0.0       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
Front-end fee of US$2.15 million included
-44 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
MEXICO: FEDERAL HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Procurement
Procurement of works financed by the Bank under the project shall carried out in accordance with Bank's
Guidelines for Procurernent under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised in January and
August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999) and the following provisions of this Annex.
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable contracts for rehabilitation and maintenance works shall be grouped in bid
packages estimated to cost US$10,000,000 equivalent or more each.
Notification and Advertising
All invitations to bid shall be published in the "Diario Oficial de la Federacion" and in COMPRANET.
In addition, invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost US$10,000,000 equivalent or more slhall
be advertised in the Development Business in accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts
under para. 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Procurement Methods
The methods to be used for the procurement are described below, and the estimated amounts for each
method, are summarized in Table A. The threshold contract values for the use of each method are fixed in
Table B.
Procurement of Works
Works procured under this project would include rehabilitation and periodic maintenance of roads and
bridges and construction of two vehicle weight and dimensions control stations, totaling US$286.15 million
equivalent. Major contracts for these works expected to total US$98.15 million will be procured following
Intemational Competitive Bidding procedures (ICB), using Bank Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs).
Contracts estimated to cost less than US$10,000,000 million equivalent per contract, up to an aggregated
amount of US$186.00 million, may be procured using National Competitive Bidding procedures (NCB)
and agreed Standard Bidding Documents. Small works, estimated to cost less than US$500,000 equivalent
per contract, up to an aggregated amount of US$2 million, may be procured through price comparison
received from at least three contractors in response to a written invitation to at least three contractors. The
written invitation will include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the
required completion date, and a basic contract form acceptable to the Bank.
Employment of Consultants
Consultant services shall be procured in accordance with Guidelines for the use of Consultants by the
World Bank Borrowers and the Bank as Executing Agency (January 1997, revised in September 1997 and
January 1999) and the following provisions of this Annex. These services are estimated to cost US$ 18.3
million equivalent and would be procured using Bank Standard Request for Proposals.
- 45 -



Firms: All contracts for firms would be procured using QCBS procedures except for small contracts
estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent which would be procured using Fixed Budget Selection,
up to an aggregate amount of US$2,000,000 million.
Individuals: Specialized advisory services would be provided by individual consultants selected in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 5.1 to 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregated
amount of US$2,000,000.
The short list of consultants, for services estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract,
may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the
Consultant Guidelines.
Procurement Responsibilities and Capacity
A procurement capacity assessment for the project was carried out by the Country Procurement Specialist
and approved by RPA on 5/17/2000. BANOBRAS (Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Putblicos), will
be responsible for coordinating the project activities, executing the loan and ensuring quality of
procurement activities. Contracts below the threshold for Bank prior review would be reviewed by
BANOBRAS who will hire and maintain dedicated staff reporting to its Gerencia de Financiaci6n
Internacional for this purpose. Such staff would ensure quality control of all procurement processes,
effectively liaise with the Bank and the executing agency, organize and maintain procurement records,
prepare draft quarterly reports, and would be responsible for project accounting, financial reporting, and
compliance with audit requirements.
The executing agency for the project, the Secretariat of Communications and Transport (Secretaria de
Comunicaciones y Transportes-SCT) through its SCT's Centers will carry out all procurement activities
for the project. The SCT's centers are decentralized units in each state. To ensure SCT staff knowledge of
Bank procurement Guidelines and procedures, several procurement seminars, with the participation of staff
from the SCT Centers, were successfully carried out during the implementation of the first HRTS Project.
In addition to the above, the procurement function in SCT and its Centers was audited by consultants
retained by the Bank. The audit report was unqualified.
Review by the Bank. The proposed thresholds for prior review by the Bank are based on the procurement
assessment of the project executive agency and are summarized in Table B. In addition to this review of
individual procurement actions, the annual procurement plan will be reviewed and approved by the Bank.
Frequency of Procurement Supervision. Based on the overall risk assessment (average) the post-review
missions for the project shall be completed every twelve months and shall cover not less than I to 10 signed
contracts.
- 46 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method'
Expenditure Category           ICB            NCB         othero          N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                           98.15         186.00          2.00          0.00         286.15
(68.70)       (130.00)       (1.40)         (0.00)       '200.10)
2. Goods                           0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
3. Services                        0.00           0.00          20.47          0.00         20.47
(0.00)        (0.00)        (15.52)        (0.00)       (15.52)
4. Miscellaneous                   0.00           0.00           0.20          0.00          0.20
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.20)         (0.00)        (0.20)
5. Front-end fee                   0.00           0.00           2.18          0.00          2.18
(0.00)        (0.00)         (2.18)        (0.00)        (2.18)
Total                           98.15         186.00         24.85          0.00         309.00
(68.70)       (130.00)       (19.30)        (0.00)       (218.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
- 47 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Consultant                                 Selection   Method
Services
Expenditure    QCBS       QBS       SFB       LCS       CQ       Other    N.B.F.  Total Cost,
Category v
A. Firms           17.00     0.00      2.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     19.00
(12.00)   (0.00)    (2.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (14.00)
B. Individuals     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00     2.00      0.00      2.00
(0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (2.00)    (0.00)    (2.00)
Total  17.00     0.00      2.00      0.00      0.00      2.00      0.00      21.00
(12.00)   (0.00)    (2.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (2.00)    (0.00)    (16.00)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB  Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
-48 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category     (US$ thousands)              Method               (US$ millions)
1. Works                     >10,000,000                ICB                      All
<10,000,000                NCB            All costing US$3 million or
above
<500,00         Shopping from quotation of  Only post review
at least 3 contractors
2. Goods
3. Services
Firms and Individuals
Firms                         > 1 00,000                QCBS                     All
<100,000               QCBS-SFB              Only post review
Individuals                   >50,000            In accordance with the          All
Guidelines
<50,000           In accordance with the     Only post review
Guidelines
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   US$160 million
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
-49-



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Project disbursements will be based on traditional procedures: (i) withdrawal via SOEs (to the borrower)
and/or direct payment (a specified third party) or (ii) special commitment. The documentation showing the
eligibility of the works or services will be included. As a consequence of the financial management
assessment, Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) will be mainly used by the borrower via BANOBRAS,
which is the financial agency
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million         Financing Percentage
I. Civil Works. Highway Rehabilitation    171.50                         70
and Maintenance and Supervision
II. Civil Works. Pilot Program for         15.00                         70
Comprehensive Maintenance by
Contract and Supervision
1II. Civil works. Vehicle Weight and       3.50                          70
Dimensions Control Program
IV.Other Consulting Services and           4.20                         100
Training
V. Unallocated                            21.62          _
Total Project Costs                       215.82
Front-end fee         2.18
Total                                     218.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Standard disbursements profiles prepared by the Bank for the LAC region, and in particular for Mexico,
indicate that a four year period is required to obtain full disbursement for this type of project. The
disbursement period has accordingly been estimated at four years and the closing date on June 30, 2005.
However, if SCT decides to accelerate project execution and SHCP agrees to provide additional budget
allocation required to match the loan funds necessary, the project could be completed in about three years.
The initial allocations of loan proceeds and the corresponding percentage to be disbursed by category are
shown in Table C.
Project disbursements will be based on traditional procedures: (i) withdrawal via SOEs (to the borrower)
and/or direct payment (a specified third party); or (ii) special commitment. The documentation showing the
eligibility of the works or services will be included. Disbursements under the project will be made against
full documentation of expenditure except for the following items, for which disbursements would be on the
basis of statement of expenditures (SOEs): (a) civil works contracts costing less than US$3 million
equivalent; (b) consultant contracts with firms estimated to cost less than US$100,000 equivalent and with
individuals costing less than US$50,000 equivalent; and (c) training. Supporting documentation in respect
of SOEs will be made available to Bank staff as required for inspection during supervision. SOEs will be
prepared by BANOBRAS based upon information furnished by the federal implementing agencies. The
federal implenting agencies will retain supporting documentation for all SOEs.
- 50 -



Special account:
Payments from the loan proceeds will be administered by BANOBRAS from a Special Account, which will
be opened and maintained in US dollars in the Central Bank (Banco de Mexico). BANOBRAS will use
data submitted by executing agencies to prepare statements of expenditures (SOEs) and related loan
withdrawal requests for submission to the Bank. It will authorize disbursements from the Special Account
to reimburse eligible expenditures incurred or to make direct payments to supplies for such expenditures,.
The authorized allocation, sufficient for financing four months of eligible expenditures, will be US$18
million. The first advances from this account will be limited to US$12 million equivalent until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the loan account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments have reached US$40 million equivalent.
The information related to project Special Account should be provided by BANOBRAS to be included in
the quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs), which SCT will prepare according to the action plan.
- 51 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
MEXICO: FEDERAL HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Project Schedule                                    Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)              04/03/2000                    04/03/2000
Appraisal mission departure                       06/11/2000                   06/11/2000
Negotiations                                      10/31/2000                    10/31/2000
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    02/01/2001
Prepared by:
Jose Maria Alonso-Biarge
Preparation assistance:
Emmanuel James
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Speciality
Jose Maria Alonso-Biarge           Team Leader/Task Manager
Emmanuel James                     Deputy Team Leader/Task Manager
Juan D. Quintero                   Environmental Assessment
Maria Elena Castro                 Social Assessment
Rodrigo Archondo-Callao            Economic Evaluation
Lea Braslavsky                     Procurement Analysis
Victor Ordonez                     Financial Management Analysis
Gustavo Unda                       Technical Analysis
Jose Augusto Carvalho              Legal Aspects
Teresa Genta-Fons                  Legal Aspects
Reynaldo Pastor                    Legal Aspects
Amadeu Blasco                      Legal Aspects
Michael Fowler                     Disbursements
Gladys Sakata                      Report Production
Robin Carruthers                   Peer Reviewer
William Paterson                   Peer Reviewer
Denis Robitaille                   Peer Reviewer
- 52 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
MEXICO: FEDERAL HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Plan de Implantaci6n del Proyecto - SCT, June 2000
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Programa de Rehabilitaci6n y Mantenimiento de Carreteras 2001-2003, DGCC
2. Programa de Rehabilitaci6n y Mantenimiento de Puentes 2001-2003, DGCC
3. Ayuda Memoria: Misi6n de Evaluaci6n. Mexico, June 2000
4. Introduction to HDM-4
5. Evaluaci6n Socio-Ambiental de la Rehabilitaci6n de los Programas de Rehabilitaci6n
C. Other
1. Summary of Bank's Experience in the Highway Sector, May 2000
2. Mexico Toll road Rationalization, Jeffrey Parker and Associates, April 2000
*Including electronic files
- 53 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
MEXICO: FEDERAL HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
1 5-Oct-2000
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions           disbursements
Proiect ID     FY   Borrower                        Purpose                                       IBRD      IDA        Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Revd
P048505        1999 Mexico                     AGRICULTURAL PRODUCT                               444.45       0.00        0.00     266.35      11.30       0.00
P067491        2000 Mexico                     Bank Restructuring Facility                        505.06        0.00       0.00     150.00     144.94       0.00
P007700        1997 Mexico                     COMMUNITY FORESTRY                                  15.00       0.00        0.00       7.81       2.66       0.00
P007610        1999 Mexico                     FOVI RESTRUCTURING                                 505.05       0.00        0.00     462.00     282.00       0.00
P007723        1993 Mexico                     HWY RHB & SAFETY                                   480.00       0.00        0.00       6.83       6.83       0.00
P044531        1998 Mexico                      KNOWLEDGE & INNOV.                                 300.00       0.00       0.00     251.23      26.23       0.00
P007648        1993 Mexico                      MEDIUM CITIES TRANSP                               200.00       0.00      23.00     107.49     130.49     107.49
P066938        2000 Mexico                      MX GENDER (LIL)                                      3.07       0.00       0.00       3.07       0.00       0.00
P007720        1998 Mexico                     MX: HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM - SAL                     700.00        0.00       0.00     350.00     350.00       0.00
P040199        1998 Mexico                      MX: BASIC EDUC.DEVELOPMENT PHASE I                 115.00       0.00       0.00      69.40      21.83       0.00
P007689        1996 Mexico                      MX: BASIC HEALTH II                                310.00       0.00       0.00      94.30      75.29      60.30
P055081        1998 Mexico                      MX: HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM TA                         25.00       0.00       0.00      15.39       9.59       0.00
P049895        1998 Mexico                     MX HIGHER ED. FINANCING                             180.20       0.00       0.00     164.68      33.74       0.00
P007725        1994 Mexico                      MX: PRIMARY EDUC.II                               412.00        0.00      40.00      66.67     106.67      66.67
P034490        1995 Mexico                      MX: TECHNICAL EDUCrTRAINING                       265.00        0.00      30.00     124.11     154.11       9.08
P007710.       1994 Mexico                      N. BORDER I ENVIRONM                               368.00       0.00     300.99      36.22     322.21      46.11
P007701        1994 Mexico                      ON-FARM & MINOR IRRI                              200.00        0.00      30.00      51.22      81.22      10.95
P007711        1998 Mexico                      RURAL DEV. MARG.AREA                               47.00        0.00       0.00      35.29      14.80       0.00
P057530        2000 Mexico                     RURAL DEV.MARG.ARII                                  55.00       0.00       0.00      51.45      -0.55       0.00
P007612        1994 Mexico                      SOLID WASTE II                                     200.00       0.00     193.06       1.48      -4.46       1.47
P007713        1996 Mexico                     WATER RESOURCES MANA                                186.50       0.00       0.00     133.86      65.22      12.07
Total:     5516.33        0.00       617.05     2448.85    1640.12    314.14
- 54 -



MEXICO
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
1 5-Oct-2000
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed.
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                      Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity   luasi  Partic
1988/91/92/93/95   Apasco                       12.60    0.00    0.00   50.40   12.60    0.00    0.00   50.40
1998              Ayvi                          10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990/92/96        BANAMEX                       96.21    0.00    0.00   45.18   96.21    0.00    0.00   45.18
1997              Banco Bilbao MXC              70.59    0.00   30.00    0.00   70.59    0.00   30.00    0.00
1992              Banorte-SABROZA                3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995/96           Baring Mex. FMC               0.00    0.02    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.02    0.00    0.00
1995/99           Baring Venture                0.00    2.73    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              CIMA Mexico                    0.00    4.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.80    0.00    0.00
1998              CIMA Puebla                    7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994              CTAPV                          3.73    0.00    2.32    0.00    3.73    0.00    2.32    0.00
0                Chiapas-Propalma              0.00    0.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.31    0.00    0.00
1997              Comercializadora               3.06    0.00    2.19    6.25    3.06    0.00    2.19    6.25
1999              Corsa                         13.00    3.00    0.00    0.00   13.00    3.00    0.00    0.00
1993              Derivados                      2.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.20    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997              Fondo Chiapas                 0.00    4.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.43    0.00    0.00
1998              Forja Monterrey               13.00    3.00    0.00   13.00   13.00    3.00    0.00   13.00
1991/96           GIBSA                         21.64    0.00   10.00   72.76   21.64    0.00   10.00   72.76
1993              GIDESA                         6.25    8.00    0.00    4.25    6.25    8.00    0.00    4.25
1996/00           GIRSA                        45.00    0.00    0.00   60.00   22.71    0.00    0.00   30.29
1993              GOTM                           0.82    0.00    0.00    0.22    0.82    0.00    0.00    0.22
1997/98           Gen. Hipotecaria              0.00    1.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998              Grupo Calidra                 12.00    6.00    0.00   10.00   12.00    6.00    0.00   10.00
Grupo FEMSA                   0.00    9.43    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.43    0.00    0.00
1989              Grupo Minsa                   18.00   10.00    0.00   27.00   18.00   10.00    0.00   27.00
1997              Grupo Posadas                 25.00    0.00   10.00   10.00   25.00    0.00   10.00   10.00
1992/93/95/96/99  Grupo Probursa                 0.00    1.32    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.32    0.00    0.00
1992/96/97/98     Grupo Sanfandila              9.58    0.00    0.00    4.70    6.25    0.00    0.00    3.03
1998               Heller Financial              0.00    0.32    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.32    0.00    0.00
1994/96/98/00     ITR                           14.00    0.00    0.00    4.00   10.90    0.00    0.00    3.10
2000              Interceramic                   8.00    0.00    6.00    3.50    8.00    0.00    6.00    3.50
1994              InverCap                       0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00    0.00    0.00
2000               Masterpak                     2.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.40    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993               Merida III                   30.00    0.00    0.00   73.95   27.36    0.00    0.00   67.44
1998               Mexplus Puertos               0.00    1.41    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.41    0.00    0.00
1995/99           NEMAK                          0.00    0.00    0.83    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.83    0.00
1996/99/00        Punta Langosta                 2.63    1.00    0.00    4.55    2.63    1.00    0.00    4.55
1998               Rio Bravo                    50.00    0.00    0.00   59.50   22.83    0.00    0.00   27.17
2000               Saltillo S.A.                35.00    0.00    0.00   43.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               Sudamerica                    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00
1999              TMA                            2.77    0.00    2.10    9.60    2.77    0.00    2.10    9.60
1997              Toluca Toll Road               7.16    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.16    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992              Vitro                          0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991/92           Vitro Flotado                  4.96    0.00    0.00    2.07    4.96    0.00    0.00    2.07
1991              ZN Mxc Eqty Fund               0.00   25.30    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.81    0.00    0.00
1998
Total Portfolio:      529.60    98.53   63.44   503.93  432.57    74.85    63.44  389.81
- 55 -



Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval       Company                           Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic
1999              BANAMEX LRF 11                50000.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
1999              Baring BMPEF FMC                  0.00      0.00    60.00      0.00
1998              Cima Hermosillo                7000.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
2000              Educacion                      9700.00      0.00     0.00      0.00
2000              FCCM                          10500.00      0.00   2000.00  17700.00
2000              Hospital ABC                  30000.00      0.00     0.00  14000.00
2000              Innopack                      15000.00      0.00  15000.00     0.00
2000              Teksid Aluminio               25000.00      0.00      0.00     0.00
2000              Teksid Hierro                 15000.00      0.00      0.00  30000.00
Total Pending Commitment:   162200.00      0.00  17060.00  61700.00
- 56 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
MEXICO: FEDERAL HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Latin    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            America   middle-
Mexico   & Carib.   Income       Development diamond'
1999
PopDulation. mid-year (millions)                       97.4        509       573                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    4.410      3,840     4,900
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                      429.6      1,955     2,811
Averaae annual growth, 1993.99
PoDulation (X)                                           1.7       1.6        1.4
Labor force (%)                                          3.0       2.5        2.1     GNP                               Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year avallable, 1993-99)                                 capita                        enrollment
Povertv (% of Dopulation below national poverty line)
Urban DoDulation (X of total poDulation)                 74         75        76
Life expectancv at birth (years)                         72         70        70
Infant mortalltv (per 1,000 live births)                 30         31        27
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)                           8         7                 Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (X of population)        83         75        78
Illiteracy (X of population age 15+)                      9         12        10
Gross orimarv enrollment (%of school-age poPulation)    114        113       109               Mexico
Male                                                  116                     -              Upper-middle-income group
Female                                                113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998      1999
Economic ratio*'
GDP (USS billions)                           134.5    223.0      416.3     483.7
Gross domestic investmentUGDP                 26.0      22.9      24.3       23.2
Exports of goods and services/GDP             11.2      19.0      30.8       30.8                     Trade
Gross domestic savinas/GDP                    24.7      22.9      22.3       21.9
Gross national savings/GDP                    21.7      20.3      20.5       20.6
Current account balance/GDP                    -4.1     -2.6      -3.9       -2.9      Domestic 
Interest Dayments/GOP                          2.5       3.5       2.4        1.7      Sains
Total debt/GDP                                31.8      42.1      38.4       34.0      Savings                      Ivt
Total debt service/exports                    72.4      32.9      19.2       24.6
Present value of debt/GDP                                         37.4       33.0
Present value of debtexports                     -               111.5      100 4
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   1.3      2.9       4.8       3.7        4.9         -Mexico
GNP per capita                       -0.9      1.1       3.1       2.5        3.2               Upper-middle-income group
Exports of ooods and services         8.4     13.6      12.0      13.9        7.4
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                            40
Aariculture                                    9.8       7.8       5.3        5.0
Industry                                      33.4      29.4      28.5       28.2     20
Manufacturing                               22.7      21.9       21.3      21.1      0
Services                                      56.7      62.9      66.3       66.8    -20 {     4 '9s    97   9e  9a
Private consumption                           64.4      68.9      67.3       68.0    -40
General aovernment consumotion                10.9       8.3      10.4       10.0              -     GD1        .*GDP
Imports of goods and services                 12.5      19.1      32.8       32.0
1979-89  1989 99      1998       1999      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                    1.2       1.7       0.8        3.5    30
Industry                                       0.9       3.5       6.3        3 8     15      t
Manufacturing                                 1.1      4.0        7.3       4.1
Services                                        1.8      2.7        4.5       35 6
Private consumption                            1.4       2.2       5.5        4.3                         6    9s         B9
General government consumption                 3.1       1.7       2.2        1.0
Gross domestic investment                     -4.3       4.3        9.5       15    l 30
Imoorts of goods and services                 -1.1      11.9      16.5       12.8                  Eols   i        mpont
Gross national product                         1.2       2.9       4.8        4.2
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its Income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 57 -



Mexico
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Dornestic priGes                           1979    1989      1998      1999    Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                      40
Consumer prices                              ..    20.0       15.9     16.7    30.
Implicit GDP deflator                      19.6    26.5       15.4     15.9    20 -
Govemment finance                                                               10
( of GDP, includes current grants)                                               o
Current revenue                              ..    25.8       20.4     20.7            94   95  9s   97   98
Current budget balance                       ..    -1.8        2.1      1.7                  GDP deflator    eCPI
Overall surplus1defictl                      ..    -4.6       -1.2     -1.1
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1979    1989       1998     1999      Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                          ..  35,171   117,460  136,391       5 so.o
Oil                                         ..   7,876      7,134    9,928
Agricufture                                 ..   1,754      3.797    3,926                                   i   _
Manufactures                                ..  24,936   106,062  122.085
Total imports (cif)                          ..  34,766   125,373  141,975
Consumer goods                              ..   3,499    11,109   12,175      50.ODG
Intermediate goods                          ..  26,499    96,935  109,270
Capital goods                               ..  4,769    17,329   20,530          0
93  94  95  96  97  98  99
Export price index (1995=100)                ..      96         95       98
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..     89        100       99                  Exrports     mlmports
Termsoftrade(1995=100)                       ..    108          94       99
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989      1998      1999     Current account balance to GDP(%)
(USS millions)
Exports of goods and services             15,131   42,362   128,982  148,083    0
Imports of goods and services             16,704   42,426   137,801   155,465
Resource balance                          -1,573     -63    -8,818   -7,382
Netincome                                 4,111   4,302    -13,284  -13,083
Net current transfers                       131    2,544     6,012    6,313
Current account balance                   -5,553   -5,821   -16,090  -14,153    -6
Financing items (not)                     5,868    6,093    18,227   14,746       ..
Changes in net reserves                    -315    -272    -2,137      -594    9-.
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)       ..  6,376    29,032   31,829
Conversion rate (DEC. locallUS$)         2.3E-02     2.5       9.2       9.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989      1998      1m
(US$ millions)                                                                   Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed     42,765   93,826   159,962  164.532
IBRD                                    1,731    7,821    11,514   10,804                      A: 10,804
IDA                                         0        0         0        0          G: 30,006           C: 5,233
06.119
Total debt service                        11,591   15.559    26,778   39,072                                 E 5,269
I1RO                                      221    1.245     2,024    2,171
IDA                                         0       0          0        0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            27       37        32
Official creditors                        284      936      -776   -1,262
Private creditors                       3,798   -2,397    12,219    6,308
Foreign direct investment               1,332    3.037    10,238    11,568
Portfoli equity                             0        0       730    3,769                       F: 107,101
World Bank program
Commitments                               527    2,325     2,212    1,616      A - IBRO                  E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             326    1.297     1,283      839      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                       76     677      1,257    1.326     C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                 250     620         26     -487
Interest payments                         145     567        767      846
Net transfers                             105      52       -741   -1,332
Development Economics                                                                                            8/25/00
- 58-



Additional
Annex No.: 11
MEXICO: FEDERAL HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
I.     Objectives
As part of project preparation, a social assessment was carried out in order to: (i) ensure that the
rehabilitation and maintenance works under the Project will not cause involuntary resettlement as defined in
OD 4.30; (ii) identify possible social impacts on indigenous peoples in compliance with OD 4.20; (iii)
identify any other possible social impacts and to design mitigation measures if necessary; (iv) better
identify the project's benefits; and (v) propose a simple method of monitoring any possible social impact
arising from the project during its implementation.
II.    Methodology
The social assessment comprised two phases: (i) desk-analysis of technical and socioeconomic data; and
(ii) field research of a sample of selected works. The sample included: (i) rehabilitation of roads and
bridges proposed for the year 2001 program; (ii) works carried out under Loan 3628-ME; and (iii) civil
works for the weigh station in Veracruz state which will not be included in the Project.
The field research was carried out in two distinct regions: (i) the Westem Region; and (ii) the Gulf Region.
Both selected regions present different socioeconomic and cultural characteristics that facilitated the
analysis of a wide range of alternatives so as to better assess any possible social impacts that might occur
under the project and identify mitigation measures, if necessary.
The Western Region, comprising coastal areas of Jalisco, Nayarit and Sinaloa states, is an agricultural and
tourist area with middle to low levels of poverty. The road surveyed is one of the most important in the
country, connecting the industrial area of Guadalajara in Jalisco state to the border with the USA. The
analysis in this region included 174.5 km of roads (proposed and completed) and six bridges over a total
run of 2,705 km.
The Gulf Region, including Veracruz, Tamaulipas and San Luis Potosi states, though near some oil
production centers, is mainly dedicated to agriculture and cattle rearing. With the exception of some
localities, it is defined as a very poor area. The analysis in this region included 223.5 km of roads
(proposed and completed) over a total run of 1,617 km.
During the appraisal mission, the. team visited proposed and completed works in Hidalgo, one of the
poorest states in the highly populated central region of Mexico. In this visit 120 km of roads were surveyed
over a total run of 400 km. The research also covered material sources and camping sites so as to better
identify any possible impact.
During the field trips key informants were formally interviewed including several mayors (13 of the 27
municipalities involved), local government officials and technical personnel within SCT Centers as well as
some beneficiaries. All of them answered four basic questions related to: (i) expected benefits; (ii) possible
impacts and conflicts; (iii) recommendations to mitigate such impacts; and (iv) identifying poor
communities and/or indigenous communities that might benefit or be affected by the works. The scope and
- 59 -



characteristics of the works to be carried out under the FHMP were discussed so as to better understand the
possibilities of social impact.
III.   Main Findings
SCT authorities participating in the mission were aware that the Bank's safeguard policies apply to the
whole project, independently of the source of financing therefore the four-year program will include only
works that satisfy the Bank's requirements. The PAD section, which describes project's components,
clearly defines the type of works that fit these requirements.
(a)    Project Benefits
Based on the positive results of the HRTS Project of which the proposed project is a follow up, similar
benefits are expected from the FHMP. In the roads improved under the first project, safety and speed
increased while travel time and related costs diminished. Increase in traffic on these roads is an indication
of the support provided to the regional development of their influence areas. In the opinion of municipal
and local officials as well as beneficiaries, the proposed project will benefit their communities by providing
better access to services and markets in cities within the region and other parts of the country and spur
business related to transport services. Better opportunities for exporting agricultural products and tourism
were also mentioned.  The general improvement fostered by such roads helps motivate municipal
authorities and local residents to seek to get connections to federal roads as a development mechanism.
(b)    Resettlement
Based on the results of the HRTS Project and the findings of the social assessment, it is possible to state
that the type of rehabilitation and maintenance works to be carried out under the proposed project will not
involve involuntary resettlement because of the following reasons:
Scope. The critical works under the project comprise rehabilitation and maintenance of the long existing
(30 years old in average) federal network with high volume of traffic connecting, by definition, the country'
s capital (Mexico City) with state capitals and main ports and other important cities. To build and improve
the federal network under such principles has been a key policy of Mexico during decades. The federal
network constitutes the axis of internal and international trade for the country, connecting long developed
regions rather than incorporating new  areas.  The project's main objective of maintaining the
competitiveness of the country fits within this policy.
Technical. The project is a follow-up of the HRTS Project, which did not incur involuntary resettlement or
land acquisitions during its five-year execution of 9,500 km rehabilitation and maintenance works with a
cost of $480 million. The field research undertaken proved that the similar type of works to be carried out
under the proposed project are to be executed within the existing platform of the road; there are no changes
in road alignment, elevated ways, or bypasses or any other work beyond the existing geometrical design.
This exercise comprised works completed under the first project and proposed works for the year 2001.
During the upcoming years, the Bank will have the opportunity to review and agree in advance upon
annual work programs according to the technical, social and environmental criteria agreed during
negotiations in order to ensure that no social and/or environmental impacts are likely to occur.
Institutional. SCT's internal regulations do not allow the project's executing agency (Direcci6n General
de Conservaci6n de Carreteras/DGCC) to undertake works that require land acquisition, occupy land
beyond the original right of way or incur any involuntary resettlement.
- 60 -



Legal. Mexico's applicable laws, the Ley de Vias Generales de Comunicaci6n (Articles 2,3) and Ley
General de Bienes Nacionales (articles 1,2,3, 5,6, 8, 23, 24, 26, 28, 29, and 74), forbid any occupation of
the right of way of the federal networks. There are also specific regulations (Reglamento para el
aprovechamiento del derecho de via de carreteras federales y zonas aledafnas) to control any legal use of
right of ways of federal roads. Illegal occupation is a federal violation. Centros SCT (decentralized SC1
units, one in each state) through their Right of Way Units, are in charge of enforcing those regulations.
Technical units in the Centros supervising ongoing works support this surveillance. An initial admonition
followed by monetary sanctions usually make it unnecessary to proceed with legal actions. This process
has discouraged illegal occupation of the right of way of federal roads.
Social. The high traffic of the federal roads, of which approximately 25% is heavy traffic, makes it
difficult and dangerous to establish irregular settlements along those roads. There are, however, seasonail
and occasional vendors in some segments of the roads (during harvests for instance). SCT has a policy of
tolerance to this occasional use of the right of way. Established businesses are careful to keep out of the
right of way to avoid sanctions and they support control of illegal occupants in order to reduce or eliminate
"unfair competition". Field research carried out during the social assessment along more than 4,000 km of
roads proved that this is the prevailing situation. There are photographs in the Project File of all the works
visited.
(c)    Indigenous Peoples
Indigenous Peoples. As explained above, the 30 year old federal network connects mainly long developed
urban areas and some regional centers that have become focal points for services and trade for rural
populations. Rural comnmunities are served also through other types of roads and indigenous communities
are usually in remote locations. Because the proposed project comprises only federal infrastructure and
works to be executed within the existing pavement platform and legal right of way, it will not create any
potentially adverse effect on indigenous peoples. Field research carried out under the social assessment
confirmed that no indigenous communities are to be affected by the proposed Project, as proved by the field
visits to states with an important indigenous population such as Nayarit or Veracruz. On the contrary,
through feeder roads that reach the federal network, many rural communities have benefited, including
some with small amounts of indigenous population. In the opinion of local authorities and beneficiaries
interviewed during the social assessment, roads are a priority demand for most communities.
Ixmiquilpan in Hidalgo, for instance, visited during a preparation mission, which has now access to a
federal road, still maintains the role as the traditional trade center of the Otomi people, one of the poorest
indigenous groups in Mexico. Monday is still the "market day" as it has been since pre-Hispanic times.
Through Ixmiquilpan, the 150 very poor indigenous communities scattered in the Mezquital Valley have
been able to better market their vegetables. Officials at the municipality estimated that improved transport
services have helped to increase by around 30% the sales of local production while allowing indigenous
communities to maintain their traditions.
(d)    Cultural Assets
There is no danger of damaging cultural assets because of the scope of the project and the technical reasons
mentioned above. Field research indicates that no cultural assets are near the federal roads surveyed during
social assessment. According to Mexican regulations any occasional findings are protected under the law
and in through contracts with private contractors.
-61 -



(e)    Other Possible Social Issues
Findings of the social assessment indicate that the main complaints by the comMunity occur during
execution of the works (usually less than a year), namely: (i) delays in finishing the works on schedule; (ii)
inadequate use of material sources; (iii) inadequate signalling of detours; and (iv) in some cases,
inconsistent quality of the works. All these aspects are governed or penalized under the construction
contracts, and can serve as a mechanism to protect community rights.
Construction contracts include provisions to compensate for any damage caused during construction to the
communities and a recommendation to use local labor. Contracts to occupy temporary land or to use
material sources are signed directly with the owners involved and protected under Mexican laws. Centros
SCT's Legal Unit intervenes unpon the request of the community to enforce provisions in the contracts and
to address conflicts arising from the works.
(I)    Weigh Stations
The weigh stations were analyzed separately because they are different from road works. Weigh stations
aim to control specifications and weight of trucks to protect roads. The proposed project would include a
pilot to build two such stations: (i) a double station, near Palmillas, in Queretaro state, with units south
and north bound; and (ii) a single station in Nuevo Laredo, near the border with the USA in Tamaulipas.
The proposed "model" for such stations in Mexico comprises access and exit lanes and an area for
weighing and supervision. According to SCT, this type of infrastructure requires a strip of land
one-kilometer long by 6 meters wide, typically well within the right of way (usually of more than 40
meters in width). Because a station can be built at any point along any given road, within certain
parameters, it is typically possible to avoid sites that involve displacement of people or any other social
impact.
The Nuevo Laredo and Palmillas stations sites are located in unoccupied lands with no apparent
productive activity (tierras baldias) therefore no displacement of population is envisaged nor any other
social impact is expected. However, it has been agreed during negotiations that the purchase of said land
will be carried out in accordance with OD 4.30, and that no bidding documents will be issued for the
construction of said stations until the Bank has received, evidence acceptable to the Bank, that the land on
which each station will be located has been acquired in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. The site in
Nuevo Laredo and Palmillas will meet similar conditions and hence avoid social impacts. No other
impacts, beyond those already mentioned in relation to road works have been identified.
IV.   Community Participation
Because the federal network has been long established and the type of works to be implemented require
certain technical specialization, direct involvement of local communities is limited. However, local people
interviewed during the social assessment mentioned these works as a source of temporary employment and
indirect source of income.
The SCT Center in each state, which is responsible for supervising all works in federal roads, should
inform the community in advance about the type and duration of the works to be carried under its
jurisdiction. Private construction contracts should include provisions to pay any damage caused during
construction to the communities and a recommendation to use local labor as much as possible, which is
- 62 -



usually the case for certain works. Contracts to occupy temporary land or to use material sources are
signed directly with the owners involved and protected under Mexican laws. SCT Legal Unit intervenes
when the requested by the community to enforce provisions in such contracts.
V.    Mitigation Measures and Recommendations
In order to address the typical problems associated with the execution of the road works, legal contracts
with private contractors will include specific covenants to protect community rights and penalize
non-compliance with such agreements.
- 63 -



Additional
Annex No.: 12
MEXICO: FEDERAL HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION FRAMEWORK FOR REHABILITATION
AND MAINTENANCE WORKS
Background and Objective
The Federal Highway Maintenance Project (the Project) will support the ongoing SCT efforts to improve
the maintenance of the federal highway network. The project will finance key segments of the SCT
maintenance program, which as a whole, includes only works that do not require changes in the road
geometrical design. As discussed throughout the PAD comprehensive Environmental, Social and Technical
analyses were carried out on the SCT program. In summary, the environmental analysis indicated that
since the proposed works involve only rehabilitation and maintenance of existing federal highways along
well-consolidated right of ways, direct impacts on sensitive ecosystems and human population are not
expected. The identified sub-projects do not represent potentially direct or indirect impacts and therefore do
not require independent, stand-alone environmental analyses. Minor impacts are related to the construction
works and can be managed through the application of good environmental practices already in practice in
Mexico under the Modelo de Evaluaci6n Ambiental in SCT. The Project will help to standardize these
measures through the preparation of standard environmental manuals for road rehabilitation and
maintenance.
Field research and consultation carried out during the social assessment (Annex 11), ratified that no
indigenous territories or natural resources are affected by the proposed rehabilation and maintenance
works under the Project, as proven by the field visits to states where there are indigenous populations such
as Hidalgo, Nayarit and Veracruz. Municipalities with indigenous populations (identified as those
speaking a native language) visited during the social assessment are expected to benefit from better
transport infrastructure. Such is the case of Ixmiquilpan in the Mezquital Valley in Hidalgo; Santa Maria
del Oro and Acaponeta in Nayarit; and Chontal and Tantoyuca in Veracruz. In the opinion of local
authorities and beneficiaries interviewed, to have access to roads is a priority demand for most
communities.
Hence, no environmental or social impacts are expected to occur during the three-year project
implementation period. Upon this basis, the objective of this framework is to establish an implementation
process that ensures continually that the project will not cause social or environmental impacts during
implementation and that it will comply fully with Bank's policies, namely OD 4.30:  Involuntary
Resettlement and OD 4.20 Indigenous Peoples.
Principles
To ensure that the project maintains the above-mentioned conditions that guarantee that no impacts related
to OD 4.30 and OD 4.20, or any other social impact, occur during its implementation the executing agency
will comply with the following implementation principles:
Technical: The referenced works under the Project will concentrate on the existing federal network
- 64 -



undertaking maintenance works within the existing road surface and its right of way. SCT will select
subprojects using the SISTER and HDM models to help ensure compliance with technical and economic
criteria approved by the Bank. All FHMP sub-projects will comply with the following criteria: (i) to have
an ERR satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) do not require changes in geometrical design; and (iii) to have a
structural design life of at least 15 years. As corroborated by the social impact assessment this type of
works do not cause social or enviromnental impacts.
Environmental: Construction related issues would be managed through the application of environmental
clauses in construction contracts. These clauses will focus on the implementation of good housekeeping
measures to reduce nuisances during construction. These measures will also address main complaints
expressed by stakeholders during the social assessment. Tender documents and construction contracts will
include such measures to be executed by contractors and enforced by SCT supervision units in Centros
SCT. Moreover, all subprojects will comply with existing environmental requirements in Mexico, which
are satisfactory to the Bank for this type of project.
Social: The whole program, regardless of the source of financing (SCT or Bank) will include only works
that ensure that: (a) no resettlement occurs during implementation; (b) indigenous populations, where
involved, benefit from the works; and (c) that mitigation measures are in place to minimize disruption
during construction. Based on the model established during the social assessment, compliance with these
principles will comprise the following steps:
*   Program Review. Review of the annual program to verify that it comprises only maintenance of federal
highway subprojects as defined in the technical and environmental principles of this framework.
*   Verification. SCT will verify that the right of way of subprojects included in the annual program has
been enforced, and that there is no risk of resettlement or land tenure issues related to said works under
the Project. This verification would cover highway works and bridges.
- Quick Consultation. As established in SCT procedures, SCT Centers through its technical units will
inform municipal authorities of the works to be executed under their jurisdiction, and will take iinto
account their opinion to establish mitigation measures as necessary to avoid/or minimize social impacts
during works execution.
Annual Reviews
To ensure compliance with this implementation framework, the Bank supervision team, including a sccial
scientist, will carry out annual reviews under the following process:
(a)    The executing agency (DGCC) will present every year work progress reports including information
to support compliance with the objective and principles of this framework.
(b)    The Bank will review and agree in advance every year on the work program for the following year
to ensure that only works that meet technical, economic, and social criteria, as defined in the principles of
this implementation framework, are included in said annual plans.
(c)    The Bank supervision team will survey a sample of subprojects defined under the following
criteria: (i) works executed or under construction in the program of the previous year; (ii) works proposed
for the next annual program; (iii) works to be carried out in marginal areas as defined by CONAPO; and
- 65 -



(iv) a representative mix of works to be executed. Weigh stations will be in the sample when included in the
work program.
(d)    The Bank supervision team will carry out field trips to survey the sample in order to identify
possible social impacts, and/or expected benefits. This process will include a quick consultation with
municipal and local officials, as well as potential beneficiaries. If municipalities with indigenous population
are involved the visit will include such municipalities.
(e)    The Bank team will complete a report upon the results of this supervision trip, and the progress
report prepared by SCT, providing recommendations to improve project execution.
(f)    The Bank and DGCC will agree on mitigation measures to address social and/or environmental
issues to be promptly implemented. Because no resettlement or land acquisition problems are expected,
these issues, as explained in this framework, are related only to nuisances during construction and can be
addressed under the provisions included in construction contracts.
Legal Documents
This implementation framework, as appropriate, will be incorporated into the project documentation
including: (i) Project Appraisal Document; (ii) Guarantee Agreement; and (iii) Annual implementation
letter to be provided by the executing agency. A model of the letter for the year 2002 programs follows.
- 66 -



Model Letter
MEXICO: FEDERAL HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
ANNUAL IMPLEMENTATION LETTER: FY2002
September 15, 2001
Mr. Olivier Lafourcade
Director,
Mexico Country Department,
The World Bank,
Washington, D.C.
I am writing this letter in connection with the selection and finalization of the list of eligible
subprojects proposed for inclusion as the Second year of the program for the conservation of the Federal
Highway Network, being financed under Loan   ME.
We consider efficient road transportation to be indispensable to sustaining Mexico's economic
development goals, and hence it is necessary that we take steps to minimize capacity constraints and to
address the conservation needs of our Federal Highway Network. While other initiatives are underway in
terms of relieving capacity constraints, the Federal Highway Maintenance project represents a key
component of our strategy for addressing the conservation needs of this 42,000 km network. The mrajor
elements of the annual conservation needs, are generated largely by the age of the network, the exriired
economic life of some assets and the high prevailing traffic levels. Hence it is for the purpose of the
adequate restoration of transport facilities that our Highway and Bridge Maintenance Programs (HMP &
BRP) are developed and provide the basis from which we select a subset for financing by the Intemational
Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank). It is worth noting that the Sub-Secretaria de
Infraestructura of the Secretaria de Comunicaciones y Transporte (SCT) has advanced substantially in
the implementation of the First Year program of conservation works for the Federal Highway Netvwork,
being financed under Loan _ ME.
The methodologies and criteria applied by our Direcci6n General de Conservaci6n de Carreteras
(DGCC) for the design of the ongoing First Year program have been appraised and found acceptable to the
Bank. The purpose of this letter and its supporting annexes is to reconfirm to you that the same high
standards have been maintained in establishing the Second Year program. Hence, we are submitting for
your review and no objection a list of subproject candidates (Plan 2002) that were selected from the Year
2002 HMP and BRP for Bank financing. These are fully detailed in Attachment 1 of this letter, which
supplies information on their technical and economic criteria.
I am pleased to inform you that all subprojects in Plan 2002 are consistent with DGCC's goals and
objectives. In Attachments 1 and 2, you will find supporting information to show that all the proposed
subprojects meet the implementation criteria, agreed between SCT and the Bank, especially the
requirements for their: (i) technical and economic feasibility, and (ii) environmental and social impacts.
- 67 -



Consistent with our commitments under this Loan, we have reviewed Plan 2002 and verified that the
rights-of-way have been secured and that there are no land tenure issues or social issues associated with the
projects and subprojects.
I would also like to mention that DGCCs program, has been subjected to periodic implementation
reviews by SCT. In Attachment 3 you will find some of the important features of the reviews such as
assessments of DGCCs monitoring of the adherence to the agreed social and environmental policies,
including the enforcement of the environmental and social specifications that were included in contract
documents for civil works.
Continued implementation of the Federal Highway Maintenance Project is important to Mexico's
economic development. We await the Bank's no objection to our finalizing and implementing Plan 2002.
With best regards
Sincerely Yours
Sub-Secretario de Infraestructura
Secretaria de Comunicaciones y Transporte
Attachments (3)
- 68 -



MEXICO: FEDERAL HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
ANNUAL IMPLEMENTATION LETTER: FY2002
September 15, 2001
Attachment 1: List of Proposed subprojects
State      Item Description  Length (km)    Cost    Traffic    ERR  NPV
Totals
- 69 -



MEXICO: FEDERAL HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
ANNUAL IMPLEMENTATION LETTER: FY2002
September 15, 2001
Attachment 2: Environmental and Social Assessment Summary
1.     The assessment's criteria were based on the study carried out in July 2000 for analyzing the social
and environmental impact of the First Year program (Plan 2001). Of the km listed in Attachment 1,
rapid social assessments were carried out by SCT's Centros on ___km in  states. The main features
of the study included:
- 70 -



IBRD 31077
go. I, nap -p-a,adb,n.46  Malp Da6a4ii la /ddbn
TiiaIu      M>0aL- Ron Sen Bsaanrel n6,pna h ndS
K    4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d  
CiododJadrez                    ~~~~~~~~~~U NI T ED   S TA TES   O F  AM E RIC A
CAVFPIRmVA 
I       Sn't                                                                                               er,Ngn                                                 FE          MtA  HIH A
K                                                            'mean Rosilo  "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pii-N.-x
Oa.dd  brgn                                          OA/I E Sa            nn or ntODREAlL$kAh
I  BA                                                                                                                                                      MAINTrENANC5   a  -CPhREENEE MANEAC
II 62e1  a                                                        N".                                                a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ EII H,
0  C  F  A                                                   j    *Calinor      0/Pl/GO                              EdefA     A     -Ie,                                                       G      $ATa'CWADS
-1-             N                ,~~~~~aaidHIdoIgy/0    LI~~L   N
ELTnEP                                                                                                                                          F                                                                  liptn ean'1  F
PA C  IF  PjZ.-~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P676Ol
1  6 S6000ANOS             916      1100    146~~~~~~~                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ RAkGO  j4
_                                                 yn                 'a                                                                                               /1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  l
4  FM BOGS GEG /00  IM BOGS 000 1919 090 B   as 0  67.0    0.0                                                                                                                                      Ala                 .        a)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sRl~,    il n
5  FM BOGS Md/HOG  P6011.06   '490   000  10  -  ~     ~         ~         ~         ~        ~         ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       f  ,eali                 .        r              II',~~~B
5  FM lOGS MEl /HGG IACELCA  030  06.0    50                                                                   iT                                     8ay           Ldfl1ftW07fl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I.  I>  ) e(CId 
6  FM  SOS MOn /14.- 50610-L          600       BO      ITO WE/O                                                                                a4a         l-~   okT> C1Acd1 
V  BOB PAN  M FOGS MOIaJIN 120900,   00   00    tOO                                                                                                                             lZesapl                               4IteBo4roI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~El H-E,  G.
11 HIIAadAP6dH FL LEON 056506       61 60     720    1.nn"a                                                                                          a   >~                   -         aieMni.F
12d  IBGSHMWAY..FFMAINTNA0E                        El 0MY   90                 P  A        FY     C I                               OB     B 4T'                                                               C--t'.L          
1EL SUECO AGoNOS69.B16   AN                 166       191.0   14 4 -
16ONCSOACPIEDN ASNEGRASCPM A                1670      3270    260                                                                 G     &uut.hn,re                                                                                a
173 APIEORASNIRASCDNsACA _ S-04 09                     170 36  10                                                                                                                                                 .1 
20'60                                           105    105              -ia
20I EAN.S-OO GTOBLAM    EO TO/L CPQ_   766            10062  0 1 4                                     COPEENIEMANEAC E  RGAM.Ia
L MEDOS   CH /JALT A_AT_A   65               0 20    1370    C1%Hihay<
21 IarUATIANA.BZAN              450 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~10 10 0 
21 1PAJUPANZDEILOFC OXAC                     606L     31265    401           aab16         OnaaF6nea P5na 11
24 3IM E0O6 NAY /51N -IATIPTAN               765046                    26B6s10              najan            a jma                                                                                                                                    BE115IZa n;P'      ONUA



