Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7042 -ME
Loan Agreement
(Federal Highway Maintenance Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
Dated December 15, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 7042-ME
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 15, 2000, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS 
PUBLICOS, S.N.C. (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the United Mexican States (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having 
been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 
2 to this Agreement (the Project), have requested the Bank to assist in the financing 
of the Project;
(B)
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank 
(the Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the 
Loan) and to undertake such other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; 
and 
(C)
the Bank has relied on the representations and warranties by the 
Guarantor that the BRPs and the HMPs (as such terms are defined in Section 1.02 (a) 
and (j) of this Agreement) will not cause any involuntary resettlement of population 
Page  2
and will not adversely affect any indigenous peoples; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:  
(a)
“BRP” means Programa Nacional de Conservación de Puentes, any of the 
Guarantor’s annual programs for the rehabilitation of Federal Bridges (as hereinafter 
defined) during the Fiscal Years (as hereinafter defined) 2001 through 2003, of which 
the program for Fiscal Year 2001 , published has been approved by the Bank on June 16, 
2000;
(b)
“DGCC” means Dirección General de Conservación de Carreteras, the General 
Directorate for Highway Maintenance of SCT (as hereinafter defined);
(c)
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (4) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(d)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for works, consultants' 
services and training referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(e) 
“Federal Bridge” means any of the Guarantor’s bridges, as defined in 
Article 2 (V)  of the Federal Highways, Bridges and Vehicle Transportation Law (as 
hereinafter defined);
(f)
“Federal Highway” means  any of the Guarantor’s highways or roads, as 
defined in Article 2 (I) of the Federal Highways, Bridges and Vehicle Transportation 
Law;
(g)
“Federal Highways, Bridges and Vehicle Transportation Law” means the 
Guarantor’s Ley de Caminos, Puentes y Autotransporte Federal, published in the 
Guarantor’s Diario Oficial de la Federación (Official Gazette) on December 22, 1993, 
as amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(h)
“Fiscal Year” means the Guarantor’s fiscal year, commencing on January 1 
and ending on December 31;
(i)
“HDM-4 Model" means the road management model referred to in Part D.1 of 
the Project;
(j)
“HMP” means Programa Nacional de Conservación de Carreteras Federales, 
any of the Guarantor’s annual programs for the rehabilitation and maintenance of 
Federal Highways for Fiscal Years 2001 through 2003, of which the program for Fiscal 
Page  3
Year 2001 has been approved by the Bank on June 16, 2000;
(k)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of the Guarantee Agreement;
(l)
“Right of Way” means Derecho de Vía, land right of way, as defined in 
Article 2 (III) of the Federal Highways, Bridges and Vehicle Transportation Law; 
(m)
“SCT” means Secretaría de Comunicaciones y Transportes, the Guarantor's 
Communications and Transport Secretariat, or any successor or successors thereto;
(n)
“SIPUMEX Model” means SCT’s Sistema de Puentes Mexicanos (System of 
Mexican Bridges), the system used by SCT to evaluate bridge rehabilitation strategies;
(o)
“SISTER Model” means SCT’s Simulations de Strategies d’Entretien Routier 
(Simulation Model of Highway Maintenance Strategies), the program used by SCT to 
evaluate road maintenance strategies;
(p)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
(q) 
"Subproject" means any of the projects included in Parts A.1 or A.2 of 
the Project which has been approved by the Bank pursuant to Section 3.04 (a) of the 
Guarantee Agreement; and
(r)
“Supplemental Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the SCT 
to the Bank setting forth the Project indicators.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to two hundred 
eighteen million Dollars ($218,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to 
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 
of this Agreement.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made 
(or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
works, consultants' services and training required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, as well as in respect of the fee referred to in 
Section 2.04 of this Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of 
the General Conditions. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the 
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
Page  4
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and 
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period 
at the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay 
interest on such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of 
the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest, commitment and other charges shall be payable 
semiannually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or 
unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan 
from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or 
any portion of the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on 
said Variable 
Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 
2.01(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the 
provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines.
(c)
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium 
be paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any 
premium payable in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the 
amount allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Transfer of Loan Proceeds
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall enter into, and comply with the terms of, 
contractual arrangements with the Guarantor, satisfactory to the Bank, providing, 
inter alia, for:  
(i) 
the transfer to the Guarantor of the proceeds of the Loan; and 
(ii) 
the transfer by the Guarantor to the Borrower of such funds as the 
Borrower shall be required to pay to the 
Bank on account of 
principal, interest and other charges on the Loan.  
(b)
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, 
Page  5
assign, waive, terminate or fail to enforce any provision of such contractual 
arrangements. The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations 
under such contractual arrangements in such a manner as to protect the interests of 
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan. The Borrower 
shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or threatens to 
interfere with the performance by the Borrower of its obligations under such 
contractual arrangements. 
Section 3.02. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating respectively to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) shall be carried out by the 
Guarantor pursuant to Section 3.03 of the Guarantee Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall participate in the annual and mid-term reviews 
referred to in Section 3.06 (d) and (e) of the Guarantee Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance 
with accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to 
reflect its operations and financial conditions and to register separately the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and 
related statements) and 
the records and accounts for the Special Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently applied, by independent and 
qualified auditors;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each 
such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such financial 
statements, records and accounts and a 
report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested, including as part of the information to be provided in each 
such report, a management letter 
concerning the Borrower's internal 
controls; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and 
the audit thereof, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate 
accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the Fiscal Year in which 
the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
Page  6
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that Article 36, Sections XXI and 
XXII (which deal with SCT's mandate), of the Guarantor’s Ley Orgánica de la 
Administración Pública Federal (Federal Public Administration Public Law), published 
in the Guarantor’s Diario Oficial de la Federación (Official Gazette) on December 12, 
1976, as amended to the date of this Agreement, or the Federal Highways, Bridges and 
Vehicle Transportation Law shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of SCT or any of its 
sub-secretariats, central and local units, departments and directorates to perform any 
of their responsibilities under the Project, any HMP or any BRP.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events is specified, namely, that any event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the contractual arrangements referred to in Section 
3.01 (a) of this Agreement shall have been entered into.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that the contractual arrangements 
referred to in Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement have been duly authorized by the 
parties thereto and are legally binding upon such parties in accordance with their 
respective terms. 
Section 6.03. The date March 15, 2001, is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Director General of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
Page  7
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Banco Nacional de Obras y 
   Servicios Públicos, S.N.C.
Tecoyotitla 100 
01030 Mexico DF   
Cable address: 
Telex:
Facsimile:
BANTECARIO
BNOSME 01772619 
011-525-7236291
Mexico City
Mexico City
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Mexico City, Mexico, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ David de Ferranti
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS 
   Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS, S.N.C.
By /s/ Tomás Ruiz González
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Works and consultants’
171,500,000
70%
Page  8
services under Part A of 
the Project
(2)
Works, consultants’                15,000,000
70%
services and training 
under Part B of the
Project
(3)
Works under
 
 3,500,000
70%
Part C of the Project
(4)
Consultants'
 4,200,000
        100% 
services under 
Part D of the
Project
(5)
Unallocated
21,620,000
(6)
Front-end fee
 2,180,000
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this
Agreement
(7)
Premia for Interest       
    0
Amount due  
Rate Caps
under Section 2.09 (c)
and Interest Rate
of this Agreement
Collars 
TOTAL                     218,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “training” includes the costs (other 
than consultants' services) related to the provision of training, such as travel, 
per-diem and other administrative expenses of trainees.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments:
(a)
made for expenditures prior to date of this Agreement; and
(b)
under a Subproject, unless such Subproject has been approved by the Bank 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.04 (a) of the Guarantee Agreement. 
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditures for expenditures: (a) for training; (b) under contracts 
for works costing less than $3,000,000 equivalent; (c) under consulting firms' 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent; and (d) under individual consultants' 
contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent, all under such terms and conditions as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in 
Banco de México, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02(b) of the Guarantee Agreement; and (ii) a request 
from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this 
Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02(b) of the Guarantee Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower 
for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 
Page  9
3.
Payments out of  the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of  the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of the 
Guarantee Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports or statement of expenditures, as the case may 
be.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Not 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $18,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the 
amount of $12,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, 
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
Page  10
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the amount of  
$40,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are 
Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the amount of $43,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to primarily improve transport efficiency 
on the Federal Highways; (b) to improve SCT's highway rehabilitation and maintenance 
planning performance; and (c) to enhance private sector participation in highway 
Page  11
maintenance.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower, the Guarantor and the Bank may agree upon from time to time 
to achieve such objectives: 
Part A:
Federal Highway and Bridge Rehabilitation and Maintenance
1.
Carrying out of selected projects under the HMPs, consisting of any of the 
following activities:
(a)
rehabilitation of about 1,000 km, in the aggregate, of existing Federal 
Highways through: (i) improvement of the base, sub-base and pavement bearing capacity 
of such highways as required by the traffic of trucks in such highways; and (ii) 
improvement and/or repair of drainage and sub-drainage systems and shoulders in such 
highways; and 
(b) 
maintenance of about 1,200 km, in the aggregate, of existing Federal 
Highways, through works to protect the useful life of such highways' pavement and to 
improve the physical condition of the surface, shoulders and drainage ditches of such 
highways.
2.
Carrying out of selected projects under the BRPs, consisting of the 
rehabilitation of about 100 existing Federal Bridges, in the aggregate, through works 
designed to: (i) ensure the superstructure ability of such bridges to support the 
loads imposed by heavy traffic, and adapt the width of such bridges to that of the 
Federal Highway they are part of; and (ii) repair and/or reinforce the superstructure, 
supports and structural elements of such bridges, and protect them against erosion.  
3.
Strengthening, through the provision of engineering consulting services, of the 
technical capabilities of SCT to supervise the execution of civil works under the HMPs 
and BRPs. 
Part B:
Comprehensive Highway Maintenance by Contract 
1.
Carrying out, on a pilot basis, of a three-year program for comprehensive 
highway maintenance, through contracts with private sector contractors, of the 
following Federal Highways: (i) route number 136, a two-lane highway in the State of 
Tlaxcala with a length of 121 km; and (ii) route number 110 in the State of 
Guanajuato, with 42.5 km of a two-lane highway and 39.5 km of a four-lane highway, 
totaling 121.5 km of a two-lane highway. Such program will consist of the following 
activities:
(a) 
routine maintenance (activities that should be programmed and performed 
at least once a year) of such highways;
(b) 
periodic maintenance (activities that can be planned for and which must 
be carried out periodically, normally for periods exceeding one year, to ensure the 
adequacy of the condition of the highways) of 50 km of each such highway;
(c) 
rehabilitation, if necessary, of up to 15 km of each such highway;
(d) 
rehabilitation, if necessary, of Federal Bridges in such highways;
(e) 
minor works to correct deficiencies or improve certain parts of such 
highways;
(f) 
planning, monitoring and documenting the execution and evaluation of the 
program; and
(g) 
training in comprehensive highway maintenance activities for highway 
maintenance professionals and specialists of the public and private sector.
2.
Provision of technical assistance for, inter alia, work supervision, preparation 
and management of the program referred to above.
Part C:
Vehicle Weight and Dimension Control Stations
Page  12
Construction and operation, on a pilot basis, of two new vehicle weight and 
dimension control stations adjacent to existing Federal Highways located in Nuevo 
Laredo, State of Tamaulipas, and Palmillas, State of Querétaro, including acceleration 
and deceleration lanes and station buildings.
Part D:
Institutional Strengthening
1.
Development and implementation of a model highway development management program 
(the HDM-4 Model) within SCT to strengthen the institutional capabilities of DGCC for 
strategic planning, programming and evaluation of highway maintenance projects.  The 
HDM-4 Model will improve road network level and project level technical and economic 
evaluation of road maintenance and improvement options, and will gradually complement 
and replace the SISTER Model.  This activity will include: (a) the provision of 
consultants’ services; and (b) the provision of training for DGCC staff, including 
study tours and conferences. 
2.
Strengthening, through the provision of technical assistance, of the technical 
and institutional capabilities of SCT for the design and implementation of a strategy 
to promote the decentralization of road administration.
3.
Strengthening, through the provision of technical assistance, of the technical, 
financial and institutional capabilities of SCT for the design and implementation of 
road financing and resource mobilization strategies.
4.
Strengthening, through the provision of technical assistance, of the technical, 
financial and institutional capabilities of SCT for the design, implementation and 
management of the Guarantor’s toll road system.
5.
Strengthening of the technical, managerial and administrative capabilities of 
SCT to carry out the Project, through the provision of domestic and foreign training 
for the staff of SCT directorates responsible for Project implementation.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn 
as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by 
the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as 
of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal 
Payment Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any 
amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies.
Installment Share
  Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each March 15 and September 15
Beginning March 15, 2006 through September 15, 2015         
5%
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
Page  13
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a 
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the 
Original Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all 
remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after 
such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts 
payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the 
second Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable 
on each Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of  withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the 
Loan to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that 
shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate 
that reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank 
under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank 
so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate 
component of the Screen Rate.
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount.
