                                        Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                  Report No: 37924 ­ MX




          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                       (IBRD 7042)

                                           ON A

                        LOAN/ CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF

                                  US$218.00 MILLION

                                            TO

                              UNITED MEXICAN STATES

                                           FOR A

                FEDERAL HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT

                                       May 28, 2007




Sustainable Development Department
Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.

                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective)

                  Currency Unit = Mexican Peso
                      MX$1.00 = US$0.0922
                      US$ 1.00 = MX$10.84

                          FISCAL YEAR


             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BANOBRAS   Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos, S.N.C.
BRP        Bridge Rehabilitation Program
CAPUFE     Public Toll Roads Agency (Caminos y Puentes Federales)
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CreMa      Maintenance and Rehabilitation Contract (Contrato de
           Recuperación y Mantenimiento)
DGCC       Peral Directorate for Mainteance of Roads (Dirección General de
           Concesión de Carreteras)
DO         Development Objective
ENA        National Toll Road Authority
ERR        Economic Rate of Return
FARAC      Toll Roads Restructuring Agency
FHMP       Federal Highway Maintenance Project
GOM        Government of Mexico
HDM        Highway Design and Maintenance Standard Model
HFP        Highway Finance Project
HMP        Highway Maintenance Program
HRTS       Highway Rehabilitation and Traffic Safety Project
IBRD       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB        International Competitive Bidding
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IF         Implementation Framework
IMT        Mexican Institute for Transport (Instituto Mexicano del Transporte)
IRR        Internal Rate of Return
ISR        Implementation Status Results and Report
MIRR       Modified Internal Rate of Return
MTR        Mid-Term Review
NAFTA      North American Free Trade Agreement
NCB        National Competitive Bidding
NPV        Net Present Value
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PDO        Project Development Objective

PPCM        Pilot Project for Comprehensive Maintenance by Contract
PROPIMI     Proyecto Piloto de Mantenimiento Integral
PSR         Project Status Report
QAG         Quality Assurance Group
RED         Road Economic Decision Model
RoW         Right-of-Way
SCT         Secretariat of Communications and Transport (Secretaría de
            Comunicaciones y Transporte)
SHCP        Secretariat of Finance (Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público)
SISTER      Simulation Model of Highway Maintenance Strategies (Simulation
            de Stratégies d'Entretien Routier)
TESOFE      Treasury of the Federation (Tesorería de la Federación)
ToR         Terms of Reference
TTL         Task Team Leader
UAC         Unidad de Autopistas de Cuota
VOC         Vehicle Operating Cost
WDCS        Weight and Dimensions Control Stations




                   Vice President: Pamela Cox
          Acting Country Director: Makhtar Diop
                  Sector Manager: José Luis Irigoyen
             Project Team Leader: Mauricio Cuellar
               ICR Team Leader: Mauricio Cuellar




                                   2

                                                        Mexico
                FEDERAL HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT




                                                    CONTENTS



1. Basic Information.......................................................................................................... 4
2. Key Dates....................................................................................................................... 4
3. Ratings Summary.......................................................................................................... 4
4. Sector and Theme Codes.............................................................................................. 5
5. Bank Staff ...................................................................................................................... 5
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design.............................................. 6
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes........................................... 11
8. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................. 20
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome.......................................................... 27
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................. 27
11. Lessons Learned........................................................................................................ 32
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners..... 36
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis ......................................................................... 39
Annex 2. Restructuring .................................................................................................. 42
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 43
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis.................................................................. 52
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/ Supervision Processes....... 56
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings and Bank and Borrower Performance ............................ 59
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................ 60
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................. 61
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR.............. 62
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders................. 64
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents.................................................................... 65
Annex 13. Expost Evaluation from SCT...................................................................... 66




                                                              3

1. Basic Information

Country:                                                                    Federal Highway
                          Mexico                  Project Name:
                                                                            Maintenance Project
Project ID:               P065779                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IBRD-70420
ICR Date:                 05/28/2007              ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:       SIL                     Borrower:                 BANOBRAS
Original Total
Commitment:               USD 218.0M              Disbursed Amount:         USD 218.0 M.

Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
Implementing Agencies: Secretaría de Comunicaciones y Transporte
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: None


2. Key Dates

       Process               Date              Process          Original Date     Revised / Actual
                                                                                       Date(s)
Concept Review:     07/08/1999          Effectiveness:       03/15/2001         11/05/2001
Appraisal:          06/12/2000         Restructuring(s):
Approval:           12/14/2000          Mid-term Review:     11/20/2003         05/12/2004
                                       Closing:              06/30/2005         11/30/2006


3. Ratings Summary

3.1 Performance Rating by ICR

Outcomes:                                         Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Moderate
Bank Performance:                                 Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Satisfactory


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators

    Implementation Performance          Indicators       QAG Assessments (if any)       Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any time No              Quality at Entry (QEA):         None
(Yes/No):

Problem Project at any time (Yes/No): No              Quality of Supervision (QSA):   None

DO rating before Closing/Inactive     Satisfactory
status:




                                              4

4. Sector and Theme Codes

                                                          Original               Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central Government administration              2                         2
Roads and highways                             98                        98
                                                     Original Priority       Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Other financial and private sector development Secondary                 Secondary
Export development and competitiveness         Primary                   Primary
Regional integration                           Primary                   Primary


5. Bank Staff

                   Positions                               At ICR             At Approval
Vice President:                                Pamela Cox                David de Ferranti
Country Director:                             Makhtar Diop               Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:                               Jose Luis Irigoyen         Jeffery Gutman
Project Team Leader:                           Mauricio Cuellar          Jose Maria Alonso-
                                                                         Biarge
ICR Team Leader:                               Mauricio Cuellar
ICR Primary Authors:                           Jose María Alonso-Biarge
                                               Benjamin Santa Maria




                                              5

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

6.1 Context at Appraisal

The project supported the overall Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) objectives related
to removing obstacles to sustainable growth and maintaining macroeconomic stability in
the context of globalization. Specifically, it supported the Government and Bank
strategies to: (i) remove impediments to private sector growth and competitiveness, and
(ii) ensure the provision of quality infrastructure.

Road transport was at the time of appraisal and still is the dominant mode for both
passenger and freight transportation in Mexico. Within the context of North American
Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), traffic growth on roads comprising the major trade
corridors, estimated then at about 10% annually, was expected to continue at a similar
rate or higher.

The Bank project targeted the following main issues: (i) the persistent challenge to avoid
the deterioration of the condition of the national road network in the face of seriously
constrained budgets and the need for institutional and financial reforms to ensure
sustainability, (ii) the declining condition of the national network as traffic levels increase
faster than capital works could be funded, (iii) the growth of similar maintenance and
capacity issues at the state level as at federal level, exacerbated by the lack of a clear
decentralization policy, and (iv) the low level and poor quality of access for low income
rural populations in the most isolated parts of the country.

The 1999 road condition inventory showed a network that could not support national
development goals efficiently due to the fact that Government had not been allocating
sufficient funds to maintain or to modernize the road network. Based on economic and
governmental priorities, the Secretariat of Communications and Transport (SCT) had
prepared a plan for management of the federal highway network seeking to: (i)
adequately manage the federal network, (ii) support institutional reforms required for the
development of better road network management practices, and (iii) focus investments on
road rehabilitation and maintenance.

The proposed project was focused mainly on maintenance and rehabilitation needs of the
SCT managed federal highway network. It would improve road maintenance
management through rehabilitation and maintenance contracts, the introduction of a pilot
program of comprehensive maintenance by contract and the implementation of the last
version of the Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM-4) for road rehabilitation
and maintenance planning and programming, developed under sponsorship from the
Bank and other international and national (UK, Sweden, Chile) institutions. Finally, to a
limited extent, it could also help in the definition and design of a mechanism for
maintenance financing, evaluation of roads to decentralize, and the financial restructuring
for toll roads.




                                               6

6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The proposed project has been designed to assist the Government in providing Mexico
with a road transport system that can support the needs of a rapidly modernizing and
expanding economy and to enable meeting the NAFTA competitive challenges. The
overarching development objective is to improve transport efficiency on the road network.
Complementary objectives include: (i) improving SCT's rehabilitation and maintenance
planning performance; and (ii) enhancing private-sector participation in road
maintenance.

The key performance indicators included: (i) reduction of Vehicle Operating Cost (VOC)
in project roads (an average reduction of 20% compared with the current costs); (ii)
improvement in the condition of roads after rehabilitation in terms of roughness
reduction; (iii) timely preparation of annual highway and bridge rehabilitation and
maintenance programs; and (iv) progress achieved in the design and implementation of
highway financing and decentralization strategies.

6.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

The original project development objectives and key indicators did not change during
project implementation.

6.4 Main Beneficiaries

The project benefits were to accrue primarily to direct road users. They would benefit
primarily from the reduced VOC and increased safety. The population in the corridors
served by the project roads would benefit from eventual reduction in the price of
transported commodities as the reduction in transport costs would be passed on to
shippers.

STC would also benefit by the implementation of new planning tools and the testing of
an innovative cost-efficient approach to outsource road maintenance. This would also
provide development of state of the art practices in the sector among governmental
agencies.

The project benefits were not revised during project implementation.

6.5 Original Components

The project included five main components at a total cost of US$ 309.0 million. The
share of Bank financing was equivalent to 70.5% of the total project cost (US$ 218.0
million). The Loan was to finance 70% of the total cost of components 1, 3 and 5, and
100% of the total cost of Components (4). The original project components were the
following:



                                            7

Component 1. Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance ­ US$ 245.00 million total
cost- [Loan US$ 171.5 million]. (Total cost includes civil works, and consulting services
for design and supervision). The project was to support SCT's selected sub-projects
under the Highway Maintenance Program (HMP) and the Bridge Rehabilitation Program
(BRP) both annually prepared and implemented by the SCT´s General Directorate for
Maintenance of Roads (DGCC) along key segments of the federal highway network.
Sub-projects from those programs were to be selected for project financing based on the
following criteria: (i) have an Economic Rate of Return (ERR), calculated in accordance
with a method reasonable to the Bank, of at least 12 percent; (ii) neither have significant
negative environmental or social implications nor require changes in the road geometrical
design; and (iii) have a structural design life of at least 15 years in the case of highway
rehabilitation sub-projects. This component comprised four sub-components:

Part A1. Rehabilitation of about 1,000 km of highways [US$ 150 million ­ Loan
US$ 105.0 million]. The works were designed to improve the base, sub-base and
pavement bearing capacity. Rehabilitation works also included the improvement/repair of
drainage and sub-drainage systems and shoulders.

Part A2. Periodic maintenance of about 1,200 km [US$ 60 million ­ Loan US$ 42
million]. The works were designed to protect the pavement life-service and improve the
physical conditions of the surface, shoulders and drainage ditches.

Part A3. Rehabilitation of 100 bridges [US$ 20 million- Loan US$ 14.00 million]. The
works were designed to ensure the superstructure capacity to support the loads imposed
by heavy traffic, and adapt bridge width to that of the road they are part of;
repair/reinforce the superstructure, pillars, supports, the structural elements, and their
protection against erosion, as needed.

Part A4. Consultancy services for the supervision of the 2001-2003 DGCC's HMP and
BRP [US$ 15 million ­Loan US$ 10.5 million]. This component was to be directly
managed by DGCC's Directorate of Supervision and Control (central offices) but
implemented at the SCT Centers in the States, which are responsible for the execution of
the works through civil works contractors.

Component 2. Pilot Project for Comprehensive Maintenance by Contract ­
US$ 19.50 million total cost [Loan US$ 13.65 million]. (Total cost included civil works
and consulting services for design and implementation). On a pilot basis through
contracts with private sector companies, this three-year program included routine and
periodic maintenance activities, rehabilitation of selected segments of roads and several
bridges, some minor works, preparation of short term implementation programs,
assistance and information to road users and the police in case of accidents, training, and
management of the program. The component comprised two sub-components:


                                             8

Part. B1. Civil works [US$ 18 million ­ Loan US$ 12.60 million]. This sub-component
was to be split into two contracts (covering 242.5 km. two-lane highways), one for each
state crossed (Tlaxcala and Guanajuato). Contracts were to cover the following activities:
(i) routine maintenance in both routes; (ii) periodic maintenance in 50 km per contract,
(iii) rehabilitation up to 15 km in each route and other priority actions, depending on
deficiencies detected, in the first year of the contract; (iv) rehabilitation of bridges in both
routes as needed; (v) minor works; (vi) program management; and (vii) training for
maintenance professionals and specialists of the public and private sectors.

Part B2. Provision of consulting services for work supervision and for preparing and
managing the program [US$ 1.5 million ­ Loan US$ 1.05 million].

Component 3. Vehicle Weight and Dimensions Control Stations ­ US$ 4.50 million
total cost [Loan US$ 3.15 million] (Total cost includes civil works, and supervision).
Under this component, on a pilot basis, two fixed weigh stations were to be established at
strategically located points on roads with the highest volumes of heavy vehicles (one
single station for northbound traffic, on the route to the US border in Nuevo Laredo, and
one twin station to serve both traffic directions for another route in the state of Queretaro),
including acceleration and deceleration lanes.

Component 4. Institutional Strengthening ­ US$ 4.00 million total cost [Loan
US$ 4.0 million] (Total cost included consulting services, training, and goods). This
component was to finance specific technical assistance activities to SCT grouped in five
sub-components:

Part D1. Implementing the HDM-4 in the DGCC and its departmental offices to improve
road maintenance management [US$ 1.70 million ­ Loan US$ 1.70 million]. The
objective was to gradually complement and replace the existing system for maintenance
planning (SISTER) with a more comprehensive network planning tool including strategic
planning, programming and project evaluation, for a better control of operational costs
and allocation of resources.

Part D2. Developing a strategy for decentralizing road administration [US$ 0.60 million
­ Loan US$ 0.60 million]. This sub-component would support the decentralization
strategy selected by the Government from the different alternatives proposed by another
study prepared by the Bank.

Part D3. Implementing a road financing mechanism and resource mobilization strategies
[US$ 0.50 million ­ Loan US$ 0.50 million]. This sub-component would support the
implementation of the action plan for a road financing strategy which had been proposed
by another study financed by the previous Bank project, Highway Rehabilitation and
Traffic Safety (HRTS).


                                               9

Part D4. Supporting the implementation of the Government strategy on the toll road
system [US$ 1.0 million - Loan US$ 1.0 million]. This sub-component would assist the
Government in implementing the recommended strategy from the alternatives to be
proposed by the Highway Finance Project, preparation of which had started.

Part D5. Training for staff in the SCT directorates involved in the project [US$ 0.20
million - Loan US$ 0.20 million]. This sub-component would include formal training
courses, attendance at conferences and study tours, both in Mexico and abroad.

Component 5. Contingencies ­ US$ 33.82 million [Loan US$ 23.52 million].

Front-end fee IBRD ­ US$ 2.18 million.
TOTAL COST: US$ 309.0 million [Loan US$ 218 million].


6.6 Revised Components

Component 2. Pilot Project for Comprehensive Maintenance by Contract (PPCM)
This component was revised during project implementation to include other highways
instead of the road sections considered in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD). The
initial routes included were Road 136, a two-lane highway in the State of Tlaxcala (121
km) and the road Irapuato ­La Piedad (121.5 km equivalent of a two-lane road) in the
State of Guanajuato. They were replaced by the highway section between Querétaro and
San Luis Potosí, (a four-lane highway of 225 km, or 450 two-lane road equivalent)
crossing the states of Querétaro (including about additional 55 km of feeder roads)
Guanajuato and San Luis Potosí. This section is part of the highway linking México City
with the USA border in Nuevo Laredo, one of the most important and with the highest
traffic volume in the highway network. This change also substantially widened the scope
of the program increasing the percentage of reconstruction works and therefore, the cost
of the component. These changes required the Loan and Guarantee Agreements to be
amended.

Component 3. Vehicle Weight and Dimensions Control Stations
Given the delays in project effectiveness and the urgency for the SCT to start this
program, the stations included in the PAD and the Legal Documents, Palmillas and
Nuevo Laredo, to be financed by the Loan, were started and completed by the Borrower
with local funds. The equipment for both stations was also purchased and installed with
local funds. Since no new stations were proposed to be financed by the Loan, the funds
initially assigned to this component were reallocated to other categories, mostly to
category 2 to finance the cost overruns of the PPCM.

Details of these and other reallocations between components are described in section 6.7
below.




                                            10

6.7 Other significant changes

6.7.1 Since the original works of Components 2 and 3 were mentioned in the loan legal
documents, the changes mentioned in para. 6.6 above required amendments to the Loan
and Guarantee Agreements.

6.7.2 Given the delay in starting program implementation, the Closing Date was extended
from June 30, 2005 to November 30, 2006 to allow the completion of the PPCM and its
supervision, and to complete the implementation of the HDM-4 model in the DGCC.

6.7.3 At the time of the project mid-term review, loan funds allocated to Components 3
and to consulting services under Component 4 had not been disbursed; this fact triggered
a fund reallocation to cover the growing financial gap of Component 2 created by the
extension of the road length and its scope. For details on reallocation of loan funds, see
Annex 3.

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry (including whether lessons of
earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their mitigations identified, and
adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable):

7.1.1 Project Preparation. The project objectives were consistent with the objectives of
the CAS discussed by the Board on June 8, 1999, responding to the overall objective of
sustainable growth and macroeconomic stability, and Government priorities.

7.1.2 Project Design and Quality at Entry. The project design was in principle based on
the results of the previous HRTS, particularly on the need to continue support for two
components of that project: (i) the SCT´s HMP and BRP; and (ii) the implementation of
the recommendations of a study under the project on weight and dimensions control of
vehicles, which resulted in the acquisition of 37 mobile scales under the HRTS project,
but no fixed scales, highly recommended by the study. As a consequence, the design of
the new Project included Component 1, for financing the 2001-2004 HMP and BRP, and
Component, 3 a pilot program for the installation of two weight and dimensions control
stations.

In addition, the Bank's team proposed two innovations that represented best practices in
the road sector world wide: (i) the introduction of a Pilot Program for Comprehensive
Maintenance by Contract (PPCM, Component 2). Never used before in Mexico, the pilot
would test the use of a multi-year contract for provision of all the maintenance and
rehabilitation works and the operational and user-related services needed to manage and
provide high quality service to users traveling along a portion of a road corridor. Directly
related to one of the project development objectives--enhancing private sector
participation in road maintenance-- the pilot would demonstrate how maintenance



                                             11

management could be made more efficient; and (ii) the implementation of the HDM-4 in
the DGCC to improve road management in the SCT Centers in the States. The HDM-4
would replace the existing model SISTER, which had been implemented in 1994 with
Bank financing under a previous project, but it was becoming obsolete and difficult to
implement in the SCT Centers.

At first, the Borrower showed some resistance to include these innovations in the Project.
In the case of the PPCM, the DGCC was contracting separately routine and periodic
maintenance without the other proposed subcomponents of the proposed PPCM and was
satisfied with the procedures used and the results achieved. In addition, the routine and
periodic maintenance contracts were annual, while the new concept required multiyear
budgeting.

Likewise, in the case of the HDM-4, they were using as a planning and programming tool
the SISTER and were satisfied with the results. However, besides the HDM-4 being a
more sophisticated and, technologically speaking, a more advanced tool, the SISTER
lacks the capabilities for prediction of road conditions of the HDM-4, which has a wider
range of functionality including strategic planning, programming and project evaluation.
Moreover, the SCT wanted to implement the SISTER also in the SCT Centers in the
States. This had serious complications for a model almost obsolete and subject to the
payment of royalties. The HDM-4 did not have these drawbacks.

After discussing both issues extensively with the DGCC representatives, they accepted
the proposal to include both innovations in the Project, together with technical assistance
to: (i) develop a strategy for road decentralization; (ii) implement a road financing
mechanism (as a second phase of the study carried out under the previous project); and
(iii) implement a strategy for toll road management.

An environmental assessment model, also developed under the previous project, was
adopted for its application during project implementation.

Concerning resettlement and other social issues, the type of works included in the Project,
to be carried out within the Right-of-Way (RoW) of the roads concerned, did not entail
any resettlement of population. Moreover STC´s internal regulations did not allow the
project executing agency (DGCC) to undertake works that required land acquisition,
occupy land beyond the original RoW or any involuntary resettlement. Nevertheless, at
the insistence of the Bank´s Legal Department, a social assessment was carried out and
an "Implementation Framework (IF)" comprising technical, social and environmental
criteria was prepared and included in the Project as an Annex to the Legal Agreements.
The IF required "previous submission" to the Bank of the HMP and BRP (which included
more works than those to be financed by the Project); "proof of compliance" by the SCT
with supporting information that all subprojects met the agreed criteria; "verification"
letter confirming that there was no land acquisition nor resettlement, and "annual


                                             12

reviews" by the Bank supervision team of compliance with the social, environmental and
other policies.

The above outlined process demonstrates the Bank's team collaborated closely with the
client in the definition of the project components and was thorough and methodical
during project appraisal. Some studies on decentralization and toll roads were started by
the Bank during project's preparation.

The project implementation arrangements devised were simple, relaying on existing
institutions, SHCP (the Guarantor), BANOBRAS (the Borrower), and SCT-DGCC (the
Implementing Agency), familiar with Bank highway projects. The project was designed
within a participatory framework defined by the SCT 2001-2004 HMP and BRP.

Finally, the project risks were clearly pointed out in the PAD: the potential for fiscal
imbalances in the short to medium-term, macroeconomic and financial stability,
unexpected deterioration in social conditions, and budgetary constraints. Suitable risk-
mitigating factors as well as a favorable policy environment were put in place. The
project specific risk mitigation measures included: (i) a high percentage of Bank
financing participation (70%) to help mitigate risks associated with budgetary
restrictions; (ii) the introduction of a cost-effective approach to comprehensive
maintenance by contract, to improve PSP and allow to have long term maintenance
contracts; (iii) the implementation of the HDM-4 to improve efficiency in the use of
scarce resources; and (iv) a study of alternative mechanisms to finance the highway
sector.

In summary, the quality of project design was appropriate, the preparation took into
account the Bank's safeguards policies and the risks were appropriately addressed and
assessed in the project design. Both ex ante and ex post economic analysis have been
carried out and the ex-post results are consistent with those at the appraisal stage.

For all the reasons stated above we consider Quality at Entry is Satisfactory.

7.2 Implementation (including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review,
Project at Risk status, and actions taken, as applicable):

7.2.1 Implementation. The Loan was approved by the Board and on December 14, 2000
and signed the following day, only 15 days after the inauguration of a new Government,
indicating the importance of the Project to the new Administration. Strong political
support by the new Government was also confirmed by the timely and adequate
allocation of funding throughout project implementation.

Project implementation was expected to start in April of 2001 and to be completed by
December 31, 2004, a total of 45 months. However project effectiveness took about 11



                                             13

months, due to the Borrower delays in submitting to the Bank the Legal Opinions as
requested by the Bank´s Legal Department. The Bank granted three extensions for Loan
Effectiveness, from the original date in March 2001 to the final declaration of
effectiveness on November 5, 2001.

The original loan closing date was June 30, 2005, but given some delays in the
implementation hence completion of the PPCM three year-contract and the HDM-4
implementation, an extension of the closing date was required. November 30, 2006 was
then selected as the closing date in order to provide technical assistance and follow up the
two key project components. The entire loan was disbursed by the original closing date,
therefore, activities carried out in the subsequent extension, were financed with local
funds. Despite the 11 months-effectiveness delay, and, even with the increase of costs
(total project cost was US$332.2 million versus the original US$309 million) the actual
project implementation period was 49 months (versus 45 months initially estimated), only
four months more than expected.

7.2.2 Mid-term Review (MTR). A mid-term project review was carried out in May 2004.
Initially scheduled for November 2003, it was postponed to take into account the delay in
effectiveness, allowing for more progress in project implementation. At the time of the
MTR, the HMP and BRP of 2001, 2002 and 2003 were completed and the 2004 programs
were progressing very satisfactorily. About US157.5 million had been disbursed out of
US$171.5 available in the loan for this component. Ten rehabilitation and pavement
reconstruction contracts in nine different states, with a total cost of about US$40 million
had been tendered under ICB. The MTR mission made field visits to the PPCM and to
the two most important internationally tendered works (in the states of Mexico and
Guanajuato), which together composed more than 37% (77% including the PPCM) of the
total of works tendered under ICB, in economic terms. Execution and supervision of all
works were considered satisfactory.

The Pilot Program of Comprehensive Maintenance (PPCM) between Querétaro and San
Luis had been split in three contracts (one for each state crossed). Progress on these
contracts was less than originally scheduled due to the following reasons: first, the DGCC,
in agreement with the three SCT Centers concerned, had substantially widened the scope
of the program; second, an additional clause was included in the bidding documents (with
Bank's no objection) to make it possible for Mexican firms without experience in
comprehensive maintenance to participate in the bidding process, through an association,
or under technical assistance, with firms with the requested experience; and third,
unforeseeable problems in the evaluation and awarding of bids. After these problems
were overcome and the contracts finally awarded, implementation started at the end of
2003. At the MTR, implementation of the PPCM was already slightly ahead of schedule
with respect to 2004, but still delayed with respect to the original program. Nevertheless,
the prospects for improvement were positive.



                                             14

The action plan to implement the HDM-4 was progressing satisfactorily albeit more
slowly than expected. Data collection to run the model had been completed in the states
of Chiapas and Morelos, chosen as pilots.

Construction of the two Weight-and-Dimensions Control Stations (WDCS) included in
the PAD and the Legal Documents, to be financed by the Loan, Palmillas and Nuevo
Laredo, had been built by the Borrower with local funds. The equipment for both stations
had also been purchased and installed with local funds. Therefore, the objective of the
Project to promote and support the implementation of the WDCS had been met.

Concerning other institutional components, there was no significant progress either in the
implementation of the road fund or in the decentralization to the states of the secondary
network, both matters related to each other. With respect to toll roads, Unidad de
Autopistas de Cuota (UAC) was in the last phase of evaluation of proposals to carry out
the study on "Strategic Planning for the National Motorway System".

All procurement, financial management and safeguards measures were in place and
carried out in line with agreements at negotiations. No special actions were considered
necessary.

7.2.3 Project at Risk status. The Project was never at risk nor was it a problem project
and compliance with legal conditions, development objectives and implementation was
consistently rated satisfactory. Most of the project critical risks envisioned at appraisal
were moderate and remained so along project implementation. This is the case of the
enforcement of weight and dimensions regulations, the preparation of bidding documents
for the PPCM and the improvements in maintenance management and procurement
procedures.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The results framework was adequate. There were clear time-bound PDOs and
intermediate outcome indicators, appropriate to the objectives of the operation. The SCT
prepared the monitoring and evaluation instruments at the time of project preparation and
included in the legal documents. The SCT prepared and issued biannual reports, in March
and September of each year, summarizing progress in project implementation. The
reports included progress against the previous annual project implementation schedule,
level and composition of the SCT road maintenance budget, performance against the
project monitoring indicators, and final selection of sub-projects for project financing.
SCT also prepared the updated information to be discussed in the Annual Reviews. A
mid-term project review was carried out in May 2004 with the results described in 7.2.2.
The SCT also sent to the Bank the reporting required by the "Implementation
Framework" described in 7.1.2.




                                           15

On the Bank´s side, timely Project Status Reports (PSRs) or Implementation Status
Results and Report (ISRs) were prepared with the findings and project status after each
supervision mission.

Therefore, the project monitoring and evaluation was satisfactory.

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The Borrower and the Implementing Agency had experience in applying and enforcing
Bank's guidelines given its management of previous Bank operations. Furthermore, the
project complied with Bank's safeguards policies and developed key tools to enhance
project overall outcomes. Audit reports were timely sent to the Bank according to Loan
Agreement.

The project legal documents specified a series of protective measures designed to
minimize the risk of unwanted social impacts. Such measures included a mandatory Bank
prior review of a sample of sub-projects. The bidding documents for civil works included
environmental specifications to mitigate the negative environmental impacts due to the
contractors' actions and increase the positive impacts where possible.

In order to address social issues, a Social Assessment was carried out to detect possible
negative impacts and enhance access to the expected benefits of the project. During
implementation, the project works were also screened by a qualified social specialist--
who was also member of ad hoc supervision missions--to ensure compliance with social
and environmental policies as described above in para. 7.1.2.

Standard bidding documents for Mexico were reviewed and agreed. Procurement
thresholds under the Loan were set at preparation and included in the Legal Documents.
The threshold for mandatory International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures was
established at US$10 million. The PAD expected total amount for contracts under ICB
was US$98.15 million. No contract under the project other than the three of the PPCM
reached the US$10 million threshold. Nevertheless, the DGCC tendered under ICB 10
rehabilitation / reconstruction contracts with costs ranging between US$ 1.8 and 6.8
million, totaling US$37.5 million, which together with the US$62.5 million of the three
contracts for the PPCM amounted to a total of US$100 million tendered under ICB,
slightly higher than the figure in the PAD. Nevertheless, no foreign firms participated in
the bidding process, indicating that the ICB threshold was low to attract interest from
foreign contractors, with the exception of the three contracts for the PPCM.

In general, SCT followed an orderly and transparent procurement process for awarding
the contracts, particularly those of a major magnitude. Standard documents were revised
during implementation to adapt them to the PPCM characteristics. Since there were no
local contractors with experience in this type of contracts, the prospect was that the



                                            16

contracts would be awarded to foreign firms. This would diminish competition and
prevent local firms from acquiring experience for future similar contracts. To avoid these
two inconveniences and increase competitiveness and participation of local contractors
participation, a clause was introduced in the bidding documents that allowed Mexican
firms without experience in comprehensive maintenance contracts to participate in the
bidding process through an association, or under technical assistance, with firms with the
requested experience. This solved the problem, but was one major reason for the delay in
program implementation.

The most difficult procurement case was the contract for supervision of the PPCM, with
only one consulting firm or consortium bidding to manage the three contracts of the
program. The supervision contract was expected to be signed in January 2004. However,
at the mid-term review (May 2004), with the contractors working at full speed, the
contract for supervision had not yet been signed. Apart from other bureaucratic reasons,
the main reason was that only one consortium had been qualified at the technical
evaluation stage and the Mexican procurement policy required in that case declaring void
the process and starting it again. Since Bank policy is to award the contract even if there
is only one qualified bidder, the Bank insisted on awarding the contract. The DGCC
agreed to award the contract after consultations with its legal department and other
institutions. Once the DGCC agreed to award the contract, the consultants agreed to start
working immediately, with the agreement that the SCT would sign the contracts with
retroactive effects to the date in which the tasks actually started.

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The sustainability of the project will depend on the extent to which the Government
continues to maintain the project roads and bridges after their rehabilitation, and the
continued application of the improved highway management system. Expectations are
more than promising as the Government has consistently dedicated sufficient budget to
these tasks. Moreover, the Government allocated significantly more resources to
maintenance than was provided by the Bank project. As an example, the estimated
project cost at appraisal was US$309 million while the final cost was US$333.2, with the
Government covering the difference. As loan funds were totally disbursed in 2005, the
2006 fiscal year program was financed completely with local funds, and SCT devised a
strategy to continue planning and implementing programs with local funds in 2006 and
beyond. Furthermore, during the period of project implementation 2001/2005 the total
government investment in maintenance and rehabilitation was US$ 2,324.6 million, of
which the loan (US$218 million) only represents 9.4%.

One important thing to take into account is that loan funds in Mexico are not additional,
meaning that the SHCP allocates resources to the different Secretariats independently of
the amounts of the loans received. This means that, for the executing agency, the value
added of Bank's loans lies in the technical or managerial improvements that the



                                              17

corresponding projects can achieve and that otherwise the DGCC would not be able to
attain or be authorized to implement. Nevertheless, the loans also contribute to maintain
or slightly increase the level of resources allocated by the SCT for maintenance and
rehabilitation as shown in the graph below.


                               Maintenance and Rehabilitation Expenditures 1994 - 2006


                           7000


                           6000

     soseP                 5000

          nacixe           4000

                Mfo        3000
                   sn

                     illio 2000
                          M

                           1000


                             0
                               1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006



In this way, the Loan helped to allocate additional expenditures for rehabilitation and
maintenance within the SCT's budget throughout project implementation. The graph
above shows actual expenditures by fiscal year program, these amounts represent the
initial budget allocation plus additional budgets assigned during the second half of the
year, which supplement maintenance and rehabilitation expenditures. In 2006 the
supplement raised the level of the maintenance budget to 6,429 million Mexican Pesos,
higher than the one in 2005 allocations and the highest since 1995, the year of the
Mexican fiscal crisis. The budget for 2007 is so far 6,732 million Mexican Pesos,
pending the supplement in the second half of the year, meaning that this year
maintenance and rehabilitation budget would be the highest ever. With the trend in
budget the prospect for financial sustainability are high.

Furthermore, the Government has launched the PPS (Proyecto de Prestación de
Servicios) Program, a build-operate-and maintain scheme, 20-year toll concession
program, the content of which resembles the PPCM with more intensive reconstruction
works and including modernization of the roads concerned. The first contracts have



                                                         18

already been awarded and the modernization and maintenance works started. This
Program, transferring responsibility of one part of the federal network to the private
sector, will contribute to alleviate the maintenance needs of the DGCC and therefore to
the project sustainability.

With the implementation of the different funding schemes, both the government and the
Bank are looking for innovative alternatives to secure funding sources, and increase
private participation, in order to enhance the road network and expand its multi-year
comprehensive maintenance approach.

Last, but not least, the introduction of new technologies both for planning and
programming (HDM-4), and for more efficient contract execution and management
(PPCM) provide additional support for the strong likelihood of Project sustainability.

However, two issues that remain to be resolved and could be addressed through a new
operation are: (i) the introduction of new mechanisms for a sustainable highway
maintenance financing at the state level, and (ii) the implementation of a decentralization
strategy of the federal complementary network to the States, following the
recommendation of the study carried out by the Bank at the request of the Borrower (see
Annex 4).

The SCT and the DGCC in particular, recognize the value added of Bank projects and the
general good results of this Project. SCT has expressed interest in a follow-on operation
which could include a component on comprehensive maintenance based on results,
similar to the CReMa contracts successfully implemented in Argentina and other South
American countries. The following topics, among others could be discussed for inclusion
in the new operation: (i) comprehensive maintenance by contract, perhaps with output-
based contracts; (ii) implementation of the HDM-4 in the SCT Centers in the States; (iii)
road safety focused on mitigation of risk in hazardous points; and (iv) assistance to the
Government in decentralization and improvement of the public management of toll roads.
A follow-on operation, based on the same premises and lending instruments as this
Project, could be prepared rapidly and provide continuity and sustained support to reduce
transport costs in a key trade-related network, as the STC is interested in working with
the Bank to follow on these issues.

The expectations for such a new loan are now reasonably high. The Secretary of
Transport and Communications and the Bank Regional Vice-president and their teams
met on April 19, 2007 to discuss how the Bank could support Mexico's transport
infrastructure and logistics, as important factors for increased, sustained growth.
Highway maintenance and operation was considered a priority, taking into account that
approximately 85% of freight travels are by highway and vehicle operating costs are
higher than in comparative countries. There is a need for substantial modernization and




                                            19

paving of the road network and also substantial room to improve the public management
of the toll road network through institutional reforms.

8. Assessment of Outcomes

8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objectives of this operation were relevant to the development priorities of the country
as specified in the CAS. The project was designed to assist the Government in providing
Mexico with a road transport system that can support the needs of a rapidly modernizing
and expanding economy and to enable meeting the NAFTA competitive challenges. The
overarching development objective was to improve road transport efficiency.
Complementary objectives included: (i) improving SCT's rehabilitation and maintenance
planning performance; and (ii) enhancing private-sector participation in road
maintenance.

The project components were designed to achieve the objectives set forth, and to be
consistent with sectoral needs, and, at the same time, to take into consideration project
implementation requirements and SCT's long-term development needs. Through the
adequate manage of the federal network, the support of institutional reforms required for
the development of better road network management practices, and the focus investments
on road rehabilitation and maintenance, the identified components were successfully
addressed.

For instance, Components 1 and 2 enhanced private-sector participation in road
maintenance and Component 2, together with the implementation of HDM-4 improved
rehabilitation and maintenance planning and executing performance. Component 3 also
contributed to a better use of the road network helping to control vehicle weight excesses.
Furthermore, project components reflected the lessons learned in previous transport
projects in the country mainly the previous road project, HRTS, as explained in 7.1.2.
They were also realistic in terms of the capabilities of the implementing agency, well
known through the implementation of the HRTS. Those capabilities were enhanced with
the implementation of HDM-4, seminars and study tours abroad.

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives (including brief discussion of
causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on outputs in Annex 4):

Even though the project ran for one and a half years longer than originally planned
(partially because of the need of following the PPCM contracts and the HDM
implementation process and subsequent technical assistance) the project substantially
achieved the stated DOs. The Project improved transport efficiency of the road network,
developed SCT's rehabilitation and maintenance planning tools, and enhanced private-
sector participation in highway maintenance and therefore it is rated as satisfactory.



                                             20

The principal outcome served the key recipient of project benefits (DGCC) whose needs
were addressed in the project's components. DGCC has after the project better control of
operational costs and the tools for improving resources allocation. Furthermore, there
were not private firms in Mexico with experience and technical capacity on
comprehensive road maintenance, and the project was instrumental in starting to fill this
gap.

Regarding the road condition, the graph and table below show the increase in daily traffic
given the economic and spatial growth due to several policies, such as NAFTA, and it
clearly states how the condition of the network was not only maintained but improved. 57
percent of the network was recorded as being in good and fair condition in 1999, with a
further 43 percent being in poor and very poor condition. By the end of 2005, the share of
the network in poor and very poor condition fell down to 22 percent, leaving 78 percent
in fair/good condition (compared to a target of 75 percent). It is estimated that in ten
years, half of the network will have been recovered. To sum up, the project overall
outcome was a network that can support national development goals efficiently.

                         NETWORK CONDITION 1994-2005



                                                    34    30   28   25   22

                                     47        39
                 57  55    51             43
                                51




                                                    66    70   72   75   78

                                     53   57   61
                 43  45    49   49




              1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005


                                Good and Fair  Poor/Very Poor



The Project was fully funded throughout implementation, and resulted in an increase in
the length of the federal road network in good condition, and in an institutional capacity
improvement. The physical aims, in terms of kilometers of road rehabilitated and
maintained were fully accomplished, particularly if we take into account that, in the
project period, the total amount invested by the SCT in maintenance (routine, periodic,
rehabilitation, emergency) was US$2,324 million or more than 10 times the loan amount.

The table below compares km of roads by condition and traffic level between 1999 and
2005. The table illustrates projects results enabling interesting conclusions: a substantial
improvement of condition of road especially those carrying high levels of traffic; and a



                                             21

substantial increase in levels of traffic along the federal network. These two conclusions
are well linked with the premises cited in 6.1.

             Evolution of Daily Traffic and Network condition 1999 - 2005




Overall, project exceeded some physical outputs and met the stated DOs. Having
achieved their physical objectives, the output for Component (1) is rated as Satisfactory
as civil works were completed in terms of quality and cost. DGCC policy has given
priority to periodic maintenance preventing an increase of the roads in poor condition.
Furthermore, it is worth noting that SCT carried out routine maintenance on the whole
network with its own resources and that in the project period the total amount invested in
maintenance was US$ 2,324 million, more than ten times the loan amount.

Component (2) In this case, the PPMC included 432.9 km of a section of one of the most
important highways and with higher traffic volume in the country (the one linking
México City with the US border in Nuevo Laredo)               and a much more intensive
reconstruction works as required by the highway condition, against 242.5 km in the PAD.
For those two reasons, the total cost of this component was finally 62.5 million or about
three times the estimated cost in the PAD, which was supposed to include only periodic
maintenance and moderate rehabilitation. The excess in cost was covered partially by
savings in Component 1 and the resources from Component 3 and unallocated resources.
Given that: (i) this was an innovative component, initially resisted and afterwards fully
accepted by the Borrower (as explained in 7.1.2); (ii) it was successfully implemented;
(iii) it was carried out with extensive participation of Mexican firms, thanks to a clause
introduced in the bidding documents to allow them to participate in the bidding process
assisted by experts in this type of contracts; (iv) it left a useful experience in both the
DGCC and the private sector; and (v) its success can be measured by the interest of other
non-participant Mexican states in implementing a similar program, and other government
institutions as UAC, BANOBRAS, FARAC and CAPUFE, this component is rated
Highly Satisfactory.


                                             22

The PPMC included an inventory of and assistance to accidents. The 2004-2005
databases on traffic fatalities available in SCT´s centers in Guanajuato and San Luis
Potosi (the states with the longest sections in the PPMC) showed that new highway
conditions, weed control and signposts are not only allowing for a reduction in vehicle
operating costs (VOC), but bringing the road accidents rate down. Reduced accidents
provide a strong incentive for continued Government on the program

With regard to Component (3), although this component was entirely financed with local
funds, it accomplished its part of the DO and therefore, it is rated Satisfactory.

The output of the institutional strengthening Component (4) is rated as Highly
Satisfactory for the implementation of the HDM-4 model as an innovative tool that
allows better planning, and Moderately Satisfactory for the other studies related with
the decentralization and sustainable financing road, mainly because this road financing
mechanism was not accomplished given external factors beyond SCT control, which
involves a sustained dialogue on fiscal federalism in the country.

To successfully address the topic of decentralization and road funding it is necessary to
escalate the level of discussion beyond SCT. Despite the fact that strategies and
methodologies from one study financed by the Bank were discussed with the Federal and
subnational governments and the private sector with no objections, implementation of
road decentralization was not started during project implementation by the Borrower.

This Project financed a contract for consulting services to carry out the "Strategic
Planning for the National Motorway System". The study analyzed and proposed
alternatives to improve the CAPUFE-FARAC system. Close to its conclusion, the UAC
and the consultants presented and discussed with the Bank their findings and preliminary
conclusions. The final output of the study is a tangible contribution as feedback for
higher-level policy debates.

Regarding training, also relevant to the project objectives were the two study tours
organized by the project Task Team Leader (TTL) for staff of the SCT, with the support
of Spanish highway institutions. The first tour, which took place in October 2001 to meet
in Madrid and Barcelona with highway authorities and experts and visiting work sites
along 1,200 km of highways, involved 14 staff from the DGCC and the SCT Centers in
the States and the TTL. The objective was to provide the Mexicans with the opportunity
to learn first hand of the experience in Spain with comprehensive maintenance contracts.
The second, also in Spain, was held a few months later and involved staff from the UAC
and the Bank, including the project TTL. In this case the visit was to the National Toll
Road Authority (ENA), a public institution in charge of the three toll motorways that had
to be rescued by the Spanish Government, a similar case to the 23 toll highways rescued
by the Mexican Government and put under the Toll Road Restructuring Agency



                                            23

(FARAC) management. The visit included the ENA central offices in Madrid and their
regional offices in Asturias and Galicia regions and field visits to the Campomanes-León
and La Coruña-Pontevedra motorways. The rescued motorways in Spain were later re-
privatized, once they had been made profitable again under ENA management. Both
study tours were very successful and their findings taken into account in the respective
components of the Project.

Concerning the HDM-4, a training course was held (with the Bank specialist as technical
director and lecturer) to show the contents, applications, management and capacity of the
model, prior to its implementation in DGCC. The course was attended by staff from SCT
and all other areas of government involved in road management, including UAC (the unit
in charge of toll roads within STC), FARAC, rural roads units and the Transport Mexican
Institute. The course was a great success and, due to the interest of the concerned
authorities, the level of participants had to be raised from 16 (seven of them belonging to
the working group within SCT in charge of the model implementation) to 32.


8.3 Efficiency (Net Present Value/ Economic Rate of Return, Cost Effectiveness, e.g.
unit rate norms, least cost, and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return):

At appraisal, SCT assessed each section to be maintained or rehabilitated during the first
year of the project (2001) using road user costs estimated with the HDM-3 Model (the
previous version of the model), which were incorporated into the SISTER for planning
purposes, and the Road Economic Decision (RED) Model for economic evaluation. The
resulting rates of return for the sub-projects in the first year rehabilitation and
maintenance program were higher than the required 12% minimum. The analysis also
showed that the Net Present Value (NPV) of the first year program was US$250 million
with a global IRR of 114%.

The result of the ex post economic analysis of the first year rehabilitation and
                                                     1

maintenance program is a NPV of US$256 million with an IRR of 102.9%. Overall, for
the periodic maintenance works of the included in the PAD, the ex post economic
analysis similarly shows very positive results, with a NPV US$696.8 million and an IRR
of 102.9%. For all the road rehabilitation works included in the PAD, the ex post
economic analysis revealed an IRR of 135%. Therefore, final figures are similar to what
was estimated at appraisal, confirming the project economic feasibility (IRR figures for
programs with a large content of maintenance usually are very high, showing the high
profitability of this type of projects).




1Evaluación Ex Post del Credito 7042-ME "Proyecto de Mantenimiento de Carreteras
Federales", Annex 12: Sopporting documents.



                                              24

Benefits are likely higher than estimated in the analysis. Additional project benefits, such
as more reliable and safer transport services and the removal of major constraints to
integrating Mexico into the regional economic block (NAFTA), were not considered in
the cost-benefit analysis. No economic evaluation was carried out for the institutional
strengthening activities.

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

Overall, project outcomes are strong, and budget allocations for the rehabilitation and
maintenance of the highway sector kept the level required for a sustainable recuperation
of the network condition (see para. 7.5). Table in 8.2 shows the great success of this and
previous projects in improving the federal network condition. The PPMC was also a great
success as well as the implementation of the HDM-4 as a tool to improve maintenance
planning and programming. As a consequence, economic transport links between the
country northern and central regions have been consolidated enhancing the country's key
export corridor (Mexico City-Nuevo Laredo), and some constraints to integrate the
country into the regional economic block (NAFTA) have been removed. Continued
investment in key trade-related highway, Mexico will be able to keep its commercial
competitiveness.

As a result of the Project and the institutional arrangements it introduced include: (i)
enhancing contracting out to improve efficiency through the HMP and BRP programs as
well as the PPMC, compared to force account execution (now practically extinguished in
the DGCC), (ii) improving contract management procedures through the PPCM, allowing
for the future introduction of rehabilitation and maintenance contracts based on results
and multiyear budgeting and (iii) improving planning practices (HDM-4) based on
economically prioritized annual plans.

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
(NA)

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The overall institutional development change is rated as Satisfactory. It is worth noting
that the results achieved were the result of a long-term relationship between the
Government and the Bank.

During project implementation, diverse major changes were achieved, such as enhancing
private sector participation, using multi-year comprehensive maintenance by contract,
and improving planning and programming through the implementation of the HDM-4 as
a regular planning tool in the DGCC.


                                               25

In the case of multi-annual comprehensive maintenance by contract, by transferring
responsibility and risk for the management, maintenance, and operation of the road to the
contractor, it gives the contractor the incentive to develop solutions that take into account
the costs of managing the assets over its entire life. It is worth noting also that the
FARAC is considering both the PPMC and the HDM-4 for use on the toll highway
management under its responsibility.

The institutional changes achieved with the Project are expected to be sustainable due to
the strong ownership demonstrated by the implementing agency.

Maintenance and rehabilitation budgets have been fairly stable and moderately growing
as explained in paragraph 7.5. With the PPS concession program, recently launched by
the Government, comprising modernization and maintenance of the network, part of the
maintenance of the actual network under DGCC will be transferred to the private sector.
If the current trend in maintenance budgeting remains, the DGCC will have sufficient
resources to support 100% of the basic network in good or fair condition by 2012 or
before. Looking to the future, if network is decentralized new financing mechanisms, like
a road fund, will be necessary to meet the management and financial needs of sub-
nationals taking over the decentralized roads. In summary, while a road fund or similar
mechanism may not be necessary for maintenance and rehabilitation, it is essential to
implement the decentralization of the Federal Complementary Network.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)


Through the implementation of the Project and the successful completion of the DO's
there were several unintended outcomes identified, mostly regarding the innovative
alternatives for contracting. Some of the most relevant were: (i) States developed great
interest towards the possibility of replying the STC experience at the municipal level,
replicating PPCM contracts; (ii) other federal agencies as the Public Toll Roads Agency
(CAPUFE) and Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Públicos (BANOBRAS) were also
very encouraged to explore and implement innovative contracting and planning
mechanisms understanding the user-oriented approach, rather than the previous
infrastructure based mechanisms; and (iii) local contractors developed skills regarding the
multiyear comprehensive road maintenance approach.

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

The SCT center in San Luis Potosi carried out a first customer/user survey on highways
as public service, which revealed high level of satisfaction with the maintenance
standards, level of service and road user assistance reached under the PPCM. The survey
results are consistent with the drop in road accidents rate in San Luis Potosi and also in
Guanajuato due to new highway conditions. Also, the assistance to accidents provided by


                                             26

the PPCM with in-road personnel calling the closest hospital or medical assistance center
or helping the users involved in case of minor or no injuries, requesting towing and auto-
repair workshops to provide assistance to the affected, reporting to the police or simply
providing useful information helped to mitigate the seriousness of accidents, and
incidents in general, within the highway domain.

Furthermore, a two-day seminar was conducted in San Miguel Allende in 2005 and
another in San Luis Potosi in 2006 to discuss progress, best practices, strengths, benefits,
weaknesses, and disseminate the lessons learned with the pilot program of comprehensive
maintenance by contract, PPCM. SCT directorates, representatives from BANOBRAS
and other institutions dealing with road management at the federal and state levels,
contractors, and selected road users were invited and attended. Some of the main findings
encountered were the good results of the pilot program and the possibility to implement
alternative mechanisms of contracting to secure or stabilize comprehensive maintenance
programs (See annex 9 for more detail). The reinforcement of the message of
accommodating infrastructure to provide safe and comfortable usage, understanding the
priority the users have, was similarly an important finding.

Finally, on November 23, 2006, a one-day project completion workshop with the
participation of SCT, BANOBRAS and SHCP was held at the Bank' Office in Mexico
City to discuss project outcomes and outputs as the basis for the preparation of the ICR.

The conclusions of all the events concurred in the overall project success.

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Modest

In light of SCT institutional capacity, risk to the development outcome remained Modest
throughout project implementation. Project risks were clear and responsive to the
Borrower's circumstances and the maintenance strategy adopted prevented from further
deterioration of the network. These measures and changes in key policies contributed to
get the highway network in a better condition by 2006. Also, with the project, the DGCC
improved its budgeting, planning and control operations in maintenance and
rehabilitation.

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

10.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

As explained in paragraph 7.1.2, Bank performance was satisfactory in ensuring Quality
at Entry. The Bank assigned a qualified team with extensive experience in the road sector,


                                              27

and with an appropriate skill mix that delivered a well designed project, providing the
Bank's expertise and bringing value added. The Bank's performance assisting the
Borrower in identifying and appraising the project consistent with the CAS, to support
Mexico's economic and sectoral policies, was Satisfactory. Moreover, the Bank provided
advice and technical assistance in key areas, implementing worldwide best practices. The
Bank's staff correctly assessed the Government's policies.

The Bank staff worked closely with the Borrower in project preparation, technical design
and economic evaluation during several preparation missions. The preparation team
successfully introduced innovative designs and tools such as the PPCM and the HDM-4,
which were not familiar to the client, initially encountering some degree of resilience.
The Bank team was successful in convincing the Borrower to include both innovations
which have proven successful in the Mexican context. The Bank further provided
technical value added during project preparation (and part of implementation) through
several studies concerning decentralization and toll road management (see Annex 4). The
total project preparation time was 45 staff weeks. The Loan agreement was signed on
December 15, 2000 and the Project was declared effective on November 5, 2001.
Although effectiveness was an initial issue, once overcome, the project outcome was
Satisfactory.

To sum up, the quantity, quality and skill mix of the Bank staff appointed to the project
preparation was appropriate, the relationship with the Borrower was well handled, and
there were no shortcomings in any aspect of the project preparation process.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

The supervision teams were kept relatively small, comprising a skill mix of highway
engineers and transport and social and fiduciary specialists. This was an adequate mix
considering the nature of the project and the broad experience of the specialists involved.
Supervision allowed for a timely identification of issues and a valuable assessment of
project progress to overcome implementation difficulties, like during the contracting
process of the supervision of the PPCM. The Bank's advice and follow-up letters helped
SCT to take decisions and actions that materialized in the final stages of the Project,
especially due to the fact that the TTL and part of the team was based in the field,
providing prompt and sound input.

The Bank has provided strong support during supervision in multiple areas, including the
following activities:

(i)   As part of field visits, technical advise during the construction of the works;
(ii) Technical support for the preparation, bidding process and execution of the PPCM
      contracts;



                                              28

(iii) Continuous technical advice during the implementation of the HDM-Model
      including guidelines for the preparation of term of references;
(iv) Technical advice for the preparation of terms of reference and follow-up on the
      study "Strategic Planning for the National Motorway System", which was important
      to build consensus about the design of the new Public-Private-Partnership (PPP)
      scheme and to proposed alternatives to improve the CAPUFE-FARAC system.

The project had two task team leaders over the course of the project cycle. The first, a
Lead Highway Engineer, with ample experience in the project matters (and who had
managed the last phase of the HRTS project), was responsible for project preparation,
appraisal, and part of implementation.

Upon the TTL's mandatory retirement in 2003, leadership of the team was taken over by
a member of the project team, a Senior Transport Specialist based in the Bank's Country
Office in Mexico. The former TTL continued as consultant, advising and working with
the project team for one additional year. The latter TTL continued to manage the project,
through the completion of the ICR, with the assistance of the former TTL. There were no
issues identified by the Bank or Government in the transition between the TTLs. The
supervision team also included a social specialist in charge of supervising compliance
with the "Implementation Framework" described in paragraph 7.1.2 and a highway
specialist in HDM-4 to advise the DGCC in its implementation, a financial management
specialist and procurement specialist to oversee fiduciary compliance.

The project execution was supervised regularly, Missions were sent to the field twice a
year, with additional regular Bank support provided by the TTL in the Bank office in
Mexico. Progress and ratings were adequately reported in the Implementation Status
Results and Reports (ISRs).

The total time devoted to project supervision was 110 staff weeks, including the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) drafting; an average of 16 staff weeks per year.
This level of supervision was adequate. Nonetheless, as stated in the SCT report (see
Annex10), they would have liked longer supervision missions to cover equally innovative
and conventional components. This would have required more resources allocated by the
Bank to project supervision (see Section 12 for details). For years 2005 and 2006 the role
of the Bank was mainly to supervise the PPCM and to follow up the implementation of
HDM-4, given that the Project was coming to closure and disbursements were very low.
For 2007, staff weeks and budget devoted were mainly to study follow-up operations and
the preparation of this ICR.

The management, procurement reviews and post-reviews, flow of project disbursement,
and financial decisions were made competently. There were no known deviations from
Bank policies or procedures, and loan conditions were adhered to at all times. To sum up,
project supervision was Satisfactory.


                                            29

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank's overall performance is assessed as Satisfactory for the reasons outlined above.
In retrospect, the quantity, quality and skill mix of the Bank staff appointed to project
preparation and implementation stages was appropriate. The Bank team engaged in a
sustained dialogue with SCT during project preparation and provided timely attention to
the client's requests, while adhering to agreed procedures and maintaining good control
of the project and monitoring quality.

It is worth noting that the Bank was influential in introducing innovations such as the
road comprehensive maintenance by contract and the implementation of the HDM-4,
which initially the Government resisted during project preparation, as they had been
working previously with a different tool, and were comfortable with its results. SCT
accepted and implemented the innovations and the positive results have built SCT
ownership of the innovations. The Bank team also assured that the project was well
documented and records appropriately kept in the DGCC files.

The above rating is consistent with the mentioned results.

10.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Government performance was Satisfactory. Project preparation was led actively by the
Guarantor (SHCP) in close coordination with the Borrower (BANOBRAS), and the
Implementing Agency (the DGCC of the SCT) all participating in a competent and timely
manner. Although this split in responsibilities created some bureaucratic bottlenecks in
project administration procedures, the government teams were fully committed to the
project objectives and properly identified the main issues and risks.

The Government's budget allocation was appropriate. The priority given to infrastructure
maintenance in the annual federal budgets was demonstrated by timely allocations of
funds disbursed in parallel to Bank disbursements, ensuring a smooth implementation
pace.

During the first years of project implementation, BANOBRAS was going through an
internal restructuring process. Since it was the institution in charge of clearing and
sending to the Bank the results of the procurement processes, during its restructuring the




                                             30

review and clearance of bidding documents, evaluations and award proposals took more
time than expected, particularly concerning contracts tendered under ICB.

Although the overall disbursement performance was Satisfactory, SCT pointed to some
delays by the Bank's Disbursement Office in delivering the funds. However, SCT
demonstrated its interest in keeping disbursements on track, and with the Bank's
commitment and review of procedures, the situation improved notably.

In summary, the Government agencies involved demonstrated good technical capacity
and knowledge of Bank´s policies and procedures.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Secretaría de Comunicaciones y Transporte. Implementing Agency performance was
Satisfactory. A very committed and qualified key team in the SCT that had participated in
previous Bank operations continued to participate in project preparation and in the
implementation stage. This team worked closely with the Bank to identify and elaborate
highway maintenance issues, and define the scope and structure of the project. Overall,
SCT's commitment during project preparation and implementation was constant.

As commented before, during project preparation, the SCT was not enthusiastic with the
introduction in the Project of innovative components such as comprehensive road
maintenance by contract and the implementation of the HDM-4 in the DGCC. This new
method required different data to be collected, other procedures, and a different
management method. However, following more discussions with the Bank team, SCT
realized the enhancing power of the proposed methods and carried out these innovations
in a suitable and successful manner during implementation.

Furthermore, the Implementing Agency managed all factors under its control
satisfactorily, and ensured continuity of its staff to support and improve project
implementation pace. Progress reports, withdrawal applications, and audits were
submitted in a timely manner. The bidding processes carried out by SCT were
consistently in compliance with Bank's procurement guidelines. Annual procurement
reviews found no deviations or significant procurement problems. SCT also maintain
agreed standards for financial management as shown in the consistent positive ratings in
the Bank's supervision reports.

Particularly noteworthy was the level of effort by SCT and its Centers in the States to
successfully implement innovations as the PPCM and the HDM-4, which is consistent
with a Satisfactory rating.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance



                                             31

Rating: Satisfactory

The Borrower's overall performance is assessed as Satisfactory for the reasons outlined
above. The Government showed its commitment towards the project through the six
years of design and implementation. The Implementing Agency managed all factors
under its control satisfactorily.

The overall commitment of agencies concerned with the project (mainly SHCP,
BANOBRAS, and SCT) is consistent with the rating, as reflected in the timely provision
of counterpart funds for the project and the suitable implementation of the project
components.

11. Lessons Learned

A large body of relevant experiences can be drawn from project implementation, some of
which are consistent with those from similar projects.

                                     Project-Specific

Budgeting. Contracting and road management innovations can improve maintenance
budgeting practices as well. The two innovations introduced by the Project, the PPMC
and the HDM-4, contributed to improve DGCC´s maintenance budgeting, as explained
below.

First, the PPMC, a three year comprehensive maintenance program required three years
for implementation and therefore, its contracting made necessary the approval of a
multiyear budget until then not used by the DGCC in its contracts. The introduction of
multiyear contracts will allow in SCT to tender bigger works in the future, which until
now have been split in different contracts to allow for execution in one year and a half for
budgetary reasons (there is a six month grace period to end the works contracted out in
the previous fiscal year).

Second, the HDM-4 requires improved and expanded inventories and basic data on road
condition and allows for in-depth analyses of current asset capacity and condition, service
demand over a considerable horizon, detailed assessments, and multi-year maintenance
plans. Funding for road maintenance becomes more stable when the planning process
improves and enough resources are allocated to projects.

When analysis tools like the HDM-4 are available, alternative maintenance approaches
can be evaluated economically to decide the best budget policy. Well-designed multi-year
comprehensive maintenance contracts could eventually be a feasible means to increase
efficacy in public service and could contribute to easing budgetary constraints.



                                            32

Program of Comprehensive maintenance by contract. This type of programs should
be first tested by means of a pilot contract, as was the case in this Project, which allowed
the collection of important road data and experiences to be applied in future programs,
either input or output-based.

In the case of the program under this project, the routine maintenance share was
originally 30%, periodic maintenance was 50%, reconstruction was 9%, and highways
signposts represented 10.5%. A SCT recommendation at the end of the program was that
the share of routine maintenance in future similar contracts should be higher, not less
than 50%. In this respect, it is worth to mention that the PPCM, as designed, had a
routine and periodic maintenance share of about 80% (see above), which was modified at
the request of the SCT Centers with the changes described in sections 6.6 and 8.2 above
(different roads and additional reconstruction). Nevertheless, the scope of the works
under these programs will always be subject to the condition of the selected roads for
inclusion in the program.

Building on the lessons of the PPCM, the key measure of success in this type of program
is scope and procedures, as follows:

Previous conditions:
(i)   the condition of the network should be rightly assessed before either input-based
      (unit prices and lump sums) or output-based contracts (by results) are prepared and
      tendered; otherwise, rehabilitation activities could have a much higher cost than
      estimated, particularly if there has been road deterioration since appraisal and more
      reconstruction needs, which could require a substantial budget increase, and;
(ii) management and information systems must be used for maintenance planning.

Contracting:
(iii) the contracts should be long enough to allow for a minimum period of three years
     of maintenance after reconstruction or rehabilitation,
(iv) it is advisable to test either output-based contracting or mixed input and output-
      based contracting, before deciding the best approach for a particular road network
     and agency.

Supervision:
(v)   Terms of Reference for supervision of comprehensive maintenance contracts should
      be timely and carefully prepared in order to award the supervision contract before
      the works and services are contracted out. The consulting firms must have prior
      experience in supervising similar contracts.

Procurement. Innovative schemes are highly demanding in terms of procurement,
particularly when drafting standard bidding documents and building capacity to manage
electronic bidding are coincident, as in the case of this Project. Hiring consultancy firms


                                             33

with broad experience in maintenance by contract to assist the Borrower in drafting
bidding documents can be very useful to adapting the documents to the country
circumstances.

Thresholds for ICB in countries like Mexico must be high, given the existence in the
country of a powerful construction industry, which makes competition for foreign firms
very difficult. Therefore, civil works should be grouped in packages of value over the
threshold for ICB, in order to attract foreign firms.

The possible lack of expertise of local contractors in the case of comprehensive
maintenance could be covered by requesting that the bidding documents included
technical specialists with experience in this type of works.

Decentralization and financing mechanisms. Decentralization is the process of moving
from a centralized or deconcentrated administration (SCT and SCT Centers) to
decentralized institutions (the States) for service delivery. It is an important step in the
consolidation of democratic processes as it brings the decision making process closer to
the affected citizens. It is in sum a political step that is decided and implemented on the
basis of political criteria.

The Government of Mexico took the political decision to decentralize part of the Federal
Complementary Network, of about 19,000 km, to the States under the 1995-2000
National Development Plan. This decision coincided with current trends in other modern
countries to limit the federal government ownership to the main highways. This first
attempt ended in failure. The main reasons were that SHCP did not transfer additional
funds to the States to manage the part of the network that was decentralized.

During project preparation, the SCT asked the Bank to prepare a study ("Analysis of
Highway Decentralization Models for the Development of a Decentralization Strategy
in México") outlining the relevant experiences of other countries in Europe, South
America and the US before trying again to initiate the decentralization of the Federal
Complementary Road Network. This process and the contents of the study are described
in more detail in Annex 4. The final objective of the overall analysis was to draw up a set
of recommendations on the process to be followed in the next road-decentralization
attempt, so that the most appropriate plan could be prepared for Mexico.

The study was completed in April 2001, when the Project had already been approved and
the Loan signed, and it recommended to resolve the following points before management
and ownership of the Federal Complementary Network of Roads were transferred to the
corresponding states: (i) the exact identification of the highways to be transferred to each
state and their improvement and maintenance requirements; (ii) the willingness of the
states to receive the transferred network; (iii) the capacity of the states to manage the
transferred network; and (iv) the source and guarantee of availability of the resources
needed for management. It also suggested to establish Mixed Working Groups SCT-
States, one for each state, to discuss and agree on the details and schedule of the


                                              34

decentralization process. These steps were to be undertaken with the support and
resources of the Project, but at that time there was no the political willingness, either in
SCT or SHCP, to go ahead with the recommendations.

The analysis showed in particular that ensuring the availability of financial resources to
meet the management needs of the administrations that will become owners is a
determining factor in the success of the decentralization process. One additional factor
in the case of Mexico is that, once the network management is decentralized, current
legislation makes it very difficult to decentralize ownership to the states if the funds they
need to manage the network have to be provided by the federal administration.


The lesson here is that once the political decision to decentralize part or the entire road
network is made, sustainable financing mechanisms have to be established and to ensure
that sufficient resources will allow the owners of the decentralized network to adequately
manage it. Only during the process of establishing those mechanisms, the
decentralization should be temporary funded by other sources of funds. The resources to
be transferred or made available to the states or decentralized institutions, in a sustainable
manner, could be provided by a road fund or similar mechanism (see Annex 4).

If the decentralization continues to be supported by a future Bank's project, a discussion
with the corresponding authorities (in the case of this project, the SCT, the SHCP and the
Federal Congress) must take into account not only methodological considerations, but the
broader context of the country's political organization and the realistic level of fiscal
decentralization intented.

Social Assessments. When no negative social impacts are expected in maintenance and
rehabilitation projects, social assessments during preparation should be much less
comprehensive that in other type of projects, particularly in high capacity middle income
countries like Mexico. In these cases, it should be enough to agree during negotiations on
a template to be used during project implementation concerning social issues.

Public voice model. A public voice model, as the one being used by the SCT Center in
San Luis Potosi, can be an effective road user tool to exercise influence over the type and
quality of service, thereby applying pressure to improve get public services. Feedback
from road users and the public in general on quality of service should be included in
comprehensive maintenance by contract projects to encourage accountability.

                                Wide General Application


Innovations (concepts and technologies). The introduction of innovations either as
concepts (comprehensive maintenance by contract) and technology (the HDM-4 Model
replacing the SISTER) is always desirable to improve road management, but it is
advisable to adapt the implementation schedule to the country conditions, because new
concepts and technology require time for introducing and adjusting them to the existing



                                             35

more traditional schemes. Furthermore, new technologies are highly demanding in terms
of data and resources.

Responsiveness to the client under intermediation arrangements. The Bank and the
Borrower (BANOBRAS) have to be responsive to the client particularly in terms of: (i)
amendments concerning reallocation of funds among components during implementation,
(ii) issuing documents, especially those related to no objections and validation of
disbursements, and to the translation of these expenditures into Bank disbursement.
Processing has to be fast, especially in the case of a middle-income decentralized country
like Mexico.

12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
Annex 10 includes an excerpt of the report sent by the Implementing Agency (SCT)
summarizing the history and execution of the Project and the lessons learned from it
during the implementation of the different components. A summary of these comments
on the report are as follows:

The report, longer than usual (28 pages), is very comprehensive and includes key data on
the multiple aspects of the Project. It rightly compares the final outputs and costs with
the ones in the PAD, and lists all contracts awarded during implementation with their
respective final costs, either if they were financed with loan and/or local funds. It shows
that the loan disbursements, started in 2001, allowed for consistent road maintenance and
rehabilitation funding contributing to avoiding accelerated deterioration of the network.

SCT describes the implementation of the Project in similar terms to the ones in this ICR
and considers it a success. Concerning the PROPIMI (acronym in Spanish for the PPCM)
the SCT considers it a successful experience, to the point that the SCT Centers support
the implementation of further programs of this type and the road users have shown great
satisfaction with the results, some even with letters of appreciation. For future programs,
the SCT recommends to reduce the reconstruction works subcomponent of the PPCM and
increase maintenance and rehabilitation, as originally planned at project preparation. In
the original program about 80% of the cost was for those activities and the SCT Centers
were the ones who introduced a bigger proportion of reconstruction or major
rehabilitation works, justified by the condition of the highways selected.         Another
recommendation is that the bidding documents for innovative programs be prepared at
appraisal and discussed and agreed at negotiations. This will be possible in future
PPCMs, based on the experience on this one.

Another issue in the report is the delay in processing no objections of studies and
consulting services. This can be a consequence of the long process to submit the no-
objection requests to the Bank, a process that started in the DGCC or the UAC and



                                              36

continued through the SCT Budget Department and BANOBRAS, which reviewed the
ToRs and cleared the bidding documents before sending them to the Bank. There were
also delays originated in the corresponding units of the Implementing Agency in
preparing the ToRs (as the Aide Memoirs show).

The SCT also advises in the report to strengthen the mechanisms and procedures to speed
up payments to beneficiaries, particularly advance payments for future operations, and to
timely transfer to TESOFE (Treasury of the Mexican Federation) of all reimbursements
according to the agreed pari passu.

The SCT also recommends in the report that the Bank should allocate more resources to
supervision in future projects to allow for more and longer supervision missions, as well
as to appoint as TTL a specialist in the project components. The former recommendation
probably links back to a time when supervision missions were two to three weeks long
with quarterly frequency. Neither the current supervision budgets nor the staff is now in
such numbers to allow that type of supervision. Nevertheless, even with less time and
resources, but with sufficient highly specialized staff, the Banks team managed to
introduce two important innovations, which were closely supervised throughout the
implementation period. A total 77% of civil works contracted under ICB procedures were
visited. In addition, issues like the decentralization, road fund and toll roads were also
frequently and some times intensively discussed with the corresponding SCT units during
supervision missions. Several studies were as well carried out by the team during the
project period. Civil works under ICB were also visited. A member of the team, a
Transport Specialist later on the project TTL, was working at the Bank Mexico office and
therefore available to address any incidence in project implementation. It should be noted
as well that the supervision team checked from time to time the quality of supervision of
works by the SCT, which was organized in three technical layers: the DGCC, the SCT
Centers and consulting firms and found it satisfactory. The recommendation of the SCT
has a very positive side. It confirms the interest of the Implementing Agency in the
technical assistance and expertise that the Bank projects carry with them.

Concerning the comment on the TTLs, this is a recommendation more with a view on the
way the Bank made supervision in the past. The completed project was first managed by
a seasoned Lead Highway Engineer with more than 40 years of experience in highways
in the public and private sector, out of them more than 12 years managing Bank projects
at the time of project preparation. When he retired from the Bank in 2003, he was
replaced by a Senior Transport Specialist located in the Mexico office, (himself a team
member so then) with more than 25 years of experience in transport planning in the
public and private sector, and with 8 years supporting and managing Bank' operations.
The former TTL continued in the team as consultant for one year more, until practically
all loan funds were totally disbursed. Under the two TTL's management two innovations
were introduced in Mexico by the project.



                                            37

Finally, the report explains that an ex-post economic evaluation of projects included in
the PAD was undertaken with the HDM, with results similar to the ones in the ex-ante
analysis, demonstrating that the implemented subprojects continued being profitable from
an economic standpoint.

(b) Cofinanciers
(NA)

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)
(NA)




                                           38

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document):

The project was designed to assist the Government in providing Mexico with a road
transport system that can support the needs of a rapidly modernizing and expanding
economy and to enable meeting the competitiveness challenges of NAFTA. The
overarching development objective was to improve the transport efficiency of the road
network. Complementary objectives included: (i) improving SCT's rehabilitation and
maintenance planning performance; and (ii) enhancing private-sector participation in
road maintenance.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority):
The original Project Development Objectives did not change during project
implementation.

(a) PDO Indicator(s) - from Project Appraisal Document
                                 Original Target         Formally   Actual Value Achieved at
  Indicator       Baseline
                   Value           Values (from          Revised       Completion or Target
                              approval documents) Target Values                Years
               Reduction in VOC on project roads (an average reduction of 20% compared
Indicator 1 :  with current value)
Value
(quantitative    3.18 $/km                                                   3.13 $/km
or qualitative)
Date
achieved         11/17/2000                                                 03/31/2006

Comments
(incl. %       This indicator was not 100% achieved. However, there is an important reduction in

achievement)   VOC ($0.05/km). The target of 20% was too ambitious.

               Improvement in the condition of roads after rehabilitation in terms of
Indicator 2 :  roughness reduction
Value          57% of the                                          78% of the network is in
(quantitative network is in   75% of the network is                good and fair condition
or             good and fair  in good and fair

Qualitative) condition
Date
achieved         11/17/2000         04/04/2005                              03/31/2006

Comments
(incl. %       The target value of this indicator was 100% achieved
achievement)
               Timely preparation of HMP and BRP economically prioritized annual
Indicator 3 :  plans
Value          Annual                                              Annual planning is timely
(quantitative planning is     Annual plans will be                 prepared using the SISTER
or             timely         prepared using HDM-4                 and, starting in 2007, it was
Qualitative) prepared         model                                prepared with the use of the


                                                 39

              using the                                               HDM-4 Model.
              SISTER
              Model
Date
achieved        11/17/2000          09/15/2003                                  12/31/2005

Comments      This target value of this indicator was achieved two years ahead of schedule,
(incl. %      pointing to the strong ownership and sustainability of the institutional changes
achievement) supported by the Project.
              Amount invested and number of contracts managed annually, including the
Indicator 4 : comprehensive maintenance contracts
              39 contracts                                            9 construction contracts in 9
              for HMP at a                                            states with a total cost of
              cost of about                                           US$40 million, plus pilot
Value         US$ 17.4                                                program at a cost of about
(quantitative million were                                            US$60 million split into 3
or            tendered                                                contracts, under ICB. 10
Qualitative) under NCB.                                               rehabilitation &
                                                                      maintenance contracts
                                                                      between US$10 & 3 million
                                                                      under NCB.
Date
achieved        11/17/2000                                                      03/31/2006

Comments      The target value of this indicator was 100% achieved
(incl. %
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s) - from Project Appraisal Document

                                 Original Target         Formally      Actual Value Achieved at
   Indicator     Baseline
                  Value     Values (from approval         Revised        Completion or Target
                                   documents)          Target Values               Years
Indicator 1 :   Rehabilitation km
Value
(quantitative or 1,000 km           1,000 km                                    1,129.8 km
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/17/2000           03/15/2001                                   11/30/2006

Comments
(incl. %        The target value of this indicator was exceeded.

achievement)    .
Indicator 2 :   Bridge Rehabilitation
Value
(quantitative or 100 units          100 units                                     45 units
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/17/2000           03/15/2001                                   11/30/2006
Comments        The original target was for the whole program and not exclusively for Bank's
(incl. %        project. Therefore the original target was achieved adding the rehabilitation of 55



                                                 40

achievement)     bridges that were financed with SCT funds in 2005.
                 .
Indicator 3 :    Periodic maintenance
Value
(quantitative or  25,155,2          25,155.2 km                                 35,147.7 km

Qualitative)         km

Date achieved 11/17/2000            03/15/2001                                   11/30/2006

Comments         Physical outputs with WB funding were exceeded during implementation. This

(incl. %        was an important strengthening of the Periodic maintenance component.

achievement)

Indicator 4 :    Routine maintenance
Value
(quantitative or 45,605.8           45,605.8 km                                 43,345.2 km

Qualitative)     km

Date achieved 11/17/2000            03/15/2001                                   11/30/2006
                 Overall routine maintenance was financed with SCT funds. Routine maintenance
Comments        has to be given yearly to the entire road network. Some kms have been transferred
(incl. %        to the toll road network.
achievement)


Indicator 5 :    Attention to conflict points ­ Road Safety
Value
(quantitative or 380 points          380 points                                  684 points
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/17/2000            03/15/2001                                   11/30/2006

Comments         SCT continued the positive trend in given attention to conflict points. The target

(incl. %        was exceeded.

achievement)

                 Comprehensive maintenance (routine, periodic and minor
Indicator 6 :    rehabilitation)
Value
(quantitative or 242.9 km            242.9 km             432.9 km               432.9 km
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/17/2000            03/15/2001           12/16/2004              11/30/2006

Comments         Target value for this indicator was exceeded. Initial road sections were replaced

(incl. %        by the highway section between Queretaro and San Luis Potosi, (a four-lane

achievement)    highway of 225 km) crossing the states of Queretaro, plus 55 km of feeder roads
                to Gto. and SLP.




                                                 41

Annex 2. Restructuring

Not Applicable




                          42

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                    Appraisal   Actual/Latest Percentage
                    Components                      Estimate     Estimate         of
                                                    (USD M)      (USD M)      Appraisal
I. Highway maintenance and rehabilitation:                 171.5       173.39       101.1
(i) rehabilitation                                        105.0
(ii) Periodic maintenance                                  42.0
(iii) Bridge rehabilitation                                14.0
(iv) Supervision                                           10.5
II. Pilot program of comprehensive
maintenance (routine, periodic and minor                  13.65         41.18       274.0

rehabilitation) by contract of an additional 240
km two lane road:
(i) Civil works                                            12.6
(ii) Consulting services                                    1.05

III. Construction of 2 (one single, plus one               3.15           0.0         0.0
twin) weight-and dimensions control stations:

IV. Institutional strengthening provision of
technical assistance and training for:                       4.0         1.24        29.5

(i) Installing the HDFM-4 Model                              1.7
(ii) Developing a strategy for decentralization of
road administration                                         0.6

(iii) Implementing a road financing mechanism               0.5
(iv) Implementing the selected strategy on toll              1.0
roads
(v) Training                                               0.20
V. Contingencies:                                          23.52
Physical Contingencies                                       0.0
Price Contingencies                                          0.0
Total Baseline Costs                                     215.81        215.81
Project Preparation Facility (PPF)                           0.0
Front-end fee IBRD                                         2.18          2.18
                         Total Financing Required         218.0        218.0

(b) Financing

The total amount invested in road maintenance (routine and periodic) and rehabilitation
and bridge rehabilitation was US$ 2,324 million, more than 10 times the loan amount.




                                                 43

(c) Disbursement Profile

The loan had a delay of one year in starting its disbursements, due to delays in
procurement processes. During MTR it has disbursed 60% of the total loan.




                                            44

Annex 4. Output by Component

As discussed below, the output for Component (1) is rated Satisfactory as civil works
were completed in terms of quality and cost, and for Component (2) is Highly
Satisfactory considering its condition of pilot program and final success. Component (3)
is rated Satisfactory because, although it was finally financed with local resources,
project objectives in this area were accomplished. The output of the institutional
strengthening Component (4) is also rated as Satisfactory. The following paragraphs
explain in more depth the rational for these ratings.

For each component, the PAD and ICR costs are presented in the paragraphs below. The
costs represent the Bank financing as planned in the PAD and the actual Bank financing
as presented in this ICR.

Component 1. Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance ­ [PAD US$ 171.50 million
­ ICR US$ 173.39 million]. Specific sections to be rehabilitated or to receive periodic
maintenance were programmed and tendered by the SCT to private contractors. Physical
and financial targets for 2001-2005 were established through an Implementation Letter
submitted by the SCT to the Bank for approval. The SCT carried out the selected
subprojects under the HMP and the BRP with due diligence and efficiency, and in
conformity with appropriate engineering, technical, social, environmental, financial, and
administrative standards and practices. The road sections that were subject to
rehabilitation and maintenance were satisfactorily completed. The physical outputs are
described in detail below.

Part A1. Rehabilitation of about 1,000 km of highways. The works improved the base,
sub-base and pavement bearing capacity. Rehabilitation works included the
improvement/repair of drainage and sub-drainage systems and of hard-shoulders. The
physical output was 519.8 km with different levels of pavement reconstruction (and 568
km financed with local resources). While less kilometers than those estimated in the PAD
were rehabilitated or reconstructed, this was due in part to higher deterioration than
expected in some roads and, more importantly, to the DGCC policy of giving priority to
periodic maintenance over reconstruction / rehabilitation to prevent that the roads in fair
condition deteriorated and fell into the poor condition category. This is a good policy,
which resulted in a significant increase in the roads treated under periodic maintenance
and also a significant decrease in the reconstruction or major rehabilitation works, as
reflected in Part A2 below.

Part A2. Periodic maintenance of about 1,200 km. The works protected the pavement
life-service and improved the physical conditions of the surface, shoulders and drainage
ditches. The final physical output with Bank's funding was exceeded during
implementation, reaching 3,011.6 km about 2.5 times the estimated in the PAD. This



                                             45

largely compensates the decrease in the length of roads with major rehabilitation in Part
A1.

Part A3. Rehabilitation of 100 bridges. The works ensured the superstructure capacity to
support the loads imposed by heavy traffic, and adapted its width to that of the road they
are part of; they included repair/reinforcement of the superstructure, pillars, supports and
other structural elements, and their protection against erosion, if needed. The final
physical output was 45 bridges. An additional 55 bridges were rehabilitated with local
resources.

It is worth noting that the SCT carried out maintenance and rehabilitation in the whole
network with its own resources and that, in the 2001-2005 period, the total amount
invested in road maintenance (routine and periodic) and rehabilitation and bridge
rehabilitation was US$2,324 million, more than 10 times the loan amount.

Part A4. Consultancy services for the supervision of the selected subprojects by DGCC's
HMP and BRP. This subcomponent was directly managed by the DGCC Directorate of
Supervision and Control (central offices) but performed at each of the participating SCT
centers responsible for the execution of the works through civil works contractors.

Component 2. Pilot Project for Comprehensive Maintenance by Contract ­ [PAD
US$ 13.65 million ­ ICR US$ 41.18 million]. This three year program included routine
and periodic maintenance activities, rehabilitation of selected segments of roads and of
bridges, some minor works, preparation of short term work programs, training and
management of the programs, and assistance and information to road users and the police
in case of accidents.

Before the project, there were not private firms in Mexico with experience and technical
capacity in comprehensive road maintenance. To open the way for local contractors to
participate in the bidding process, a clause was introduced in the bidding documents
allowing local contractors, complying with all other requirements in those documents, to
participate in the bidding process if they hired, during the entire contract execution,
qualified technical specialists to cover their lack of the needed expertise.

The pilot program was implemented with very good results in terms of road improvement,
reliability and users satisfaction. In addition to the completion of works and services, the
program has proven been shown to improve planning practices. Similar programs will be
implemented in all states and in the total federal network, including toll highways.

Part. B1. Civil works. The final program covered a total length of 432.9 km, a substantial
increase for the 242.5 km estimated in the PAD at the time of project preparation. These
works were split into three contracts, one for each state crossed by the selected corridor:
Queretaro (covering 113.8 km), Guanajuato (covering 176.0 km) and San Luis Potosi



                                              46

(covering 143.1 km). The average actual cost was about US$34,000/km per year, a
reasonable figure, justified by the substantial reconstruction works included, particularly
in the State of San Luis Potosi. As a consequence, the total cost of this component was
finally US$62.5 million or about three times the estimated cost in the PAD, which was
supposed to include only periodic maintenance and moderate rehabilitation. The excess in
cost was covered partially by savings in Component 1, resources of Component 3 and the
amount estimated in the PAD for contingencies.

Part B2. Provision of consulting services for work supervision, monitoring, reporting
activities, and for preparing and managing the program.

Component 3. Vehicle Weight and Dimensions Control Stations ­ [PAD US$ 3.15 ­
ICR US$ 0.00 million]. Given the delay in the effectiveness, this component was
implemented with local funds. Thus, its part in the DOs was accomplished. No new
stations were proposed to be financed by the Loan, therefore, the amount originally
allocated to this component was reallocated to other disbursement categories, mostly to
the PPMC.

Component 4. Institutional Strengthening ­ [PAD US$ 4.00 million ­ ICR US$ 1.24
million]. Under this component, specific technical assistance activities to SCT grouped in
five sub-components would be financed. Mixed results were achieved as explained below.
Loan funds not used in this component were reallocated to other disbursement categories.
The final outputs were the following:

Part D1. Implementing the HDM-4 in the DGCC and its departmental offices to improve
road maintenance management. The output was a computerized road management system
comprising systematic collection and analysis, pavement management, economic analysis
and, finally, a prioritized road investment program. Data to run the model was collected
under contract in the states of Chiapas and Morelos, chosen as pilots. Additionally, 9
contracts were awarded to collect data on roughness, deflections, data base management
and maintenance strategy definition. This technical assistance has established the routine
for future data collection and data base management, substantially improving these
practices in the DGCC. At the time of the closing date, the HDM-4 was being tested in
the DGCC and being used to compare the results for the 2007 budget with the ones
achieved with the SISTER. The HDM-4 will definitively replace the SISTER for the
preparation of the 2008 budget and onward. Subsequently, HDM-4 will be implemented
in the SCT Centers in the States.

SCT will measure the irregularities (IRI) of the overall network every two years,
alternating roughness and deflection figures to monitor physical conditions. This is
another positive consequence of the HDM-4 implementation, since this data are essential
to run the program. As stated above, in the preparation of the 2007 program the two
systems will be used to define the annual program: SISTER as the basic, by the last time,


                                            47

and HDM-4 for a comparative economic evaluation. IRI measuring will also allow for
international comparisons.

The main outputs of the HDM-4 implementation were:
(i)      a pavement management system designed to be managed together with the HDM-
         4;
(ii)     a road network database that covers the entire road network managed by DGCC
         (around 45,000 km) including data on roughness, deflections, surface distress and
         traffic; and
(iii)    an effective and state /of/ the art tool for road planning and programming.

The HDM-4 implementation involved the following steps:

(i)      definition of a working group to carry out the implementation;
(ii)     HDM-4 training;
(iii)    definition of vehicle fleet characteristics;
(iv)     testing a pilot network economic evaluation for the Morelos State road network;
(v)      collection of road network roughness, deflections, surface distress and traffic data;
(vi)     development of a pavement management system;
(vii)    incorporation into the road network database of, network inventory, roughness,
         deflections, surface distress and traffic data; and
(viii) support for structuring the network economic evaluation and facilitating the
         presentation of the HDM-4 results.

The HDM-4 implementation was supported by the following 9 consultancy service
contracts:
                                                              Contract      Actual
                                                  Number      Amount       Amount    Progress
                                                              (Million     (Million
                          Study                   Contracts    Pesos)       Pesos)     (%)
  HDM-4 Training and Familiarization                 1         0.61         0.61      100%
  Vehicle Fleet Characteristics Definition           1         0.26         0.26      100%
  Network Surveys for Pilot Network Economic
  Evaluation in Morelos State                        4         1.91         1.91      100%
  DGCC Network Roughness Survey                      1         3.21         3.31      100%
  DGCC Network Deflection Survey                     1         3.93         3.93      100%
  Development of Pavement Management System and
  Support for HDM-4 use                              1         2.16         2.40      100%
  Total                                                        12.08        12.42


During the last quarter of 2006, the DGCC, with the assistance of consultants, carried out
a network economic evaluation using HDM-4 to: (i) continue testing the system and
compare its results with SISTER results; (ii) fine-tune the HDM-4 economic evaluation
methodology; and (iii) adapt the pavement management system to be able to create
customized planning and programming reports.




                                                48

Part D2. Developing a strategy for decentralizing road administration. Though this sub-
component was not completed, SCT did progress in the always difficult process of road
decentralization.

During project preparation, a study entitled "Analysis of Highway Decentralization
Models for the Development of a Decentralization Strategy in Mexico" was prepared
by the Bank at the request of the SCT. After a failed attempt to decentralize its Federal
Complementary Road Network in 1995-96, SCT decided to review the relevant
experiences of countries in Europe, South America and the US before trying again
attempting to decentralize its network. SCT requested that the Bank analyze the
experiences of a specific group of countries (France, Germany, Spain, and the United
Kingdom in Europe, the United States in North America, and Argentina and Brazil in
South America), in addition to analyzing of the Mexican experience. The final objective
of the overall analysis was to draw up a set of recommendations on the process to be
followed in the next road-decentralization initiative.

The analysis was carried out by the Bank. The team was comprised of staff from the
Bank's central Transport and Urban Unit, and led and coordinated by the TTL of the
Road Maintenance Project, a Lead Highway Engineer with experience in this matter. The
Bank team was assisted by consultants and contributors from France, Germany, Spain,
the United Kingdom and the Bank´s Latin America Transport Cluster. The data on
Mexico were provided by a local civil engineer, consultant with extensive experience in
Mexican road administration. The results of the analysis were supported by the UAC
(Unidad de Autopistas de Cuota), the Toll Road Unit in the SCT.

The study analyzed the technical and institutional aspects of different highway
decentralization models. It was split into four Sections and included eight Annexes. The
Sections were as follows: (1) Current organization and operation of highway
management in Mexico; (2) Decentralizing road administration: analysis of experiences
in different countries; (3) Issues to be considered when defining the decentralization
model and developing strategies for its implementation; and (4) Action plan for
decentralizing the Mexican Federal Complementary Highway Network to the State.

Among their conclusions, the study recommended to resolve the following points before
management and ownership of the Federal Complementary Network were transferred to
the corresponding states: (i) the exact identification of the highways to be transferred to
each state and their improvement and maintenance requirements; (ii) the willingness of
the states to receive the transferred network; (iii) the ability of the states to manage the
transferred network; and (iv) the source and guarantee of availability of the resources
needed to manage the decentralized network.

These steps were to be undertaken with the support and resources of this Project, but SCT
opted to delay decentralization of the road network because it became not a priority for
the new administration. Nevertheless, with local funds, the SCT managed to implement
some of the recommendations of the study, such as training and transfer to the
municipalities of some road sections in urban areas.



                                            49

Part D3. Implementing a road financing mechanism and resource mobilization strategies.
The Project provided resources to support the recommendations of a study carried out by
consultants financed by the previous HRTS project. The study proposed the creation of a
Road Fund based on earmarking a percentage of fuel revenues for road reconstruction
and maintenance, which had been in the institutional agenda of SCT for a long time.
However, the highest authorities of SCT at the time of project implementation did not
consider it a priority (because of external factors beyond SCT's control) and therefore,
this sub-component was not implemented. Given the acceptable level of resources
annually allocated to maintenance and rehabilitation and the fact that SCT has started a
concession program of toll roads for modernization, rehabilitation and maintenance, it
could be that the Fund was not a priority in the sense of financing road modernization and
maintenance.

However, since decentralization requires important resources to be transferred or made
available to the states, the road fund, or a similar mechanism, would facilitate the process.
Given the current focus of the Government on the modernization of the basic network, it
is uncertain that the decentralization and the fund will be implemented in the short term.

Part D4. Implementing the Government strategy on toll roads. Even before this Project
was effective, the UAC was interested in a possible future Bank operation including
reorganization of FARAC (which would manage the toll network) and Public Toll Roads
Agency (CAPUFE) (which would operate it, but monitored by FARAC). Preparation of
this new operation was delayed but several studies have been carried out to support it,
including with assistance from the Bank, and the new Government has expressed interest
in continuing Bank support for the implementation of such a restructuring.

The first of those studies were carried out by the Bank shortly after the approval of this
Project, with the assistance, as a consultant, of the Technical Director of ENA, the
National Toll Road Authority in Spain. The TTLs of this Project and the HFP
participated in the study, coordinated by the former. This study, called "Análisis de la
situación de las autopistas de cuota en México y recomendaciones para su
fortalecimiento, Febrero 2001", analyzed all aspects of management of the toll road
networks administered by CAPUFE and FARAC, trying to find some possible technical
and administrative actions to improve service to the users and maximize efficiency in
expenditures and in the use of both networks.

The second study ("Aspectos Administrativos, Técnicos, Operativos y Comerciales de
las Autopistas de Cuota en México bajo Jurisdicción Federal") was carried out in May
2003 by the former TTL of this Project, as a consultant assisting the new TTL. The study,
as its title in Spanish indicates, analysed the technical, operational and commercial
aspects of the toll road systems under CAPUFE and FARAC administration. The study
concluded with the proposal of a plan to reform the CAPUFE-FARAC system and
identifying key aspects to take into account for the reform of CAPUFE.



                                               50

In the same line, this Project financed a contract for consulting services to carry out the
"Strategic Planning for the National Motorway System". The study analyzed and
proposed alternatives to improve the CAPUFE-FARAC system. Close to its conclusion,
the UAC and the consultants presented and discussed with the Bank their findings and
preliminary conclusions. The final output of the study is a tangible contribution as
feedback for higher-level policy debates.

Also as part of the support to the preparation of the HFP, the same TTL/ Consultant
carried out with data provided by the UAC and CAPUFE two additional short studies.
One to estimate the actual annual budget necessary to maintain the FARAC network and
the other to calculate the overall benefits of reducing the toll rate in some toll highways
with sensitivity enough to absorb traffic from the parallel free highways with traffic
volumes much higher than the tolled ones.

Part D5. Staff training for the SCT and its Directorates. The training was provided by
consultants and the Bank specialist to implement and operate the HDM-4 in the DGCC,
as well as study tours abroad for SCT directorates to exchange experiences with similar
organizations in other countries, particularly concerning comprehensive maintenance by
contract and toll road concessions.

V. Contingencies [PAD US$ 23.5 million ­ ICR US$ 0.0 million]. The amount
allocated to this component was reallocated to other components, mostly to the PPCM.




                                            51

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis

An economic analysis was carried out based on the appraisal parameters in order to
properly compare ex ante and ex post results. Among those parameters are indicators
(road works characteristics, network traffic data, unit road-user costs, surface quality
index, and vehicle operating costs), economic evaluation parameters and evaluation
period (ten years for rehabilitation works and five years for periodic maintenance works).

Project benefits such as more reliable and safer transport services and the removal of
major constraints to integrate into the regional economic block (NAFTA) were not
considered in the cost-benefit analysis. No economic evaluation was attempted for the
institutional strengthening activities.

At appraisal, SCT assessed each section to be maintained or rehabilitated during the first
year of the project (2001) using road user costs estimated with the HDM-3 Model that
were incorporated into the SISTER for planning purposes and the RED Model for
economic evaluation. The resulting rates of return for the rehabilitation and maintenance
program were greater than the 12% minimum required. The NPV and IRR for each road
are shown in the tables below. The first table refers to the first year rehabilitation
program, and the second to the first year periodic maintenance program.




                                            52

                                                First Year Periodic Maintenance Program
                                                                  Ex-Ante                            Ex-Post
                                                  Length      Cost       NPV       IRR  Length  Cost      NPV    IRR
 Road                                              (km)     (M US$)    (M US$)     (%)  (km)   (M US$)  (M US$)  (%)
 Leon-Aguascalientes (2 Cpos).                     15.8       0.49        2.5     222%  15.2    0.84       4.1  216%
 Mexicali-Tecate *                                 18.0       1.49        3.6     118%
 Mexicali-Tecate *                                  4.0       0.21        0.3      77%
 Lim. Edos. Tab./Camp.-Cescarcega                  30.0       0.63        0.3      40%  30.0    0.80       0.4   36%
 Delicias-Chihuahua (Cpo. B)                       17.0       0.55        1.0      97%  17.0    0.69       1.2   93%
 Saltillo-Monterrey (Cpo. A)                       17.6       0.49        2.6     234%  17.6    1.17       6.4  172%
 Colima-T. Tecoman (Cpo. A)                         4.0       0.17        0.2      64%   4.0    0.34       0.3   54%
 Colima-T. Tecoman (Cpo. A)                         4.5       0.17        0.2      74%   4.5    0.33       0.4   66%
 Colima-T. Tecoman (Cpo. B)                         3.0       0.06        0.2     138%   3.0    0.07       0.2  152%
 Gom. Pa.-Li.Edo.Dgo./Chi.(2 Cps.)                 30.0       1.08        2.6     118%  30.0    0.48       3.8  332%
 Celaya-Salamanca *                                24.0       0.77        8.0     418%
 Queretaro-San Luis Potosi (Cp. B)                 22.0       0.71        2.7     175%  22.0    1.37       4.8  160%
 Acapulco-Zihuatanejo                               5.0       0.26        0.6     114%   8.0    0.84       1.7   70%
 Acapulco-Zihuatanejo                               9.0       0.47        1.1     120%   9.0    1.41       1.7   48%
 Iguala-Chilpancingo                               16.0       0.46        2.1     202%  17.5    1.61       3.3  104%
 Guadalajara-Lim. Edos. Jal./Zac.                  31.0       1.33        0.6      34%  31.0    2.00       1.4   46%
 Toluca-Cd. Altamirano                             31.0       1.60        2.2      75%  30.7    1.41       1.7   68%
 Libramiento Norte De Zamora **                     7.0       0.30        0.4      78%   7.0    2.25       3.3   47%
 Cuernavaca-Lim. Edos. Mor./Gro.                    4.0       0.10        0.3     131%  16.0    0.66       1.2   93%
 Matehuala-Saltillo **                             30.0       1.29        4.2     151%  30.0    2.90      14.4  119%
 Oaxaca-Tehuantepec                                 7.0       0.23        0.2      62%   7.0    0.47       0.4   51%
 Ent. San Hipolito-Tehuacan                        20.0       1.17        6.6     242%  20.0    1.30      13.2  265%
 San Juan Del Rio-Xilitla **                       12.0       0.52        0.2      31%  11.5    3.60       0.0   20%
 Reforma Agraria-Puerto Juarez                      9.0       0.39        0.1      26%   9.0    0.35       0.2   44%
 San Luis Potosi-Ojuelos *                          5.0       0.22        0.1      29%
 Lim. Edos. Chis./Tab.-El Bellote                   9.0       0.28        0.9     152%   9.0    0.45       1.0  108%
 Est. Gonzalez-Ent. Llera De Canales               30.0       0.97        1.6      87%  23.0    1.13       1.3   65%
 Lim. Edos. Mex./Tlax.-Apizaco                     13.0       0.40        2.3     252%  13.0    1.20       3.7  144%
 Cd. Aleman-Sayula                                  9.0       0.75        1.5     104%   9.5    0.89       3.6  118%
 Merida-Puerto Juarez                              69.0       2.23        1.1      36%  69.0    3.26       0.8   25%
 Lim. Edos. Jal./Zac.-Jalpa                        20.0       1.38        0.9      45%  14.0    0.74       1.3   61%
 Total                                            525.9      21.14        51.3    117%  477.5   32.55     75.7   89%
 * Road work not executed
 ** Rehabilitation done instead of periodic maintenance



The average cost of the rehabilitation is US$ 138,000 per km and the average cost of the
periodic maintenance is US$ 59,000 per km. The table below presents a comparison of
the road works unit costs estimated at appraisal in 2001 and the current unit costs in
2005, all costs expressed in 2005 US Dollars, which shows that the unit costs increased
on average by 6 percent, a reasonable increase given the increase during this period of
labor and materials.




At project completion, the condition of the federal highways had improved, especially the
basic network. In 1999, 57% of the network was in good to fair condition, and in 2005
this percentage had increased to 78%. At appraisal, it was estimated that the percentage
of network in good and fair condition in 2004 would be 75%. The following table shows
the federal network length by condition and traffic in 1999 and in 2005.


                                                                  53

The following table shows the 2005 federal network length and its physical conditions for
each state.




                                          54

                      Mexico Federal Network in 2005
                                                            Network Condition
         State                Network Length (km)                 (%)
                     Corridor  Basic    Secondary TOTAL     Good Fair  Bad

AGUASCALIENTES           82.33   115.14     174.56    372.03 55   45      0

BAJA CALIFORNIA        628.26    255.38     554.78  1,438.42 24   59     17

BAJA CALIFORNIA SUR    937.35    133.27     129.24  1,199.86 31   54     15

CAMPECHE               635.19    175.15     436.45  1,246.79 26   58     16

COAHUILA                481.03   594.81     435.70  1,511.54 27   56     17

COLIMA                   48.30   102.60     123.98    274.88 73   27      0

CHIAPAS                497.89  1,191.41     494.86  2,184.16 6    56     38

CHIHUAHUA              304.00    749.83   1,070.59  2,124.42 26   61     13

DISTRITO FEDERAL          0.00    39.38       61.70   101.08 0     0

DURANGO                 283.70    458.30  1,207.60  1,949.60 11   54     35

GUANAJUATO             208.21    181.84     635.55  1,025.60 36   38     26

GUERRERO                  0.00    828.51  1,063.18  1,891.69 15   42     43

HIDALGO                  34.68   276.27     432.06    743.01 20   55     25

JALISCO                145.89    994.86     871.87  2,012.62 19   53     28

MEXICO                   48.65   298.54     420.26    767.45 28   55     17

MICHOACAN               233.45  1,203.70    819.17  2,256.32 8    57     35

MORELOS                  33.00   108.10     116.84    257.94 24   62     14

NAYARIT                 111.46    261.32    383.52    756.30 38   55      7

NUEVO LEON              381.97    523.22    234.90  1,140.09 44   37     19

OAXACA                 511.39    690.83   1,575.25  2,777.47 28   44     28

PUEBLA                 203.82    453.08     388.67  1,045.57 22   57     21

QUERETARO                13.20     42.90    396.00    452.10 42   50      8

QUINTANA ROO            403.00     76.60    320.00    799.60 28   70      2

SAN LUIS POTOSI        660.02     90.26     853.59  1,603.87 23   56     21

SINALOA                341.18    420.22       56.30   817.70 33   61      6

SONORA                  602.58   593.00     496.43  1,692.01 22   61     17

TABASCO                240.69    184.27     175.94    600.90 34   55     11

TAMAULIPAS             759.31    568.80     891.47  2,219.58 20   64     16

TLAXCALA               135.45     92.55     311.14    539.14 36   58      6

VERACRUZ               691.78    722.40     977.33  2,391.51 15   55     30

YUCATAN                 150.37    192.25    915.36  1,257.98 30   57     13

ZACATECAS              224.95    794.54     482.00  1,501.49 35   55     10

Total                10,033.09 13,413.33 17,506.29 40,952.70 24   54     22




                                  55

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/ Supervision Processes

(a)    Task Team Members
         Names                 Title           Unit  Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
                      Lead Highway
Jose Alonso-Biarge    Specialist              LCSTR  Task Team Leader



Robin Carruthers      Lead Transport
                      Economist               MNSSD  Transport Economist

Ivy Cheng             Consultant              EASTE
Alonso Zarzar        Senior Social Scientist  LCSSO  Social specialist
Richard Clifford      Sector Leader           SASEI
Jeffrey Gutman        Sector Manager          LCSTR

Walter Vergara        Lead Chemical                  Environmental
                      Engineer                LCSEN  specialist

Guillermo Unda        Transport Specialist -
                      Consultant              LCSTR

Lea Braslavsky        Lead Procurement
                      Specialist              LCSPT  Procurement

Victor Ordonez        Financial Management    LCSFM  Operations
                      Specialist
Supervision/ICR

                      Lead Highway                   Task Team Leader

Jose Alonso-Biarge    Specialist              LCSTR  2001-2003

                      Consultant                     2003-2005
                                                     ICR primary author

Mauricio Cuellar      Senior Transport        LCSTR  Task Team Leader
                      Specialist                     2003-2007
                      Lead Highway
Rodrigo Archondo-     Engineer- HDM-4         TUDTR  HDM-4 monitoring
Callao                Specialist


Maria E. Castro-Munoz Sr. Social Scientist    LCSSO  Social safeguards
                                                     compliance

Lea Braslavsky        Lead Procurement
                      Specialist              LCSPT  Procurement

Efraim Jimenez        Lead Procurement
                      Specialist              LCSPT  Procurement

Gabriel Penaloza      Procurement Analyst     LCSPT  Operations
Victor Ordonez        Financial Management    LCSFM  Operations
                      Specialist



                                        56

Fatima Galarraga Elias     Language Team               LCSSD      Administration
                           Assistant

Karina M. Kashiwamoto      Language Program
                           Assistant                   LCSSD      Administration

Rosa Maria Hernandez- Extended Term                               Administration
Fernandez                  Temporary                   LCSTR

Benjamin Santa Maria       Consultant                  LCSEG      ICR primary author


(b)    Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
No. Date ISR Archived           IP           DO         Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1         12/21/2000        Satisfactory Satisfactory                               0.00
2         04/25/2001        Satisfactory Satisfactory                               0.00
3         06/26/2001        Satisfactory Satisfactory                               0.00
4         11/27/2001        Satisfactory Satisfactory                               2.18
5         03/04/2002        Satisfactory Satisfactory                              11.10
6         05/28/2002        Satisfactory Satisfactory                              15.64
7         11/27/2002        Satisfactory Satisfactory                              44.59
8         05/28/2003        Satisfactory Satisfactory                              97.42
9         11/26/2003        Satisfactory Satisfactory                             122.96
10        05/28/2004        Satisfactory Satisfactory                             157.48
11        11/30/2004        Satisfactory Satisfactory                             182.88
12        05/02/2005        Satisfactory Satisfactory                             198.30
13        05/15/2006        Satisfactory Satisfactory                             218.00
14        12/10/2006        Satisfactory Satisfactory                             218.00
(c) Staff Time and Cost

                                                Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
            Stage of Project Cycle

                                              USD Thousands (including travel and
              No. of staff weeks                        consultant costs)


Lending
                    FY00                                                       30 138.65
                    FY01                                                       15 106.24
                                        Total:                                 45 244.89
Supervision/ICR
                    FY01                                                        5 39.77
                    FY02                                                       21 93.00
                    FY03                                                       19 84.29



                                            57

FY04               22 71.84
FY05               15 72.08
FY06               18 49.12
FY07               10 62.94
        Total:    110 473,04




            58

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings and Bank and Borrower Performance

           Bank              Ratings            Borrower       Ratings
                            Satisfactory  Government:         Satisfactory
Ensuring Quality at Entry:

                                          Implementing
Quality of Supervision:     Satisfactory                      Satisfactory
                                          Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                              Overall Borrower
                            Satisfactory                      Satisfactory
Performance:                              Performance:




                                         59

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results

Not Applicable




                                    60

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

A two day project workshop on FHMP was held in the city of San Miguel Allende in
2005. With about the same features and participants, a one-day project completion
workshop was held in the city of San Luis Potosi in 2006. In both cases, participants
included SCT directors and heads of centers in the states, contractors, one supervision
representative, and the members of the Bank mission. Assessments by each of the three
participant SCT's centers of the comprehensive maintenance pilot program were
presented, which included advantages and weaknesses of the program implemented. The
main conclusions were the following:

   (i)      the following version of the pilot program should be broader to allow more
            knowledge of comprehensive maintenance;
   (ii)     in future comprehensive maintenance programs, it is advisable to extend the
            contracting term;
   (iii)    should the next stage of comprehensive maintenance be implemented, a trade
            off between periodic and routine maintenance must be accomplished;
   (iv)     based on technical, economic and statistic criterion, annual plans and monthly
            programming should be formulated and reflected in the invitations to tender
            for contracting works;
   (v)      on future programs, it should be advisable to rule out sub-contracting;
   (vi)     an alternative form of bidding different from unit prices, and based on
            performance standards, should be also tested;
   (vii)    technical specifications and implementation rules for comprehensive
            maintenance should be prepared; and
   (viii) design and implementation of a global management system for comprehensive
            maintenance in SCT.

Finally, on November 23, a one-day project completion workshop was held at Bank
Office in Mexico City. Participants included representatives from the Borrower (SHCP,
Banobras) and the executing agency (SCT directors and heads of centers in the states
involved in the FHMP), and the members of the Bank mission.

This workshop organized as a round-table was an opportunity to discuss and elaborate on
events that modified effectiveness and completion dates, relevant changes/over-
runs/reallocation of funds among components during project implementation, project
results relative to project objectives, a comparative ex ante and ex post economic
evaluation and the reason of differences, the final value of PDO and intermediate
outcome indicators, project sustainability and lessons learned (both project specific and
of wide general application). The overall conclusion was that given its results and the
quality of the outcomes this project should be rated as Satisfactory by the Bank.




                                            61

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
                                   (Original in Spanish)

The Loan's disbursement process started in 2001, allowing for investment in road
maintenance and therefore avoiding the accelerated deterioration of the network. As
compared to the PAD, as of December 31, 2005, physical project outputs were as
follows:    Component (1) 251%, PROPIMI 178%; reconstruction 52%; and bridge
rehabilitation 45%.

The implementation of HDM-4 Model for road maintenance and rehabilitation planning
was, together with the PROPIMI, the innovative feature introduced by the project in
Mexico. The HDM-4 will allow for the preparation of the 2008 HMP, with the help of a
state-of-the-art technology and software, based on the following information. IRI
measurements carried out in late 2006; highway condition inventory, annually assessed
by the SCT centers in the States; and traffic data and deflection results of late 2006.
The contracting process of the PROPIMI faced some problems due to the lack of
expertise in this type of contract in the local construction industry. At the request of the
SCT and contractor associations, the participation of local contractors in the tendering
process was allowed introducing in the bidding documents the condition for the
inexperienced firms in comprehensive maintenance to include in their teams experts in
this type of contracts. Another substantial change in the program was the replacement of
the initial roads in the program by the corridor Querétaro-San Luis, which required an
amendment to the project legal documents, clearance of which by the local institution
took more time than expected. Finally, the directors of the SCT Centers concerned
substantially expanded the scope of the reconstruction works in the program to the point
that the final total cost of the program was tripled. Nevertheless the PROPIMI was a
successful experience rated as Satisfactory. The SCT Centers support the implementation
of further programs of this type and the road users showed great satisfaction with the
results. For future programs, the SCT recommends to reduce the reconstruction works
subcomponent of the program and increase maintenance and rehabilitation. Another
recommendation is that the bidding documents be prepared during project preparation
and discussed and agreed at negotiations.

It was not possible to make performance securities effective in the case of 10 contracts.
To restrain the participation of contractors with low economic capacity, in future
operations it is necessary to request other type of bond guaranties that can be made
immediately effective.

The investments estimated in the 2001-2005 HMP (including works not funded with
Loan resources) amounted 23,807.1 million of Mexican pesos, equivalent to 2,324.6
million of dollars. The Bank covered only a 9.4 percent of this program.

The total project cost financed by the Bank experienced in increase of 7.8%, basically


                                             62

due to the cost of the three PROPIMI contracts. In terms of Bank's share, the project goal
was reached taking into account the last reallocation cleared. In general, the project was
suitably implemented, despite the delays caused by the gap between the PROPIMI
implementation schedule and the disbursement requests.

There were some delays in processing no objections of studies and consulting services,
mainly due to cumbersome internal procedures and the delays in preparing the
corresponding terms of reference, which resulted in less project funds finally allocated to
implement them.

SCT also advises for future operations to strengthen the mechanisms and procedures to
speed up payments to beneficiaries, particularly advance payments, and to timely transfer
to TESOFE all reimbursements according to the pari passu agreed with the Federal
Government.

Procurement thresholds agreed were accomplished. With respect to works under ICB, it
is worth noting SCT's commitment to accomplish all thresholds set forth, despite the fact
that most of the civil works tendered amounted less than the US$ 10 million threshold
(except for the PROPIMI contracts). This allowed the Project to fulfill the total amount of
contracts tendered under ICB procedures agreed at negotiations.

The SCT recommends that the Bank allocates more resources to supervision in future
projects to allow for more and longer supervision missions, as well as to appoint as TTL
a specialist in the project components.

The ex post economic evaluation of projects included in PAD was undertaken with the
HDM, with results similar to the ones in the ex-ante analysis demonstrating that the
subprojects implemented continue being profitable from an economic standpoint.




                                           63

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable.




                                    64

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

ICR of Loan 3628-ME Highway Rehabilitation and Safety Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Minutes of Negotiations
Loan Agreement
Guarantee Agreement
Amendments to Legal Documents
Aide-Memoires
Project Status Reports from SAP'
Ex post Procurement Review (2006)
ICR from SCT ­ February 2007 (Evaluación ex post del Crédito 7042-ME, Proyecto de
Mantenimiento de Carreteras Federales)
"Analysis of Highway Decentralization Models for the Development of a Decentralization
Strategy in Mexico"
"Análisis de la situación de las autopistas de cuota en México y recomendaciones para
su fortalecimiento, Febrero 2001"
"Aspectos Administrativos, Técnicos, Operativos y Comerciales de las Autopistas de Cuota en
México bajo Jurisdicción Federal"
"Strategic Planning for the National Motorway System"
Evaluación Ex Post del Crédito 7042-ME "Proyecto de Mantenimiento de Carreteras
Federales"




                                            65

Annex 13. Expost Evaluation from SCT




                                        66

67

68

69

70

71

72

73

74

75

76

77

78

79

80

81

82

83

84

85

86

87

88

89

90

91

92

93

