Report No. PID11624
Project Name                     KENYA-Free Primary Education Support Project
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Primary education (100%)
Project ID                       P082378
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF KENYA
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Ministry of Education, Science & Technology (MOEST)
Address: Jogoo House "B", Harambee Avenue
P.O Box 30040, Nairobi, Kenya
Contact Person: Mrs. Naomy Wangai,
Director of Education & Mr. Karega
Mutahi, Ph.D., Permanent Secretary
Tel: 254-2-240-089
Fax: 254-2-214-287
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                March 12, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date              April 24, 2003
Bank Approval Date               June 19, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
In the education sector, a great deal of analytical work has been done in
recent years, and the Bank is now in the process of updating its sectoral
knowledge. In general, however, the greatest challenge facing Kenya is to
reverse the erosion of education gains of the first two decades of
independence, which saw steady progress towards equal education
opportunities. Primary school and secondary school gross enrollment rates
dropped significantly through the 1990s, largely due to the increasing
costs of education to parents (and as evidenced by the very substantial
increase in enrollments with the latest policy change to abolish primary
school fees). In Year 2003, the primary school enrolment estimate of the
Ministry of Education, Science and Technology (MOEST) was 6.5 million
pupils (in 18,000 primary schools), although other estimates suggest a
total figure then of about 5.8 million. The average school size was 370
students, and the largest primary school had about 1,600 students. But
with the free primary education policy of the new Government, enrolments
vastly increased in January 2003, and the total is now likely to be about
7.5 million pupils (and a gross enrollment of about 115 percent). There
are many issues that the Government needs to address in order for the
Government to achieve its stated education goals of universal primary
education, education for all (EFA), improved equity, relevance and quality
of education, and adult education in the context of life-long education.
In particular, the Government must address and resolve the cost
constraints and financing arrangements which have led to the deterioration
of education at all levels. In addition to addressing the household cost
burden of financing education inputs, it needs also to adopt policies and
strategies to address the government's high percentage of expenditure on



personal emoluments at the expense of other education services, and raise
the internal efficiency of the schooling system. Necessary measures
include: reducing the unit costs of education ($60 per pupil at the
primary level in Year 2002); increasing public expenditures on non-salary
costs of education such as textbooks and other learning materials;
implementing the revised curriculum to allow more time on task for core
subjects and to help reduce the costs of education; preparing and adopting
an action plan for the training, redeployment, hiring and upgrading of
teachers; revising the Education Act and regulations to decentralize
decision making to district and school level administrators, and to
parents' representatives; and including education expenditures more
systematically in the processes of Public Expenditure Review and Medium
Term Expenditure Framework. There is now an enormous demand from parents
for education for their children, but there are serious doubts about the
country's attainment of the Millennium Development Goals in this sector
unless the new policies are adopted to reverse the deterioration of recent
years.
The new Government has now started to implement some major reforms in the
education sector. In particular, it has introduced "free" primary
education (although some of the details, such as payment for exam fees and
the recognition of some non-formal schools, are still to be clarified).
This has resulted in the major jump in enrollment numbers for the first
school term of Year 2003, as it is clear that the previous costs being
charged to parents were the biggest constraint on many children attending
school. Significant changes have started to be made in the curriculum:
the number of primary subjects has already been reduced and further
curriculum changes will be introduced in all of the primary school
standards (1-8) over next four years. The pupil-teacher ratio has been
increased substantially (from about 32/1 to probably about 40/1), and the
Government has agreed to having multi-grade teachers in some schools. As
part of a move towards increased decentralization, the selection of
teachers for primary schools has now been moved down to the district
level, and for teachers in secondary schools to the school level. All of
these policy changes are consistent with the advice of the Bank. Further
policy changes are also now being considered by a Task Force created for
this purpose by the Government.
Until recently public spending on the provision of textbooks and
instructional materials was limited to a small number of primary schools.
The available public and donor funds were targeted to the schools in Arid
and Semi-Arid Lands (ASAL) areas, as well as schools located in areas
believed to have particularly high levels of poverty. The rest of the
schools have had to rely on parental and community contributions. But
because of the high costs involved, many households failed to purchase
adequate numbers of books for their children, with the result that there
were (and still are) many instances of unacceptably low book-pupils
ratios. Many children were also excluded from school due to their
inability to buy books. However, over the last three years, there has
been a program of major reforms in the textbook procurement and
distribution systems. This has been done with support from the
Netherlands Government and then especially from the United Kingdoms'
Department For International Development (DFID), and school grants
procedures have now been established throughout nearly all of the country
so that funds flow directly to the school level (with management by head
-2 -



teachers in conjunction with School Committees: SCs). There is an
external audit of the DFID-supported program, and a Schools Audit Unit has
also been established in the MOEST. Some dedicated funding for
instructional materials is now being made available by the MOEST both to
match the DFID funding and also to initiate the new Government's policy of
free primary education, but the amounts are very modest due to the
national budget constraints.
2. Objectives
The project development objective is to ensure that the quality of primary
education is not undermined by a lack of textbooks, and to plan for a more
comprehensive program of support to the education sector in the future.
The project would support the Government's new policy of free primary
education; and it would also assist the country to move towards the
Millennium Development Goal of having all children throughout Kenya able
to complete a full course of primary schooling by Year 2015.
A new Government was democratically elected in Kenya on 27th December,
2002. This presents an exciting new opportunity for the Bank group to
resume and strengthen its program of support to the country, as the new
Government is quickly moving forward to address governance problems and
corruption, and to strengthen poverty reduction efforts. One of the
Government's highest priorities is education, and some bold policy changes
are now being introduced. In particular, the Government needs urgent
support to enable it to deliver on its commitment to free primary
education. The proposed project is intended to provide an initial phase
of support to the Government to assist it as quickly as possible to deal
with the immediate challenge created by the new policy environment and
particularly the abolition of primary school fees. It would also assist
the Government to plan for a further round of external assistance in the
education sector.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
IDA is uniquely positioned to sustain dialogue on complex policy and
institutional changes in the education sector in Kenya. IDA has supported
the education sector over many years, and is very familiar with the sector
(though some of the knowledge now needs to be updated, especially due to
the delay in going forward with the STEPS project). The Bank will
continue to have a special potential role in the education sector in Kenya
because no other donor agency is available to provide either the technical
or financial resources to support sector wide development and reform. The
Bank also brings the experience of supporting education reforms in other
countries in the region. Despite the existence of a limited number of
donors supporting the education sector, the Bank will continue to assist
in the coordination of activities under the proposed project with donors
so that the effects of investment are sustainable. In particular, the
Bank will work closely with DFID and UNICEF, as well as other agencies
that have expressed interest in possibly supporting the sector (such as
the European Union and the Government of Norway. The World Bank task team
is also working with country team colleagues on the PER, the CAS and the
JSA of the PRSP to ensure consistency of message and complementarity of
analytical effort.
4. Description
The proposed project of $54.5 million (equivalent to about 15 percent of
-3 -



the total public budget for primary education in the country) would have
two components.
Component 1 - Textbooks ($50 million)
The bulk of project funds would be used for the scaling-up of the recently
evaluated Government/DFID textbook program, using school grants (at say
K.Sh.500 or $8/child), the existing procurement system which is considered
to be competitive, and the existing financial management system (with
independent auditors). Under this approach, financing is made available
on the basis of per capita textbook grants to schools. The school
principals and SCs are allowed to select the textbooks needed from the
approved list of textbooks, subject to the funds in the school account.
The project would therefore support the provision of textbooks to all
primary schools by financing an expanded unified national system of
instructional materials. The project would cover textbooks for both the
old curriculum subjects, as well as the new ones as they are introduced
(see below). The project would also build upon the past support of IDA
and DFID to the Kenyan Institute of Education (KIE) for the development of
an objective and transparent system of textbook evaluation, vetting, and
approval.
Phasing of the Introduction of the New Curriculum
Component 2 - Strengthening Planning and Management Capacity (US$$5
million).
In addition, there will be a second, smaller component (about $4.5
million) to support activities for the carrying out of the project
efficiently (training, monitoring, beneficiary assessments and external
audit etc), for policy work, and for the preparation of a new project
(scheduled for FY04). Weak management and planning capacity at the
central, local, and school levels is one of the main causes of poor
implementation of education reforms and delivery of education services.
The proposed technical assistance and training would support the
development of the proposed further phase of the education reform program
for external funding, as well as provide assistance with the costing and
expenditure planning work. This component will also include support for
project management and evaluation.
1. Textbooks. Sector: Primary Education
2. Strengthening Planing and Management Capacity. Subcomponents.
Sector: System Reform and Capacity Building, and Institutional Development.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT $0.00
IBRD
IDA
IDA GRANT FOR POOREST COUNTRY $54.50
Total Project Cost $54.50
6. Implementation
Implementation period. Implementation of the project will be two years.
- 4 -



However, the disbursement of the funds will be front-loaded, as it is
expected that the textbooks will all be procured within 3-4 months of
project effectiveness. This fast rate of disbursement is critically
important as the books are urgently needed in the primary schools.
Organization Responsible for Project Implementation. The MOEST would be
responsible for implementing the project on behalf of the Government of
Kenya.   This would be done through the MOEST units and institutions at
headquarters, district, and school levels.
Project Management and Staffing. The textbook project component would be
implemented by the Textbook Management Unit (TMU), in line with the
existing arrangements for the ongoing textbook program. At the school
level, head teachers and their SCs would be responsible for school-based
procurement of textbooks and accounting of funds. The capacity building
component of the project would come under the direct responsibility of the
Director of Education in the MOEST. A Project Steering Committee (PSC)
comprising of heads of relevant departments and institutions implementing
the project would be established during the design phase of the project
and would be chaired by the Permanent Secretary. The PSC would oversee
project implementation and coordination and provide policy guidance.
7. Sustainability
The sustainability of the textbook program will ultimately depend upon the
Government's commitment to utilize its financial resources more
efficiently and continue to meet the costs of a textbook provision for
disadvantaged pupils. It is hoped that over the coming years, the MOEST
will continue to increase the share of financial resources to the primary
sub-sector for the purchase of textbooks. However, this will require a
review of public spending on education, a process which is being supported
through the ongoing PER. The project will also assist in strengthening
the planning activities in the MOEST, including for donor inputs to
education development. Even though the Government has announced its
policy of "free" primary education, it is recognized that communities will
continue to provide some of the non-salary expenditures for primary
education. However, the project activities are designed to reduce the
amount of community spending on basic education resources, and this will
impact positively especially for the poor. The policy framework for the
primary education sector will be described in the Letter of Education
Sector Policy.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Sector & Themes                   KM
(a) Country Lessons.
The May 1998 OED Country Assistance Note concluded that World Bank
assistance to Kenya had not been effective in promoting reforms.
According to OED audits of adjustment loans, overestimation by the Bank of
what the Government was willing to do was a major issue; the Bank's
conditions for tranche release were also faulted for being over ambitious,
and vague. Given weak compliance with Bank conditionality, and the poor
governance situation, the note recommended limiting lending to small
poverty targeted interventions and shifting focus towards non-lending
activities. However, the Bank's portfolio in Kenya has continued to
- 5-



perform poorly. Since October 1997, OED has rated 14 projects, and of
these only one was rated as having a satisfactory outcome with likely
sustainability and substantial institutional development impact. An
internal review of the Kenya portfolio conducted in mid-1999 led to
proactive management of the portfolio. But systemic problems still remain
relating to overall public expenditure management and to the timely flow
of funds to projects in execution. These problems are likely to be
magnified in fast-track and emergency projects because of attempts to
design quickly. To mitigate the risks, the main OED recommendation is to
strengthen monitoring and evaluation activities. It is also recommended
that at least one indicator should reflect beneficiary satisfaction and
should involve a wide range of stakeholders.
(b) Sector Lessons.
International experience in educational development, as well as the Bank's
experience in Kenya, suggest a number of important lessons for project
design and implementation. These include (i) the critical role of strong
local ownership and inclusive participation; (ii) the importance of
sectoral understanding, detailed analytical work and a well-defined
program; and (iii) the need to pay close attention to sustainability
issues (with projects being well integrated into the mainstream of the
Ministry). Crucially, the textbook component of the project (accounting
for about 90 percent of the costs) is built completely upon the ongoing
Government/DFID textbook reform program, and the design of the component
would be built upon the findings of a series of annual evaluations.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues
This is proposed to be a Category C Project. The project will have no
adverse impact on the environment as there will be no construction
activities. It comprises technical assistance and procurement of goods
and services.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Michael Mills
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 44-1780-740-410
Fax: 44-1780-740-410
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
- 6 -



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 21, 2003.
- 7 -



