                                Document of
                              The World Bank




                                                  Report No: ICR0000550




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                               (IDA-H0500)




                                  ON A

                                 CREDIT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 36.7 MILLION
                       (US$55 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                 TO THE

                           REPUBLIC OF KENYA

                                  FOR A

                FREE PRIMARY EDUCATION SUPPORT PROJECT




                             December 20, 2007




Human Development 1
Eastern Africa 2
Africa Region

                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
            (Exchange Rate Effective December 2007)

                  Currency Unit = Kenya Shilling
                           Ksh 60 = US$1

                          FISCAL YEAR
                          July 1 - June 30

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ALRMP    : Arid Lands Resource Management Project
ASALs      Arid and Semi-Arid Lands
CAS      : Country Assistance Strategy
DEO      : District Education Officer
DIR      : Detailed Implementation Review
ECD      : Early Childhood Development
EMIS     : Education Management Information Systems
FM       : Financial Management
FMR      : Financial Monitoring Report
FPE      : Free Primary Education
FPESP    : Free Primary Education Support Project
GER      : Gross Enrolment Rates
HT       : Head Teachers
ICR      : Implementation Completion Report
IM       : Intructional Materials
IMP      : Instructional Materials Programme
INSET    : In-service Teacher Training
INT      : Department of Institutional Integrity
KCPE     : Kenya Certificate Primary Education
KESSP    : Kenya Education Sector Support Project
KRT      : Key Resource Teachers
MEO      : Ministry Education Officer
MOE      : Ministry of Education
MoEST    : Ministry of Education, Science and Technology
MOU      : Memorandum of Understanding
NFE      : Non-Formal Education
PAD      : Project Appraisal Document
PDE      : Provincial Director of Education
PDO      : Project Development Objective
PETS     : Public Expenditure Tracking Survey
PIU      : Project Implementation Unit
QAG      : Quality Assurance Group

SbTD         :   School-based Teacher Development
SIMBA        :   School Instructional Materials Bank Account
SIMSC        :   School Instructional Materials Steering Committee
SPRED        :   Strengthening Primary Education
STEPS        :   Strengthening Primary and Secondary Education
TA           :   Technical Assistance
WBI          :   World Bank Institute




           Vice President: Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
         Country Director: Colin Bruce
          Sector Manager: Christopher Walker
      Project Team Leader: Michael Mills
        ICR Team Leader: Shobhana Sosale
      ICR Primary Author: Robert Hawkins

                                                KENYA
                         Free Primary Education Support Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 10
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 17
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 18
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 20
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 20
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 24
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 25
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 32
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 38
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 40
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 41
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 42
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 49
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 54
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                     Free Primary Education
Country:                Kenya                  Project Name:
                                                                     Support Project
Project ID:             P082378                L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-H0500
ICR Date:               12/28/2007             ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                     GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                    Borrower:
                                                                     KENYA
Original Total
                        XDR 36.7M              Disbursed Amount:     XDR 36.6M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Education (MOE)
Ministry of Education
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:                       Effectiveness:       07/18/2003         07/18/2003
Appraisal:             04/22/2003     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/19/2003     Mid-term Review:                        09/16/2004
                                      Closing:             12/31/2006         06/30/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Highly Satisfactory    Government:           Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory           Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:      Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory           Performance:          Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators           (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                 Quality at Entry
                                                                    None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          No                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Primary education                                             100               100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Education for all                                             Primary          Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili       Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:         Colin Bruce                      Makhtar Diop
Sector Manager:           Christopher D. Walker            Dzingai B. Mutumbuka
Project Team Leader:      Michael Mills                    Michael Mills
ICR Team Leader:          Shobhana Sosale
ICR Primary Author:      Robert J. Hawkins



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Development objective: to improve pupil performance and retention through ensuring an
adequate supply and better use of instructional materials.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
N/A




                                             ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value            Values (from        Revised         Achieved at
                                                 approval         Target        Completion or
                                               documents)         Values         Target Years
               An increase by June 2006 in the proportion of children reaching desired
Indicator 1 :  standards of achievement (in English, Kiswahili, Math,and Science, in standards
               2, 4 and 6), disaggregated by gender etc.
                                           An increase by
                                           June 2006 in the                   Survey on Learning

                                           proportion of                      Achievement

                                           children reaching                  indicates overall
                                                                              mean score: Std 2:
Value                                      desired standards                  Boys 59.36; Girls
quantitative orNo baseline data availableof achievement (in                   61.78; Combined
Qualitative)   at begining of the Project. English, Kiswahili,
                                           Math,and Science,                  60.49 Std 4: Boys

                                           in standards 2, 4                  48.73; Girls 48.9;

                                           and 6),                            Comb. 48.81 Std 6:

                                           disagregated by                    Boys 48.62; Girls

                                           gender etc.                        48.4; Comb. 48.51.

Date achieved 09/30/2003                   06/30/2006                         06/15/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
               An increase in the proportion of local school management committees, and
Indicator 2 :  parents and children, rating their school as satisfactory or above for the learning
               process by June 2006.
                                           An increase in the
                                           proportion of local                The recent survey

                                           school                             shown satisfactory

                                           management                         ratings by:
                                                                              Management
Value                                      committees, and                    Committees --
quantitative orNo baseline data availableparents and                          89.7% Parents --
Qualitative)   at begining of the project. children, rating
                                           their school as                    89.5% Children --

                                           satisfactory or                    Overall 68.7%,

                                           above for the                      90.8% satisfied

                                           learning process                   with textbooks.

                                           by June 2006.                      Teachers -- 81.2%.

Date achieved 09/30/2003                   06/30/2006                         06/15/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :  A reduction in drop-out rates at all standards by June 2006.

Value          4.9% in 1999 (Boys:         A reduction in                     2.0% in 2003

quantitative or5.0%; Girls: 4.8%)          drop-out rates at                  (Boys: 2.1%; Girls:

Qualitative)                               all standards by                   2.0%) Source: The
               Source: The Education       June 2006.                         Education Statistics



                                                 iii

               Statistics Section, MoEST                                    Section, MoE
Date achieved 09/30/2003                   06/30/2006                       06/15/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value            Values (from                      Achieved at
                                                approval          Revised      Completion or
                                               documents)     Target Values     Target Years

Indicator 1 :  Schoolchildren in standards 1-8 have access to the instructional materials for all
               core subjects at the agree sharing rate.

               pupil:book ratios in                                         Sharing rates
                                                                            improved in 90% of
Value          Maths, English &                                             schools in the
(quantitative  Kiswahili ranged:           At least 80%.                    country with an
or Qualitative)Standard 1 (1:5 to 1:40);
               Standard 5 (1:4 to 1:25;                                     average pupil to

               Standard 8: (1:3 to 1:34).                                   textbook ratio of
                                                                            3:1.
Date achieved 03/31/2003                   12/31/2006                       06/15/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
               72,000 key resource teachers(KRTs) in English, Mathematics, Kiswahili &
Indicator 2 :  Science complete new distance learning modules in FPE challenges & use of
               textbooks.

Value                                      72,000 KRTs                      Training is ongoing

(quantitative                              trained and                      with 69,000

or Qualitative)                            motivated to teach               teachers trained in
                                           and manage well.                 SbTD.
Date achieved                              12/31/2006                       06/15/2007

Comments       As of the ICR mission around 22,000 teachers or 61% of the target teachers had

(incl. %       received their certificate for completion of the 9 month course.

achievement)   The project also supported the training of 18,000 head teachers in school
               management.
               School management committees (SMCs) playing effective role in school
Indicator 3 :  development, and are confident that school finances for all purposes are being
               managed effectively.
                                                                            Over 83% of school
                                                                            management
Value                                                                       committees meet to
(quantitative                              80%                              discuss their
or Qualitative)                                                             budgets and
                                                                            minutes are
                                                                            recorded.
Date achieved                              12/31/2006                       06/15/2007
Comments


                                                iv

(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 4 :  Education Management Information System implemented at district and HQ
               level.
                                        Effective                           Needs assessment
Value                                   utilization of                      and design
(quantitative                           Education                           completed.
or Qualitative)                         Management
                                        Information                         Procurement of

                                        System (EMIS).                      goods underway.

Date achieved                           12/31/2006                          06/15/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
               72,000 key resource teachers(KRTs) in English, Mathematics, Kiswahili &
Indicator 5 :  Science complete new distance learning modules in FPE challenges & use of
               textbooks.

Value                                   72,000 KRTs

(quantitative                           trained and

or Qualitative)                         motivated to teach
                                        and manage well.
Date achieved                           12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
               School management committees (SMCs) playing effective role in school
Indicator 6 :  development, and are confident that school finances for all purposes are being
               managed effectively.
Value
(quantitative                           80%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                           12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 7 :  Education Management Information System implemented at district and HQ
               level.
                                        Effective

Value                                   utilization of

(quantitative                           Education

or Qualitative)                         Management
                                        Information
                                        System (EMIS).
Date achieved                           12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                              v

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                            Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO                 IP         Disbursements
                                                         (USD millions)
  1   07/31/2003        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           28.88
  2   02/04/2004        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           29.09
  3   06/08/2004        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           29.09
  4   11/16/2004        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           45.74
  5   03/29/2005        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           45.74
  6   11/29/2005        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           46.87
  7   06/20/2006        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           52.28
  8   01/31/2007        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           52.28
  9   07/31/2007        Satisfactory      Satisfactory           52.28



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                      vi

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The Country Assistance Strategy at the time of project inception stressed the need for Kenyan
designed and owned approaches to reform and the importance of broad based participation. The
election of the new Kenyan government in December 2002 and its focus on governance,
corruption, and poverty provided an important impetus for the Bank to re-engage in a number of
sectors including education. The election created a unique and urgent window for the Bank to
respond to Kenya's request to support its social and economic challenges. The new government
immediately introduced its Free Primary Education (FPE) policy in January, 2003 which
abolished primary school fees and levies charged to parents.

In education, throughout the 1990's primary and secondary schools gross enrollment rates (GER)
both dropped significantly largely due to the increasing costs of education to parents and due to
slow economic growth. By 2000 the primary school GER had dropped to an estimated 88 percent.
As a result of the FPE policy the primary education system experienced an increase of 1.2 million
students from 2002 increasing the total primary school enrollment to 7.2 million pupils (with a
GER at 104 percent). There were about 17,750 primary schools in the country with an average
school size of about 370 students in 2002. With FPE, the average school size increased to 400
students.

There were many issues that Government needed to address to achieve the stated goals of FPE ­
namely reducing the unit costs of education; increasing expenditure on non-salary costs such as
textbooks and other learning materials; implementing the revised curriculum to allow more time
on task; preparing and adopting an action plan for the training, redeployment, hiring, and
upgrading of teachers; and revising the Education Act and regulations to decentralize decision
making to the district and school level administrators. One of the major reforms focused on
instructional materials and textbooks. Before the reform, schools had to rely on parental and
community contributions to purchase textbooks resulting in inadequate numbers of books due to
high costs, high pupil to book ratios, and children being excluded from schools due to inability to
purchase the books. The reform, initially supported by the Dutch and DFID, incorporated the
following policy changes: textbook preparation and publication were liberalized; the principle of
shared use of the textbooks was accepted; approved lists of textbooks were made available; and
there was full financial decentralization of textbook procurement to school communities.
Moreover, Government and DFID funds were transferred directly to schools via the commercial
banking system where schools committees comprising teachers and parents select books from a
pre-approved list and purchase the textbooks locally using a transparent tendering process.

The focus of the Bank project therefore was planned to be relatively narrow in scope with support
to scaling up the financing of instructional materials as well as some capacity building and
monitoring and evaluation activities. The decision to focus on instructional materials was made
for a number of reasons: the provision of textbooks would have a direct impact on learning in the
schools; the project would defray the costs of education to parents; the support could be designed
and implemented relatively quickly as it would build on the existing successful program; and
finally it would provide additional momentum to the introduction of the new curriculum.
Capacity building would then complement the provision of textbooks with in-service teacher
training; minimize fiduciary risks through financial management training; and support the
sustainability of the venture through design of a follow-up project.



                                                 1

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

The original development objective was: to improve pupil performance and retention through
ensuring an adequate supply and better use of instructional materials. Detailed objectives and
outcome/output indicators are provided in the table below:

                      Table 1. Project Objectives and Outcome/Output Indicators

 Objective                                  Outcome/Output Indicator

 DO 1: Improve Pupil performance and        1.1 Increase by June 2006 in proportion of children reaching desired
 retention through ensuring an adequate     standards of achievement (in English, Kiswahili, Math and Science
 supply and better use of instructional     in standards 2,4, and 6), disaggregated by province, gender,
 materials.                                 urban/rural and intra-rural.

                                            1.2 Increase in proportion of local school management committees
                                            and parents and children rating their school as satisfactory or above
                                            for the learning process by June 2006.

                                            1.3 Reduction in drop out rates at all standards by June 2006.

                                            1.4 Completion of a plan for a follow-up project using studies and
                                            training provided.
 DO 2: Improved provision and utilization   2.1 Improved availability of instructional materials against
 of instructional materials by school       minimum standards of provision.
 children and teachers.

                                            2.2 At least 80% of schoolchildren in standards 1-8 have access to
                                            the instructional materials for all core subjects at the agreed sharing
                                            rate.
 DO 3: Capacity Building: effective         3.1 At least 80% of teachers use the new instructional materials
 teaching and learning in schools.          according to the standards set out in the School Inspectors
                                            Handbook.
                                            3.2 72,000 key resource teachers in English, Math, Kiswahili and
                                            Science complete new distance learning modules in FPE challenges
                                            and use of textbooks.
                                            3.3 17,500 nominated guidance and counseling teachers trained to
                                            provide services to pupils with special needs.
                                            3.4 17,500 head teachers trained in quality assurance and
                                            supervision.
                                            3.5 Cluster meetings of key resource teachers and key resource head
                                            teachers taking place at least three times per year.
                                            3.6 80% of school management committees playing effective role in
                                            whole school development.


                                            3.7 Action plans have been agreed for a revised system of school
                                            inspection, teacher development and support.



 DO 4: Capacity Building: improved          4.1 80% of school management committees are confident that
 accounting system implemented in           school finances for all purposes are being managed effectively.
 primary schools.




                                                   2

 Objective                                 Outcome/Output Indicator

                                           4.2 80% of schools producing accurate and timely year-end
                                           financial statements.


                                           4.3 2,000 replacement head teachers trained in financial
                                           management.
 DO 5: Capacity Building: EMIS at          5.1 Relevant information for planning and management is provided
 district and HQ.                          to decision makers on a regular basis.


 DO 6: Capacity Building: STEPS            6.1 Detailed design work has been finished for the planned follow-
 preparation completed.                    up project to strengthen the primary and secondary education
                                           sectors.


 DO 7: Monitoring and Evaluation:           7.1 M&E reports completed.
 implementation of monitoring, evaluation
 and auditing activities.


1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

N/A

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

The entire population of primary school children were the main beneficiaries of the project as the
focus was on all primary schools in the country. The capacity building elements of the project
also targeted teachers, school administrators, and Ministry of Education officials at all levels of
the system as additional beneficiaries.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

Component 1: Instructional Materials (US$46.5 million). The component was designed to
support the provision of textbooks and stationary to all primary schools in the country by
financing the expansion of the national program for the provision of instructional material. The
support was to finance school grants by using the existing competitive procurement systems and
financial management systems.

Component 2: Capacity Building (US$7.5 million). The capacity building component had
four sub-components: (i) school-based teacher development and support; (ii) school accounting
system; (iii) education management information system; and (iv) system design and program
preparation. The following is a brief description of each sub-component:

(i) School-based Teacher Development and Support (US$1.9 million):                The objectives for
capacity building were to ensure that: (a) teachers are able to use textbooks and other
instructional materials effectively; (b) teachers are able to deal with challenges of the FPE
program and special needs of pupils; (c) head teachers are able to perform their quality assurance
role; and (d) schools are able to provide effective guidance and counseling.




                                                  3

(ii) School Accounting System (US$1 million):            The objective was to provide financial
management training to head teachers and school management committees so that all funds
disbursed were properly accounted for and used for their intended purposes.

(iii) Education Management Information System (US$2.5 million): The objective of this sub-
component was to complete the design of an EMIS and initiate implementation of a new system
to address the paucity of data on the characteristics and operational efficiency of the education
system.

(iv) System Design and Program Preparation (US$2.1 million): The sub-component was to
support the deeper understanding of selected technical issues; develop strategies for increasing
access and improving quality; strengthen management capacity; and to help develop future sub-
sector programs.

Component 3: Monitoring and Evaluation (US$1.0 million).              The component was to focus
on monitoring key performance indicators at the outcome and output levels; undertake an
evaluation at the end of the project and conduct annual audits throughout the life of the project.

1.6 Revised Components

Component 2: Capacity Building ­ Special Program for Disadvantaged Groups. An
additional program for both arid lands and non-formal education was introduced within the
capacity building component. The grants to Arid and Semi-Arid Lands (ASALs) were provided
to support the construction of schools in 15 districts through a formal collaboration with the Arid
Lands Resource Management Project (ALRMP) and an MOU between the President's Office and
the Ministry of Education. The grants for non-formal education were designed to assist slum
schools in Nairobi to participate in the decentralized textbook procurement scheme.

1.7 Other significant changes

N/A

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

When the new government in 2002 requested Bank support in the Education sector, the Bank
responded extremely rapidly in preparing the project. The project was appraised in February
2003, went to the Board in June 2003 and became effective in July. This 6 month response time
was greatly appreciated by the client and reflected the speed with which the Bank can produce a
quality product with the appropriate internal management support and sense of urgency. The
Bank was able to respond quickly for a number of reasons. First, the project was very focused.
Instead of addressing all issues at once, the team remained extremely disciplined and identified
only three components, one of which accounted for 80% of the project funds ­ the instructional
materials component. Next, the project leveraged existing government systems. Procurement of
textbooks, for instance, was built upon a very successful DFID supported SPRED 3 project which
distributed grants directly to schools for textbook and instructional material purchases. Finally,
the project did not attempt to set up a separate project implementation unit but rather built upon
the knowledge and expertise already existing in the Ministry of Education (MoE).




                                                  4

As noted earlier, the design of the project responded directly to two key CAS issues ­ the need
for Kenyan designed and owned approaches to reform and the imperative to have broad based
participation to ensure positive impact. By building upon existing MoE policies and practices,
the project immediately gained strong ownership within the Ministry. Moreover, the project
deepened the Government's key policy of decentralized education management. By scaling up an
existing practice of decentralized procurement of textbooks, the project deepened the CAS
objective of broad based participation by expanding the number of schools impacted through the
project from an initial small sample to every primary school in the country. Broad based
participation was also strengthened by expanding the number of school selection committees
composed of parents.

The preparation phase adequately addressed the risks associated with the project. The perceived
risks for the project at the preparation stage to a large extent dictated its design. The greatest risk
at project design was the large increase of school managed resources and the possibilities for
mismanagement in a country where governance had been a concern to donors. To mitigate this
risk, the project supported a number of systems to ensure proper use of funds such as electronic
transfer of funds to school bank accounts, pre-selected books and prices in an "orange book", and
the establishment of school committees with principles of transparency in posting bank account
information for instance. Moreover, the capacity building component to train all school heads in
financial management was designed to further mitigate the risk. Finally, the strong auditing
component of the project also addressed the risk of mismanagement of funds. Despite the risk,
the Bank and the Government of Kenya took a bold and calculated decision to scale up a system
of decentralized procurement which had been extremely successful on a very limited pilot basis.
The Bank further took a calculated risk in disbursing an initial tranche of US$27 million into the
special account ­ far above the normal Bank levels for an initial disbursement ­ in order for the
government of Kenya to reach all 18,000 schools.

Donor coordination represents another important positive aspect of the project design. By
building on existing practices that had previously been supported by other donors ­ DFID and the
Dutch government ­ the project immediately formed a foundation for strong ongoing donor
coordination as well as positive momentum by building off of existing activities. Moreover, the
collaboration among donors allowed the Bank to design and begin project implementation so
quickly. It is rare that a Bank project finances the extension of a project initiated by another
donor. This example is discussed in greater detail in the "lessons learned" section of the ICR.

Finally, the decision to provide an IDA grant instead of an IDA credit developed a strong sense of
trust and good will for the project among the client.

These observations are supported by the QAG rating of satisfactory for quality at entry for the
project. The QAG report summarizes that, "The project was well designed in terms of its limited
focus and its support for decentralization, which is founded in broad Government support. The
project also used an existing implementation mechanism, developed by the Government with
other donors, to ensure that funding would flow quickly to schools."

2.2 Implementation

The implementation of the instructional materials component through disbursement of school
grants was extremely effective and efficient. According to the Public Expenditure Tracking
Report (PETS) of October 2005, 97.8% of schools had received all disbursed funds (first tranche
of US$27 million) in their accounts and the average mean expenditure on Account 1 (the
instructional materials or SIMBA account) was 95%. All 18,000 schools received on average of


                                                   5

Kshs.300 (just under US$5) per student for the purchase of textbooks and instructional supplies.
The successful implementation of this component was greatly supported by use of existing
government-owned systems and the overall high commitment of the MoE to the project.
Moreover, the broad-based participatory process embodied in the involvement of school
management committees supported the speed and accountability in the procurement of textbooks
for all of the 18,000 schools in the system.

The Capacity Building component had a more mixed implementation record. The component
first supported the implementation of the project by training some 36,000 key resource teachers
through multi-media distance learning methodologies. Also, to support school level financial
management approximately 17,550 head teachers were trained in effective financial management.
The head teacher training experienced significant problems with high turnover among teach
teachers and therefore presented a challenge of providing continuous training to new heads.

While the initial training aspects of the capacity building component were generally successfully
implemented, other aspects of the component encountered significant delays ­ specifically the
EMIS component. According to Ministry staff, the delays were mainly attributed to difficulty in
following the Bank's procurement guidelines for hiring consulting firms. This difficulty can be
partly attributed to the Ministries own capacity constraints in procurement and management more
generally.    For instance, the program coordinator in the Ministry had to take on all the
responsibilities of procurement along with coordination and management responsibilities due to
the lack of other qualified personnel. This dual responsibility points to larger management and
capacity issues at the Ministry. The QAG also points out that "In retrospect, capacity at the
central ministry level was insufficient for rapid implementation of the small but important EMIS
and M&E components". The QAG however also states that "The difficulties encountered...raise
the question of the need for more innovative approaches [to capacity building] which do not focus
on expensive international TA. One solution proposed and put into effect by the Team was the
provision of local TA on the basis of a `retainer', so that MoE staff can seek guidance on a week-
to-week basis." In fact, while capacity limitations at the MoE were exposed through project
implementation, the decision not to establish a separate PIU and the learning-by-doing nature of a
new type of decentralized program developed capacities that otherwise would not have been
developed. The capacity limitations were clear and there are a number of lessons learned. These
are explained in greater detail in other sections of the ICR with regard to further supporting public
sector capacity.

An additional activity under the capacity building component ­ special programs for
disadvantaged groups ­ expanded the textbook provision in 166 non-formal schools and also pilot
tested funding for construction of school facilities through cooperation with Arid Lands Resource
Management Project. While building experience in how to engage with non-formal schools and
rural arid areas of the country, the component drew funds away from more traditional forms of
capacity building.

Finally, it should be noted here that the task team did a commendable job in trying to find
resources and expertise outside of the project funding to build necessary capacities at the Ministry
to improve program implementation.

The monitoring and evaluation component is reviewed in more detail in the next section.

Overall, QAG gave the supervision of the project a satisfactory rating.




                                                  6

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) design was adequate. Due to the rapid development of
the project, an adequate baseline was never achieved prior to project implementation.
Furthermore, the M&E component suffered from similar delays as the EMIS sub-component due
to capacity constraints. While the project experienced delays in implementing the key M&E
studies and therefore follow-up studies were not possible, the two envisaged main studies were
undertaken ­ the client satisfaction survey and learning achievement survey. These studies
provided important data on the impact of the intervention and important lessons for the design of
the follow up project. The following is a list of planned studies and status of their implementation.

                  Table 2. Planned Studies and Status as of end-Project in June 2007

     Planned Study                                              Status
     Client Satisfaction Survey                                 Complete
     Baseline survey for learning achievement                   Complete
     Study on teacher training and development                  Not undertaken due to capacity
                                                                constraints
     Strengthening testing and assessment                       Not undertaken through Project
                                                                funding. MoE funding to Kenya
                                                                National Examinations Council
                                                                (KNEC) to complete the study
     Study on advisory services                                 Not undertaken due to capacity
                                                                constraints
     Study on provision of instructional materials in secondary Complete
     schools
     Revision of procurement manuals                            Complete

a. M&E design. The indicators developed to monitor progress toward the project development
objectives were adequate. The methods for collecting the data were built into the project as a
separate component therefore resources were identified upfront for the monitoring, evaluation,
and auditing exercises.

b.   M&E implementation.         The implementation of this component experienced the same
procurement delays as the capacity building component. Two of the key studies were delayed by
more than two years. The project however did complete the following evaluations:
    · Client Satisfaction Survey
    · Baseline survey for learning achievement.

The annual external audit executed by Ernst and Young was executed every year. The end-of-
project evaluation is in process. Many of the consultancies for the studies to support the
evaluation of the project, however, either did not take place due to capacity constraints and the
inability of MoE to take into consideration the recommendations of studies that had already been
completed, or due to significant delays in the procurement of consultants. These studies included:
    · Study on teacher training and development
    · Strengthening testing and assessment
    · Study on advisory services
    · Study on provision of instructional materials in secondary schools
    · Revision of procurement manuals.




                                                     7

c. M&E utilization According to the Ministry of Education, the client satisfaction study was
used as a strong indicator of the success of the project and its overall support by the broader
public. It also provided important directions on how to improve the project in the next phases.
The learning achievement study however was less well used. Overall, the Ministry needs to
further develop an evidence based and data driven decision-making culture.            Better data
collection methodologies, data analysis and utilization need to be developed in conjunction with
the further capacity building efforts at the Ministry. Broader and more effective use of ICT may
be one area for future development. For instance, a pilot that MoE was considering using is cell
phones to collect data in a more frequent and decentralized manner. This approach could be
encouraged.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The Bank's Integrity Department (INT) undertook a Detailed Implementation Review (DIR) of
four projects (including the FPESP) in the Kenya portfolio at the request of the Government of
Kenya, due to the high level of corruption uncovered by INT in an earlier investigation
concerning a specific Bank-financed project that was ultimately suspended, and fraud and
corruption documented in a subsequent independent forensic audit by Deloitte & Touche LLP.
The purpose of a DIR, as defined by INT, is to set out in detail the level of fraud and corruption
in procurement operations, contract management, and project implementation, and to provide
recommendations designed to reduce risks to ongoing and future projects. In the case of the
education sector, the country and sector teams did not have any indication of fraud or corruption
in the FPESP. The real purpose for supporting the DIR, however, was to corroborate that the
sector was indeed corruption free, before continuing to prepare the follow on operation, the
Kenya Education Sector Support Project (KESSP), and to incorporate DIR recommendations that
could usefully strengthen the fiduciary arrangements and controls of the subsequent operation.
The findings of the FPESP DIR carried out in 2006 were that the fiduciary safeguards in the
education sector were reasonable. The report concluded that specifically FPESP (i) appeared to
be "appropriately safeguarded"; (ii) "exhibited adequate safeguards against fraud and corruption";
and (iii) "appeared to better achieve its development objective".

However, financial management issues emerged near the end of the project. The audit report for
the last quarter of 2006 was qualified and the first quarter 2007 financial management report was
late. The audit report identified three areas of concern, all of which the MOE has subsequently
taken action to address. The areas include: (i) expenditure on undelivered goods of Ksh 574,720;
(ii) expenditure of Ksh 2,614,260 to unqualified suppliers ­i.e. "briefcase" booksellers; and (iii)
outstanding overdue advances of Ksh 259,310 relating to imprest which was closed out at end of
June 30, 2006. The FMR report was delayed due to weak financial management capacity in the
MoE.

Procurement and disbursement through the project had overall been adequate particularly due to
the innovative nature of the focus on decentralized procurement. The provision of teaching and
learning materials had always been through centralized procurement and distribution. Under,
Free Primary Education, the government decentralized procurement through per capita grants
with procurement based at the school level. To facilitate this process, MoE developed a number
of policy and instructional documents to support primary schools. The decentralized structure for
school level procurement worked very well in getting the necessary funds to schools and in
setting up systems and procedures for the oversight of the funds. Continued oversight, refinement
of the systems and capacity building will however be needed to ensure that the funds continue to
be used for the intended purposes at the school level. Ernst &Young issued an audit report for the



                                                 8

year end June 30, 2006 in which they highlight a number of areas which need further
improvement. The main aspects cited for improvement in the report include the following:

    · Some schools did not convene SIMSC meetings to discuss the funds allocated to them
        and the identification of the supplier. In 2006, 54% of the schools visited had fully
        complied with the constitution of their SIMSC, down from 90% in 2005, and compared
        to 28% in 2004.
    · Most schools did not complete supplier pre-qualification forms.
    · Some schools did not seek new quotations from instructional materials suppliers but
        stayed with the supplier from the prior year.
    · Some schools did not receive the offer letters from the suppliers indicating the discounts
        offered.
    · Some schools did not have written agreements with the suppliers.
    · Of 280 schools visited only 20% of the total schools visited had fully complied with all
        procurement procedures; 31% had partly complied and 48% had not complied at all.
    · 32% of the schools visited had fully complied with the required procedures for payment
        to suppliers compared to 41% in 2005.
    · In 2006, 54% of the schools visited were charged extra fees by commercial banks
        contrary to the MOU with the MoE.

On the positive side:

    · The audit revealed an 85% adherence to the specified use of funds, up from 58% in 2004.
    · Most of the schools had received funds for the instructional materials, however some
        experienced delays due to incorrect bank accounts.
    · In 2006, 69% of the schools visited had received funds in line with their enrolment;
        while 20% received an under allocation and 11% received more than their enrollment.
    · 96% of the schools visited had complied with the requirements for bank signatories.
    · In 2004, 72% of the schools experienced delays in procurement. This figure increased to
        74% in 2005, but declined significantly to 29% in 2006 due to increased oversight.

On Financial controls, the Ernst & Young audit identified the following issues:

    · The MoE does not have an effective financial management system to assist in collating
       and summarizing key financial data and reports obtained from the primary schools.
    · The MoE does not have an effective system of monitoring the utilization of project funds
       by the schools.
    · Weaknesses have been noted at most schools with regard to updating cash books and
       bank reconciliations.
    · Most schools did not submit financial returns to DEOs.

Procurement at the Ministry level (mostly for services) has encountered many more delays than
the decentralized procurement. The project revealed that there is little or no capacity at the
Ministry for procurement and by default the project coordinator has taken on the procurement
responsibilities. This reflects a certain deficiency in the institutionalization of the project in the
broader MoE.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase




                                                 9

As with the monitoring and evaluation component, the post-completion operation was built into
the project design from inception. The capacity building component of the project included
detailed design work for the planned follow-up project to strengthen the primary and secondary
education sectors. As a result of this focus on the next phases, the project supported the
development of the Kenya Education Sector Support Project (KESSP) which became effective in
March 2007. KESSP will carry on many of the positive reforms and outcomes that the FPE
project generated thus ensuring sustainability of the progress made under the project.

A first focus of the next phase will be on governance and accountability. The principles of social
accountability, maximum transparency and dissemination of information, independent monitoring
and the wide involvement of stakeholders in program design and supervision is being carried on
through to the KESSP project. Specifically, governance actions as identified in the DIR which
include an additional review of disbursements to schools to review issues identified in section 2.4
above; the need to retain an independent internationally recognized agent to monitor the
procurement process; establishment of an integrated financial management and procurement
database; simplification of MOE accounting tools and procedures at the school level; and
tailoring appropriate types and frequency of training sessions on Bank procurement to MOE.

Furthermore, many of the lessons from the FPE program will be disseminated to the other levels
of the education system. For instance, at the secondary level, measures will include improved
guidelines for the management of resources; capacity building in financial management and
procurement; public expenditure tracking; posting of national examination results on a public
website; revising the code of ethics for teachers and provision of enforcement mechanisms; and
extending social accountability and the use of a risk based internal audit.

Moreover, all the components of the project have been carried over to the KESSP project. First,
the provision of instructional materials to primary schools is continuing under KESSP with
US$475 million provisionally allocated by government for this activity. KESSP builds on the
FPESP experience to extend the decentralized procurement to grants for infrastructure, and the
provision of grants to ECD committees.

Next, the capacity building component continues. The in-service teacher training program is
estimated to receive US$37 million allocated by government to maintain and update the existing
set of courses and develop new programs. Additional capacity building will be provided for
deepening the school management and accountability skills as well as capacity building for
teachers. The education management information system will continue to be supported with a
focus on further harmonization of data.

Finally, the monitoring, evaluation and auditing support is being carried through to the new
project to support development of a KESSP baseline, process monitoring systems, and an impact
evaluation program.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The project was and is highly relevant to the past and current development priorities of the
Kenyan government. The focus on the decentralization of management to the school level is
directly in line with the Government's own decentralization efforts. Also, the project gave a
tremendous boost to Government's efforts to implement Free Primary Education (FPE). The



                                                10

financing from the Bank allowed the Government to distribute textbooks to all students across the
country thereby relieving parents of the burden (pre-FPESP out-of-pocket expenses for learning
materials was approximately Kshs.1,695 or US$26 per pupil) and allowing for more children to
enroll in primary education who otherwise could not afford schooling costs (after the introduction
of FPESP, the estimated out-of-pocket expenses for learning materials was Kshs.185 or US$3,
with the remaining Kshs.650 being subsidized by Government). Annex 3 provides the detailed
unit cost calculations.

The project also responded directly to the CAS goal of improving opportunities and access to
basic social services for the poor. By relieving parents of the burden to pay for instructional
materials, the project provided the catalyst for an increase of over 1.5 million new students to
enroll in Kenyan primary schools. Moreover, the evaluation data shows that the impact with
regard to reduced repetition rates was greater on poorer schools in the country.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

ICR Rating: Satisfactory

The main project development objective was to improve pupil performance and retention
through ensuring an adequate supply and better use of instructional materials. Based on the
findings of the ICR mission and the results of MoE impact evaluation studies, the development
objective has been satisfactorily achieved. The rating is supported by the outcome/impact
indicators for the development objective. While the positive outcomes are most likely a result of
a confluence of factors including a strong foundation established as a result of a successful pilot,
MoE leadership, strong community engagement, good donor collaboration, etc., it is very likely
that a large portion of the impact could be attributed to the project ­ both directly and indirectly
(as the project supported key inputs for improved learning achievement such as textbook
provision, related teacher training, social accountability and management to name a few). In sum,
as a result of the provision of learning materials to at least 80% of the standard 1-8 schoolchildren,
the project realized the following major outcomes:

Outcome Indicator 1: an increase by June 2006 in the proportion of children reaching desired
standards of achievement (in English, Kiswahili, Mathematics and Science, in standards 2, 4 and
6), disaggregated by province, gender, urban/rural and intra-rural.

Evidence to date: According to the report "An Impact Evaluation of the Instructional Materials
and In-service Teacher Training Programmes", results show that 98% of head teachers and 99%
of teachers felt that the instructional materials had contributed to improved teaching and learning
in their schools. Moreover, the survey on "Learning Achievement" shows the following mean
scores for the following standards:
    · Standard 2: 60.49 (Boys ­ 59.36; Girls ­ 61.78)
    · Standard 4: 48.81 (Boys ­ 48.73; Girls ­ 48.9)
    · Standard 6: 48.51 (Boys ­ 48.62; Girls ­ 48.4)

Finally, the positive trends in examination results in selected provinces further support the
increase in achievement levels. For instance, the following are 2001 to 2006 exam results in the
North Eastern province, one of the lowest performing in the country.

                 Table 3. Examination Scores in 4 Districts in North Eastern Province




                                                  11

            Year                 District               District              District             District
                                 Garissa                Wajir                 Mandera               Ijara
            2001                  151.41                140.34                 137.00               142.35
            2002                  153.54                137.44                 129.95               142.81
            2003                  141.55                136.39                 134.79               144.66
            2004                  152.69                141.22                 148.11               151.46
            2005                  144.19                162.78                 163.38               168.08
            2006                  156.66                178.92                 181.69               102.76

As illustrated, since project effectiveness in 2003, three of the four districts realized substantial
increases of between 10 to 35 percent in their examination results.

Outcome Indicator 2: As a result of the provision of the instructional materials, every school
has put in place a school instructional materials management committee with signatory authority
over local bank accounts and the expected outcome of the project would be an increase in the
proportion of local school management committees and parents and children rating their school as
satisfactory or above for the learning process by June 2006.

Evidence to date: According to the "Final Report on Client Satisfaction Survey" 88.7% of pupils
said they were either happy or very happy with the quality of teaching and learning in their
schools; 82.4% of school management committee members reported that they were satisfied with
the quality of learning in the schools; and 66.7% of parents reported that they were satisfied with
the quality of teaching and learning. While no baseline data were available, interviews with all
three groups suggest that these percentages are higher than prior to the implementation of the
project.

Outcome Indicator 3: The provision of textbooks also provided the opportunity for more
children to enter the system and reduced drop-out rates at all standards by June 2006.

Evidence to date: As a result of the project an additional 1.5 million students (a 25% increase
since 2002) entered the system. According to the Ministry of Education "Education Statistical
Booklet (1999-2004)" which provides the most recent education statistics, dropout rates in 1999
were 4.9% and decreased to 2.0% in 2003. While more up to date data on dropout rates is not
available, the data in the table below illustrates that repetition rates among high, medium and low
poverty schools all decreased with the greatest decline among the poorest schools. Data also
reflects that transition rates from primary to secondary have increased from 44% to 51%.

                     Table 4. Mean Repetition rate 2002 and 2005 by Poverty Bands

   Poverty Bands                              Median of mean repetition             Median of mean repetition
   (based on HTs estimates)                              rate 2002                             rate 2005
   High poverty schools                                      9.15                                 7.65
   (more than 70% of children from
   poor families)
   Medium poverty schools                                    8.80                                 8.00
   (61 to 70% of children were
   from poor families)
   Low poverty schools                                       7.45                                 6.70
   (50 to 60% of children were
   from poor families)
  Source: "An Impact Evaluation of the Instructional Materials and In-service Teacher Training Programmes"




                                                              12

Outcome Indicator 4: The provision of the textbook and capacity building components were to
result in the completion of a plan for a follow-up project to strengthen the education sector, using
studies and training provided, approved by the Permanent Secretary MOEST, and addressing the
concerns of key stakeholders.

Evidence to date: The Kenya Education Support Project (KESSP) has been designed based on
lessons learned from the Free Primary Education Support Project.

Additional evidence for the project's impact is detailed in the outputs and outcomes of each of the
specific components of the project found in Annex 2.


3.3 Efficiency

For analytical purposes, Project efficiency is defined as improvements in service delivery. This
was accomplished through quicker transfer of resources from MoE to decision-making nodes, in
this case, primary schools. The analysis includes a cost-effectiveness assessment which brings
together the costs and benefits of the Project, analyzes the "before" and "after" Project, and
provides information on whether the Project intervention was cost-effective or otherwise.

First, disbursement efficiency improved as a result of the project.          FPESP embodies the
decentralization principles of financial control and accountability to public primary schools. At
the outset, the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) specified that unit disbursements per school-
child varied from one disbursement to another. During the course of project implementation, a
PETS was undertaken. The objective was to check in detail progress on disbursements. Results
showed that overall the funds had flowed efficiently and that the funds were utilized for intended
purposes. Moreover, the exercise showed that initially it was not possible for schools to receive
funds within the targeted period of four weeks. However, through the Electronic Funds Transfer,
funds reached primary schools within the target period.

The DIR review findings further support efficient disbursement of funds through the project. The
report reveals that "(the) Free Primary Education Support Project (FPESP) achieved a satisfactory
level of accountability from local communities to the national ministry which contributed to the
proper use of funds under FPESP.          The key elements were the transparent provision of
comprehensive information, the use of efficient systems for flow of funds and strong local
accountability mechanisms... Timely and agreed amounts of disbursements to schools based on
required MOE documents that were confirmed during final project supervision in October 2006.
Targets of 97% of schools receiving funds in the bank accounts without problems."

As 80% of the project focused on provision of learning materials the analysis is limited to this
project component. On the cost side, assuming that the GoK continues to supply textbooks and
learning materials (TLM) to all primary school children through the FPE subsidy, books with the
project were less expensive than textbooks without FPESP. This is due to the strategy adopted
under FPESP to reduce the range of books developed and the related prices.

The per pupil cost of teaching and learning materials without the project was considerably higher
than with the project by about 93 percent. This is partly due to the introduction of the FPE
subsidy and partly due to the lowering of the per pupil cost of primary education. The
introduction of FPE and the tuition subsidy enabled children to have the minimum required since
parental contribution was dramatically reduced by almost 88%.



                                                13

Table 5 shows the unit cost analysis of the TLM component without and with FPE and FPESP.
The benefits of this investment are highlighted in the outcomes section and in Annex 2. Overall,
from beneficiaries' perspective, FPESP contributed to improving student retention, attendance,
and learning achievement.




                   Table 5. Unit Cost Analysis with and without FPE and FPESP (Kshs.)

                                                        Without FPE and                     With FPE and
                                                                FPESP                           FPESP
                                                         Unit          Per Pupil           Unit         Per Pupil
               Tuition item                            Cost of           Cost of         Cost of         Cost of   Difference
                                                      TLM per             TLM          TLM per             TLM
                                                      academic          package        academic          package
                                                         year              per             year             per
                                                                       academic                         academic
                                                                           year                            year
                       A                                   b                c               d                 e      (f=c-d)
 Textbooks1                                                  77.0          1,001.0            77.0            462.0
 Exercise books2                                             15.0            150.0            15.0             90.0
 Teachers' guides3                                            7.0             91.0             7.0             42.0
 Supplementary Readers and Reference                          0.0               0.0         130.0             130.0
 Materials4
 Pencils5                                                    19.0             57.0            19.0             57.0
 Dusters, Chalk, Registers6                                  22.0             22.0            22.0             22.0
 Charts and Wall Maps7                                       74.0             74.0            74.0             74.0
 Levy for examination                                                        300.0                              0.0
                          Total for Tuition8               214.0           1,695.0          344.0             877.0      818.0
                       FPE tuition subsidy                                                                    650.0
   FPE household contribution (Kshs.)                                      1,695.0                            185.0
   FPE household contribution (US$)9                                             26                               3
    Source: Ministry of Education, Kenya. 2007, and ICR mission computations.
    Notes:
    1.  Textbooks: pre-FPE 13 books per pupil; post-FPE 6 textbooks per pupil. Unit cost is based on Kshs.300 per textbook
        shared by 3 pupils.
    2.  Exercise books assumed to be 1 book per subject.
    3.  Teachers' guides are the average of lower (Kshs.8) and upper primary (Kshs.6) costs.
    4.  Supplementary readers: 1 supplementary reader per student.
    5.  Pencils: 1 per term per pupil.
    6.  Dusters, chalk, registers: unit cost is based upon total cost of supply divided by 40 pupils per class.
    7.  Charts and Walk Maps: unit cost is based upon total cost of supply divided by 40 pupils per class.
    8.  Unit cost for both pre-FPE and after FPE was introduced is annualized.
    9.  For the purpose of calculating the exchange, it is assumed that US$1 = Kshs.65.


Internal Efficiency gains can be attributed to the regular provision of learning materials in the
classroom. Efficiency gains also led to reduction in repetition and dropout rates. Cost savings are
associated with decline in repetition and dropout rates. The wider use of learning materials
through FPESP led to reduction in mean repetition rate in the highest poverty band (more than



                                                                 14

70% of children from poor families) from 9.2% in academic year 2002 to 7.7% in 2005, and
reduction in dropout rate from 2% in 2003 to 1.5% in 2006. Primary completion rate improved
from an estimated 68.2% to 77.6% in 2006.

As illustrated below, the student success rate was about 11 percent more among primary school
students after the project than before the project. For unit cost to offset efficiency gains in terms
of reduced repetition rate and dropout rate were taken into consideration. This is shown in Table
6. When cost, qualitative aspects (gains in test scores) and efficiency considerations (decline in
repetition and dropout rates) are combined, with the Project is more cost-effective than without
the Project.




                     Table 6. Costs and Benefits of Providing Learning Materials

                                                         Without FPESP         With FPESP
                                                              2003                2006
            Per pupil cost of TLM (Kshs.)                    1,695.0              877.0
            Benefits
             Student Flow
               Mean repetition rate (highest poverty            9.2 (2002)         7.7 (2005)
                  band)
               % of dropouts                                   2.0                 1.5
               % completers                                    68.2                77.6
            KCPE Avg. countrywide performance                 171.16              189.93

          Source : ICR mission computations.



3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

Based on the high relevance of the project, the substantial achievement of the PDOs and the
efficiency gains that the project catalyzed, the rating is clearly merited.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The poverty impact of the project has been very strong with the most evident aspect of its impact
being the enrollment of an additional 1.5 million children who otherwise were not able to afford
basic educational materials to attend school.        While some literature 1 argues that textbook
provision in Kenya benefits only the strongest students while weaker students and students
without English language skills are not impacted, the data analyzed for this ICR argues for a
strong poverty impact of the project. For the first time since the introduction of user fees in the
late 1980s children from poor families, in 2003 they began to have equal access to learning
materials in the classroom as well as at home. As a consequence, student retention and attendance



1Glewwe, P; Kremer, M; Moulin, S. "Many Children Left Behind? Textbooks and Test Scores in Kenya"




                                                   15

improved, and repetition and dropout rates declined, and student learning improved. Pupil to
textbook ratios now range between 2:1 to 6:1 in lower primary (3:1 target), and 2:1 to 4:1 (target
2:1) in upper primary. First, the evaluations conducted suggest that the instructional materials
that were provided had the greatest impact on the poorest segments of society. For instance, the
evaluations revealed a greater reduction in repetition rates in the poorest schools with a reduction
of the mean repetition rate from 7.45 to 6.70 from 2002 to 2005. Moreover the studies suggest a
greater boost in examination scores with an increase in KCPE scores of 1.745% between 2003
and 2005 for children from schools in the poorest districts. This is further supported by data from
the KCPE mean scores from 2000 to 2005 in which high poverty index students achieved higher
results than better off students as illustrated in the graph below:


                                   Chart 1: Trend in KCPEperformance by poverty band


                                    255

                                    250

                                    245
      e
       cr                           240
         sonae                      235
              M
               EPCK                 230

                                    225

                                    220

                                    215
                                             2000         2001          2002           2003            2004           2005

                       Low Pvty index      226.7292     241.7878      242.0966       243.0203        241.044       239.6898

                       Medium Pvty Index   237.9557     241.9219      244.6848       242.4243        243.1409      245.3202

                       High Pvty Index      232.846      239.02       245.7638       244.7167        249.7286      248.9878

                                                                                Year


Source: "Delivering quality and improving access primary education: An impact evaluation of the Instructional Materials and In-
service Teacher Training Programmes." Research Report 1 for the Ministry of Education, 2nd Draft, pp. 64, October 9th 2006.


The project also has had a positive impact on social cohesion in the communities through greater
empowerment and inclusion of parents in the school committees. Finally, the addition of the
special program for disadvantaged groups deepened the poverty focus by supporting non-formal
and deep rural schools.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Based on interviews with Ministry of Education staff, the project has had a positive impact on the
long term capacity of the Ministry of Education and as a consequence on the long term
sustainability of the reforms that the project has supported. The project has enabled the Ministry
team to engage in quite a bit "learning-by-doing" as it implemented a number of the innovative
aspects of the project such as electronic funds transfer and the partnership with the commercial
banks; school level financial management capacity building; and procurement of goods and
services. On this last point, the project has also exposed weaknesses in the existing capacities of



                                                               16

the Ministry such as the procurement and financial management capacities which are being
addressed in follow up projects. One of the most important outcomes of the ownership and
implementation of the project has been a changed attitude reported among Ministry staff who
have indicated that they are more accountable and proactive in their work.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

There were a number of unintended outcomes of the project that various educators and Ministry
officials reported during the ICR mission. The main issues are as follows:
    · Misinterpretation of the branding of "Free" primary education. The concept of free
        primary education was interpreted in many communities as government paying for all
        aspects of primary school education. In many cases, this has resulted in a complete
        abdication of financial responsibilities to the school, leaving schools with an extra burden
        of clarifying what is free and what still needs to be supported by parents. Also, while
        allowing over 1.5 million students to come back to school, the program did not reach all
        eligible students in the system.
    · Challenges of older students coming back to school.             Some of the schools visited
        highlighted the additional challenge of managing a school with older students mixed
        among younger students. For instance, one school visited ­ St. Catherine's -- has a 21
        year old in class 5.
    · Positive private-public partnership with commercial banks. Many of the banks visited
        during the ICR mission viewed the partnership with the schools as extremely positive and
        reported a positive externality of the program as an increase in clients among school
        parents in their communities. They also identified a willingness to support on-going
        financial literacy and capacity building at the local schools.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

At the fiscal and economic level, a number of issues suggest that gains achieved through this
project will be sustained. First, the Kenyan government provides a considerable amount of its
budget to education with expenditure at around 7 percent of GDP and education spending as a
percentage of total government spending at around 25%. Moreover, the Kenyan economy is
growing at more than 6% which suggests that the fiscal environment to sustain this support will
continue.

Moreover, ownership is strong. The government commitment to the policy reforms deepened
through the project is evident through the follow up KESSP project which will further support the
reforms begun under FPE. Also, local and community ownership has been greatly strengthened
through the decentralized procurement processes propagated by the project. The success of the
decentralization process is a strong indicator that the system of local procurement and ownership
will be maintained in the future.




                                                 17

While risks have been greatly mitigated through the design of the FPESP and the development of
the new KESSP project, there are still a number of outstanding areas of risks that need further
attention in the future to maintain the positive gains achieved through the project.

The first risk to maintenance of the development objective is partly a consequence of the success
of the project. By supporting the entrance of 1.5 million new children in the system, the quality
of education through higher teacher to pupil ratios and lack of classroom space can have an
adverse affect on the positive gains in learning achievement through the provision of instructional
materials. Thus far one of the lessons learned is that quality has in fact increased. Nevertheless,
the risk must be monitored and managed.

Also, while initial implementation of the decentralized financial management and procurement
has been positive, these gains could slip if not continuously monitored and supported. Recent
audits have in fact revealed that some positive financial management practices have already
begun to be implemented less strenuously by communities than during inception.

Further, capacities in the Ministry of Education could present a challenge to maintaining the
positive gains from the project. First, a change in the political leadership in the Ministry of
Education could adversely affect the positive esprit de corps that was generated under this project.
It can not be foreseen what culture new leadership would bring, but the positive role of leadership
in this project was essential for success. Also, a more ambitious agenda under the new project
may dilute the successful focus that was achieved under the FPE and stretch limited MOE
capacity ­ particularly with regard to procurement and financial management.

Finally, the challenges of HIV/AIDS on teacher population should not be discounted as a
potential risk to the positive gains achieved through the project.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

Bank performance at entry can be considered best practice for a number of reasons. First, the
Bank team responded extremely rapidly to the new government's request for support by
producing a quality project for the Board to evaluate within 3 months of appraisal. Moreover, the
team designed the project to maximize existing experience in the country and build upon
successes. For instance, the project deepened the pilot decentralized procurement systems and
supported the scaling up of this decentralization. Also, the project design enhanced collaboration
with existing donors in the country ­ particularly DFID ­ to facilitate continuation of ongoing
support to the MOE. Next, the project did not attempt to set up a separate project implementation
unit, but rather built upon the existing capacities in the MOE to coordinate the project thus
deepening ownership and building on existing knowledge and capacities. Finally, the design of
the project contributed to its success. The project stayed focused on a few key objectives and
through this limited scope supported key reforms. Also, the design included important capacity
building components, monitoring and evaluation and support for a follow up project to sustain the
achievements.




                                                  18

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank task team provided excellent support to the Ministry of Education team during the
supervision of the project. The task team leader did an exceptionally good job of fostering
teamwork and collaborating across Bank units. For instance, the MOE praised the support of
both the financial management and procurement staff assigned to the project. Also, the team
brought in key capacity building support from WBI. Further, the task team stayed in constant
dialogue with the Ministry to ensure reporting and further support for those areas of weakness in
the Ministry such as procurement. Overall, the strong support assisted the Ministry to identify
those areas of short term risk and respond to them as well as prepare medium term responses for
more entrenched challenges through the design of the follow up KESSP project. While the task
team performance could be considered exemplary ­ even highly satisfactory -- the overall rating
of the Bank team's performance was negatively influenced due to the challenges that the INT
team introduced to the Bank-MoE relationship. This resulted in the supervision rating going down
to `satisfactory.' As highlighted in lessons learned and borrower feedback, the manner in which
INT conducted its review and the negative environment that was created as a result seriously
jeopardized the positive relationship and trust that had otherwise been established with the client.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Based on the quality of the project at entry, the positive engagement that the task team established
with the client during supervision and the achievement of the overall development objectives, the
Bank performance warrants a satisfactory rating. The rating takes into account that although
Bank performance at entry was highly satisfactory, the subsequent issues surrounding the INT
process as explained above brought down Bank performance at supervision to satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Overall the government's performance on this project has been excellent. The key ingredient to
success seems to be the leadership demonstrated by MOE top management. The leadership
manifested itself in the boldness of approach, the focus on the objective and most importantly in a
new attitude that was fostered among the Ministry staff. Staff reported having both more
responsibility and accountability for decisions. Overall a greater esprit de corps was created in
the Ministry and broad ownership of the FPE objectives was shared among the staff. The
Ministry should also be recognized for fostering new partnerships in implementing the FPE
program. First, the partnership with the commercial banking sector was key in facilitating a rapid
and transparent disbursement of funds to the school level. Also, the openness to collaborate
across Ministries, while challenging, should be noted. Finally, the focus on decentralization and
strengthening community level partnerships proved to be a key element in the success of the
project.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance



                                                  19

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Ministry team responsible for implementing the project executed well. The project presented
unique challenges in that the decentralized procurement would be scaled to all 18,000 schools at
the primary level. The innovations integral to this scale and the large number of schools engaged
in this new activity required the implementation team to remain vigilant and flexible ­ quickly
identifying challenges and responding. Issues such as Bank accounts being closed, Bank's not
adhering to their MOU with the Ministry, monitoring of the use of funds at school level, etc
required the team to quickly identify and resolve problems. The capacity of the team, while
strengthened through execution of the program, however, presented a constant challenge to
implementation. The main area of weakness was the financial management and procurement
capacities within the team. The project coordinator for instance became the de facto procurement
specialist due to lack of other qualified personnel which resulted in long delays in procurement of
capacity building and M&E components of the project. Moreover, one of the final audit reports
was qualified further revealing capacity shortcomings.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

Based on both the positive leadership in the Ministry and the effective execution of the project by
the implementation team, the borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. The rating is given
despite the poor procurement and financial management performance and is justified based on the
positive development outcomes and execution of the primary component of the project ­
instructional materials.

6. Lessons Learned

The following are the main lessons learned for this project:

1. Leadership is essential to success. While the Bank task team did an excellent job in project
design and supervision, the success of the project could not have been realized without the strong
and dedicated leadership of the MoE. The main lesson here is that leadership capacity cannot be
underestimated in development and implementation of successful projects. Integrity, dynamism,
bold decision making, vision, and taking unpopular political decisions characterize some of the
most important elements of leadership in this project. As a result of this leadership, the new
policies of decentralization were enforced (ensuring that booksellers followed the rules), new
partnership were struck (with the commercial banks), a strong foundation of trust was built with
the Bank and a new esprit de corps developed amongst technical staff in the Ministry. While
these positive aspects can be cited, leadership capacity could have been improved in areas such as
organizational management (establishing proper functions such as procurement to support the
project in the Ministry), evidence-based and data driven decision making, and increased capacity
building among technical level staff including establishment of clearer policies to provide
incentives for skill acquisition. Overall, however leadership provided the key element to the
successful implementation of this project. For future, this aspect should be taken into greater
consideration in project preparation and risk assessment.

2. Smaller successful pilots can be successfully brought to scale. An important lesson from this
project was the Bank's willingness to identify and review a smaller pilot initiative developed and
supported by the Dutch and DFID and to invest essentially in the preparatory work of others. The



                                                 20

approach proved to be successful for a number of reasons. First, it allowed the Bank to disburse
much more quickly than otherwise possible and largely helped to avoid the long preparation time
that often results in Bank operations. Next, it allowed the Bank to leverage a network of existing
consultants who knew the project and were able to provide on-going support and evaluation
during supervision. Further, it showed good faith in the systems of the MoE and built essential
trust by investing in these systems that had strong buy in from the Ministry. For instance, in
order to meet this demand, the Bank team worked concertedly to get an exception from Bank
procurement to support the use of pre-qualified books in the Ministry's "orange book". The
overall lesson is that Bank preparation should spend less time in analyzing and "creating" a
project and more time in analyzing existing elements of a system or pilots that are working well
and can be brought to scale.

3. Decentralized procurement is both efficient and empowering. Another main lesson from the
project is that with the right political will and systems in place, resources can be effectively
transferred to the school level for decentralized procurement.         Moreover, transparency and
accountability can be effectively addressed through decentralized procurement.            While the
greatest risk coming into the project was accountability for funds disbursed to the schools, the
systems put in place by the MoE have provided the transparency and accountability necessary to
safeguard the funds and support local ownership. Moreover, the decentralized procurement
alleviated many of the bottlenecks that capacity constrained Ministries of Education often
encounter and which result in slow and ineffective project implementation.

4. Free Primary Education does not necessarily result in drop in quality. One of the key lessons
gained from this project is that despite the infusion of an additional 1.5 million learners in the
system, the quality of education need not be compromised, and that in fact, the data support an
increase in quality particularly for the poorest schools. This experience will be important to
communicate and will impact other Bank clients looking at perceived trade offs of free primary
education.

Other less important lessons learned:

5. Public-Private partnerships support improvements in service delivery efficiency. The project
helped the MoE to develop a very successful partnership with the commercial banks to
electronically transfer funds to school accounts in local banks near the respective school's
jurisdiction. The electronic transfer provided greater accounting and speed of disbursement than
prior methods. Moreover, the banks have established professional relationships with the schools
and additional support such as training in financial management have been discussed. The banks
took this project on not just as a commercial venture but as part of their corporate social
responsibility ­ this partnership should lay the foundation for further public-private partnerships.

6. Baseline data are critical for overall monitoring and evaluation emphasis. Overall the project
lacked appropriate baseline data on primary schools before initiating project implementation. An
area highlighted by the Ministry was the assumption that all schools had the same textbook to
pupil ratios and the application of a similar formula for all schools resulted in an uneven
distribution of resources. The Ministry has highlighted the need to retarget distribution of
resources with a clearer baseline of the school's starting point. Moreover, the EMIS is an
unfinished aspect of the project which points to an under prioritization on the part of the MoE on
the need to timely and accurate data for education system planning and execution. This issue is
receiving attention through the follow-on project, KESSP, and more support is being provided in
this area.



                                                  21

7. Realistic assessment of institutional capacity during project preparation is essential in order to
design appropriate remedial measures. While the project is to be commended for implementing
the project through the MoE structures and for not setting up a separate implementation unit, the
execution of the project revealed important capacity gaps. The design of the project did not
adequately address the issue of Ministry capacity in the capacity building component and
therefore much of the support was provided on an ad hoc basis. Improved financial management
and procurement capacities need to be built at the Ministry of Education to more effectively
monitor and manage future projects. The project stretched existing and limited capacities and
resulted in some delays in aspects of project implementation. Moreover, a more strategic and
systematic approach to identifying capacity gaps could have been developed prior to
implementation. The capacity constraints point to broader issues of MoE organization, incentives,
and division of labor. In future, a capacity assessment of the Ministry and clear areas of support
during the project need to be identified upfront.

8. INT process for execution of DIR requires critical examination. The only negative feedback
that the ICR team received from the client about the Bank was on the nature of the interaction
with the INT team. In fact, the DIR review tarnished the positive traction that the task team had
established with the client on the first re-engagement in the education sector after some years of
hiatus.   The methodology of the review and the non-transparent manner in which it was
conducted contributed to the client's negative assessment of the Bank.              Moreover, the
intervention delayed the follow up sectorwide project, further undermining the Bank task team's
credibility and goodwill. Greater consultation by the INT team with the project task team
throughout the DIR process would have improved the process.

9. Vigilant follow-up needs to take place at school level. The MoE should provide ongoing
capacity building to teachers and school heads in the principles of accountability and
transparency. Further, community engagement must continue to be stressed in order to shore up
the positive gains of the project. The Ernst and Young report points to potential backsliding on
the decentralized procurement practices which need to be identified and addressed on a continual
basis.

10. Effective and concerted integration of lessons learned from prior Bank projects helps to
design more relevant interventions. The project effectively integrated a number of lessons
learned that have been highlighted in prior Bank projects such as:
    · Focus -- the project was focused and did not take a Christmas tree approach and try to
        address all education challenges at once, but rather focused on instructional materials;
    · Do not set up a PIU and diminish capacity at the Ministry -- the project did not set up a
        separate project implementation unit but rather built on the experience in the Ministry
        and provided capacity building through learning by doing;
    · Support areas that can have a catalytic effect on policy reforms ­ while the project
        supported a relatively narrow focus on instructional materials, it fostered a much larger
        policy reform focused on decentralization.
    · Support donor coordination -- finally the project effectively collaborated with other
        donors to jointly address MoE reforms.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies




                                                 22

The borrower had high praise for the Bank task team that managed the project highlighting both
the professionalism and quality of inputs as well as strong and consistent support during
implementation. The borrower however had: (i) very strong negative feedback about the INT
team which had conducted the DIR. Specifically, the borrower stated that the INT team had
exhibited a lack of understanding about the status of Kenyan development projects and had
treated the client with a lack of respect; and (ii) that the Ministry felt that Bank procurement
policies were burdensome and resulted in many of the delays that the project encountered.

(b) Cofinanciers

N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

The commercial Banks that were interviewed were very pleased with participation in the project
and viewed it as a positive partnership. The project represented the largest single transfer of
resources in a short period and they indicated that it helped them to refine their own internal
systems for such a project.

The booksellers also conveyed a positive experience through their participation in the project as it
expanded their market and helped them to better understand and service the schools in their
community.

DFID highlighted the close collaboration with the Bank team as an important aspect of the
success of the project and the continuity from the DFID SPRED project. In fact the sharing of
consultants who had worked on prior aspects of the DFID pilot project contributed to the
successful design of this project. Finally, the partners contributed to the on-going assessment of
the impact of the textbook provision and provided important feedback to the task team through
these studies.

In the context of studying the impact of its Strengthening Primary Education (SPRED) Project,
the UK Department for International Development (DFID) commissioned external evaluation
undertaken by PriceWaterHouseCoopers also included the FPESP. The conclusions drawn were
that "(FPESP) The textbook project has certainly reduced the cost of education to parents,
improved the relationship between teachers, parents and pupils and infused a culturally sensitive
and responsive school management environment with respect to textbook procurement, storage,
conservation and use. However, it appears equally certain that unless funding levels are enhanced
and sustained, impact on family expenditure will remain minimal and the gains already made
could be transient."




                                                23

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                     Appraisal Estimate        Actual/Latest
            Components                                                             Percentage of
                                        (USD millions)        Estimate (USD
                                                                 millions)           Appraisal

INSTRUCTIONAL
MATERIALS                                       41.80                46.50             111

CAPACITY BUILDING                                 7.16                 7.50            105
MONITORING AND
EVALUATION                                        1.04                 1.00             96



              Total Baseline Cost               50.00                 55.00            110

Physical Contingencies                            0.00                 0.00            0.00

Price Contingencies                               0.00                 0.00            0.00
              Total Project Costs               50.00                 55.00            110
Project Preparation Fund                          0.00                 0.00            0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                                0.00                 0.00            0.00
      Total Financing Required                  50.00                 55.00            110




(b) Financing
                                                           Appraisal Actual/Latest

            Source of Funds                  Type of       Estimate       Estimate    Percentage of
                                          Cofinancing         (USD         (USD        Appraisal
                                                           millions)      millions)
Borrower                                                            4.98          0.00         0.00
IDA GRANT FOR POOREST
COUNTRY                                                            50.00         55.00        110.00

Note: External support from the World Bank and other Development Partners was to complement the
substantial contribution from GoK for the Free Primary Education Program.




                                                    24

Annex 2. Outputs by Component


Component               Output                  Output Indicator         Evidence as of ICR
Component 1:            Improved provision      At least 80 percent of   Sharing rates improved in 90%
Instructional Materials and utilization of      schoolchildren in        of schools in the country with
                        instructional materials standards 1-8 have       an average pupil to textbook
                        by school children and  access to the            ratio of 3:1.
                        teachers                instructional materials
                                                for all core subjects at
                                                the agreed sharing
                                                rate.
Component 2:            Sub-component 1:        Output 1: 72,000 key     Training is ongoing with
Capacity Building       Effective teaching and  resource teachers        69,000 teachers trained in
                        learning in schools     (KRTs) in English,       SbTD. As of the ICR mission
                                                Mathematics,             around 22,000 teachers or
                                                Kiswahili and Science    61% of the target teachers had
                                                complete new distance    received their certificate for
                                                learning modules in      completion of the 9 month
                                                FPE challenges and       course. The project also
                                                use of textbooks.        supported the training of
                                                                         18,000 head teachers in school
                                                Output 2: 17,500         management. At the time of
                                                head teachers trained    the ICR mission, the training
                                                in quality assurance     was still ongoing for the head
                                                and supervision.         teachers.

Component 2:            Sub-component 2:        80 percent of school     Over 83% of school
Capacity Building       Improved accounting     management               management committees meet
                        system implemented      committees are           to discuss their budgets and
                        in primary schools      confident that school    minutes are recorded.
                                                finances are being
                                                managed effectively.     According to survey 74% of
                                                                         cash books were in good
                                                80 percent of schools    shape.
                                                producing accurate
                                                and timely year-end      97% of headteachers and 98%
                                                financial statements.    of teachers felt school
                                                                         management had improved.
                                                2,000 replacement
                                                head teachers trained
                                                in financial
                                                management.
Component 2:            Sub-component 3:        Relevant information     Needs assessment and design
Capacity Building       Education               for planning and         completed. Procurement of
                        management              management is            goods underway.
                        information system      provided to decision
                        implemented at          makers on a regular
                        district and HQ levels. basis.
Component 2:            Sub-component 4:        Detailed design work     KESSP project designed.
Capacity Building       Preparation for STEPS   has been finished for
                        completed               the planned follow-up



                                                 25

                                                              project to strengthen
                                                              the primary and
                                                              secondary education
                                                              sectors.
Component 3:                 Monitoring,                      Baseline survey on             Baseline Survey on Learning
Monitoring and               evaluation and                   student learning               Achievement complete.
Evaluation                   external audits
                                                              End of project                 Client satisfaction survey
                                                              evaluation                     complete.

                                                              Bi annual external             External audit complete.
                                                              audits
                                                                                             End of project evaluation
                                                                                             underway.

To support the above overall development objective, the project financed three main components:
instructional materials, capacity building and monitoring and evaluation. The following are the outputs and
outcomes by component.

Component 1: Instructional materials: At the beginning of the project in July 2003, public primary
schools had approximately 9 million textbooks. The textbook to pupil ratios were variable but very low.
As reflected in the report "An Impact Evaluation of the Instructional Materials and In-Service Teacher
Training Programmes":

"The baseline survey carried out to facilitate the GOK/NG textbook project in selected target districts
revealed the pathetic status of the book stock situations in those districts. For instance, the pupil-textbook
ratio for lower primary ranged from 5:1 to 10:1 while in upper primary the ratio varied from 5:1 to 2:1"

Moreover, the cost of textbooks was born by the parents themselves. This financial burden caused many
pupils to stay away from school because their parents could not afford the costs. The free provision of
textbooks alleviated this burden allowing children to enter the system.

By 2006, the reported textbook ratio was down to around 3:1 for both upper and lower primary as
illustrated in the following table from the study,

                                                                  Lower Primary                       Upper Primary
                                                               (books per student)                  (books per student)
 National target                                                          3                                   2
 Reported: Headteachers                                                 3.05                                2.37
 Reported: KRTs                                                          3.09                               2.38
 Actual: Audit by field researchers2                                    3.24                                3.13
Source: "An impact evaluation of the Instructional Materials and In-Service Teacher Training Programme"


The provision of the instructional material has had a profound impact on the Kenyan education
system. The following are the main areas of impact:
     1. Access to and quality of instructional materials;
     2. Use of instructional materials in schools and impact in teaching and learning;
     3. Participation and ownership at the community level;
     4. Enhanced partnerships with the private sector;



2 The textbook ratios listed area based on an audit of 522 classes in lower primary and 809 classes in upper
primary.




                                                               26

    5. Improved school management and transparency.

1. Access to and quality of instructional materials: The instructional material component of the project
has had a profound impact on the access to and quality of instructional materials in Kenyan primary schools.
The following are a few of the key achievements:

    · Increase in textbook to pupil ratio: The ratio in 2001 ranged from 5:1 to 10:1 in lower primary
         and 5:1 to 2:1 in upper primary. After introduction of the instructional materials program, both
         upper and lower primary ratios were approximately 3:1 on average.
    · Increase in access of textbooks at home: 93% of pupils indicated that they were allowed to take
         textbooks home, and the majority of the pupils reported that they enjoyed this opportunity.
    · Increase in quality of textbooks: The project deepened the textbook liberalization program
         providing increased competition among publishers and book sellers. As a result, according to
         Ministry officials, KIE officials and schools, the quality of instructional materials has greatly
         improved.

2. Use of instructional materials in schools and impact on teaching and learning: Beyond access and
quality, the project has produced a significant increase in use of instructional materials in primary schools
and a subsequent positive impact on teaching and learning. The following are the key achievements to
support this finding:

    · Overall improved teaching and learning: results show that 98% of head teachers and 99% of
         teachers felt that the instructional materials had contributed to improved teaching and learning.
    · Greater use of textbooks: 84% of teachers observed made use of textbooks in their lessons.
    · Increased reading in the classroom: In 1999 only 3% of classroom time involved reading
         compared with 46% in 2006.
    · Enhanced classroom use and group work: In live observations undertaken in 159 classes, 84%
         of teachers made use of textbooks in their lessons, while group-based reading activities were
         observed in 46% of lessons.
    · Pupils are able to read more on their own: Due to ability to take books home, more students
         are now able to engage in independent study including reading on their own.
    · Less use of rote blackboard instruction. More teachers are engaged in reading in class and
         facilitation of group work providing a student-centred classroom pedagogy and less rote learning.
         Also, group-based reading activities were observed in 46% of the lessons
    · Increased amount of homework: Before the instructional materials program only 54% of
         teachers gave homework to their students which involved using their textbooks at home. Since the
         national launch of the program there has been a dramatic shift in this practice ­ 98% of teachers
         reported that they now give homework assignments to students in upper primary which involves
         using of textbooks at home. Regarding lower primary 69% of teachers give homework
         assignments to students which involves using the textbooks at home.
    · Positive learning impact of homework: The results show that the use of textbooks in doing
         homework at home had a positive and significant impact on KCPE performance. This indicates
         that textbooks have greater impact on learning and KCPE performance when pupils are allowed to
         take them home for homework assignments.
    · Increased girls participation: 83% of HTs and 80% of teachers felt that the provision of
         instructional materials had contributed to increased girls enrolment.

3. Participation and ownership at the community level: Another important achievement of this
component has been the impetus on the government's policy of greater community participation in
education. The following are the key outcomes to support this objective:

    · More accountability and transparency: 93% of HTs and 85% of teachers felt that parents are
         demanding more accountability and transparency today as to how funds are used at the school
         compared with before FPE.




                                                       27

    · More teacher ownership in educational content: Teachers are deciding what books to buy and
         SIMSC members are making the final decisions.
    · Greater parental involvement in schools: 95% of HTs and 93% of teachers surveyed stated that
         meetings had been held with parents to inform them about the instructional materials program.
         The average number of meetings held with parents in 2005 was 2.4.

4. Enhanced partnerships with the private sector: The project has also effectively leveraged the private
sector in support of education. The following are the results to support this objective:

    · Greater competition among publishers and increased quality of books:                       The project
         accelerated the liberalization of the publishing industry resulting in more private sector publishers
         entering the market and a concurrent increase in the quality of materials.
    · Greater efficiency of disbursement through partnership with the banking sector: There is
         clear evidence that this partnership is working well with 100% of schools surveyed having an
         operational bank account. Moreover, there is evidence of banks fulfilling their obligations under
         this programme, with the finding that 47% of surveyed schools received a bank statement each
         month, while 27% received it quarterly. A further 15% received a statement annually, and 7%
         twice yearly.
    · Greater choice and better quality among book sellers: Head teachers have been very pleased
         with the open choice of bookseller and highlight competition among suppliers -- 39% of HTs had
         used two suppliers, 33% one and 23% three. There is however a tendency to stay with one
         supplier once chosen which questions the openness of the process once a supplier is entrenched.
         Across the sampled schools the average delivery time was 15 days, however, some schools had to
         wait between 60 and 90 days. Further, evidence of competency among local IM suppliers can be
         seen in the finding that 91% of HTs surveyed stated that their last two orders had been supplied
         correctly. There is also evidence that local suppliers are responsive to schools ­ 82% of HTs stated
         that local supplies had all the IMs they needed.

5. Improved School management and transparency: An additional outcome of the project has been an
increase in the management of the schools. The following are the results to support this outcome:
    · Improved management of the school: 97% of HTs and 98% of teachers felt that the IMP had
         improved management at the school.
    · Greater participation in management decisions: School management committees have been
         established in all schools with 12 individuals representing teachers and parents appointed.
         Meetings were held on demand, and attendance was 88%.
    · Greater accountability: Head teachers were tasked with ultimate accountability for finances.
         According to the survey, 74 % of the cash books were in good shape.
    · Greater transparency: The Head teachers have taken on the responsibility of publicly displaying
         their financial information as well as their results. In fact, 77% of HTs surveyed displayed the
         status of School IM funds in a public place.
Greater parent involvement: 100% of HTs and 91% of teachers surveyed agreed that the instructional
materials had contributed to greater awareness among parents about how the school is using government
funds sent to the school bank account.

Component 2: Capacity Building

The capacity building component of the project addressed the following areas:
    i)        Effective teaching and learning in schools
    ii)       Improved accounting system implemented in primary schools
    iii)      Education management information system implemented at district and HQ levels
    iv)       Preparation for STEPS completed

This component also addressed the provision of infrastructure under the partnership with the Arid Lands
project in the Presidency and Non-formal education in slum areas.




                                                      28

The following are the outputs and outcomes that have emerged from each of these sub-components:

Sub-component 1: Effective Teaching and Learning in schools. The project built upon a successful
DFID supported project called SPRED which provided self-paced video and audio distance in-service
training to subject matter teachers. The main focus of the training was to develop reflective teachers; shift
the pedagogy from teacher-centered to student-centered; and develop master teachers in the schools to train
others.   The FPESP project expanded the use of this methodology to extend teacher professional
development in the areas of guidance and counselling and Kiswahili. The project aimed to train one
teacher in each school in both areas or 36,000 teachers. As of the ICR mission around 22,000 teachers or
61% of the target teachers had received their certificate for completion of the 9 month course. The project
also supported the training of 18,000 head teachers in school management. At the time of the ICR mission,
the training was still ongoing for the head teachers.

The following are areas where this component has achieved a positive development impact:

1. Use of the instructional materials: Evidence indicates that the training has positively influenced the
use of textbooks in the classroom and new pedagogical practices. In the 2005 INSET study, 62% of
Standard 6 teachers made use of textbooks in their teaching and 34% used paired or group work in their
lessons. However, the most significant differences in classroom practices were demonstrated by the KRTs
who had received training under the INSET programme: 64% used paired or group work in their lessons
and 89% made use of textbooks in their teaching. Also overall, maintenance of the books has been good
with schools reporting a 3 to 4 year life-span.

2. New classroom configurations to support new pedagogies: In the 1999, most classrooms (97%) were
organized using a traditional classroom layout with desks in rows. Use of this rigid learning environment is
starting to change; in 48% of the observed lessons the teacher changed the classroom layout in order for
different kinds of learning tasks and different kinds of learning discussions to take place.

3. Positive impact on KCPE performance: Empirical results show that the number of KRTs in a school
as a proportion of total teachers has a positive and significant effect on student performance (as measured
by KCPE) and enrolment.

Sub-component 2: Improved accounting system implemented in primary schools. For this component,
around 17,200 head teachers have received training in financial management. Evidence of the success of
the training regarding the management of SIMBA accounts can be seen in the high level of knowledge
(73%) of the minimum balance required to keep an account open (KShs. 1000). One of the challenges
however for this component has been finding appropriate venues in the country for large scale training.

Sub-component 3: Education management information system implemented at district and HQ
levels. This component has not yet been fully implemented. Three phases were outlined for this sub-
component: development of a needs assessment, design of the system and procurement of goods for the
system. The assessment and design have been done, a consultant report has been finished and a workshop
implemented. The MOE is now in the process of procuring the goods for the system.

Sub-component 4: Preparation for STEPS completed. The STEPS project was replaced with the
Kenya Education Sector Support Program (KESSP) which has been fully developed with a PAD approved.

Sub-component 5: Special Program for Disadvantaged Groups. Two areas were covered under this
sub-component ­ grants to arid and semi-arid lands for school construction and grants to non-formal
schools. This sub-component was added after an amendment to the grant agreement and development of an
MOU with the Office of the President. Through collaboration with the Arid Lands Resource Management
Project, 15 districts benefited from construction of new classrooms. The one classroom that the ICR
mission visited was extremely well constructed but after a year began to show cracks due to a poor
foundation. The school learned from the experience and implemented supporting beams for the next
classroom that was constructed with parent donations.




                                                      29

The Ministry of Education estimates that there are approximately 300,000 children attending non-formal
education schools of which 80% are in Nairobi slums. Funds of Ksh29.6 million were distributed to 110
non-formal schools in urban slums for the purchase of instructional materials.

Cooperation across ministries was highlighted as a challenge in this component, but the fact that MOE
identified another group with more experience in local school construction improved the implementation of
the sub-component.

A number of other capacity building events have taken place as a result of the project. Below is a list of
other events in which Kenyan education authorities have participated:
    · Education tour to Malaysia by Senior Ministry officials
    · WBI Education Reform course in Washington in 2004 in which 5 officers attended
    · WBI Education Reform course in Washington in 2006 in which 5 officers attended
    · NFE Adult Education Conference in Botswana
    · PETS course in Cambodia
    · Multigrade teaching course in Kampala
    · WBI Education Reform Core Course in Mombasa
    · Financial Management Course in Malawi
    · Procurement Course in Mombassa
    · Governance, Accountability and Resource Leakage in Education course in Naivasha ­ May 2006
    · WBI Decentralization course for 76 DEOs, MEOs, and 8 PDEs in June 2006
    · WBI contextualized reform course for MOE IP managers ­ November 2005

Component 3: Monitoring and Evaluation.

This component has three sub-components:
              i)        Monitoring;
              ii)       Evaluation;
              iii)      External audit.

Two studies under this component ­ the Baseline Survey on Learning Achievement and Client Satisfaction
Survey have been completed and have addressed the issues of baseline data and impact of the project to
date. In addition an expenditure tracking survey was completed as well as an annual external audit of the
project conducted by Ernst and Young.

Areas of improvement:

The following suggested areas of improvement have been identified for each of the components:

Component 1: Instructional Materials
    · Better upstream feedback mechanisms should be put in place to understand the demands at the
         school level. For instance, a number of schools highlighted that they would like to purchase books
         not listed in the orange book and have not way to provide this feedback.
    · Storage facilities could be improved ­ only 50% of schools have good storage facilities.
    · While survey data reveals that schools are assigning homework, the impact of this homework is in
         doubt with a 3:1 pupil to textbook ratio as not all students have access every night to all 6 required
         textbooks.
    · Overcrowding of classrooms and high student to teacher ratios were cited in many schools.
    · Procurement process at school level. Most give 5% discount and discount on stationary seems to
         be the deciding cost factor. Most schools stay with supplier if they are happy.

Component 2: Capacity Building
    · More in-service training. Teachers at many of the schools visited cited the lack of training
         opportunities as an issue.




                                                     30

  · Clearer link to career progression. A better incentive structure could be implemented in the
     training activities to link professional development with annual reviews and promotions.
  · In Kajiado, the Arid Lands person indicated that 300K shillings was not enough for a classroom
     and that cost was more like 450K. Furniture was 75K where 30K was given. Explanation given
     that community was expected to contribute their share to make up the difference (around 30%).
     At Oloirimirimi Primary school they spent 700K for parent built school. Contractor took 4-5
     months and local person took 3 months ­ issue of identifying licensed contractor.
  · Better and more frequent supervision needed from the Ministry of Works for the school
     construction.
  · Commercial Banks indicated that they could support FM training at local level.

Component 3: Monitoring and Evaluation
  · The original baseline data was lacking for the project which resulted in an assumption that all
     schools should be treated equally. For the future disbursement of resources for instructional
     materials, the schools existing stock of books should be a criteria.
  · A national database of textbooks should be established to better handle the needs and existing
     stocks at the school level.
  · As 76% of schools have access to a cell phone, greater use of the SMS-text based communication
     could be used as well as pilots on use of cell phones as data collection devices.




                                                   31

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

For analytical purposes, Project efficiency is defined as improvements in service delivery through quicker
transfer of resources from MoE to decision-making nodes, in this case, primary schools. The analysis also
includes a cost-effectiveness assessment which brings together the costs and benefits of the Project, and
provides the arguments for how the FPESP was a cost effective approach.

Background. In July, 2003 the Ministry of Education (MoE) launched a bold new national program, called
the Primary Schools Instructional Materials Programme (IMP) to deliver quality instructional materials to
primary schools throughout Kenya. To complement the IMP the MoE also expanded the national In-service
Teacher Training (INSET) program (started in 2002) in order to strengthen the capacity of teachers to
effectively use the new school textbooks in the classroom. At the time there was a crisis in the primary
education sector as a result of the Free Primary Education (FPE) policy which triggered an immediate
withdrawal of funding for textbooks provided by parents. MoE sought World Bank assistance to provide
assistance for burgeoning enrolments.

         The Free Primary Education Support Project (FPESP) embodies the decentralization principles of
financial control and accountability to public primary schools. Non-formal schools did not benefit from the
project until they had put in place accounting systems. At the outset the Project Appraisal Document (PAD)
specified that unit disbursements per school-child varied from one disbursement to another. Variations in
the disbursements of funds over time were expected under the project due to variations in curriculum needs
and the durability of different elements in the package of instructional materials. During the course of
project implementation, a Public Expenditure Tracking Survey (PETS) was undertaken from September
2004 to August 2005). The objective was to check in detail progress on disbursements. Results showed that
overall the funds had flowed efficiently and that the funds were utilized for intended purposes. Weaknesses
identified were that (i) initially it was not possible for schools to receive funds within the targeted period of
four weeks. However, through the Electronic Funds Transfer, funds reached primary schools within the
target period; (ii) some disbursement schedules prepared by the MoE Textbook Management Unit included
a few schools without bank account numbers, causing accounting and bank reconciliation difficulties.
These issues were addressed by the Ministry of Education (MOE), which conducted a further monitoring
exercise in October 2005 (324 schools were inspected in detail); and (iii) some loss of textbooks due to
improper security/storage of books and theft was reported. The magnitude of the loss, however, was not
significant to reduce the benefits of textbook support to primary school students.

         The findings of a report entitled "Delivering Quality and Improving Access to Primary Education:
An impact evaluation of Instructional Materials and In-service Teacher Training Programmes" also
revealed the positive aspects of FPESP.

         DIR review findings were that "(the) Free Primary Education Support Project (FPESP) achieved a
satisfactory level of accountability from local communities to the national ministry which contributed to the
proper use of funds under FPESP. The key elements were the transparent provision of comprehensive
information, the use of efficient systems for flow of funds and strong local accountability mechanisms...
Timely and agreed amounts of disbursements to schools based on required MOE documents that were
confirmed during final project supervision in October 2006. Targets of 97% of schools receiving funds in
the bank accounts without problems."

         Overall, from a beneficiaries perspective, FPESP contributed to improving student retention,
attendance, and learning achievement.

Computing Unit Costs

         The cost of constructing classrooms has been excluded from the analysis. The reason being that
the PESP support was predominantly for teaching and learning materials and for institutional capacity
development (school-based development and support, school accounting system, education management



                                                        32

information system (EMIS), and system design and program preparation). In order to keep the cost
calculation simple, omitting the investment cost helps to isolate the recurrent costs (for school-based
teacher development and support, and for teaching and learning materials). Arguably there are development
and construction costs involved in the context of the introduction of FPE. The magnitude of the total
investment cost through FPESP included the following areas:

         Teacher in-service training. As of project closing in June 2007, 69,000 out of 72,000 teachers had
received training, with training for the remaining being underway, and 18,000 Head Teachers had received
training in system management. The total cost of training the teachers is estimated at Kshs.123.5 million
(US$1.9 million). The calculation yields the unit cost of in-service training in the use of new TLM for a
teacher to be Kshs.1,372 (approximately US$21). The cost of training teachers is not annualized and the
opportunity cost of investing in teacher training has not been factored into the calculation.

         School accounting system was introduced in about 18,000 primary schools at an investment cost of
Kshs.65 million (US$1.0 million). The unit cost is Kshs.3,611 (US$56). The cost of amortization over a
period of time and the opportunity cost of investing in the system have not been factored into the
calculation.

         Education Management Information System (EMIS) in 71 districts was introduced at an
investment of Kshs.162.5 million (US$2.5 million). The unit cost is Kshs.228,873 (US$3,521). The cost of
amortization over a period of time and the opportunity cost of investing in the system have not been
factored into the calculation.

         System design and program preparation investment cost of Kshs.136.5 million (US$2.1 million)
was incurred. Since the entire primary education system benefited from the investment, it is difficult to
identify the number of beneficiaries. Furthermore, calculating the unit cost after factoring amortization over
a period of time and the opportunity cost of investing in the system is also difficult to specify.

         Since school accounting systems, the EMIS and the system design and program preparation
support have systemic spillover benefits beyond the life of FPESP, these investments will not be factored
into the aggregation of unit costs for FPESP. The focus is on the unit cost of teaching and learning
materials which constituted the bulk of the investment cost for FPESP.

         Teaching and Learning Materials (TLM). The unit procurement cost of teaching and learning
materials (TLM) remained essentially the same, pre-FPE and after FPESP became operational. The unit
procurement cost of TLM was Kshs.207 pre-FPE. The per pupil cost of TLM package before FPE
constituted was Kshs.1,604. Since households bought and owned the books, textbooks replacement cost
was not an issue for GoK.

         The announcement of FPE brought about an increase in unit procurement cost from Kshs.207 to
Kshs.337 due to the introduction of supplementary readers under the new curriculum, but an overall
lowering of per pupil cost of TLM from Kshs.1,604 to Kshs.835. This was due in large part to: (i) a per
pupil subsidy was introduced by Government of Kenya (GoK) in the amount of Kshs.1,020 (approximately
US$16 per pupil) which included 64% or Kshs.650 (approximately US$10) for TLM alone; and (ii) a
number of reforms directly linked to TLM which reduced the TLM unit procurement cost and per pupil
cost:
    · A shift in the ownership of TLM from parents to schools: Schools began to procure textbooks,
         own them and loaned them to students. Replacement became a factor in the budget since schools
         had to pay for them.
    · Rationalization of the cost of TLM: Efficiency measures comprised:
         (i)    Reduction in the number of textbooks from 13 to 6 following the review and introduction of
                the new curriculum;
         (ii)   Introduction of a new evaluation and approval system through the FPESP. One element
                which affected the price of TLM was the introduction of intense price pressure with 30% of
                bidding marks was awarded for price alone. So publishers could not easily get on the
                approved list (Orange Book); and



                                                      33

         (iii)  Introduction of the principle of fixed prices irrespective of distance which was also
                introduced with FPESP.         Prior to this bookseller could increase prices taking into
                consideration the distance from point of production to delivery points. The code of conduct
                included in the Orange book specified that publishers and booksellers had to supply books
                at the orange book price or less through discounts, but not more.
The factors above have been taken into consideration in computing the unit cost of TLM and the per pupil
cost of TLM (Table 1). In addition, the recurrent cost implications for reaching the MoE target of 3 pupils
to a textbook (3:1) for lower primary and two pupils to a textbook (2:1) for upper primary schools, and the
life span of TLM have also been factored into the unit cost calculations (Table 1).

                 Table 1. Unit Cost Analysis with and without FPE and FPESP (Kshs.)

                                                 Without FPE and             With FPE and
                                                      FPESP                      FPESP
                                                 Unit     Per Pupil         Unit      Per Pupil
              Tuition item                      Cost of     Cost of        Cost of     Cost of     Difference
                                              TLM per        TLM          TLM per       TLM
                                              academic      package       academic     package
                                                 year         per           year         per
                                                           academic                   academic
                                                              year                       year
                     A                             b            c            d            e          (f=c-d)
 Textbooks1                                         77.0      1,001.0          77.0       462.0
 Exercise books2                                    15.0        150.0          15.0         90.0
 Teachers' guides3                                   7.0          91.0          7.0         42.0
 Supplementary Readers and Reference                 0.0           0.0       130.0        130.0
 Materials4
 Pencils5                                           19.0          57.0         19.0         57.0
 Dusters, Chalk, Registers6                         22.0          22.0         22.0         22.0
 Charts and Wall Maps7                              74.0          74.0         74.0         74.0
 Levy for examination                                           300.0                        0.0
                       Total for Tuition8          214.0      1,695.0        344.0        877.0          818.0
                     FPE tuition subsidy                                                  650.0
   FPE household contribution (Kshs.)                         1,695.0                     185.0
    FPE household contribution (US$)9                              26                          3
     Source: Ministry of Education, Kenya. 2007, and ICR mission computations.
     Notes:
     10. Textbooks: pre-FPE 13 books per pupil; post-FPE 6 textbooks per pupil. Unit cost is based on
         Kshs.300 per textbook shared by 3 pupils.
     11. Exercise books assumed to be 1 book per subject.
     12. Teachers' guides are the average of lower (Kshs.8) and upper primary (Kshs.6) costs.
     13. Supplementary readers: 1 supplementary reader per student.
     14. Pencils: 1 per term per pupil.
     15. Dusters, chalk, registers: unit cost is based upon total cost of supply divided by 40 pupils per class.
     16. Charts and Walk Maps: unit cost is based upon total cost of supply divided by 40 pupils per class.
     17. Unit cost for both pre-FPE and after FPE was introduced is annualized.
     18. For the purpose of calculating the exchange, it is assumed that US$1 = Kshs.65.

Column c in Table 1 shows the notional calculation of what it would have cost parents to purchase the
minimum TLM required in order to send their children to primary school. The introduction of FPE and the
tuition subsidy enabled children to have the minimum required since parental contribution was dramatically
reduced by almost 88%.




                                                       34

          Assuming that the GoK continues to supply TLM to all primary school children through the FPE
subsidy, books with the Project were less expensive than textbooks without FPESP. This is due to the
strategy adopted under FPESP to reduce the range of books developed and the prices.

Computing the benefits


          The FPE policy support by the Project was expected to provide economic benefits in two areas: (i)
providing the basis for poverty reduction, overall human capital development, and contributing to
accelerated economic growth; and (ii) rationalization of public expenditures. The first objective was
achieved since the household out of pocket expense for primary education was high prior to the
introduction of FPE. This was a key factor responsible for the deterioration of education sector
performance and was further reflected in declining enrolment ratios and poor quality education. With the
introduction of FPE in 2003 and up until 2006, primary school enrolments increased from about 5.7 million
to 7.2 million in 2006.

          The benefits of the teaching and learning materials program under FPESP had a very important
poverty dimension. For the first time since the introduction of user fees in the late 1980s children from poor
families began to have equal access to learning materials in the classroom as well as at home. As a
consequence, student retention and attendance improved, and repetition and dropout rates declined, and
student learning improved. Pupil to textbook ratios now range between 2:1 to 6:1 in lower primary (3:1
target), and 2:1 to 4:1 (target 2:1) in upper primary.

          Student Achievement. The most compelling evidence emerging from the impact evaluation study is
the finding that the teaching and learning materials and in-service training programmes had the greatest
positive impact as measured by KCPE performance, on students living in the poorest districts across Kenya.
Children from middle-income families also benefited (Chart 1).


                                  Chart 1: Trend in KCPEperformance by poverty band


                                    255


                                    250


                                    245


                                    240


                                    235


                                    230


                                    225


                                    220


                                     215
                                           2000          2001         2002         2003           2004          2005

                      Low Pvty index      226.7292     241.7878     242.0966      243.0203       241.044       239.6898

                      M edium Pvty Index  237.9557     241.9219     244.6848      242.4243      243.1409       245.3202

                      High Pvty Index     232.846       239.02      245.7638      244.7167      249.7286       248.9878

                                                                             Y ear



     Source: "Delivering quality and improving access primary education: An impact evaluation of the Instructional
     Materials and In-service Teacher Training Programmes." Research Report 1 for the Ministry of Education, 2nd Draft,
     pp. 64, October 9th 2006.




                                                               35

          Results of the KCPE at the end of academic year 2006 showed, using 2003 KCPE results as a
baseline, the impact evaluation research team found that KCPE scores of children from schools in the
poorest districts increased by 1.75% between 2003 and 2005. Children from middle-income socioeconomic
districts were also found to have performed better albeit by a smaller amount at 1.2%. Children living in
better off districts showed a decline in KCPE scores of about -1.4%. Students from the North Eastern
Province which historically registered poor performance in KCPE results also showed some improvement
(Table 3) after the introduction of the FPE policy supported by the FPESP. By 2006 three out of four
(Garissa, Wajir, Mandera and Ijara) districts in North Eastern Province registered improved KCPE scores.

                    Table 3. KCPE Trends in the four North Eastern Province Districts

                          Year             Garissa            Wajir            Mandera     Ijara
                          2002             153.54             137.44            129.95    142.81
                          2003             141.55             136.39            134.79    144.66
                          2006             156.66             178.92            181.69    102.76
                      Source: Kenya National Examinations Council (KNEC), 2007.


          Internal Efficiency gains can be attributed to the regular provision of learning materials in the
classroom. Efficiency gains also led to reduction in repetition and dropout rates. Cost savings are associated
with decline in repetition and dropout rates. The wider use of learning materials through FPESP led to
reduction in repetition rate from 7.45% in 2002 to 6.7% in 2005, and reduction in dropout rate from 2% in
academic year 2003 to 1.5% in 2006. Primary completion rate improved from an estimated 68.2% to 77.6%
in 2006.

Cost-effectiveness Analysis

          The cost-effectiveness analysis for the Project builds on three aspects: the unit cost calculations
above, the efficiency gains in the wider use of new teaching and learning materials, and the results of the
end-Project student KCPE performance which are is used as the indicator for assessing improved learning
achievement at the primary education level. The elements of the cost-effectiveness analysis are summarized
in Table 3 below.

                       Table 3. Costs and Benefits of Providing Learning Materials

                                                                   Without FPESP       With FPESP
                                                                       2003               2006
             Per pupil cost of TLM (Kshs.)                            1,695.0            877.0
             Benefits
              Student Flow
                Mean repetition rate (highest poverty                     9.2 (2002)       7.7 (2005)
                    band)
                % of dropouts                                            2.0              1.5
                % completers                                            68.2              77.6
             KCPE Avg. countrywide performance                        171.16            189.93

            Source : ICR mission computations.


          The per pupil cost of teaching and learning materials without the project was considerably higher
than with the project by about 93 percent. The student success rate was about 11 percent more among
primary school students after the project than before the project. For unit cost to offset efficiency gains in
terms of reduced repetition rate and dropout rate will need to be factored in. When cost, qualitative aspects
(gains in test scores) and efficiency considerations (decline in repetition and dropout rates) are combined,
with the Project is more cost-effective than without the Project.




                                                          36

         Cost-effectiveness can best be analyzed by computing the total unit cost of a student completing
the primary education cycle. However, the FPESP investments benefited both students and the system as a
whole. It is difficult to amortize the systemic costs and to factor the opportunity cost to arrive at the unit
cost with FPESP.

Conclusion

         There is Government and donor commitment to financing teaching and learning materials in all
classrooms at primary education level in Kenya. This is currently ongoing through the Kenya Education
Sector Support Project (KESSP). Kenya is in the process of putting in place reforms at all levels of
education. The financial sustainability of teaching and learning materials investment program needs to be
further evaluated in the context of the KESSP.




                                                     37

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

           Names                           Title             Unit    Responsibility/
                                                                        Specialty
Lending
Michael Mills             Lead Economist                    ECSHD Team Leader
Donald Hamilton           Sr. Education Planner             AFTH1 Team member
Laura Kiang               Operations Officer                SASHD Team member
Dandan Chen               Economist                         AFTH1 Team member
James Kamunge             Education Consultant              AFTH1 Team member
Dahir Elmi Warsame        Procurement Specialist            AFTPC Team member
John Nyanga               Sr. Financial Management Specia   AFTFM Team member
Pascale H. Dubois         Sr. Counsel                       LEGAF Team member
Mohammad Nawaz            Counsel                           LEGAF Team member
Hyacinth Brown            Sr. Finance Officer               LOAG2 Team member
Modupe A. Adebowale       Sr. Finance Officer               LOAG2 Team member
Margaret Olale            Disbursements Assistant           AFC05 Team member
Marlaine Lockheed                                           WBIEG Peer Reviewer
Alfonso de Guzman                                           EASHD Peer Reviewer
Surendra K. Agarwal       Lead Specialist                         Team member
Tony Read                 Textbook Consultant                     Team member
Kevin Brown               Management Consultant                   Team member
Debbie Peterson           Program Assistant                 AFTH1 Team member
Caroline Kidiavayi        Program Assistant                 AFC05 Team member

Supervision/ICR
Michael Mills             Lead Economist                    AFTH1 Team Leader
James M. Kamunge          Consultant                        AFCE2 Team member
Laura M. Kiang            Operations Officer                SASHD Team member
Josephine Lutta Kiyenje   Consultant                        AFCE2 Team member
Monica Wachera Ndungu     Temporary                         AFCE3 Team member
Monica Gathoni Okwirry    Program Assistant                 AFCE2 Team member
Andrew Sunil Rajkumar     Economist                         AFTH3 Team member
Dahir Elmi Warsame        Sr Procurement Spec.              AFTPC Team member
Moses Sabuni Wasike       Sr Financial Management Specia    AFTFM Team member
Shobhana Sosale           Education Economist               AFTH1 ICR Team Leader
Robert J. Hawkins         Sr. Operations Officer            WBIHD ICR Primary Author




                                            38

(b) Staff Time and Cost



                                     Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                 No. of staff weeks       USD Thousands (including
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                   35                          215.34
  FY04                                                                 0.00
  FY05                                                                 0.00
  FY06                                                                 0.00
  FY07                                                                 0.00

                         Total:          35                          215.34
Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                                                 0.00
  FY04                                   36                          191.03
  FY05                                   39                           69.26
  FY06                                   24                           60.36
  FY07                                   12                           57.22

                         Total:        111                           377.87




                                     39

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

N/A




                                    40

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

N/A




                                  41

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

INTRODUCTION. In January 2003, the Government of Kenya (GoK) introduced Free Primary Education
(FPE) Programme. This was implemented through per capita grants through electronic transfer of funds.
Each school was required to open two accounts, School Instructional Materials Bank Account (SIMBA)
and General Purpose Account (GPA). The School Instructional Materials and the School Management
Committees were required to manage financial and procurement process.

The introduction of the FPE initiative provided an opportunity to the World Bank to resume program
support to Kenya. The World Bank, therefore, came in to support the programme through a grant under the
Free Primary Education Support Project (FPESP).

(a)      PROJECT OBJECTIVE. The project objective was to improve pupil performance and retention
through ensuring supply and better use of Instructional Materials. The project provided an initial support to
the Government to deal with the financial and capacity challenges created by the initiative.

(b)      PERFORMANCE INDICATORS. The project's performance indicators and targets were:

    An increase by June 2006 in the proportion of children reaching desired standards of achievements (in
    English, Kiswahili, Mathematics and Science in standards 2, 4 and 6), disaggregated by province,
    gender, urban/rural and intra rural.
    An increase in the proportion of local management committees and parents and children, rating their
    school as satisfactory or above for the learning process by June 2006.
    A reduction in drop out rates at all standards by June 2006.
    The completion of a plan for follow up project to strengthen the education sector, using studies and
    training provided, approved by the Permanent Secretary Ministry of Education and addressing the
    concerns of key stakeholders.


(c)      PROJECT COMPONENTS. Below are the project components and sub-components for FPESP.


  NO      COMPONENTS                       ACTIVITIES                                           ESTIMATED
                                                                                                EXPENDITURES
  1       Instructional Materials          Per Capita grants earmarked for the Procurement             46.5m
                                           of Instructional Materials
  2       Capacity building                 (a) SbTD ­ Training of key resource teachers               7.5m
                                                (KRTs) to enhance curriculum delivery. It
                                                targeted 36,000 of whom 18,000 KRTs in
                                                Kiswahili, 18,000 KRTs in Guidance and
                                                Counselling and TAC tutors.
                                            (b) School Accounting System. Financial
                                                Management Training for school audit, field
                                                officers and primary school heads.
                                            (c) Education Management Information System
                                                (EMIS). Technical assistance for EMIS.
                                                Needs design and installation of the network.
                                                Training user's and procurement of
                                                equipment (both software and hardware)
                                            (d) System design and programme preparation.
                                                Management capacity, developing future sub-
                                                programmes including studies and support
                                                to disadvantaged children.

  3       Monitoring and Evaluation            Surveys and reports                                     1.0 m




                                                      42

(d)       ASPECTS OF EACH COMPONENT


COMPONENT 1:                INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS

This component entailed provision of grants to all public primary and non formal schools in urban slums.
These grants were designed to procure Instructional Materials. This component of the project was a major
component of the Free Primary Education Programme of the Ministry and continued even after the grants
from the project were exhausted.

ACHIEVEMENTS

1.        There has been improved provision and availability of text books, teacher support materials,
reference books and supplementary readers and stationery. The project targeted the achievement of 2:1 in
upper primary and 3:1 in lower primary. Although there is isolated variation in pupil book ratios, the
targets have been achieved in general between 3:1 to 2:1 in upper primary while in lower is between 5:1 to
3:1. In isolated cases in some subjects the ratio has reached 1:1 in upper primary.

The implementation of this component has strengthened the system of disbursement of grants to Schools,
Procurement, Utilization and Management.              The decentralization Of Procurement and Financial
Management has led to an efficient system of overall accountability. The text book market was also
liberalized and strengthening book markets in local areas.

With the increased pupil - book ratio, the quality of education as evidenced through steady rising KCPE
performance.     Through this component, learners in non-formal education also accessed grants for
Instructional Materials. There is evidence of utilization of materials by learners as well as teachers. This is
attested in the baseline survey on learning achievements and client satisfaction survey reports.

                          Table. Text Book Pupil Ratio by Subject and Standard

 Standard      English       Mathematics      Science    Kiswahili     Social     RE    average
                                                                       Studies
      1           1:2              1:3            1:3        1:3         1:3       1:6      1:3

      2           1:2              1:2            1:3        1:3         1:3       1:6      1:3

      3           1:2              1:3            1:3        1:3         1:3       1:5      1:3

      4           1:2              1:2            1:2        1:3         1:3       1:4      1:3

      5           1:2              1:2            1:2        1:2         1:2       1:4      1:3

      6           1:2              1:2            1:2        1:2         1:2       1:4      1:2

      7           1:2              1:2            1:2        1:2         1:2       1:5      1:2

      8           1:2              1:2            1:2        1:2         1:3       1:4      1:3

    Total         1:2              1:2            1:3        1:2         1:3       1:5      1:3

   Lower          1:2              1:3            1:3        1:2         1:3       1:5      1:3

   Upper          1:2              1:2            1:2        1:2         1:2       1:6      1:3

Source: TMU Monitoring Report, November/December, 2006.


EFFICIENCY. Initially, it was not possible for schools to receive funds within the targeted period of four
weeks. However, through the Electronic Frauds Transfer, funds reach school within the target period.

RISKS. Some of the risks facing this component were the tear and wear of books. The Government
ensured that schools established storage facilities to reduce the tear and wear of books. The other was loss
of books. Most schools have a policy of replacement of lost books.


                                                       43

CHALLENGES. During the implementation, a few schools did not receive funds in time either due to
wrong bank accounts or closed accounts.

The provision of Instructional Materials was faced with the challenges of storage, wear and tear. The
Government has continued to provide grants which are used to replace torn books and improve the ratio.
On storage, the Government provided grants to enhance security and storage of materials.

COMPONENT 2: CAPACITY BUILDING

(a) SCHOOL BASED TEACHER DEVELOPMENT (SbTD)

The main objective of SbTD was to improve the quality of teaching and learning in primary schools.
Implementation of the School Based Teacher Development was through scaling up of the existing
programme through the development of Kiswahili and Guidance and Counselling modules. The earlier
programme focused on in-servicing teachers in English, Science and Mathematics. The target of the SbTD
extension was 18,000 KRTs in Kiswahili and 18,000 in Guidance and Counselling.

CHALLENGES. Recruitment of the KRTs was not 100% as expected because some teachers did not see
immediate gains for the course. Moreover, Kiswahili module was not popular in some areas of the country.

(b)       SCHOOL EMPOWERMENT PROGRAMME (SEP)

This programme was a school initiative that adopted an integrated approach to school development. Unlike
the SbTD, SEP was being delivered through print and ICT (audio visual materials). The programme was
targeted to 18,000 KRTs and head teachers. The roll out of this programme was not as effective as
expected. This was because Head Teachers felt they had a lot of work to do. Lack of adequate support
from TAC tutors (whose numbers have been dwindling) was one reason. The absence of ICT facilities was
also a challenge. Overall reaction to INSET was that, there was no promotional potential it provided to
those who undertake programmes. Some innovations will have to be designed as KESSP is being
implemented.

Both SbTD and SEP were supported by DFID and FPESP. As at the close of the project, out of the
targeted 36,000 KRTs under SbTD, 24,000 had received their certificates. This is because some Districts
had not submitted their returns. The SEP programme has not been implemented very well. This is because
most head teachers complained that they were very busy in administering FPE and had doubts as to the
utility value of the certificates for promotional purposes.

(2)       SCHOOL ACCOUNTING SYSTEM (FMS)

The main focus of this sub-component was to build capacity for financial management. The ministry
contracted the services of a consultant to undertake Financial Management support and Expenditure
Tracking Study. Through the support a uniform accounting system was rolled out over the country. The
focus was to train head teachers and MoE technical staff on basic accounting and recording to ensure that
funds were directed to the intended purposes. Through the support over 1,600 key personnel, 17,500
primary school Head Teachers and 600 peer teachers were trained.

The Expenditure Tracking Study was undertaken and indicated that funds flowed efficiently and were
utilized for intended purposes.

The main challenge is for MoE to undertake an audit to gauge the impact of Financial Management Support.




                                                      44

(3)       EDUCATION MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM (EMIS)

This component has faced many challenges. The data capture from schools has been manual and takes a
long time. The analysis of data equally takes long due to the amount of data collected.

EMIS SUPPORT

MoE contracted a consultant to undertake an EMIS needs, design and implementation study. Following
the needs assessment and design the procurement of goods and services commenced. The procurement of
goods and services lots 1-10 was completed.

There are issues of training and management framework that must be in place to have a fully functional
EMIS. Once operational, MOE will update data and information regularly.

(4)       GRANTS TO DISADVANTAGED GROUPS

(a)       GRANTS TO NON-FORMAL SCHOOLS

During the life of the project 166 schools in Nairobi slums received grants for the procurement of
instructional materials. The target schools were not beneficiaries of grants available to public primary
schools since the inception of Free Primary Schools education as it took time to ensure accounting systems
are in place. A lot of work has been done to prepare for the scaling up the support to non-formal schools in
other areas of the country.

The main challenge has been the difficulty in differentiating public and private non formal schools and
ensuring that they are duly registered. The other challenge has been the multiplicity of registration
authorities.

(b)       GRANTS TO ASALS

The ministry signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the office of the President (ALRMP) to
implement this sub-component.       The programme targeted 15 ASLAL districts not benefiting from
resources from other Development Partners.

The implementation of the programme has led to the construction of classrooms, provision of water and
furniture to targeted schools.

Component 3: MONITORING AND EVALUATION

This component has three sub-components namely, monitoring, evaluation and external audit.

a)        MONITORING

Under this sub-component two surveys were conducted. The client satisfaction survey and baseline survey
on learning achievement were completed and pointed out positive outcomes and made recommendations
for follow-up actions.    In addition, every year the School Instructional Materials Management Unit
(SIMMU) undertakes monitoring in sample schools. The funding informs the ministry on areas to focus in
strengthening the system.

One of the key challenges is the lack of mechanisms to utilize the findings of studies and reports and the
time it takes to have monitoring reports ready for consumption.

(b)       EVALUATION could not be undertaken due to delays in procurement.




                                                     45

(C)      EXTERNAL AUDIT

The Ministry contracted the services of a consultant to undertake audit for three years. For each of the
three years the external auditor audited the project, and presented the findings and recommendations. One
of the key issues is that follow up is limited due to capacity problems with the Quality Assurance
Directorate and the School Audit Unit. The use of the findings would go along way in ensuring that the
findings do not recur.

The other key issue that faced the programme is staff turnover due to attrition at both Headquarters and
primary school levels.

PROCUREMENT OF GOODS AND SERVICES

The procurement of goods, works and services for the Project was generally very slow.                 At the
commencement of the Project there was no Procurement Department in Government Ministries. However,
with the support of Technical Assistance and support from the World Bank Country Office staff
procurement was carried out. The number of contracts that had not been concluded before the expiry of the
project were three. These were:

1.            End of Project Evaluation.
2.            Study of the provision of Instructional Materials in Secondary Education. And
3.            Procurement Monitoring Agent.

As indicated above, there have been serious challenges in procurement capacity and lack of adequate
knowledge on IDA Procurement requirements.            The status of procurement is as per the attached
procurement monitoring tables.

(2)      ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME OF THE OPERATIONS AGAINST OBJECTIVES (Data on
Key Performance Indicators in Results Framework for FPESP)

Key Performance Indicators
Activities                                       Frequency                    Data source

(a) Learning Achievement                         June 2006                    Baseline survey in learning
    Mean score for std 2 ­ 60%                                                achievement (2000)
    Mean score for std 4 -- 49%
    Mean score for std 6 -- 49%
(b) Client Satisfaction                          30th December 2005           Client Satisfaction Survey
Levels of satisfaction on quality of teaching
and learning
      Parents ­ 15.0%
      SMCs      -- 27.2%
      Children -- 82.8%

(c) Drop outs
    2005            849
    2004            958
    2003            953
    2002            997
Instructional Materials                          Annual                       MOE statistics

(a) Textbook Pupil Ratio upper primary 1:2
lower primary 1:3
(b) 96.2% of pupils use instructional            December 2005                Client satisfaction survey
materials provided by the teachers according
to the 2006 client satisfaction survey.



                                                      46

Capacity Building                                Daily                        2005 Client satisfaction
51.5% of teachers use instructional materials
as set out in the inspectors Handbook.
         000 key Resource Teachers went
         through SbTD core module.
         18,000 specialised in guidance and
         counselling
         18,000 specialised in Kiswahili
         module
         Cluster meetings of KRTs have been      Every school term            Minutes of TAC Tutors
         taking place although on an irregular
         basis.
         75.1% of school management                                           Client Satisfaction
         committees were confident that
         school finances are well managed.
         All primary schools produce returns     Monthly                      Schools instructional materials
         on FPE funds on monthly basis.                                       management unit.


3. ASSESSMENT INFORMATION ON ECONOMIC FINANCIAL, SOCIAL, INSTITUTIONAL AND
ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS IN WHICH FPESP WAS IMPLEMENTED

Prior to the implementation of Free Primary Education Programme in 2003, the country had undergone
decades of weak economic growth, low productivity and high unemployment rates.               The GDP rate
averaged 2% over the period and was moving towards negative growth as the country approached national
elections. In June 2003, the government published the Economic Recovery Strategy (ERS) paper that has
guided the major reforms undertaken over the period 2003-2007. The ERS was to restore economic growth
within a sustainable framework of low inflations, declining fiscal imbalances, declining net domestic
borrowing and health balance of payments. The economy has since then registered a growth of 7.1%. The
poor performance of the economy was manifested by low enrolment rates, low transition rates, high drop
out and completion rates especially among girls and children from poor households. Poor economic
performance also led to rising poverty levels which in turn impacted negatively on key education indicators.
It was estimated that the proportion of the population that lived in poverty rose from 48.8 percent in 1990
to 56.8 percent in 2004. However, there has been a drop in the proportion of population living in poverty to
47% in 2007.

A key objective of the government in promoting equity and socio economic development was the putting in
place of strategies for leveling the playing field for all Kenyans. The objective was to increase access to
socio-economic opportunities for all, especially the vulnerable, marginalised and disadvantaged groups
through employment, empowerment and through improving access affordability and quality of social status.

To increase access to quality and affordable basic education the government implemented Free Primary
Education Program in 2003 which led to an increase in enrolment from 5.9 m in 2002 to 8 million.
Children who were formerly out of school have joined primary education under the initiative.

Prior to the implementation of Free Primary Education Programme, Education was more or less centrally
managed from MoE Headquarters. A number of reforms have since been instituted in the education sector.
These include the decentralization of procurement and financial management services to the school level,
strengthening of governance and accountability through capacity building of education managers, adoption
of the SWAP process, the development of a policy document on Education Training and Research--The
Sessional Paper No. 1 of 2005 which was operationalized by the Kenya Education Sector Support
Programme document.




                                                      47

4.        BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE

At project preparation, the Borrower had already commenced implementing Free Primary Education. The
World Bank was keen to support the Government in its initiative quickly. Consequently, the design of the
Project appears to have been hurried and was confined to limited MoE Personnel. The implementing levels
were not therefore, involved in the preparation of the project. As stated earlier, the Government did not
have the services of procurement officers, and the capacity for use of ICT was limited.

During implementation, Project components and related activities were spread across the MoE departments.
Essentially, the project was mainstreamed.

The implementation of FPESP has led to a number of lessons which could be useful for the implementation
of KESSP. Key among them are:
(i)       The need to have adequate procurement capacity.
(ii)      Financial management capacity.
(iii)     EMIS capacity.
(iv)      Involvement of implementing levels in programme design.
(v)       Mainstreaming project activities is better than having PIU's.
(vi)      Capacity for monitoring and evaluation.
(vii)     Structures for consumption of M & E findings and recommendations.

5.        BANK'S PERFORMANCE

During project preparation and implementation World Bank staff concentrated on technical areas of design.
These include, Guiding on Procurement Planning, Financial Management Reporting and Procurement
process. The support from the World Bank in capacity building was valuable to project implementation.
Key areas of support were: (a) Procurement, planning and implementation and reporting; (b) Capacity
building in financial management reporting; (c) Informal guidance; and (d) Timely feed back and granting
of no objections.

FUTURE ARRANGEMENTS FOR SUSTAINING GAINS. (i) Strengthening EMIS system; (ii)
Conducting PETS regularly; (iii) Evaluating the NFE programme; (iv) Developing an M & E plan; (v)
Strengthening procurement capacity; (vi) Revitalising primary INSET; and (vii) Establishing mechanisms
to utilize findings and recommendations of surveys and studies.




                                                      48

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Comments from DFID as excerpted from "KENYA: SPRED IMPACT STUDY: How the Instructional
Materials Programme was developed, established and sustained as a National Programme" by Tony Read

On 27 December 2002 the National Rainbow Coalition (NARC) was elected at Kenya's general election.
At the start of January 2003 the new government announced Free Primary Education with immediate effect
in accordance with NARC's campaign commitment. The result was an immediate increase in primary
school enrolment for the new school year of about 1.3 million pupils, placing a severe strain on school
facilities and resources and on education budgets. The World Bank responded very swiftly to a request for
support from the new government: a Vice President visited Kenya during January and a project preparation
team was in place by early February.

SPRED III was scheduled to end in June 2003 (but was subsequently twice extended to 2005 - see below)
and funding for instructional materials at the start of 2003 was entirely dependent on GOK and DFID
support, although the Governments of Sweden and Canada had also indicated their willingness to provide
support to instructional materials provision with grants channelled through DFID. The World Bank
preparation team now worked very closely with DFID, who provided additional consultancy support, which
helped to provide continuity in the focus of development partner funding to primary education.

There were many parts of primary education needing additional funding to meet FPE requirements, and the
World Bank team had a broad mandate to identify where support should be provided, but the team decided
to concentrate its support heavily on textbooks, in order to address one issue which would make a big
difference to the provision of good quality primary education and on which they could move quickly.
There was already a lot of evidence of the effectiveness of interventions to textbook support both from
Kenya and elsewhere (see above). There was in place a functioning system of decentralised textbook
provision, although not yet on a national scale, which had emerged from the SPRED projects and the
GOK/RNE pilot project and the short-lived follow-up project. The SPRED III project had been positively
evaluated by an independent team in June 2002. There were established monitoring systems in place and a
specialist Textbook Management Unit was operational within the MoEST: the new project could adopt the
same basic project management arrangements being used for SPRED III. Moreover, the World Bank had
previously prepared the STEPS project (which had then been shelved), in which nearly half of the proposed
project funding had been earmarked for textbook provision and which had also included support for
curriculum reform. There were specialist consultants available to work immediately with the World Bank's
own specialists who had excellent understanding of the issues related to instructional materials provision.
Finally, a national system for instructional materials provision had been defined in great detail in the draft
Component Implementation Manual written in July 2002.

By working extremely hard over a 3 month period with MoEST officials, other development partners and
experienced consultants, the World Bank was able to complete project preparation and appraisal before the
end of April 2003 for a $50 million IDA grant, $41.8 million of which was to be released during 2003 to
support the per capita instructional materials allocation of approximately KSh1,000 to all public primary
schools in Kenya. (The balance of the $50 million IDA grant was provided to support capacity building,
school-based teacher development and support, an improved school accounting system, an Education
Management Information System, the system design and programme preparation, monitoring and
evaluation.) The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) stressed that the fast rate of disbursement was
"critically important as the books are urgently needed in the primary schools". It also described FPESP as
"the logical development of a continuous and well tested set of reforms in textbook financing, provision,
procurement, usage and management, which has been underway for the past seven years since 1996".

Proposing that the World Bank's support should be in the form of a grant rather than a loan, the PAD
included the following:

   " First, Kenya is eligible for IDA Grants in FY03, being an IDA-only country (under $360 per capita).
Moreover, the newly elected Government has committed itself to fighting corruption, prioritising poverty



                                                     49

reduction and providing education for all children. It is strategically important for IDA to support the new
Government's efforts, and help it to deliver results quickly to keep up the existing massive support and
goodwill of the people. Poor Kenyans, as well as the donor community, will gain tremendously if the new
Government can succeed in these efforts. Moreover, this project has particularly strong ownership by the
Government, and it could be a very good signal and showcase for positive results throughout the country.
To provide financing as a grant instead of a loan would signal the Bank's strong support, and give it
goodwill amongst all stakeholders.

   Second, at the project level, there is expected to be a substantial human development impact. Primary
education is a major determinant of economic well-being and growth, although the return from such
investments may take a longer time to realize than other types of investment. The project is supporting the
new policy of FPE. However, with the introduction of the major new policy, there are some initial costs
before the new routines and procedures are fully instituted, and thus some project costs could be higher in
the short term than they would be in the long term. This strengthens the case for funding the project by a
grant instead of a credit. The project is also aimed at helping children who previously were the losers of
education policies, as their poverty excluded them from school. The project will help Kenya to move
towards EFA and enhance the likelihood of meeting the MDG on education for all by Year 2015. IDA
grant financing could also enhance further the impact of the project, through its demonstration effect
especially for other donors, and through encouraging sustained funding of the program by the Government
as the country's fiscal situation improves. Finally, the project will also support the development of the
private sector in Kenya, and particularly the publishing and printing industries, as well as bookselling and
delivery companies.

    Third, the grant would strengthen further the partnerships with other donors. In addition to IDA, there
are several other agencies and governments which are either strong supporters of the education sector
already, or which are expected to become donors to the new program of FPE in the near future. The design
of the project is built on close donor collaboration, and this pattern of strong donor cooperation and
coordination would be enhanced and facilitated substantially by a Bank grant."

The Board of the World Bank approved the grant in June 2003 and FPESP became effective in the form of
a specific sector investment project from 1 July 2003. The grant is understood to be the largest ever made
by the World Bank to an education project.

During the preparation of the FPESP, much work was done on banking issues, revision of documentation,
the planning of training of stakeholders, monitoring and audits in order to ensure that all the systems were
appropriate and in place for the extension of the instructional materials decentralisation provision nationally.
It was also necessary to confirm that procurement arrangements met World Bank requirements. All this
preparation work could be based on the NSIMP plan contained in the draft Component Implementation
Manual of July 2002, which in turn derived from the planning and experiences within the SPRED and
GOK/RNE projects.

DFID funded consultants from IBD who had previous experience in designing the instructional materials
provision systems under these projects to work with the World Bank during the preparation, pre-appraisal
and appraisal stages of FPESP. Among the inputs by the IBD consultants were:

    · Finalising of all financing and banking arrangements for national instructional materials provision
         with The Treasury and MoEST .

    · Drawing up with the MoEST an agreed list of minimum requirements for the provision of
         instructional materials to be in all primary schools and pupils throughout Kenya by the end of
         2003.

    · Drafting an Instructional Materials Financing System Procedures Manual, in discussion with
         MoEST. This listed the operations, controls and authorisations for each stage.




                                                      50

    · Undertaking a book printing survey in order to establish the capacity of Kenyan printers to
          manufacture textbooks and teachers' guides in the quantities and within the time-frame required
          by FPESP and to the minimum production specification levels required, as well as reviewing
          production specifications and publishers' experience of placing work off-shore.

    · Negotiating with the commercial banks in order to draw up a Memorandum of Understanding on
          the detailed operation of school instructional materials bank accounts (now called SIMBAs).

    · Assisting the TMU and other sections of the MoEST in revising documentation for schools and for
          suppliers.

    · Planning and assisting with training for schools, MoEST officials, publishers and booksellers.

    · Providing assistance to the planning of the annual competitions to select instructional materials for
          inclusion in the MoEST's "Orange Book" (the approved list of primary and secondary school
          textbooks and other instructional materials). The work included inputs into the revision of
          competition documents, support to the evaluation of production specifications, evaluator training
          and evaluation verification.

PricewaterhouseCoopers were engaged by the World Bank as consultants to prepare a Financial
Management Handbook and to plan training on financial procedures for MoEST officials and schools (head
teachers and members of School Instructional Materials Selection Committees).

The detailed criteria, methodology and management systems were mostly already in place and had
previously been approved by the World Bank as meeting their required procedures during the preparation
of the STEPS project. An independent check was now undertaken of the evaluation of the first phase of
new curriculum, textbooks and teachers' guides, which took place in January-February 2003 and the
process was given a clean bill of health. The Project Appraisal Document for FPESP of April 2003
summarised the existing textbook procurement system as having:

... price and quality competition at three different levels. There is competition among publishers to get
their titles on the approved list, which includes price and quality factors. There is competition between
publishers to promote their titles to schools and gain school adoptions, which also includes price, quality
and service factors. Finally there is competition between booksellers to win supply contracts. Booksellers
competition includes price and service factors ...
The only aspects in the procurement arrangement that need some strengthening are enhancement of the
procurement procedures in the Primary Schools Instructional Materials Management Handbook. The main
weakness in the current system is that, in some schools, the head teachers personally contact and solicit
quotations from booksellers, instead of having the STSEs [School Textbook Selection Committees] send
out Requests for Quotations to booksellers. There is therefore concern that head teachers may selectively
contact booksellers of their choice. To eliminate this practice the STSCs will invite quotations in writing
from as many booksellers as possible and booksellers will be required to submit their quotations in writing
in sealed envelopes.

As well as ensuring that this system of inviting written quotations from booksellers was incorporated into
the revised Primary School Textbook Management Handbook, the World                           Bank engaged
PricewaterhouseCoopers to manage the introduction of a uniform accounting system for public primary
schools, with associated training.

Monitoring and Evaluation Activities

FPESP included a monitoring and evaluation component, to which $1 million was allocated. This provided
for monitoring focused on key performance indicators related to student learning, pupil retention, teacher
behaviour and resource use at the school level. These were to be measured through an initial baseline
survey administered in approximately 250 schools in September 2003, with the assessment of pupil
learning, teacher behaviour and instructional materials use repeated in the same schools in September 2004


                                                      51

and September 2005 in order to identify potential correlations between performance and a range of other
factors, including instructional materials provision and usage.

An evaluation was planned for the end of the project. The project also financed a bi-annual external and
independent audit in the first year and an annual audit in the second and third years of the project, focused
on the Textbook Management Unit and a sample of primary schools.

A supervision mission of FPESP by the World Bank took place in November/December 2003, including
two consultants funded by DFID so that the conclusions could inform the SPRED III project as well. This
mission reported that implementation of the instructional materials component was behind schedule,
although many schools had drawn down from their SIMBA accounts and bought textbooks and other
instructional materials. Other findings included:

     · That the TMU's procedures, equipment, staff skills and resources needed to be strengthened. In
          particular, communication with districts needed to be improved.

     · That, from a small sample of books examined during a recent survey, it was estimated that 18%
          would not last for the required 3 to 4 years. The MoEST agreed to invoke the prescribed measures
          against publishers supplying defective and sub-standard books if this were found on further
          examination to be a widespread problem.

     · That the Supplier's Manual prepared earlier in the year had not been distributed. The MoEST
          agreed to take prompt action over this to ensure that it was sent out immediately.

     · That some schools were not always implementing the textbook selection processes correctly,
          which was attributed partly to the brevity of the training they had received and the lack of some
          key documents in some districts during the training sessions. The MoEST indicated that further
          training was planned early in 2004.

     · That some of the banks who had signed the Memorandum of Understanding with the MoEST
          defining bank charges for SIMBA and school no. 2 accounts were charging more than the agreed
          minimum level. The MoEST had already followed up on this with the banks concerned asking
          them to refund any incorrect amounts already collected.

     · Some irregular practices had been reported (for example, in the choice of supplier, discounts and
          title substitution). The MoEST was checking on these reports and taking appropriate action with
          any schools involved.

The Mission also anticipated the design of the planned SWAp, for which the preparation of the GOK's
education budget for the financial year 2004-5 was a critical ingredient.

Another Textbooks Impact Study of SPRED III by PriceWatehouseCoopers for the GOK and DFID in
November 2003 confirmed delays in instructional materials funding reaching some schools, but reported:

Textbook provision was most welcome by all the schools. The process of the textbook procurement has
been a uniting factor to all the stakeholders in schools. The process has increased interaction between
parents, schools, publishers and booksellers through the development of sales promotion, procurement and
the delivery of books to schools. At school level, a democratic participatory culture has developed through
collaboration between school committees, parents, head teachers, and class subject teachers in textbook
selection, ordering, development of storage facilities, conservation, and use of books. This has been further
enhanced through the creation of School Textbooks Selection Committees (STSC) and School
Management Committees (SMC).

In addition the textbook project has had significant impact on improvement in the pupil/textbook ratio,
especially in the examination subjects, leading to more effective teaching and learning in schools.



                                                       52

However, there is still a need for more books as the pupil:textbook ratios are far from the ideal of 3:1 and
2:1 in lower and upper primary respectively, in many schools across the country.

However, the conclusion sounded a warning:

The textbook project has certainly reduced the cost of education to parents, improved the relationship
between teachers, parents and pupils and infused a culturally sensitive and responsive school management
environment with respect to textbook procurement, storage, conservation and use. However, it appears
equally certain that unless funding levels are enhanced and sustained, impact on family expenditure will
remain minimal and the gains already made could be transient.




                                                   53

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Republic of Kenya. Economic Recovery Strategy.

Dr. Jacinta K. Ndambuki. Draft Report on Teacher Training and Development Study

Promin Consultants Ltd., June 28, 2006. Baseline Survey on Learning Achievement. Final Report.

Government of Kenya. Arid Lands Resource Management Project. "The Pastoralist Communities and Free
        Primary Education in Kenya: A Preliminary Survey."

Ministry of Education, Science and Technology. "Financial Tracking/Monitoring of Receipt & Utilization
        of Free Primary Education Funds." Draft Report. October 2005. Prepared by the School
        Instructional Materials Management Unit (SIMMU).

Ministry of Education, Science and Technology and UNESCO. "Challenges of Implementing Free Primary
        Education in Kenya: Assessment Report." December 2004.

Ministry of Education, Science and Technology. "Free Primary Education: National Monitoring and
        Evaluation Report." For the period February-April 2004. Submitted in June 2004.

Ministry of Education, Science and Technology. "Free Primary Education: Every Child in School...
        MOEST Vision: Quality Education for Sustainable Development." May 2003. Nairobi. Kenya.

Techsphere Systems Limited. Education Management Information System (EMIS). "Inception Report for
        the Design and Implementation of Education Management Information Systems (EMIS)." Report
        for the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology. January 6, 2005.

Ministry of Education. "Draft Midterm Report on Review of Quality Assurance and Advisory Services."
        Free Primary Education Support Project (FPESP). Grant No.H0500-KE. 2007.

Ministry of Education. GOK/World Bank Infrastructure Support Project to 15 ASAL Districts. "Report on
        Monitoring of the GOK/World Bank Projects in 15 ASAL Districts." March 2007.

Oxfam GB and ANCEFA. "UPE: Myth or Reality--A review of experiences, challenges and lessons from
        East Africa."

Promin Consultants Limited. "Free Primary Education Support Project (FPESP): Final Report on Client
        Satisfaction Survey." Submitted to Ministry of Education, Science and Technology. December 30,
        2005.

PriceWaterhouseCoopers. "Free Primary Education Support Project: Expenditure Tracking Study (Final
        Report)." February 2006.

Procurement and Management Consultancy Reports. DFID/IDA Free Primary Education Sponsored Project.
        October-December 2003.

Republic of Kenya. MOEST. Approved List of Primary School Textbooks and Other Instructional
        Materials. Revised Sixth Edition, January 2006.

Republic of Kenya. MOEST. Approved List of Primary School Textbooks and Other Instructional
        Materials. Revised Fifth Edition, January 2005.

Republic of Kenya. MOEST. Approved List of Primary School Textbooks and Other Instructional
        Materials. Revised Third Edition, January 2003.



                                                   54

Financial and Audit Reports

Republic of Kenya. MOEST. A Handbook of Financial Management Instructions for Primary Schools.

Ernest & Young. Free Primary Education Support Project (FPESP): Grant No. H0500-KE. Management
        Letter for the Six Months Period Ending December 31, 2003 and the Year ending June 30, 2004.

Ernest & Young. Free Primary Education Support Project (FPESP): Grant No. H0500-KE. Management
        Letter for the year ended June 30, 2005.

Ernest & Young. "Free Primary Education Support Project (FPESP): Grant No.H0500-KE. Management
        Letter for the year ending June 30, 2006.

Ministry of Education. Free Primary Education Support Project. Financial Management Support Final
        Report. February 2006.

World Bank. "Free Primary Education Support Project." Project Appraisal Document. May 23, 2003.
        Human Development 1; Country Department 5; Africa Region. Washington, D.C.

Other

Teacher Training. SbTD Extension TAC Tutor and Zonal Inspectors Training.




                                                 55

