Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3954-CO
Loan Agreement
(Power Market Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
INTERCONEXION ELECTRICA S.A. "E.S.P."
Dated March 26, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 3954-CO
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 26, 1996 between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and INTERCONEXION ELECTRICA S.A."E.S.P." (the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been 
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set 
forth in the Guarantee Agreement;
(C)
by another loan agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower (the Floating Rate Single Currency Loan Agreement) the Bank has agreed to 
provide another loan in an amount equal to one hundred forty five million dollars 
($145,000,000) (the Floating Rate Single Currency Loan), such loan also to assist in 
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement on terms and 
conditions set forth in the Floating Rate Single Currency Loan Agreement;
(D)
by another guarantee agreement of even date herewith between the 
Guarantor and the Bank (the Floating Rate Single Currency Guarantee Agreement) the 
Guarantor has also agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of 
Page  2
the Floating Rate Single Currency Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set 
forth in the Floating Rate Single Currency Guarantee Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement, in the aforesaid Guarantee Agreement, and in the Floating Rate Single 
Currency Loan and Guarantee Agreements;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
 
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not a member 
of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such 
payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
(c)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 
3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"ISAGEN" means the power generation corporation created under the name of 
Empresa Colombiana de Generacion Electrica S.A. E.S.P., ECOGEN S.A. E.S.P., by the 
Borrower's split and capital reduction, as reflected by public deed No. 230 executed 
before the Sole Notary Office of Sabaneta, Colombia on April 4, 1995 and registered in 
the Chamber of Commerce of Medellin, Colombia on April 17, 1995, in book 9th, page 
519, under the number 3628, as amended, by public deed No. 266 dated April 24, 1995 
executed before the said Notary Office and registered in book 9th, page 568, under 
number 3973 in the said Chamber, among other things to change its name into its 
current one: ISAGEN S.A. "E.S.P.";
(b)
"Peso" means the currency unit of the Guarantor;
 
(c)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in paragraph (b) of 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(d)
"Split Arrangements" means the arrangements reflected under public deed 
No. 230 referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section by means of which, inter alia: 
(i) the Borrower's
capital was reduced from 100,000,000,000 Pesos to 25,000,000,000 Pesos and the assets 
and liabilities of the Borrower were reduced by the exact amount of assets and 
liabilities transferred to ISAGEN, as shown in (iii) below; (ii) ISAGEN was created 
with a capital of 75,000,000,000 Pesos;
(iii) certain assets and liabilities related to power generation were transferred from 
the Borrower to ISAGEN; (iv) all the Borrower's obligations, incurred on or before the 
last day of the month on which the public deed No.230 referred to above was registered 
Page  3
in the Chamber of Commerce of Medellin, Colombia (i.e. April 30, 1995), became joint 
and several obligations of the Borrower and ISAGEN; and (v) the Borrower and ISAGEN 
gave notice to future potential creditors that the obligations of each of them 
incurred after the day referred to in (iv) above will not be under the aforesaid joint 
and several liability; and
(e)
"Statutes" means the Borrower's statutes reflected in public deed No. 
3,057 executed before the 8th Notary of Bogota, Colombia, on September 14, 1967, as 
registered in the Chamber of Commerce of Medellin, Colombia, in book 9th, page 239 
under the number 1,999, by means of which the Borrower was created as a state 
industrial and commercial enterprise, with the form of a corporation with public 
capital related to the Guarantor's Ministry of Mines and Energy, as such statutes have 
been changed from time to time up to the change made by means of public deed No. 230 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred four million 
three hundred thousand dollars ($104,300,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the 
proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such 
withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of interest and other charges 
on the Loan, to the extent said goods and services are not, except as otherwise agreed 
with the Bank, financed out of the proceeds of the Floating Rate Single Currency Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
On each of the semiannual interest payment dates specified in Section 
2.06 of this  Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and 
other charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the date set forth, and up 
to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be 
amended from time to time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2002 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined 
in respect of such Semester.
Page  4
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
 
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter equal to 
the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, 
plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, calculated 
at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings 
determined in respect of such 
Quarter."
 
"(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on 
February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
public utility, financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (i) 
carry out Parts A and B of the Project in accordance with the action plan set forth in 
the letter supplemental to this Agreement of even date herewith; (ii) ensure at all 
times during the carrying out of the Project the coordination of all activities 
thereunder through the existing project executing unit within the Borrower's 
Transmission Directorate; and (iii) maintain said unit for the purposes above (except 
for changes thereto which, in the opinion of the Bank, shall not adversely affect the 
carrying out of the Project), until a date not earlier than one year after the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account has taken place, with an adequate structure, 
organization and staff, and provide it with such other resources as shall be necessary 
or convenient to enable the said unit to discharge its functions and responsibilities.
Page  5
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions, and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may 
be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and the Borrower, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank: (i) a Project-specific 
environmental report in respect of each transmission line and ancillary facilities 
thereto to be
constructed under Part B of the Project, each such report to include a detailed 
environmental management plan designed to mitigate undesirable effects on human 
populations and natural resources during construction and operation of the line and 
facilities in question; and (ii) a resettlement plan, based on the detailed 
engineering for the construction in question, designed to relocate certain households 
affected by the construction and/or operation of each of the aforesaid lines and 
facilities (which have been estimated to be currently about 40 households, in the 
aggregate), and/or to compensate other households also affected, all located along the 
corresponding corridors to be used for construction of transmission lines under the 
Project.
(b)
Each of the reports and plans referred to in paragraph (a) above shall be 
presented to the Bank in a timely fashion, account being taken of the then current 
action plan referred to in paragraph (b) (i) of Section 3.01 of this Loan Agreement, 
so as to afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to give its comments thereon, and to 
enable the Borrower to introduce in the plan or plans in question all reasonable 
changes thereto that the Bank shall have requested, if any, and
to comply with the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section.
(c)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (e) of 
this Section and in respect of each of the works included in Part B of the Project, 
the Borrower shall
not: (i) invite bids for the works in question unless the corresponding environmental 
management and resettlement plans have been agreed between the Bank and the Borrower; 
and (ii) authorize any contractor to initiate the line construction and assembly phase 
of the contract in question unless: (A) each of the persons affected by the works 
under such contract shall have been provided, pursuant to the corresponding 
resettlement plan, with enforceable rights to a new home or adequate
compensation, or both, as such person may be entitled to under such plan; and (B) 
evidence thereof shall have been furnished to the Bank in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank.
(d)
The Borrower shall execute in a timely manner all of the actions included 
in each environmental management plan and resettlement plan agreed pursuant to the 
provisions of
subparagraph (i) of the preceding paragraph of this Section and shall not change any 
of such plans unless otherwise agreed with the Bank.
(e)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of the preceding 
paragraphs of this Section or of Section 9.09 of the General Conditions, and in 
respect of the aforesaid lines and facilities, the Borrower shall not authorize the 
initiation of the line construction and assembly phase of the works in question, 
unless all the corresponding land and right in respect of land required for the 
carrying out of such works shall have been acquired.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall, commencing in 1996 and until the year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account takes place, undertake to complete 
jointly with the Bank on a date to be agreed with the Bank on each year but which 
Page  6
shall be not later than four months counted from the end of the preceding Borrower's 
fiscal year, an annual review of all aspects related to the execution of the Project 
during the preceding year, the Borrower's financial situation and local funding 
capability in subsequent years.
(b)
After completion of each of the aforesaid reviews, the Borrower shall 
take such remedial action concerning Project execution as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested.  
Section 3.06.  The Borrower shall: (a) before the end of each year, commencing 
in 1995, submit to the Bank for approval two plans of specific activities under each 
of Parts C.1 and C.2 of the Project (including terms of reference and, if required, 
procurement procedures therefor), in respect of which the expenditures under such 
Parts of the Project to be financed with the proceeds of the Loan shall be incurred 
during the following year; and
(b)
not change any plan approved pursuant to paragraph (a) above unless 
otherwise agreed with the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs 
in accordance with sound public utility, financial and engineering practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall at all times operate and maintain its plants, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and power grid operator practices.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such 
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial 
condition, including separate accounts to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than four 
months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of its financial 
statements for such year as so audited; and 
(B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts 
and financial statements as well as the audit thereof 
as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
Page  7
(i)
maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section, 
records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit  
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 5.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
maintain, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 
1995, a ratio of total cash operating expenses to total operating revenues not higher 
than 23%.
(b)
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall produce, for 
each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year ending on December 31, 1995, funds from 
internal sources equivalent to not less than 30% of the annual average of the 
Borrower's capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that year 
and the next following fiscal year.
(c)
Before June 30 in each of its fiscal years, the Borrower shall, on the 
basis of forecasts prepared by the Borrower and satisfactory to the Bank, review 
whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) and in paragraph (b) 
above in respect of such year and the  next following fiscal year, and shall furnish 
to the Bank the results of such review upon its completion.
(d)
If any such review shows that the Borrower would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraphs (a) or (b) above for the Borrower's fiscal years 
covered by such review, the Borrower shall promptly take all necessary measures 
(including, without limitation, adjustments to the structure or levels of its rates 
and expense rationalization) in order to meet such requirements.
(e)
For the purposes of paragraph (a) of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "total cash operating expenses" means all expenses 
related to 
operations, including administration, adequate 
maintenance, taxes (other than 
income tax) and payments in lieu of 
taxes, but excluding income tax payments, 
interest and other charges 
on debt, provision for depreciation and other 
non-cash operating 
charges.
(ii)
The term "total operating revenues" means revenues from all 
sources related to
operations. 
(f)
For the purposes of paragraph (b) of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "funds from internal sources" means the difference 
between:
(A)
the sum of revenues of all sources related to operations, 
consumer 
deposits or advances and consumer 
contributions in aid of construction, 
net non-operating income 
and any reduction in working capital other 
than cash; 
and
Page  8
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
administration, adequate maintenance and taxes 
(including income taxes) 
and payments in lieu of taxes, debt 
service requirements, all cash 
dividends and other cash 
distribution of surplus, increase in working 
capital other than 
cash and other cash outflows other than capital 
expenditures, but excluding provision for depreciation and other 
non-cash operating charges.
(ii)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes (including income taxes) and 
payments in lieu 
of taxes, incurred in the generation of 
revenues in (A) above.
(iii)
The term "working capital other than cash" means the difference 
between 
current assets excluding cash and current 
liabilities, both at the end of the 
corresponding fiscal year.
 
(iv)
The term "current assets excluding cash" means all assets other 
than cash 
which could in the ordinary course of business be 
converted into cash within 
twelve months, including accounts 
receivable, marketable securities, 
inventories and pre-paid 
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses 
within the next 
fiscal year.
(v)
The term "current liabilities" means all liabilities which will 
become due and 
payable, or could under the circumstances then 
existing be called for payment, 
within twelve months, including accounts 
payable, customer deposits and 
advances, debt service 
requirements, taxes (including income taxes) and 
payments in 
lieu of taxes, and dividends and other cash distributions of 
surplus.
(vi)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges 
on, debt.
 
(vii)
The term "capital expenditures" means all expenditures incurred on 
account of 
fixed assets, including interest charged to construction, 
related to 
operations.
 
(g)
Whenever for purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to value, in 
terms of Pesos, debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall be made on the 
basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is, at 
the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in 
the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 5.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not incur any debt, unless the net revenues of the Borrower for the fiscal year 
immediately preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period 
ended prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at 
least 1.5 times the estimated maximum debt service requirements of the Borrower for 
any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of the Borrower, including the debt to be 
incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower maturing by 
its terms 
more than one year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred:
 
Page  9
(A)
under a loan contract or agreement or other instrument 
providing for 
such debt or for the modification of its terms 
of payment, on the date 
of such contract, agreement or 
instrument; and
(B)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement 
providing for 
such guarantee has been entered into.
 
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
 
(A)
the sum of the revenues from all sources related to 
operations adjusted 
to take account of the Borrower's rates 
in effect at the time of the 
incurrence of debt even though 
they were not in effect during the 
twelve-month period 
to which such revenues relate and net non- 
operating 
income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, 
adequate  maintenance, taxes (including income 
taxes) and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but excluding provision 
for depreciation, other non-cash 
operating charges and interest 
and other charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes (including income tax) and 
payments in lieu 
of taxes, incurred in the generation of 
revenues in (A) above.
Section 5.04.  Without limitation upon the provisions of the preceding Sections 
of this Article V or the provisions of Section 9.01 and 9.07 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, not later than June 30 on each 
year, updated financial reports for the previous twelve-month period and projections 
for the next five years of its revenues, capital expenditures, borrowings and debt 
service, and accounts receivables, and financing and monitoring indicators which, in 
the Bank's opinion, are relevant for determining the Borrower's financial condition 
and its operational performance. 
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
Provisions of the Statutes (other than provisions related to the Split 
Arrangements) shall have been changed in a manner that would have, in the Bank's 
opinion, an adverse and material effect on the Borrower's condition or on the carrying 
out of the Project.
(b)
The Split Arrangements shall have been amended or modified, or terminated 
or otherwise abrogated.
(c)
ISAGEN shall have become unable to pay its debts as they mature  or a 
proceeding shall have been taken by the Borrower or by others whereby any of the 
assets of ISAGEN shall or may be distributed among its creditors.
(d)
The Borrower shall have become unable to collect from ISAGEN any amount 
owed to the Borrower by ISAGEN by virtue of the Split Arrangements if, in the Bank's 
opinion, the event may have a material and adverse effect on the Borrower's condition.
(e)
The Guarantor or any authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any 
action for the dissolution or disestablishment or winding-up of ISAGEN or for the 
suspension of its operations; provided, however, that, the events in the foregoing 
Page  10
paragraphs (b), (c) or (e) shall apply only to the extent that the event in question 
would have, in the opinion of the Bank, an adverse and material effect on the 
condition of the Borrower by virtue of, or in relation with, the joint and several 
liability agreed upon between the Borrower and ISAGEN under the Split Arrangements.
Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any of the events stipulated in paragraphs (b) or (c) or (e) of Section 
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso to such Section; and
(b)
that the event stipulated in paragraphs (a) or (d) of such Section shall 
occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01.  The following are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the 
Floating Rate Single Currency Loan Agreement, other than those related to the 
effectiveness of this Loan Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 7.02.  The following is specified as an additional matter within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank namely that: (a) the obligations incurred by 
ISAGEN on or after May 1, 1995 are not covered by the joint and several liability 
agreement entered into between ISAGEN and the Borrower under public deed No. 230 
referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 1.02 of this Agreement and thus no claim can 
be made on any of the Borrower's assets or rights on the basis of such obligations; 
and (b) there are no liabilities of the Borrower resulting from the Split Arrangements 
other than: (i) the Borrower's liabilities that existed on or before April 30, 1995 
and have not been transferred to ISAGEN under said Arrangements; and (ii) the 
Borrower's liabilities then existing that have been transferred to ISAGEN by virtue of 
said Arrangements on or before such date and which have not terminated or in respect 
of which the corresponding creditor or creditors have not released the Borrower of its 
joint or several responsibility contracted by virtue of said
Arrangements.
Section 7.03. The date of June 26, 1996 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The General Manager of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
Page  11
 82987 (FTCC)
For the Borrower:
ISA E.S.P.
Calle 12 Sur No. 18-168
Medellin
Colombia
Telex:
65259
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Paul Isenman
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
INTERCONEXION ELECTRICA S.A. "E.S.P"
By /s/ Diego Pizano
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                         Amount of the
                        Loan Allocated               % of
                         (Expressed in           Expenditures
    Category          Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1)  Works                   1,000,000             90%
(2)  Goods other than                              100% of foreign
     equipment under                               expenditures, and
     Category (3)                                  90% of local
                                                   expenditures
       (a)  for Part A       9,900,000             (ex-factory
            of the Project                         cost)
       (b)  for other Parts 43,600,000
            of the Project
(3)  Equipment and          18,000,000             95%
     installation
     thereof
Page  12
(4)  Consultants'                                  100% of foreign
     services                                      expenditures
       (a) for Part A          400,000
           of the Project
       (b) for other Parts   4,400,000
           of the Project
(5)  Training abroad           900,000             100% of foreign
     and trainers' fees                            expenditures
(6)  Interest and           15,400,000             Amounts due pur-
     other charges                                 suant to Section
     on the Loan                                   2.02 (c) of this
     accrued on                                    Agreement
     or before
     August 14, 2002
(7)  Unallocated            10,700,000
                           ___________
      TOTAL                104,300,000
                           ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor; and
(c)
the term "training" means the specific expenditures for training to be 
determined for each year of Project execution by the corresponding plan approved by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 3.06 of this Agreement.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures: (a) prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of $10,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after March 31, 1995; (b) under Part A.1 of the Project to be 
financed under Categories (2) (a) and 4 (a) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of 
this Schedule, unless the final design for the establishment or upgrading, as the case 
may be, of each of the centers under such Part of the Project have been approved by 
the Bank; and (c) under Parts C.1 or C.2 of the Project to be financed under Category 
(5) of the aforesaid table unless the expenditures in question have been included in 
the corresponding annual plan approved by the Bank pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 3.06 of this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for training services under contracts 
costing less than $300,000 equivalent and for consulting firms' services and 
individual consultants' services under contracts not subject to prior review pursuant 
to the provisions of Part B of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, all under 
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
5.
Each application submitted by the Borrower for withdrawals from the Loan Account 
shall be deemed submitted under a representation that the expenditures to be financed 
with Loan proceeds withdrawn under such application have not been, or are not in the 
process of being financed with the proceeds of the Floating Rate Single Currency Loan; 
provided, however, that the Borrower shall be able to request expressly that one or 
more given expenditures be financed partially under any reasonable combination of Loan 
or Floating Rate Single Currency Loan proceeds.
Page  13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to support the reform of the Guarantor's power 
sector by facilitating the operation of a competitive bulk supply market for 
electricity and, more specifically, to lift transmission constraints that hinder an 
open access to the grid of publicly as well as privately ownedpower generators and to 
support the Borrower in its role as transmission network operator, system generation 
dispatcher and commercial transactions coordinator.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Energy control and financial settlement centers
 
1.
Upgrading of the data acquisition and control functions of the Borrower's 
existing energy control center.
2.
Establishment, within the Borrower's organizational structure and under terms of 
reference satisfactory to the Bank, of a financial settlement center.
3.
Acquisition and utilization of measurement, data acquisition, telecommunications 
and data processing equipment and software, for purposes of: (a) Part A.1 of the 
Project; and (b) Part A.2 of the Project.
Part B:
Strengthening and expansion of the Guarantor's interconnected 
transmission system
1.
San Carlos-San Marcos transmission system: (a) construction of a single circuit, 
384 kilometers (km), 500 kilo Volts (kV) line interconnecting the East Antioquia 
hydroelectric complex to Valle del Cauca Department; (b) construction of a single 
circuit, 30 km 230 kV line interconnecting the La Virginia and La Hermosa substations, 
the former to be constructed under (d) below; (c) expansion of the San Marcos  500/230 
kV substation; (d) construction of the La Virginia 500/230 kV substation; and (e) 
construction of the San Carlos 500/230 kV substation.
2.
Atlantic Coast transmission system: (a) expansion of the 500/115 kV Chinu 
substation; (b) installation of a reactive compensation device for the said Chinu 
substation; (c) expansion of the Cerro Matoso 500/230 kV substation; (d) construction 
of the Uraba 230/115 kV substation; (e)
construction of the double circuit, 80 km, 230 kV La Loma-El Copey line; and (f) 
expansion of the 500/230 kV Sabanalarga substation.
3.
Other transmission systems: (a) installation of a reactive compensation device 
for the Cano Limon substation; (b) construction of the single circuit, 160 km, 230 kV 
line between Paipa and Bucaramanga; (c) construction of the Paipa 230 kV substation; 
(d) construction of the Bucaramanga 230 kV substation; and (e) construction of a link 
between the San Felipe 230 kV substation and the 230 kV Esmeralda-La Mesa transmission 
line.
Part C:
Technical Assistance
 
1.
Execution of a program of studies to assist the Borrower in its role of 
transmission network operator, power dispatch coordinator and bulk electricity 
transaction clearing house, in the following areas: (i) power market, planning, 
engineering, system operations and dispatch; (ii) management of financial matters and 
environmental issues; and (iii) other areas agreed from time to time between the Bank 
and the Borrower.
2.
Execution of a training program for the Borrower's personnel, covering, inter 
alia, the following areas: (a) operation of interconnected power system, and recording 
and settlement of financial transactions among users of the power pool; (b) power 
system planning; (c) utilization of the Borrower's telecommunications equipment; (d) 
environmental impact assessment and monitoring of construction, maintenance and 
operation of power transmission lines; (e) power marketing studies; and (f) power 
Page  14
transmission contract drafting and negotiation.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
February 15, 2000                          
2,510,000,000
August 15, 2000                            
2,600,000,000
February 15,  2001                         
2,695,000,000
August 15, 2001                            
2,790,000,000
February 15, 2002                          
2,885,000,000
August 15, 2002                            
2,990,000,000
February 15, 2003                          
3,095,000,000
August 15, 2003                            
3,205,000,000
February 15, 2004                          
3,315,000,000
August 15, 2004                            
3,435,000,000
February 15, 2005                          
3,555,000,000
August 15, 2005                            
3,680,000,000
February 15, 2006                          
3,810,000,000
August 15, 2006                            
3,945,000,000
February 15, 2007                          
4,085,000,000
August 15, 2007                            
4,230,000,000
February 15, 2008                          
4,380,000,000
August 15, 2008                            
4,535,000,000
February 15, 2009                          
4,695,000,000
August 15, 2009                            
4,860,000,000
February 15, 2010                          
5,035,000,000
August 15, 2010                            
5,210,000,000
February 15, 2011                          
5,395,000,000
August 15, 2011                            
5,585,000,000
February 15, 2012                          
5,785,000,000
August 15, 2012                            
5,995,000,000
 
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed
as a percentage per annum)
applicable to the Loan on the
day of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                           0.18
before maturity
More than three years but                           0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
Page  15
More than six years but                             0.65
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                      0.88
more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years before                      1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
Limited International Bidding
Goods for purposes of Part A of the Project, and other goods which the Bank 
agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers, regardless of the 
cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract for goods or works awarded under Parts B and C of 
this Schedule and to each contract for training services (other than consultant 
services) under the
corresponding plan approved pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.06 of this 
Agreement estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  16
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank.  
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other 
standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply 
to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of 
consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by 
the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising 
the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for 
the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 
equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and 
(5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $8,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$4,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $20,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
Page  17
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 5.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the 
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the
Page  18
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant  provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
