D_tan: iof
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
/dt 2?>-CK(
Report No. P-4383-CH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUITIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt250.0 MILLION
TO
TIIE REPUBLIC OF CHILE
October 31, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Currency Unit = Chilean Peso (Ch$))
Calendar 1985
Currency Unit               Average            September 30,1986
US$1                    Ch$160.86              Ch$195.04
Ch$1                    US$  0.006             US$  0.005
Ch$1,000                US$  6.217             US$  5.227
FISCAL fElAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BHIF              - Banco Hipotecario y de Fomento
(Mortgage and Development Bank)
CCU               - Companias Cerveceria Unidas
(United Brewing Companies)
CODELCO           - Corporacion del Cobre
(Chilean State Copper Company)
COPEC             - Compania de Petroleo de Chile
(Chile Petroleum Corporation)
CORFO             - Corporacion de Fomento de la Produccion
(Chilean Development Corporation)
EEP               - Emergency Employment Programs
ENAP              - Empresa Nacional del Petroleo
(Nacional Petroleum Company)
LIBOR             - London Interbank Offered Rate
PEM               - Programa de Empleo Minimo
(Minimum Employment Program)
POJN              - Programa Ocupacional para Jefes del Hogar
(Employment Program for Heads of Families)
PROCHILE          - Chile's Export Promotion Agency
SBIF              - Superintendencia de Bancos e Instituciones Financieras
(Superintendency of Banks and Financial Institutions)
UF                - Unidad de Fomento
(Financial Unit of Account which reflects the
movements in the country's Consumer Price Index)



CHILE            FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMN  LOA
LOAN SUMY
Borrower:             Republic of Chile
Amount:               US$250.0 million equivalent
Terms:                Repayment in 17 years, including four years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Description:          The proposed loan would support the Government's Structural
Adjustment Program, a program designed to accelerate exports
and domestic savings so as to permit a recovery of economic
growth and employment while the country services its external
debt. The main areas covered by the Government's medium-term
program include: (i) measures to strengthen incentives for
noncopper exports; (ii) steps to increase public savings and
the efficiency and impact of public expenditures: and (iii)
measures to improve the condition of banking and corporate
finances. The loan would finance all imports, -with the
exception of luxury items and military goods. Complementary
studies designed to improve health sector management, employ-
ment generation, export assistance programs, and a forestry
development program will be partially financed by a prior
Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Loan (Ln.
2 504-CH) approved in March 1985.
Project Benefits:    The Structural Adjustment Program is expected to result in
higher levels of economic growth, employment and export earn-
ings while enhancing the country's ability to service its ex-
ternal debt. The increased growth and improved balance-of-
payments performance will also strengthen Chile's credit-
worthiness and facilitate continuation of external financial
flows.
Project Risks:        The principal risks--and they are not minor--center on the
Government's ability to generate the required domestic
savings from both the public and private sectors, on Chile's
terms of trade, and on access to foreign capital. If extern-
al developments adversely affect Chile's terms of trade or
interest rates, or if foreign capital inflows are less than
projected, domestic savings may be insufficient to permit
satisfactory growth and prompt debt service payments.
Estimated
Diubursemmts:         The proceeds of the loan would be dishursed in two tranches:
US$150 million equivalent upon effectiveness, and the remain-
ing US$100 million equivalent after a performance review to
be held within six months of effectiveness.
Apprais-alReport:    None
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance|
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. 



INTERNATIOANL BANK FOR RECX)STRUCTION D DEVELOPHENT
REPORT AND ENDO aF                  RKSIDENT (W       B
TO THE EXECUTVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSThENT LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUImVALEN TO US$250.0 nILLION
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Second
Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) to the Republic of Chile for the equivalent of
US$250.O million. The loan would have a term of 17 years, including four yeats of
grace, with interest at the standard variable rate.
PART I - TE ECONOMY
2.        An economic memorandum on Chile (Report No. 5099-CH) was circulated to
the Executive Directors on September 24, 1984. In October 1985, the Bank approved
a first SAL to Chile in support of the Government's economic adjustment program.
In February 1986 and April/May 1986, two economic missions visited Chile to review
the progress made on the program and the SAL. The second tranche of the loan was
released in June 1986. The April/May mission also appraised a Government request
for further Bank support of the country's economic adjustment program. The con-
clusions of those missions are reflected in this report. Country data sheets are
attached as Annex I.
3.        During 1979-1981, Chile's open capital account, fixed exchange rate, and
a lagged convergence of domestic and foreign inflation and interest rates encour-
aged an unsustainable boom. As the peso appreciated and copper prices began fall-
ing, Chile found itself increasingly dependent on foreign borrowings. The extern-
al debt increased from US$6.7 billion by end-1978 to US$17 billion by end-1982.
Export and import substitution sectors started to slump by the end of 1981. In
1982, when voluntary lending to Latin America ended and international real inter-
est rates reached record heights, Chile was forced to devalue its currency and
real GDP dropped over 14 percent.
4.        The Government's immediate response to the 1982-1983 recession was ad
hoc and based on the belief that the country was facing only short-term liquidity
problemns. By mid-1983, both in and out of the Government, there was increasing
acknowledgement that a coherent longer-term program was necessary to attain a sus-
tainable economic growth. in early 1984, an initial three-year public investment
program was produced. During 1985, the Government improved on this first effort
and developed a 1985-1987 structural adjustment program that combined a series of
consistent actions to improve the balance of payments, public sector finances,
domestic savings and unemployment situation. Policy measures to reach a set of
targets on each of the above-mentioned areas were specified. The Bank's first
SAL provided support to an initial set of actions defined for 1985-1986.
Progress of the Adjustment progra  1/
5.        The first phase of the Government's Structural Adjustment Program con-
centrated on three areas of economic policy:  export incentives and management of
1/  Fulfillment of the SAL I loan criteria was described in SecH86-663 -Wfl  -
Progress of the Structural Adjustment loa  distributed to the Executive
Directors on June 12, 1986.



- 2 -
the balance of payments; savings generation and investment; and an orderly ending
of the Central Bank's subsidized debt-rescheduling programs. The following para-
graphs describe the action program in the different policy areas and the progress
made through August 1986.
Balance of Payments Kanagement
6.        A major element of Chile's adjustment problem is the large size of its
external debt. At end-1985, total debt outstanding was nearly US$20 billion;
higher than GDP and four times the level of exports. Chile's debt servicing
equaled US$2.3 billion in 1985--52 percent of its exports. of goods and nonfactor
services. 2/ To alleviate the servicing burden, the adjustment program, which
started in 1985, put heavy emphasis on accelerating exports and efficient import-
substitution. First, the Government reduced its uniform import tariff from 35 per-
cent to 30 percent on March 1, and to 20 percent on July 1, 1985. Second, through
various devaluations, it depreciated the real peso/dollar exchange rate by 25 per-
cent, to its most attractive level in ten years. Third, it further strengthened
the export incentives in the economy by implementing a series of tax, banking, ad-
ministrative and fiscal incentives to promote exports.
7.       To ensure that future upward movements of volatile copper prices would
not result in a real appreciation of the peso, a pilot Copper Stabilization Fund
was created on January 1, 1986. It acts as a mechanism to ensure, through budget
adjustments, that part of CODELCO's copper revenues from higher than budgeted cop-
per prices will be sterilized in a reserve fund. The funds deposited would, in
turn, be utilized to partly smooth out copper revenue shortfalls if the copper
price is lower than budgeted.
8.       These adjustments created a favorable environment for private investment
in new export activities and efficient import-substitution leading to a moderate
growth-with-adjustment result that increased GDP by 2.4 percent over 1984. Non-
copper exports grew at a real rate of 9 percent; imports declined 12 percent. Im-
ports of consumer goods fell by 29.3 percent (food imports dropped by 43 percent)
and imports of intermediate goods by 9.6 percent, reflecting a draw down of stocks
accumulated during 1984. However, imports of capital goods rose by 10.6 percent,
an indication that future growth will not be hampered. Chile's trade surplus in-
creased sharply to US$790 million, a substantial rise from the US$290 million of
1984.
9.         In 1985, Chile also reached agreement to restructure US$5.7 billion on
principal payments fa'lling due to commercial banks during 1985-87, and in securing
additional US$1.1 billion financing for 1985-86. The first SAL, IMF EFF, and the
partial IBRD guarantee of a US$300 million B-Loan were decisive factors in the
financial package obtained from commercial banks. On July 17, 1985, representa-
tives of eight creditor governments 3/ agreed to reschedule 65 percent of princi-
pal payments due them during July 1, 1985-December 31, 1986 on Chilean public or
2/  This amount included interest payments of approximately US$1.8 billion and
non-rescheduled amortization payments of about US$500 million, mostly to offi-
cial lenders.
3/  The countries participating in the rescheduling agreement were Austria,
France, Germany, Japan, the Netherlands, Spain, the United Kingdom, and the
United States. The restructuring applied only to countries with respect to
which amortization payments falling due during the reorganization period were
at least SDR 1 million.



publicly-guaranteed debt with an original maturity of more than one year. The
commercial package was signed in December 1985. Bilateral agreements were signed
in early 1986.
10.      Lower than expected international interest rates and the repricing ob-
tained during the external debt negotiations complemented Chile's trade effort.
The current account deficit was reduced from US$2 billion in 1984 to US$1.3 bil-
lion in 1985, exactly as programmed. The December inflow of US$714 million from
private foreign banks, plus the US$125 million first tranche of the SAL, led to a
net capital account surplus of US$1.35 billion. Thus, Chile's reserves registered
a small increase for the year as a whole.
11.      Notwithstanding a low copper price--0.59 cents/lb. average--the balance
of payments outcome as of August 1986 augurs well for the year. The value of
exports increased 11.3 percent when compared to the same 1985 period. The value
of imports had dropped 7.5 percent. As a result, the trade balance surplus
exceeded US$800 million; only US$100 million short of the target originally
envisaged for the whole year. Because of the fall in oil prices, a trade balance
surplus of between US$1.1 to $1.2 billion is now expected to occur. Addition of
an expected US$100 to $150 million savings from the lower-than-projected interest
rates makes a US$1.0 to US$1.1 billion current account deficit for 1986 a feasible
target--well within the US$1.2 billion range set at the beginning of the year.
Public Finances
12.       Public sector investment rose to 7.1 percent of GDP in 1985, reflecting
in part the need to repair substantial damages caused by an earthquake in March.
Total damage was estimated at about 5 percent of GDP. As a consequence, even
though most public enterprises obtained stronger-than-expected profits, the Gov-
ernment had to reduce its current expenditures by almost one percent of GDP to re-
main within the public savings and overall public sector deficit targets. These
reductions, mainly the product of continued wage restraint, dampened economic
growth but prevented international reserve losses and greater inflation. These
actions responded to the program priorities of increased investment, savings, and
a reduction of the crowding-out effect of public deficits on credit to the private
sector.
13.       Aside from the emergency reconstruction works, the public investment
program was tailored to the adjustment priorities. Specific cuts of low-priority
projects (subway, Austral road) were made.   A February 1986 evaluation of the
1985-executed public investment program found it within the agreements reached
with the Bank. The copper company's (CODELC0; investment program (nearly $300
million) was directed to upgrading processing facilities to maintain production
levels in the face of declining ore grades. ENAP (Chile's oil company) continued
its active exploration program to counteract a 9 percent production drop due to
well depletion. A consolidation of state companies run by CORFO was undertaken,
and a divestiture program initiated.
14.       Limitations on the growth of current expenditures, care in defining and
implementing an efficient public investment program and a strengthening of the
cost effectiveness of public enterprises improved public sector finances consider-
ably. Public savings in 1985 reached 3.8 percent of GDP, a strong improvement
over the 0.6 percent reached in 1984. The overall nonfinancial public sector de-
ficit fell to 3 percent of GDP, again an improvement over 1984.



- 4 -
15.       For 1986, low international oil and copper prices reduced ENAP's and
CODELCO's revenues. Notwithstanding this, the finances of the public sector re-
main under control. Stvonger fiscal receipts have resulted from the economic up-
turn and revamped fiscal collectton methods. Public savings of about 4.4 percent
of GDP are expected for the year. Expenditure adjustments gave due regard to
social expenditures; salary adjustments will once again bear the heavier burden.
Public investment is expected to increase to about 7.4 percent of GDP, and in-
cludes a substantial element of financing for reconstruction works resulting from
the 1985 earthquake. The uajority of the projects have either IBRD or IDB
financing. With the monetary and fiscal programs under control, inflation is ex-
pected to -decline from 26 percent in 1985 to 18 percent in 1986. As measured by
the consumer price index, the inflation rate had decreased to an annual rate of 17
percent in August 1986.
Private Sauizaga
16.       Gross national savings rose to 5 percent of GDP in 1985; three-quarters
higher than the 1984 level. A major tax reform, initiated in 1984, provided
fiscal incentives for the reinvestment of corporate profits. It also provided in-
centives for individuals that increased their contributions to the private pen-
sion-fund systems. Despite this initial success, the program must continue its
concerted effort to increase public savings, strengthen the intermediation of
household savings through the private pension funds, and reconstitute private cor-
porate savings.
17.       Privatization of the social security pension funds-established at a
considerable transitional cost to the Government--may play an important role in
raising the future national savings rate. In 1985, the operating surplus of the
private pension system reached about 4 percent of GDP. Their real holdings of
notes issued by the financial system rose by 40 percent--a strong boost to the
generation and efficient allocation of household savings. It is, however, too
soon to evaluate the effect of the adjustment program on corporate savings. While
most firms operating by end 1985 were operationally viable, it remains to be seen
if during 1986-after the endiag of the debt rescheduling grace periods--all are
able to fully service their debts.
18.       The adjustment program created favorable conditions for export-oriented
private investment. Legislative changes in late 1985 facilitated oil and gas con-
tracts by private firms with the State petroleum firm ENAP and allowed the estab-
lishment of offshore accounts for their export receipts. Two major gas projects-
supported by IFC--emerged from the latter action. A US$300 million methanol pro-
ject began construction in early 1986 after ENAP ensured the reqv.tred gas supply
and the provision of the pipeline to the project site. A US$400 million ammonia/
area project sited near Punts Arenas could go on stream by 1988.
19.       AfLer the external debt re3tructuring and new money agreements were fin-
ished, the Central Bank eased its extremely tight monetary policy. During the
last quarter of the year, the lagged effects of the devaluations and the better
credit conditions of the economy finally took hold and investment boomed. Prelim-
inary data indicate that during 1985 stocks fell by 6 percent, but real gross
fixed private investment grew by 18 percent.
20.       The performance of the Chilean economy during the first semester of 1986
was strong. Business confidence in the Government's economic policies is at its
highest point since 1981. It is leading to new investment ir export activities



and to a renewed private sector participation In the country's economic recovery.
Industrial output grew over 7 percent in the twelve months ending in May 1986; a
rate of growth of between 5 to 6 percent is expected for the sector in 1986.
Agricultural output--one of the leading sectors since 1984-is growing at an
annual 5.5 percent rate. Construction should again be a leading growth sector,
albeit at a slower rate than the 16 percent attained in 1985. Services,
rebounding strongly since December 1985, are expected to continue their recovery
and to provide strong gains in productive employment. As a result, CDP was
growing by 7 percent over the same period of 1985. We now expect an annual 5
percent rate of GDP growth and a $1.1 billion current account deficit in the
balance of payments for 1986.
Financial Rebabilitation
21.       Before the start of the adjustment program, the Central Bank of Chile
dealt with the severe liquidity crises of Chile's private firms and banks by in-
troducing a general subsidized debt rescheduling programs, a preferential ex-
change rate, an interest subsidy program to retain dollar deposits, and by inter-
vening Chile's largest private banks and the two largest corporate groups to pre-
vent their bankruptcy. For the past three and a half years, the cumulative losses
of the Central Bank resulting fr.m these rescue operations were estimated at about
US$3.5 ill.ion--about 20 percent of 1985 GDP, Most of these losses took place in
1983 and 19014.
22.       To reduce these losses, as well as return credibility to the banking
system, the Government announced, in June 1985, the gradual phase out by the end
of 1986 of the preferential exchange rate for debtors of over US$50,000 4/, and
of dollar swap and deposit subsidies by early 1987. These policies increased mon-
etary policy flexibllity and reduced operatlonal losses of the Central Bank during
1985 to about 4.3 percent of GDP.  A substantial further reduction in losses will
take place in 1986.
23.       A recapitalization program for the two major intervened banks, Banco de
Chile and Banco de Santiago, started in mid-1985.  It provided for the conversion
into shares of the Central Bank's emergency loans and their subsequent subsidized
sale to the private sector. The State intends never to hold over 49 percent of
the new capital and reserves at any tlme, and all shares in the hands of thei
public sector are to be sold or given back to the private sector within a five-
year period. Legislation enacted in September allowed domestic banks to resti-:z-
ture the liabilities of heavily indebted domestic productive companies and, in
some cases, to capitalize debts.   In December 1985, private debtors demands for
subsidized credit lines and a new general debt reprogramming were denied, instead
the Government encouraged case-by-case reprogramming of debtors with the own re-
sources of commercial banks.
24.       These measures had a positive impact on the economy, and allowed the
financial system to make an overall profit for the first time since 1982 and to
renew lending to viable finms. 5/ The Government is addressing now the remaining
major structural problem  of the financial sector.
41 Debtors of under US$50,000 owe in total less than 5 percent of the total
private foreign debt.
5/ This result depended heavily on reduced loan provisions steming from the sale
of substandard portfolios to the Central Bank. These sales, however, cannot
be repeated. The longer-tens profits of the banking system will depend on
their ability to obtain revenues from new productive assets that would improve
the overall quality of their portfolios.



-6-
Social Policies
25.       Following the overall adjustment in public expenditures, real social ex-
penditures contracted slightly during 1985. To responhi to the Immediate needs of
the lo-er Income population, eocial expenditures were targeted on programs that
either supplemented lost income, or provided emergency works. Over a thild of
budgeted social expenditures were devoted to programs providing slpplementary fam-
ily allowances, preventive health, food for children, and emergency employment
(EEPs). But, the heavy emphasis on employment, income subsidies, and nutrition
programs brought severe adjustments in health and education outlays whose share
since 1981 has dropped from 16 percent and 25 percent, to less than 14 percent and
22 percent, respectively.
26.       Emphasis on nutrition and preventive health care permitted the preserva-
tion of the outstanding social indicators achieved by Chile prior to the economic
crisis. Infant and neonatal mortality rates continued to decrease until 1984, the
last year for which there is available information. The rates of moderate and ad-
vanced malnutrition had increased in 1983--a recession year--but they improved
again to 11 percent and 9.8 percent in 1984. Improvements in preventive medicine
programs and increased coverage of the population with clean water and sewerage
services helped to raise the life expectancy at birth from 65.6 years in the
1975-1980 period to 67 years by 1985.
27.       Chile's housing program has also improved since 1983.  This program has
permitted the provision of an additional 115,000 houses to lower-income families
during 1984-1986, and helped the Housing Ministry upgrade its operational pro-
cedures which will increase the replicability of the program in the future. More-
over, the income limitation for beneficiaries, introduced under a World Bank loan
in support of the program, may result in approximately 575,000 people below the
urban poverty threshold obtaining new housing.
28.       The depression of 1981/1983 raised Chile's open and disguised unemploy-
ment rates to record heights. By 1983, the Government's emergency employment pro-
grams provided employment to nearly 500,000 persons. After this peak, the employ-
sent situation improved substantially thanks to a restrained wage policy and some
reactivation of the economy, notably in the export sector. Despite a moderate
rate of GDP growth of 2.4 percent during 1985, productive jobs increased at an
average rate of 8 percent in the year. As of August 1986, the rate of unemploy-
ment had fallen to less than 11 percent. The number of persons employed by the
Government's EEPe had decreased to less than 200,000. The strong growth expected
for most of the productive sectors in the rest of 1986 should translate into a
continued reduction of unemployment.
Prospects
29.        Chile's long-term prospects, however, remain fragile.  Improved pros-
pects for 1986 are due, in part, to international declines in petroleum prices and
interest rates. Chile's mediumrterm recovery remains linked to its terms of trade
and--given its external debt burden--world interest rates. Both have shifted mod-
erately in favor of Chile this year. Both could shift against Chile in the
future. Even if this recent improvement is not reversed, to attain an annual
average rate of GDP growth of 4 percent, Chile will need strong gains in export
volumes, substantial increases in domestic savings and at least in the immediate
years-large net inflows of capital.



-7-
Evolution of Principle Health Indkleatrs In Chile
Evolullon of Principle Healtih Indcalcrn In Chile        o0-                             -                             2.0
(In children less than one year - rate per 1.000 live birth-.
Maeirndl rnorraliry
/                                        -1.5 ti
t0                    infant mrriariliiy                            0
90 -                                                            1.0
mortality from_ _                                                 b-                \_05
diarrhea      Moraty roProtssionalm-di                                                                                         0.
21 -               bronrhopneumonia                                                  attention tn newborn
-____   /                                          t~~~~~~                                      ~      ~~~10 _.'1' --0  
________  __    ____       970              1975               1980               1954
19 170            1975              19110              194 "Source: Ministry of Health.
Nutritional Status of Control Group
of Children Under 6 Years of Age'                                          Coverage of Urban Tap Water and Sewage.
(Percentage cf children found undernourished)                     tin percenui
16-                       EI z Seriously                             I
14 -                           A foderaiely 
12 -I  Slightly                                                                    Tap water                                  -
10 - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~coverage
leoage
4                                                                                                                             -40
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
0. _          _  _ _     l                                                                              ''                     20
1975     1980     1982     1983      1984     19851            1970       1980       19 81      1982       1983       19U4'
Source: Ministry of Health,                                        Source: SENDOS.
Notes:  ' Population monitored by services of agencies             Note  '1984 Estimated data
of the National Health Service System.
Provisional figure as of September 1985.



-8-
PART II - TE STEUCTrMAL ADJUSTUENT PROGRM
30.        The Government's Structural Adjustment Program is coherent, balanced,
and well-designed to create the flnancial and macroeconomic envIronment required
for sustainable output and employment growth. Implementation of Its lnitlal phase
has been successful. If they stay the course, full implementation is within the
reach of the determined and capable team presently administering Chile's economy,
provided the world economy continues to expand at least at a moderate pace and no
further restrictions are imposed to free trade.
31.       Recapitalization and reprivatization of the banking and corporate sec-
tors constitute an essential element of the second phase of the adjustment pro-
gram. Public sector savings in the order of 4.4 percent of GDP, an austere and
efficient public inveLtment program, and the strengthening of the economy's export
incentives and social security programs, have also been defined by the Government
as priorities for the secund phase of the adjustment program.
Financial Rehabilitation Measures
32.       An efficient and safe capital market is a key goal of the adjustment
program. To attain this goal, the Government is taking measures during 1986 that
will: (i) recapitalize private firms through a case-by-case renegotiation of the
obligations of private debtors; (ii) recapitalize the banking system; (Cii) re-
privatize the intervened banks and firms; and, (iv) strengthen the supervisory and
legal framework required for the sound functioning of Chile's capital market and
banking system.
33.       Incentives for case-by-case financial workouts between private debtors
and their commercial creditors now exist. Legislation enacted during 1985 author-
ized the transfer of portfolio among private banks, the payment of domestic debts
with negotiable notes on the Chilean foreign debt, and the conversion of debt into
equity. These measures provided the framework for the recapitalization of private
firms, and are being complemented by the Bank's Industrial Finance Restructuring
Loan approved in FY85. In January 1986, an increase of the public resources in a
Guarantee Fund was approved to provide an incentive for negotiations between small
debtors and banking institutions. The Government expects that by end-1986, all
operationally-viable firms should have established financial workout arrange-
ments.
34.        The intervention of Chile's largest firms avoided chaotic bankruptcy,
but created ownership issues affecting investment and production. After Interven-
tion, the Government created special commissions entrusted with managing the
firms, sorting out the issues, and defining financial work-outs for their repri-
vatization. By December 1985, the legal situation and required financial workout
for the two largest intervened groups had been defined. By August 1986, many of
their firms had been sold to foreign and domestic entrepreneurs as part of finan-
cial settlements that included debt-to-equity conversions. The commissions hand-
ling the affairs of these groups will be dissolved once the sale of COPEC and CCU
-two of the largest holding firms--is completed. These actions will leave many
large firms under new and responsible ownership permitting increased production
levels and vital new investments in export-oriented activities.
35,        The 1983-1984 reschedulings of private debts left the banking system
with a long-term portfolio that accounted for 22.5 percent of their total assets



as of December 1985. To address this issue, during 1985 the Government ended
the provision of general subsldized credit lines and encouraged a recapitalization
program based on the Central Bank purchase of substandard portfolios.
36.           Initially, only non-intervened banks were allowed to sell their
substandard portfolio to the Central Bank up to an amount of 2.5 times their
capital and reserves with the obligation to repurchase it out of future profits.
The banks pay a 5 percent real rate of interest on their outstanding portfolio In
the hands of the Central Bank. In payment, for the substandard portfolios, the
Central Bank issued 4-year promissory notes to the banks that yield a 7 percent
real rate of interest. Thus, the dual objectives of recapitalizing the private
banks without a bail-out of shareholders, and of avoiding a massive monetary
emission were achieved through this program.
37.        Reprivatizatior  of the intervened banks started in 1985.  The Central
Bank emergency loans to them were capitalized and the shares sold to the public
through a highly subsidized "popular capitalism" program. To further improve
their solvency, since December 1985, intervened banks were allowed to sell their
non-performing portfolio to the Central Bank. As of August 1986, the sale of
Central Bank shares through the "popular capitalism" program had resulted in a
near 60 percent private ownership of Banco de Santiago and Banco de Chile. The
Government intends to return the admiaistration of both banks back to the private
sector before the end of 1986. Two other intervened banks, Banco de Concepcion
and BHIF have been sold to private foreign and domestic investors, and the last
one, Banco Colocadora, has been merged with Banco de Santiago as part of the
financial work-out arranged for the latter.
38.        The recapitalization process has been a strong step in the right
direction towards the goal of establishing a sounder banking system. The total
equity capital of the banking system and other financial intermediaries--negative
before the recapitalization measures--is now positive. The system's debt to
equity ratio reached 13 in February 1986. The cumulative banks' portfolio sold to
the Central Bank as of December 1985, was estimated at Ch$487 billion (about US
$2.7 billion). The method of purchase has effectively distributed this loss over
several years. The annual service cost of the total operation was estimated at
about US$100 million, and the Government has made provisions to share this cost
between the fiscal budget and the commercial banks by: (i) the banks' obligation
to repurchase the portfolio out of profits until that portfolio has been totally
repurchased--except in the case of new shareholders to whom a total of 30 percent
of earnings can be distributed as dividends; and (ii) the Government's acceptance
to forego Central Bank profits to absorb the differential on interest spread from
the portfolio purchased.
39.       The strengthening of the banking system, together with sound macroeco-
nomic policies, has reduced domestic interest rates to levels close to interna-
tional ones. Moreover, as the quality of the banks' portfolio improved, the gross
spread of the financial system declined from an average of 9.6 percent in 1983, to
an average of 3.8 percent in February 1986, ensuring a better credit environment
for future investment demands.
40.       Finally, a new banking law under consideration by the Legislature incor-
porates measures that would provide for: (i) the establishment of greater trans-
parency in banking activities; (ii) the gradual replacement of the State general
deposit guarantee on all deposits by a limited guarantee system that would share



[iIJwr1ror -THE rOIRYFOIO1 onr               Ta      ULAL.ITY Or THIE PORtTYrOLU  OFn
no . . X ..E.K...Y SE                         ._2 so        NHA                    S
".5! 4                                                4t "  1 
2e.. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ Y
a eo.
560        .                                           60u
40' GOODtD                                                               r                         aGOO EFtD
JL#tiitr5jJJIj t!t                                                                                TOTAL_
3 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~30
30e                                                     Is  I
aIa aU                                                                             *
C > FitT  tl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-L



- 11 -
risk between shareholders, bank creditors, depositors and the State; (iii) the
establishment of a mechanism for the allocation of capital losses among sharehold-
ers and bank creditors; (iv) the power to the Superintendency of Banks to restrict
lending operations to related borrowers and to control the quality of the finan-
cial institutions' portfolios; and (v) the enhancement of the Superintendency of
Banks supervisory powers over the overall activities of financial institutions.
41.       Recapitalization of the corporate sector has also proceeded at a rapid
pace. The 1984 Central Bank-financed debt reschedulings permitted many firms to
stretch their financial servicing costs over a 15 year period, with one year grace
on interest payments and three years grace on amortizations. The 1984-1985 recov-
ery then allowed operationally viable firms to generate sufficient profits to
service financial payments while strengthening the overall debt to capital ratio.
As of December 31, 1985, the acid ratio of 110 firms whose stock is traded on the
Santiago stock excbange had improved to 0.82 from 1.11 in December 1983; a re-
flection of the corporate sector's improving financial situation.
42.       Moreover, following the Decemoer 1935 legal settlement of the affairs of
Chile's largest intervened groups, sale of their productive firms proceeded at a
rapid pace. As of August 1986, over 70 percent of the productive assets of the
group administered by the Progresa Commission had been sold to private investors.
Foreign investors have initiated conversations to purchase CCU (Chile's largest
brewery) and a financial workout is underway to facilitate the sale of the com-
pany. Two operations, the sale of the PROVIDA pension fund and COPEC (a holding
company with interests in the forestry and energy sectors), included foreign in-
vestments of slightly over US$200 million. These actions have strengthened the
Santiago stock exchange and further financial workouts through stock investments
are now a strong possibility.
43.       These measures have strengthened the Chilean financial and corporate
systems and reestablished confidence in banking institutions and the Santiago
stockmarket. However, as Chile continues to reduce its dependence on foreign sav-
ings, the annual cost of the rescue programs will require careful monetary and
fiscal measures to finance the operational losses of the Central Bank without in-
flationary pressures. To contain and, if possible, reduce these losses, the
Government decided to end the provision of subsidized credit lines, dollar swaps
and preferential dollar operations and will enforce the repurchase by private
banks of the substandard portfolio bought by the Central Bank.
Saying. Nobilization
44.       Public Sector Savings:  Increased public sector savings and an efficient
public investment program are also essential elements of the adjustment program.
The tax reform initiated in 1983 was continued but the reduction in tax rates on
personal income was postponed by two years. The scheduled corporate surtax reduc-
tion was implemented, double taxation was eliminated, and the applicability of the
tax surcharge to public enterprises was confirmed. Revamped collection methods,
the postponement of the personal tax rtluctions, and a new tax on domestic con-
sumption of gasoline imposed on May 1986, will counteract, only partly, the loss
of revenues experienced by ENAP (the petroleum company), and CODELCO (the copper
company), from depressed international prices. As a result, total public sector
revenue is expected to decline from 34 percent of GDP in 1985 to 32 percent in
1986.



- 12 -
45.         The consolidation of the State companies run by CORFO will be followed
by a divestiture program that the Authorities intend to implement during 1986. The
Government of Chile has started to sell shares of public enterprises and use the
resources thus obtained to support lending operations to the private sector, fi-
nance payments of the privatization of the pension funds, and help finance the in-
crease in public investment resulting from the reconstruction works. Total sales
in 1986 are expected to amount to Ch$19 billion (about US$100 million).
46.         Public sector savings, equivalent to 3.8 percent of GDP in 1985, are
projected to increase to 4.4 percent of GDP during 1986. As in 1985, the Govern-
ment will attempt to generate the increase in public savings through current ex-
penditure restraint rather than tax increases so as not to dampen private sav-
ings. Current expenditures of the general government are projected to decline
from 29.5 percent of GDP in 1985 to 26 percent in 1986. ThIq decline is expected
to come from continued restraint in wages and salaries, a freezing in the nominal
expenditures on the unemployment programs, and reductions in the nominal amounts
dedicated to social programs derived from their better targeting.
47.         The Authorities plan a relative shift in the emphasis of social ex-
penditures from unemployment benefits towards housing and regional development
programs. The 1986 budget raised outlays on the latter to 25 percent of the total
budgeted social expenditures. Social security pensions, however, remain the major
item in the Government's social budget, absorbing 43 percent of social outlays.
Health (6.6 percent) and employment expenditures bear the major adjustments in the
social budget for 1986.
48.         Modifications of the three-year public investment program approved
last year took account of required earthquake reconstruction works. A one-year
updating in the projected 1988 investment program is under preparation. The
US$1.3 billion 1986 public investment program represents 7.4 percent of GDP. It
emphasizes infrastructure projects required for private investments, particularly
in transportation, and upgrading of production facilities in the major public
enterprises.
49.        Planned investments of about US$350 million would upgrade CODELCO's
processing facilities to counteract increasing costs from declining ore grades in
its Chuquicamata and El Teniente mines. In power, a US$120 million investment
would initiate works in the Pehuenche power plant, and finalize works in the
Canutillar, Alfalfal, and Colbun-Machicura power plants required to satisfy the
projected energy demand of the 909. In energy, a US$100 million exploration and
production investment program may permit ENAP to arrest the declining oil produc-
tion in its offshore facilities.  Road, port, railroad, and agricultural infra-
structure investments are planned in conjunction with IBRD or IDB loans.  Large,
low-return projects in irrigation are deferred in favor of small, efficient ones
that increase employment and agricultural output. The major sectoral breakdown of
projected investments is shown in Annex VI.
50.       Private Savligs:  The Government's sound fiscal, monetary and exchange
rate policies provide the adequate macroeconomic framework for new investments and
household savings. Increases in private savings will be stimulated by the tax re-
form, growth of the pension funds, and strengthening of the banking system. Re-
forms of the financial system and the consolidation of the Santiago stock market
should contribute to accelerate the financial deepening of the economy, thereby
increasing the flow of funds through nonbank financial institutions and the secur-
ities markets, and promoting efficient operation of financial markets.



- 13 -
51.          A favorable climate for foreign investment and privatization, and a
discounted price ln the financial trade secondary markets of externel debt guaran-
teed by Chile, created a climate propitious to conversions of the country's
foreign debt into peso-denominated equity in local business. During 1985, the
Central Bank authorized transactions not involving foreign direct investment per-
mitting private residents and nonresidents to convert, for specified uses, Chilean
foreign debt notes. The Authorities saw in these operations a double benefit for
the country: external debt was reduced at a discount; and it was reduced in such
a way to strengthen the banking system while inducing financiai corporate work-
outs. Implementation of the program has reduced Chile's external debt burden
--through May 31, 1986, transactions totaled US$370 million--and increased the
availability of national savings for investment purposes.6/
52.       Management of these transactions has taken into account their effect on
the foreign exchange market, the monetary program, and the legal terms of the ex-
ternal debt restructuring agreement. Initially, limitations on the amount and
uses of the converted investments was established. After its successful imple-
mentation, the scope of the debt purchase mechanism was expanded in May 1986, by
broadening the coverage of the qualifying external debt and the permissible
domestic use of the assets, or their proceeds, in local currency. Among other
uses, these assets can now be used to settle direct domestic debts, debts of third
parties, exchanged for equity and fixed assets, and exchanged for equity in finan-
cial institutions. This modification should increase direct foreign investment in
the economy and the use of domestic savings for investment purposes. Because the
transactions will be channeled through private financial institutions, the distri-
bution of the gains will also bolster the banking and corporate systems, and boost
investment in private businesses.
Export PtoSItLOn
53.         During 1985, the Government established an attractive exchange rate
and a trade regime that stimulated exports. The volume of noncopper exports in-
creased by 9 percent that year. The Government has renewed its commitment to
maintain low and even import tariffs, and a constant real exchange rate throughout
1986-1987. The Copper Stabilization Fund will be extended for one more year, and
to avoid unexpected changes in the trade regime, in June 1986, Chile's Legislature
approved a law that gave legal status to the present import tariff system. Its
modification is now possible only by legislative decree.
54.         The Government now plans to complement these measures with modifica-
tions in administrative procedures that should provide further incentives for
small and medium-sized exporters. Its efforts, therefore, will concentrate in
complementing the macroeconomic measures taken during 1985 by facilitating the co-
ordination and promotion of exports from small- and medium-sized producers.
55.         A tax credit law for the benefit of small exporters provides for the
return of income taxes in an amount not to exceed 10 percent of the FOB value of
exports to producers whose total export value remains under US$2.5 million. Norms
have also been enacted to further facilitate export promotion. Wider margins for
personal credit than those stipulated in the banking law are permitted in the pro-
motion of new exports. Devolution of the value added tax on imported capital
goods is now standard for exporting firns. Finally, the time limit for the devolu-
tion of taxes for exporters was reduced from 90 to 60 days. These measures are
all geared to attain the participation of small- and medium-sized private busi-
nessmen in export-oriented activities.
6/ See SecH86-1090 'Debt Conversion-Chile- distributed to the Executive Directors
on September 24, 1986.



- 14 -
56.         Forestry-related exports reached US$312 million during 1985, but
Chile's export potential in forestry products has just begun to be tapped. The
Government created a specfal public/private commission to develop a coherent in-
vestment strategy to bring about the full export potential of the sector in the
upcoming years. The commission's report, to be deilvered by December 1986, will
serve to define the Government's investment and policy strategy in the sector. No
major technical difficulties are envisaged in reaching the full potential of the
current timber plantations. Central Chile's climate is one of the best in the
world for pine growing, thus ranking the country as one of the lowest-cost pro-
ducers.   Hence, the sector's future export earnings depend heavily on the timely
investment in required infrastructure and processing facilities and Chile's abil-
ity to expand its market penetration iu importing countries. Preliminary esti-
mates indicate that the public investment required for infrastructure may be con-
siderable, and that private investments--between 1986 and the year 2000--to de-
velop the plant and processing facilities will be around US$2.5 billion. This
sector is a prime candidate for the attraction of foreign direct tnvestment.
57.       The Authorities have actively encouraged the participation of foreign
investment in export oriented activities. Chile's mineral richness has provided a
stronghold for foreign participation. As noted, a US$300 million methanol plant
is already under construction in Punta Arenas. A number of other Investment ini-
tiatives is currently under negotiation and some of them are expected to start
construction during 1986. Among the most advanced are the US$1.5 billion
Escondida copper mine project; and the US$200 million Mixed Salts project to pro-
duce potassium, muriatic acid, potassium sulfate, boric acid, and lithium carbon-
ate in the Atacama Salt Lake.
Social Policies
58.       The Government plans to continue its effort to perfect the targeting of
its social expenditures. A program to decentralize the adainistration of the
major social programs will be implemented during 1986. It will provide for
greater participation at the regional level in the determination of the allocation
of earmarked social outlays in the several social programs for the extreme poor.
59.       The improvement in infant and child mortality rates and the increase in
the life expectancy of the total population through preventive health services
has, however, resulted in a growing population group that requires health services
longer. In face of these trends, public health services exhibit signs of falling
behind the increasing demand for public health care.
60.          To increase financial resources for the national public health
system, in January 1986 the Government increased the compulsory health contribu-
tion from 6 to 7 percent of total labor compensation. This action is being com-
plemented by financial and administrative changes to improve the use of current
health facilities. Average patient-stay ratios in public hospitals are being re-
viewed to reduce unnecessary occupation of crowded facilities. Working staff-
hours are also being examined to eliminate unnecessary duplication of personnel.
Inter-hospital allocation of expensive equipment is being reviewed to maximize its
utilization.
61.         Nevertheless, there is a possibility, indeed a probability, that these
measures alone will not prove sufficient to compensate for the lower investment
levels of the past several years forced by the adjustment program. An increase in
health investment may well be required to avoid a deterioration in the access to
adequate health facilities and the long-term effects on health indices that this
might bring. The Authorities intend to undertake a study examining the relevant



- 15 -
issues currently affecting the public health system. The study, to be finished by
March 1987, would provide the basis for a medium-term strategy designed to address
the relevant sector's issues.
62.        Employmnt:  Reduction of Chile's unemployment rates requires the con-
tinuation of policies favorable to employment generation. When combined with a
crawling peg exchange policy, ending of wage indexation, and the flexible wage
policy eliminate major price distortions affecting the use of labor. The
generation of employment during 1984-85 indicates that a high elasticity exists
between output and employment. Continuation of current trends suggests that If
the projected 5 percent GDP rate of growth materializes in 1986, the Government
will be able to reduce its expenditures on emergency employment programs without
undue hardship for the lower income population. The programs, however, will very
likely remain indispensable for at least two or three more years, as the working
population ready to enter the labor force is very high. The cost of the programs,
thus, will have to be balanced by enhancing their social and productive aspects.
Studies financed under the Bank's Technical Assistance Loan will shed light on the
relation between the emergency employment programs and the labor market
conditions, and on the productivity of the different EEPs currently active.
IKE Extended Fund Facility
63.         The IMF is supporting Chile's 1985-87 program with a three-year, SDR
750 million Extended Fund Facility (EFF). Both the IMF and Bank share the goals
of a more efficient public sector, better budgetary and institutional controls, a
free trade, export-oriented economy, and a revitalized financial sector. Besides
specific fiscal, monetary and reserve targets for 1986, the EFF program stresses
the phasing out of the preferential exchange rate and swap operations of the
Central Bank, lower public deficit, and a major drop by 1987 in Chile's need for
new commercial funds.
64.         During preparation of the EFF and the proposed SAL, there was extreme-
ly close cooperation between the Government and Fund and Bank staff, to ensure
consistency between stabilization and structural adjustment measures. The Bank's
SAL identification and appraisal missions overlapped with the Fund missions which
negotiated the 1986 EFF targets. The projections of both institutions for 1986-87
are similar, as are the copper price and other key variables. Throughout, the
Bank and Fund have been in agreement both on matters of general approach and on
many specific measures.
65.          Bank and Fund staff also worked together in supporting the Govern-
ment's presentation to commercial banks for Chile's 1985-86 external debt negotia-
tions. As a result, Chile was able to obtain US$2 billion and to reschedule its
amortization payments falling due in 1985/1986. As part of this package commer-
cial banks provided US$1.1 billion in new money and official creditors rescheduled
around US$120 million in amortizations due in the period.   We will continue this
close cooperation, especially during the supervision of the 1986 investment budget
and action programs.
PART III - THE PROPOSED LOAN
General
66.       The proposed Structural Adjustment Loan would support the Government's
1986-87 program of economic adjustment and recovery. The proposed loan was pre-



- 16 -
pared with the Government during February 1986 and was appraised in April/Nay
1986. Negotiations took place in Washington, D. C., from August 11, 1986 to
August 14, 1986. The Chilean Delegation was headed by Mr. Jorge Selume, Director
of the Budget, Ministry of Finance. Annex III contains a Supplementary Loan Data
Sheet.
67.       The proposed loan would support measures taken by the Government during
1986 and the first half of 1987. It would continue our support for the trade,
fiscal, and financial reforms initiated in 1985. It places special emphasis on
supporting industrial and banking restructuring actions needed for the long-term
success of the adjustment program. Priorities lie in restructuring remaining in-
solvent firms (the banks' debtors), and helping private banks to regain a viable
financial structure and interested ownership. Many as-ions taken so far reflect
understandings reached with the Bank on economic policy. Some of the actions
still to be taken--especially in the financial, public management and social
areas--require further study to assist in identifying policy options. The Bank
will support several of these studies through its Public Sector Management Tech-
nical Assistance Loan (Ln. 2504-CH).
68.       The specific actions supported by the proposed SAL are set out in the
Government's Letter of Development Policy (Annex V) and were reviewed in detail
during appraisal. For convenience, they are summarized in matrix form in Annex
IV. Actions already taken and to be taken by the Government in each of the main
policy areas addressed by its structural adjustment program are described below.
Actions Taken and to be Taken
Financial Rehabllitation
69.       Recapitalization of the banking system Is now largely complete, but the
process of restructuring is expected to take at least two more years because of
the complicated negotiations needed in each case. The Government ended general-
ized rescheduling of bank loans, implemented a program to phase out preferential
exchange and swap operations, and capitalized the emergency loans provided to in-
tervened banks. Mergers and liquidations of insolvent small- and mediur-sized
private banks have started. Case-by-case restructurings are being negotiated be-
tween debtors and creditors of many firms.
70.       Capital increases agreed by SBIF have been undertaken either in the con-
text of the -popular capitalism program, or through direct bank sales to inter-
ested private parties. The merger of Banco Colocadora with Banco de Santiago, and
the sale of Central Bank outstanding stock of Banco de Santiago and Banco de Chile
led to a 60 percent reprivatization of those three intervened banks. Another two
intervened banks, Banco de Concepcion and BHIF, were capitalized and reprivatized
by providing credit and fiscal facilities for subscribers of new capi,al. These
actions -ermitted an orderly transfer of ownership back to private Chilean and
foreign business groups.
71.       The Banking Law under consideration by Chile's Legislative Junta is
designed to avoid a repetition of the 1981-1983 debacle. Its provisions
strengthen SBIF attributions to restrict lending operations to related borrowers
and to control the quality of assets of the financial institutions. It also
provides SBIF and the Central Bank with instruments to deal more effectively with
solvency problems in financial institutions. Finally, it provides a better
framework for the administration of the State's deposit guarantee.



- 17 -
72.       On June 12, 1986, Decree Law lB.519, the general State deposit insur-
ance, was replaced by a State guarantee provided only to financial institutions
whose debt-to-equity ratio met the SBIF's standard. Institutions whose capital to
assets ratios were below the standard need an SBIF-approved recapitalization pro-
gram before obtaining the State's guarantee. As of September. 1986, two of
Chile's 35 financial institutions were left in this situation, but a proper
capital structure is now being arranged, either through mergers with foreign or
national financial institutions, or sales to interested parties. These actions
complemented the Government's rescue operations, and have, in fact, largely
completed the recapitalization process required by the banking system.
73.       While the short-term solvency of the banking system has been restored,
additional measures are still needed to strengthen the long-term stability of the
system. Before release of the loan's second tranche, the Authorities have now
committed themselves to: (i) complete the recapitalization process before the
management of intervened banks is returned to the private sector; (ii) raise the
capital to assets ratio of the system to levels which better guarantee its
stability; (Mi) reinforce the SBIF monitoring systems; (iv) implement a deposit
insurance system in which risks are shared by shareholders, depositors, and the
Central Bank; and (v) formulate a financial program to distribute the losses of
the rescue operations in a manageable fashion over time.
74.       To accomplish the first two objectives, additional purchases of sub-
standard portfolio from some of the banks, particularly those intervened, will be
made before the end of 1986. These additianal purchases, estimated at around
US$250 million, will be directed to those banks whose financial stability lies
near the SBIF's standard capital to assets ratio. These portfolio purchases do
not constitute operational losses for the Central Bank and will be accommodated
within the net domestic asset target of the EF' program. The operation entails a
minor annual subsidy (of about 0.1 percent of GDP) but will bring substantial
long-term benefits to the economy. Any other action would represent potentially
high losses to the Central Bank and renewed instability for the banking system,
since the Central Bank has guaranteed both the external debt of all domestic
financial institutions, and a large part of deposits.
75.       As part of SBIF's enhanced authority to supervise banking performance,
it issued new rules in February 1986 that will be applied to external audits.
Only those firms with SBIF approval will be authorized to issue auditing reports
following a specific format to cover key financial and administrative aspects.
The asset quality of the banking system will be monitored by the Bank. The
Authorities have also undertaken to implement further measures that would provide
the SBIF with mechanisms to compare the performance of a commercial bank over
time, and a computarized system to ensure continuity in the analysis of the bank-
ing system's portfolio.
76.       The Banking Law under consideration by the Legislature provides for the
creation of a Guarantee Fund for sight deposits via new reserve requirements of
twice the capital and reserves of any commercial bank. Demand deposits not
covered by this amount would then be guaranteed by the Central Bank. As of June
30, 1987, the Authorities have to include arrangements providing for a complete
guarantee for small depositors up to US$2,000. It was agreed that disbursement of
the loan's second tranche would be contingent on the implementation of this guar-
antee arrangement.



- 18 -
77.       As part of the criteria for second tranche disbursement, the Government
renewed its committment to end across-the-board debt rescheduling exercises with
subsidized credit lines, and to continue its action to eliminate the preferential
exchange and swap dollar programs by early 1987.
Public Fin-ances
78.       Agreement was reached on public savings targets for 1986-1990.  A
public savings target of about 4.7 percent of GDP for 1987 was agreed. Measures
will be taken to increase this target to 5.5 percent of GDP by 1990. The three-
year investment program is under revision and will be discussed with Bank staff
before the end of 1986.   It was agreed that disbursement of the loan's second
tranche would depend on a satisfactory review of it by the Bank.
79.       A projected 1986-1988 public sector budget, including Central Bank oper-
ations, was discussed with Bank staff. The projections demonstrated the feasibil-
Ity of the structural program's monetary and fiscal assumptions to absorb the an-
nual operational costs of the financial rescue operations to the financial
system. Because a key element of the projections is the international interest
rate level, it was agreed that new projections and associated contingency plans
examining alternatives on interest rates would be discussed and agreed on before
disbursement of the loan'3 second tranche.
80.       The Government has undertaken a divestiture program of nonessential
public enterprises. Shares held by the Chilean Development Corporation (CORFO) in
power and telecommunication enterprises have been sold to the public. This action
has resulted in a leaner public sector and should provide the Government with
about Ch$19 billion in financial resources to finance the payment of the privati-
zation of the pension system and to help finance the increased public investment
program. As part of the adjustment actions, the Government will continue its
divestiture program.
81.       The following actions will need to be taken or completed by the Govern-
ment prior to disbursement of the second tranche of the SAL: (i) satisfactory ex-
ecution of the 1986 public investment budget; (ii) a satisfactory 1987 public
sector budget (including Central bank operations) will have been reviewed and ap-
proved by the Bank; (iii) fiscal measures, agreed between the Government and the
Bank, to achieve public savings of about 4.7 percent of the projected 1987 GDP,
will have been put into effect; and (iv) a plan of action to improve the manage-
ment of public enterprises presently being studied under the Public Sector Manage-
ment Technical Assistance Loan.
Export Promotion
82.       The Government remains committed to a realistic export incentive
system. Chile's exchange rate is adjusted monthly to maintain the 1985 real par-
ity vis-a-vis the US dollar. Chile's low and even tariff system now requires
legislative authorization to be modified. The pilot fund for stabilizing fiscal
income stemming from the export copper receipts of CODELCO will remain in opera-
tion for a second year. Export incentives are being considered to support new ex-
ports from small- and medium-sized producers (para. 55). These measures have
ended speculation about the Government's commitment to an open and free economy.
They should stimulate new additional private investment in export oriented and ef-
ficient import substitution activities. Before release of the loan's second
tranche, Chile's export incentives and noncopper export performance during 1986



- 19 -
will be reviewed and, In the event of a noncopper export shortfall below the ex-
pected six percent real growth, changes in the export incentive structure, satis-
factory to the Bank, will be considered.
Social Prorams
83.       The success of the trade, fiscal, and monetary measures should not over-
shadow the Government's concern about Chile's social adjustment. The still large,
albeit rapidly decreasing, unemployment level, and the deterioration of public
sector health infrastructure need to be addressed to avoid a reversal in the
country's social indicators. The Government has put special emphasis on
protecting social programs targeted for income and employment subsidies.
Adjustment priorities, however, negatively affected investment and maintenance
programs of Chile's health infrastructure. The Government has started to reverse
this trend, but it is necessary to define a well balanced program for the future.
84.       The Chilean labor market is now more conducive to an elastic relation-
ship between output and employment. Nevertheless, given the estimated annual two
percent growth of the labor force and the still high unemployment rate, the
Government's emergency employment programs (EEP) may be needed for some time.
There are 11 EEPs, but the two major ones, PEM and POJH, accounted for 90 percent
of the total number of enrolled persons. PEM and POJH were conceived as transi-
tory programs to provide an income subsidy in exchange for a standard day's work.
The emergence and growth of other programs relative to the PEM comes from the
recognition that PEM deviated from its original objective, transforming itself
into a pure income subsidy program. A closer examination of the EEPs is, there-
fore, needed to preserve their social objectives without creating labor market
distortions by their implementation.
85.       Two studies, under the auspices of the Bank's Public Sector Management
Technical Assistance Loan, will assess the relative efficiency of the employment
programs and the major issues in the health sector. Satisfactory progress in
these studies will be a condition of second tranche disbursement of the loan.
Other Actions
86.       Before disbursement of the loan's second tranche, the Bank shall have
been satisfied with progress on the following further actions: (i) the Government
has prepared a satisfactory investment program for the forestry sector; (ii) the
Government has prepared detailed targets of the fiscal and monetary programs for
the Central Bank absorption of the rescue programs; (iii) a study on public enter-
prises management has been finished; and (iv) a study of the likely growth in the
pension funds resources has been completed.
Impact of the Structural Adjustment Program
87.       Chile's economic prospects will depend not only on its economlic manage-
ment, but also on developments in the world economy; particularly those affecting
its terms of trade and world interest rates. The projections outlined in Table 1
are consistent with a moderate annual average growth for OECD economies and a mod-
erate rise in Chile's term's of trade. Real interest rates are assumed to decline
to about three percent by the end of the period and real copper prices to remain
constant. These assumptions are critical to achieving the growth rate projected
under the structural adjustment program.



- 20 -
88.       The sharp drop in per capita consumption since 1981 and the still high
level of unemployment necessitate a moderate increase in consumption and employ-
ment to ensure the sustainability of Chile's adjustment program. In addition, the
economic viability of the adjustment will depend overwhelmingly on export diversi-
fication and growth and a reduction in the relative debt burden.
89.       In our scenario, a yearly real growth rate for noncopper exports of 6
percent is projected between 1985 and 1990. This would lead to a reduction In the
share of copper exports to just 40 percent of total GNFS exports and to a re-
duction in Chile's interest payments/export ratio to 27 percent by 1990, down
from 42 percent in 1985. To generate the significant resource surplus required to
achieve these ratios, consumption would have to be restricted durlng 1986-1991;
GDP growth would average a moderate 4.4 percent.
90.       The projected growth is based on the assumptions of a moderate increase
of Chile's terms of trade and a strong savings effort--over one-third of the
additional income goes into savings. In per capita terms, 1990 consumption
levels, albeit above the 1985 level, would still be below their 1970 level.
Unemployment, however, might be reduced to single digit levels by 1990. A slower
GDP rate of growth or a lower level of foreign exchange earnings for more than
temporary periods would probably result in an unfeasible scenario. Higher growth,
if it would require higher borrowing levels than those estimated in our base
scenario, would be neither feasible nor desirable because of the country's
excessively high debt service burden.
Table 1:  C(INA - RECENT PERFORMANCE  ND (2R01    PROSPECTS
(% Annual Average Growth Rates, 1977 Prices)
1980-84       1985      Projected
Actual     Estimated   1986-1991
GDP                     -1.1           2.4          4.4
GNY                      -4.0          1.8          5.2
Consumption              -1.2         -1.1          3.7
Total Investment       -11.3          -6.6          8.6
Fixed Investment         -8.8         18.0          7.5
Exports (GNFS)            3.0          7.0          5.7
Copper                  3.9          7.4          4.7
Nonmineral Goods        3.9          9.3          6.0
Imports (GNFS)         -10.8         -11.1          6.7
ICOR                    neg.           neg.         3.7
Marginal Savings Rate   neg.           1.4          0.34
91.       To attain the projected growth and export targets, the ratio of invest-
ment to GDP would have to rise from around 14 percent in 1985, to 19 percent by
1990 and be oriented into export-orienZed and efficient import-substitution activ-
lties. Moreover, private investment projects in sectors where Chile's comparatlve
advantage exists (mining, fruits, semi-processed fish, wood and pulp and paper)
should be supported by public investments to increase exports and import substitu-
tion, either directly-through the State enterprises--or indirectly-by providing
the required infrastructure.



- 21 -
92.       The recovery program will have to be financed primarily through a sub-
stantial increase in Chile's savings. National savings would need to increase,
from 5 percent of GDP in 1985 to over 15 percent in 1990. The corresponding in-
crease in domestic savings would, however, be eased by the decreasing ratio of in-
terest payments to GDP by 1990. As noted public sector savings--after interest
payments--would have to increase gradually, from 3.8 percent of GDP in 1985 to 5.5
percent by 1990, an effort comparable to that achieved in the mid-1970s. House-
hold savings would need to reach 5 percent of GDP by 1990 with the private social
security system complementing the traditional banking role in attracting savings.
Another year of consolidation in 1987 is likely to be needed before substantial
increases in corporate savings begin. Such an increase will materialize only as
operationally profitable firms increase production and reinvest their profits in
the highly profitable export-oriented sector. In the meantime--during 1986 and
1987-a significant inflow of external savings will be required.
Table 2:  CRLU   - SVUINGS DEqOIRRIEMTS, 1985-1990
(As Percent of GDP)
1984          1985       1986        1987        1990
Foreign Savings      10.7           8.2         6.4        5.2           3.2
National Savings
(after interest)   2.9            5.0         9.3       10.9          15.8
of which
Public Sector    0.6            3.8         4.4       4.7           5.5
Private Sector   2.3            1.2         4.9       6.2          10.3
93.       Net borrowings of about US$1.1 billion In 1987 and US$1 billion in 1988
would be required to finance the projected economic growth. Rescheduling of com-
mercial loans due in 1988 would also be needed.  Moderate increases in the net ex-
posure of the commercial banks, averaging 3 percent for the next two years, would
have to occur. Strong new financing would have to be provided by official
sources.
94.       Besides improving the country's creditworthiness, the benefits from the
structural adjustment program w_ll be widely spread throughout the economy. In-
dustry and many services would not benefit immediately from the export-oriented
growth, but would be the long-ternm beneficiaries of the Improved income stemming
from the beneficial effect on employment. As public sector revenues strengthen
with the recovery, it should be possible to maintain aggregate social outlays at
at least their current real per capita terms, and possibly to increase them.
Moreover, because of the higher employment generation, income distribution and
living conditions would likely improve for the majority of the population. Final-
ly, the effects of the structural adjustments would continue to be felt well be-
yond 1990, when the country's creditworthiness would attract voluntary foreign
savings that could finance an even stronger rate of GDP growth.
Economlc Prospects Without the Program
95.       Given the need for additional new financing, above that likely to be
provided from direct foreign investment and official sources, Chile has limited



- 22 -
alternatives. Without the program, private sector confidence, and hence invest-
ment, would likely recede. The extent to which the public sector could compensate
for this would be limited by the availability of credit. The inflow of external
capital could be drastically reduced. From 1987 onwards some recovery could occur
but, in the absence of the proper environment, investment in real terms would fall
below what it otherwise could be. The share of the private sector in the economy
would be increasingly limited to services and industries geared to the local
market. The incremental capital/output ratio could well remain at a very high
level. Chile would not be creditworthy for foreign lenders; indeed, the high debt
levels indicate that arrears would be so substantial as to make a debt moratorium
likely.
96.       Even this scenario is probably optimistic in that it assumes that a
large public sector deficit could be sustained despite very low growth rates. In
reality, the Authorities would find it increasingly difficult to finance such a
deficit, even via an inflation tax, and would be forced to reduce current and cap-
ital outlays accordingly. The resulting economic contraction would not only feed
back on public sector revenues in a downward spiral, but could also lead to deep-
ening social deterioration.
Benefits and lists
97.       The main benefits of the SAL program in Chile derive from the support it
is providing to the country's adjustment program of export-oriented policies, en-
hanced savings efforts and rehabilitation of the banking and corporate systems.
This has, in turn, improved the private investment climate, encouraging the de-
velopment of those productive sectors where Chile has an international comparative
advantage, helping in obtaining sustainable economic growth and reinforcing the
recognition within Chile that this economic strategy represents the best alterna-
tive to continued stagnation and increasing unemployment.
98.       The proposed loan, however, entails some definite risks.  There is a
growing awareness within Chile that the program is preferable to continued stagna-
tion and increasing unemployment, but a further deterioration in the country's
terms of trade could force the Government to reduce again its growth targets to
comply with Its external obligations. Such an event would strongly increase pres-
sures opposing the servicing of Chile's external debt, and the Government could be
tempted to abandon some of the policies that are being supported under the SAL
program. The country could accommodate temporary shortfalls by drawing down its
foreign exchange reserves. Long-term shifts, however, could not be accommodated
and further adjustments would be required. To mitigate this risk, the structural
adjustment program is based on realistic copper price and GDP growth assumptions,
and on modest capital inflows.
99.       Another major risk for the program stems from the savings targets. If,
for example, the prices of Chile's major exports--particularly copper prices--fall
below their expected trend, public revenues would fall below t',e program's pro-
jected flows, jeopardizing the achievement of the public savings targets. If
scheduled external debt payments were made, this would in turn negatively affect
invastment, further reducing the plausibility of the growth and savings targets
for subsequent years. The program, then, would be unfeasible unless additional
money inflows were provided from external sources to match the loss of the coun-
try's export revenues. Moreover, to the extent that the projected foreign savings
do not materialize, the domestic savings effort required may become unrealistlcal-
ly large. To mitigate this risk, the loan's second tranche disbursement is



-23-
contingent upon Chile's presentation to the Bank of satisfactory arrangements to
cover the country's foreign exchange requirements for the calendar year 1987.
100.      Other economic risks stem from the domestic flnancial situation.  To the
extent that the losses of the financial system are not shared as estimated in the
program, the policies destined to contain them could be insufficient. The Govern-
ment budget will then have to carry a higher portion of the financial workout
coats, an event that may affect future social expenditures Increasing social ten-
sions in the country. The program's phused ending of general subsidies and burden
sharing of the banking substandard portfolios should mitigate the risk by encour-
aging further financial workouts that would reduce the costs. Nevertheless, this
risk will remain as an important variable for monitoring.
Loan Amount and Trcnchiug
101.      The proposed loan of US$250 million would meet about ten percent of
Chile's net external capital requirements for 1986/87, and is equivalent to about
four percent of merchandise imports for the two years. The loan would be dis-
bursed in two tranches; the first one of US $ 150 million would be eligible for
disbursement upon effectiveness of the Loan Agreement and the second during the
second quarter of 1987. The reasons for the tranching are threefold: first, it
would enable the Bank to review the progress of the adjustment program. Secondly,
the Bank could review the 1986 public budget carefully as a complement to the IMF
fiscal review. Thirdly, it would allow the completion of several studies sup-
ported through the Bank's Public Sector Management Technical Assistance Loan, pro-
viding a useful vehicle for strengthening our macroeconomic dialogue at a time
when policy actions for 1987 are determined.
Procurement and Disbursement
102.      Procurement would be in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guide-
lines of May 1985. Unless otherwise specified by the Bank, all purchases, except
petroleum imports, exceeding US$5 million would be through international competi-
tive bidding. Purchases not exceeding US$5 million would be through the normal
procedures of the borrower.
103.      The loan would finance the CIF cost of eligible imports, subject to doc-
umentary evidence that they have been paid for on or after loan signing. However,
retroactive financing will be permitted for those eligible imports made before the
date of agreement but not befere April 1, 1986, up to an amount equal to the
loan's first tranche. Public and private sector imports would be eligible, except
for military equipment and luxury consumer goods. The Central Bank would be
responsible for the coordination and collection of relevant documentation and pre-
paring withdrawal applications under the loan. The applications would be submit-
ted to the Bank using statements of expenditure, with the detailed documentation
retained by the Government for review by the Bank as appropriate.
_m  IV - BA_  GROUP ornhNS
104.      By September 30, 1986, the Bank had made 38 loans to Chile, amounting to
US$1,306 million (net of cancellations) of which ten were not yet fully dis-
bursed. IDA had also extended a US$22.9 million credit to the country for a road



- 24 -
project. IFC gross commitments in Chile as of the sawe date stood at US$130
million. Annex II has further details on IBRD and IPC operations as at September
30, 1986.
105.      Of total Bank and IDA lending to Chile, 26 percent has been for trans-
portation, 19 percent for structural adjustment, 12 percent for power, 12 percent
for industry, 11 percent for agriculture (including irrigation), 6 percent for
housing, 4 percent for mining, 8 percent for water supply, and the balance (2 per-
cent) for education and technical assistance.
106.      Historically, the volume of Bank lending to Chile has fluctuated sub-
stantially in accordance, inter alia, with the country's economic performance and
the availability of suitable projects. In the FY75-77 period, the Bank made four
loans totaling US$107.8 million to help finance projects in the agriculture, cop-
per mining and power sectors. The Bank did not lend to Chile in FY78-79, but In
FY80-85 it approved eight loans totaling US$531 million including innovative sec-
tor loans for housing and roads. The Bank also modified existing operations to
permit almost US$25 million in proceeds to be used for earthquake-related emergen-
cy repairs and zeconstruction, principally in the transport sector, but also in
housing. In FY86, Bank lending significantly increased, as the first Structural
Adjustment Loan was approved, together with two important industrial loans aimed
at rehabilitating that sector. Additionally, a US$300 million B-Loan was approved
(to complement the above-mentioned Road Sector Loan) with a Bank guarantee of
US$150 million.
107.      Execution of Bank-financed projects in Chile has been satisfactory.
Disbursement of Bank loans to Chile declined to US$22.3 million in FY83, when
Chile's depression was at its nadir. They rebounded, however, in FY84-85 and in
FY86, Bank disbursements to Chile surged above US$350 million, a large portion
(US$250 million) of hiich corresponded to the first SAL.
108.      The Bank' s lending strategy is to support the Government's medium-term
economic adjustment program by focussing on improvements in: (i) external trade
policies that would ensure an acceleration of export growth and efficient import-
substitution and would further diversify production and exports; (ii) public
sector management and fiscal policies to reactivate the economy and strengthen
public savings in a timely way with emphasis on making better use of existing in-
frastructure and productive capacity; (iii) financial policies to stimulate
domestic savings and to allocate credit more efficiently; and (iv) policy in-
centives to expand productive employment.
109.      In addition to the proposed second SAL, it is expected that the Bank
will continue to support the Government's medium-tern economic adjustment program
over the next few years with one additional SAL operation.  Several other proposed
lending operations are being considered that would complement the SALs and
reinforce the effort to meet the objectives of the Government's structural
adjustment program. Lending for energy, forestry and mining would not only
contribute to expanding output and enployment, but would also increase foreign
exchange earnings and savings. Additionally, railway rehabilitation and port
reconstruction projects now being prepared would help avoid transportation
obstacSes to export expansion, as well as better preparing the country for the
-contatier age- For later years, subsequent loans for housing and water and
sewerage fartlities would build On the sectorsl, inastitutional and 'policy
Srupraeuetu ad,dressed in ongoing lending operations, and the Bank-will meplore
nme leatiug in health and education sectors.



- 25 -
Fariticipatton by Otber Creditors
110.      International coumercial banks have provided Chile with new funds
to tide the country through 1986, and are participating with the Bank in the
transport-related US$300 million B-Loan. Moreover, Chile's Comnercial Credi-
tors Steering Committee has recently acknowledged to the Bank the need by
commercial creditors to provide financing to Chile with either payments re-
lief, or new monies, sufficlent to finance any remaining foreign exchange re-
quirements for 1987. While the Government, the Bank, and the IMF agree that
such financial support will be required, its exact magnitude will only be
ascertained around December 1986. We expect to be in close contact with the
Steering Committee during the period of SAL II; as noted, disbursement of its
second tranche will be contingent on satisfactory arrangements to complete
the necessary financing program for at least 1987.
111.      Opportunities for cofinancing with the Inter-American Development
Bank (IDB) are also being explored. IDB has a sizeable program in Chile; it
is focussing primarily on agriculture, industry, power, and transportation,
sectors in which the Bank is also preparing operations9 Some future Bank op-
erations may attract cofinancing from commercial banks as well. IBRD ex-
posure in Chile currently stands at around 4 percent of public debt and about
2 percent of total medium-long-term debt but could increase substantially in
the next two years.
_-- v-
112.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors
approve the proposed loan.
Barber B. Conable
President
Washington, D.C.
October 31, 1986



- 26 -                                               ANNEX I
Page I of 3
eNn1 - IUIIC DIDCATS
Peg0"t 1.1.  11.650 (m 44964 ti.soa
19U GWr Co apitalt I4 1.440
pro.                                     AML. SW  il nTm  (5)
{^11 I Io  Up  -----------------------------------------------------------------------_______.__________
m1 crrelt peices)               ACTUAL                     PI.                       PHmiCTS
MATInUL ACmaUIS                          too            6ow   1W61   1IV2   Is4       1934   1U      1965   1967   14ta    Ion    i9Oa
Groas Domestic Product                  56o01           7.e    5.7  -14.1   -0.1    4.3    2.4    .0         4.3    4.5    4.4    4.5
Aericulitra                           15W             3.6    6.3   -2.5   -0.9    7.5    3.6    8.5    5.0    4.1    4.5    4.5
Industry sod NIoln                    43U             6.2    2.6  -21.1    S.0    9.6    1.5    5.5    4.5    4.9    4.5    4.6
Sor"iea                               am              9.1    3.7  -13.4   -1.9    3.2    2.2    4.5    2.5    4.5    4.2    4.4
Csutumlptin                           133             4.2   12.2  -.5  -4.5    1.3   -1.1    1.4    3.3    3.4    3.6    2.4
Grass labtaon,                        21a            aK.2    5.7  -n.4    1.3   75.3   -u.s   20.7   W0.3   1o.s    7.3    a.o
loport  amGdsd vi W                   4357            13.3   .5.3   10.9    1.4    6.6    7.0    1.6    4.0    3.4    6.7    6.5
Ir_tW    m  oA snd WI                -421U           11.7   1t.?    ..    -9.4   15.5  -11.0   -2.8  5.4    6.5    7.1    7.3
Or.. DomItilc tlnsa                    2111145          .9  -25.4  -20.3   29.2   6.3   14.6   24.0    3.5   10.4    9.4   14.9
OF Dfilati                                          295.9  331.9  379.0  476.1  f44.2  722.9  670.5  1010.1  1173.1  1356.4  159.0
E.ch4_m Nots SoAs - U136/h. Psn                      65.0    5.0   42.1   27.2   21.9   13.4   12.2   10.6    9.6    5.4    7.5
WR OF it    AT 14_AIEr PRI E1  lIf7.10.0
ACTLUL                    PK.                       PIWJKTW  1)
nTIouL AM5                                             loW    10U1   1062   196    1164  1in         196    16?   1to    1969   1990
Oross 0-tEc Product                                  100.0  100.0  IOD.O  100.0  10l.0  1W.0  100.0  10.0  100.0  100.0  100.0
Agricultumr                                           8.3    8.2    3.4    9.4    3.3    9.6    3.6    9.7    9.7    9.7    0.7
Industry sd  olMing                                  34.t   34.4   33.3   J3.9   29.4   29.1   29.3   29.5   29.6   29.6   29.7
m-vice                                               61.1   48.7   52.2   51.6   51.5   51.4   51.2   50.9   50.5   50.6   f0.7
Cooeapti -                                           6.2   67.6   90.6   5T.5   67.4   SS.3   so.e   6.1   W0.2   79.2   77.1
Oros. r-,stemnt                                      21.0   22.7   11.3    9.6   13.6   13.7   15.7  I1.1   16.9   IT.3   16.7
awpsrta m od sd wI                                   22.8   16.5   19.4   24.0   24.3   29.1   25.2   24.9   25.7  27.0   26.4
Imfort  f Goods NW WI                                2T.0   23.3   21.3   21.3   25.3   26.2   21.6   22.1   22.9   23.3   24.2
Groom  tlc  bi.                                         1.4   12.4    9.4   12.5   12.6   16s.    19.1    i.S   19.0   20.6   22.9
CDWNLIATt MPU    SE3CTI  FPaUI     AS S OFt MP         105    lO    19S1   1W2   1063   1964   19S   is
Currat 1o-vau                                       2S.7   35.1   31.6   29.9   30.1   31.3   33.3   30.7
Cumt EsP.d Itsr-                                     22.?   24.5   23.3   30.7   30.0   30.7   29.5   29.3
SurPlum (.) or Dotiet (-)                             6.0   10.6    5.5   -0.3    0.1    0.6    3.6    4.4
Capital Feromion                                      3.5    5.4    b.2    4.7    4.9    6.2    7.0    7.5
Extaroal Fla_asia                                    -2.9   -0.1    2.7    2.2   -1.0    2.5    6.1    4.3
oGi   S     _I11                                    1970-76 1975-30 1U06  196-3  2965--90
or Grao  aow                                        -2.20   7.U1  -0.30   4.24   4.49
69 Par capita Oras_ stl  (1)                         4.17   5.77  -1.66   3.34    3.4b
trw Cv   oust     rstM Rats (6                          -       -      -  -1.25   2.66
ICIR                                                -0.74   2.06 -62.39   3.39   8.71
Ibriais   Undue. Rat.                                0.10   0.10       -   0.67   0.40
Iap_r Elstm15u                                       8.10   3.2   2.31   0.a3   1.16
3V. Shres b    d tlokustrIi orig;i bomd - coebat prim; inprm by mopsnditra
bs.sd 4S prs.jtd corr_o Prices.
inpA. Octt.r 24. LIM.



IZI
. . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . .
d A 0



- 2a-                                    ASKI 
Page 3 of 3
am         1 - man w Mess.  ma     watL -  -
%1..I.4S  51.5 1L445  _1d
._- -   af., -  a, . __
atm                   NWi
W.1w 11    las                    am   ma   am        m    gam a_   m   Sm    VoW  Ia     am    1m
a. t.._.  toc a.                 *aa   -soi  _Iro   _       _      S      -    am     ar   ro   Sam
s...ta -q ~~             ma   am    mm-ImuJam- m                a      mai    465   m   ma m
to p..... b                     -Xm   -            -       m   - _ o_  w -s   -a1m  -aso  -m    -
t.W.- La-             _*          -     -on  -mm   -ilat    a   -am   -a    -sa  -,_   -am   -ow
bi.-n P.La.io..                  -kmr   amW    U      IST   is F         -Sf  -NO    Em     15 
SU -r a,o   a,                    mISaS        a     a      am   amORION5    1                     SO.d
Wal-  -tlSw   all.  -am                                     _    -K    am   aim   la         a     we
ut     - -    - s                -a      -a   am       0L5    a     40  -_11   -v      a      a     a
Sn.aaal   _am             *       saS    n w    ma ma    _m   am    we   t            l    asos  ala
tr..S         Ia                   t     La   co   CT    O    4           o *       *       to    .0
SammOSSi LSm    ama   am    am SI                            am
ofla.aso.                           .      a     0     *      *     0
c oans-s           l tma          m_    ma   mu   ss a
am   asa   gm    MR   UI         5
_I_                               *     *     *      .     .      ,
M..ml                _                   0f        1 "'     0      0
f .^.e *,_e_Ew            "     r    *      Z    n     nr1a
ma.. a-Iaat,aa.a                  a     0     0    am             a
am                           sa   so    a       so    so  wa
Osa-. abl.aaSni Si               so    a      a,          am,   AW
_f _ __ _ _ _WI                                4.      .    L
aors..ta?_ 1so   Sr                     nL    maaai.              a
Cu1...                 ma   am~~~~~~~~~~~L.    -.   so0   -    so
so    .a  am   it1  m
:a=e        a                          t    -    so        *   a
s.,.a.     .-                      -    -    -      ma   ma   S*1
a saa a_ s                                    as a   m      m S
-a 5a.oS  so 5s 0wS               35.   M.   5 .0  *5.0   4.   0|.0
_ -a.r5      a.. ta.o            1      a    15.    5a     [ss   54.--5s
a S4 siS  - i.4o~5.a.(S3to5 La.,    W.   .9   50.3   5.
wmcn                          VNo*_ 
d     Zsaa1/5.    .5                   0.      ..     -    -
r.t5a                            aa.   54. a0Ds   a.         - _    .3
Ll,1 s,. i   ,,,,.  ,,,,        ...  55.    ..   5..   itS   5*
ma as.a-sa-a   n  a.a,.           ...   .. , ...   -.  ,.    a.a. ,l*
_ a. a_    WIa tO
r D- _1l   lb    P& w-  *             a  ma .moaaa*o
IV  a..- r_       I       l_            -        -            - 
ma l_         urns. or..C so
r       ,a_,.   . 0 . aS_-              so
V_" laatDsow  "    S*NN. 
57 I 555  -  caama         . aUsS   sse~* S  t5S *l~s
57s. 0   USS  51s.a  - ic
_~ ,t. _. 0.,, , _



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GOJDUP OPERATIONS Il CRILE
A. STATEIMT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as at September 30, 1986)
Loan or                                                      US$ uillion
Credit    nFscal                                     Aounts (less cancellations)
Number       Year    Borrower    Purpose               BEk   IDDA Undisbursed
27 loans and one credit fully disbursed              652.6      22.9 11      -
1832        1980    Chile       Water Supply          32.4       -          2.6
2297         1983    Chile      Highway Recon. II   128.0        -         44.0
2481         1983    Chile      Agri. Serv.lCredit   56.0        -         49.4
2482         1983    Chile      Housing                80.0      -         21.9
2504         1985    Chile      Public Sector Mgt.   11.0        -         10.0
2589         1985    Chile      Road Sector           140.0      -        122.6
2606         1985    Chile      Ind. Fin. Rest.       100.0      -         90.0
2613         1986    Chile      Small & Med. Ind.    40.0        -         36.0
2625         1986    Chile      SAL                  250.0       -          0.0
2651         1986    Chile      Sant. Wat. Sup.        60.0      -         60.0
2652         1986    Chile      Val. Wat. Sup.          6.0      -          6.0
Total                                               1,306.0     22.9
of which has been repaid                           241.7       4.5
Total now outstanding                               1,064.3     18.4
Amount sold                       7.2
of which has been repaid        7.2
Total now held by Bank and IDA                      1,064.3    18.4
Total undisbursed                                                         442.5
1/  Includes exchange rate adjustments.  The original amount of the credit
was US$19.0 million.



- 30 -
ANNEI II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATUMT OF IPC IUVSTNEE!S (as at September 30, 1986)
HiBcal                             Type of            Amonlt in US  million
Tear        Obligor               Bueine88           Loan   Equity    Total
1958, 1959, Empresa Minera de
1966, 1984    Mantos Blancos       Copper mining      35.10    4.25    39-35
1959, and   Fideos y Alimentos
1965          Carozzi S.A.         Food products       1.50    0.15      1.65
1960, 1961
and 1965    Cemento Bio-Bio S.A.  Cement               1.20    0.10      1.30
1963        Cia. Manufacturera de
Papeles y Cartones  Pulp and paper      3.00     -        3.00
1970        Minera Sagasa S.A.    Copper mining       10.45    0.45    10.90
Money and capital
1982        Inverchile               markets             -     0.20     0.20
1986       Signal Methanol         Chemicals & Petro-
Chemicals       50.00    5.00    55.00
1986       Compania de Carbones   Mining              16.50    2.20    18.70
de Chile (COCAR)
Total gross commitments               117.75   12.35   130.10
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                   34.75    0.70    35.45
Total Commitments now held by IFC   83.00   11.65    94-65
Total Undisbursed                    76.98    8.06    85.04



- 31 -
AN E III
Page 1 of 2
SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSThNT LOAN
SUPPLEMENTARY LOAN DAT SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events:
(a)     Time taken by the Country to Prepare Project:  2 months
(b)     Project Prepared by:  Ministries of Econoy and Finance and the
Central Bank
(c)     First Presentation to the Bank:  February 1986
(d)     Departure of Appraisal Mission:  April 1986
(e)     Completion of Negotiations:  August 14, 1986
(f)     Planned date for Effectiveness:  December 15, 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Action:
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
The following conditions have been established for the release of the second
tranche:
(a) maintenance of the Copper Fund for the stabilization of fiscal in-
come stemming from the copper export receipts of the borrower's
Corporacion del Cobre (para. 82);
(b) satisfactory progress in noncopper exports (para. 82);
(c) substantial progress in the recapitalization of intervened banks
as part of the process of returning such banks to the private
sector (para. 73);
(d) reduction of the debt-to-equity ratio of the financial sector as a
whole to such level as shall be appropriate to guarantee its sta-
bility (para. 73);
(e) put into effect a system for the insurance of bank deposits
(para. 76);
(f) strengthening of the monitoring systems of the Superintendencia de
Bancos e Instituciones Financieras (para 73);
(g) elimination of the subsidy granted by Banco Central in foreign
exchange currency swap operations (para. 77);



- 32 -
ADMIX III
Page 2 of2
(h) phasing out of the preferential exchange rate program (para. 77);
(i) satisfactory execution of the public investment program for 1986
(para. 81);
(J) definition of measures satisfactory to the Bank to achieve public
savings of about 4.7 percent of its projected gross domestic
product for 1987 (para. 81);
(ki adoption of a public investment program for the years 1986 through
1990 satisfactory to the Bank (para 81);
(1) the Bank shall have been satisfied with the progress made in
carrying out a health sector study and an evaluation of the impact
on domestic savings of the private pension fund system (para. 86);
(m) presentation of satisfactory arrangements to cover the country's
foreign exchange requirements for the calendar year 1987 (para.
110).



ir}    fIII      z1                                            41} tt  ll
tFill }i|t                                rjr {!}[I  I  15FI! 
{E~~~           nBc              liFiiFA               1



- 34 -
FPIF 2 of 2
MIx:  -    MLJ AJISU   MM - MMD S 
s~  ~    -W as UEP. 
Ibid to diversity nports    Attractve real em-      tmhe rare to ba         Ona-war retelt of      Ibnteuisoe Of real
ad to anwura   ift-         chmge rare.             mintraled at at-       (bpper tablzatian    exchange rare
dA_t Iqot  su,bstcLt-                               ractive level for       Fuid (Ja. 1987).       (EFF).
tim.                        hpxinset of pub-       rmuueual exqort-
1c/private forestry    era.                    hmvascat ypng           &iM for mali
Ibed to upqa'wo  govern-    cowdsa.                                         for Eorestry sector    exporters (FSErL).
set ort for m1l hveiopec aml I_-                                           (Feb. 1987).
spottes.                    ttvw lgialtiim  pr-     plsattm of pfr-
vides tnenitIve to     lic/private forestry    Review of nieopper
sell eqortera.         lneoent progra.         raal qt target
inrem    d    (60)
EkLfted 2D pert          4r, ereal ad          (Dec. 1986).
tariff rate for i-     suport prLim  modi-
Port.                  find with gmral         Pevle wof ceeal,
tariff "srem ad        ajar aid oil btd
Internatiaml price     price (HIch 1987).
variatis.
Mad to gmmmrae madm         Ed of wge inhe-         labor nmrlet stdies    Satisfactory pw-    Hltimy Sector tw n.
productive eam yat ci       cix.                    to evaluate            gress of studies
mancE labor program.                                emerincy work          evaluating nodal        Rblc Setoa  is-
Fbaoecmmlc             progrc1.                proam.                 h  la.
Nid to aintain ceverap      iOries to labor-
of mwrqal pr g    ad        intersiw activi-         eview of socl
SuUsise aIdjumbt i-         ties.                   PVrVMS
pact a ls-1An2e
gn}up-                      Fluse-do1_  of inmuf-
ficiecrt lsabr eme-
BIessd allU an_i
to health pro-
gra.



- 35 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 8
LEPUBLICA De CdIL8                                      October 22, 1986
Ministerio de Hacienda
Mr. Barber Conable
President
The World Bank
Washington, D. C. 20433
Dear Mr. Conable:
During 1985, the Chilean Government intensified the economic
adjustment program to address the major structural problems hampering the
country's medium-term economic recovery. During 1985 the program was
successfully implemented; increasing exports and domestic savings have
improved the prospects for an export led economic recovery that should
increase the generation of productive employment. The initial stage of our
adjustment program was supported by US$250 million SAL from the World Bank
and an SDR 750 million EFF from the IMF.
A second phase, which will address on the re-establishment and
consolidation of a strong and competitive financial system, while
maintaining the economy's export incentives and the Government's commitment
to increase the level of public saving and an efficient public investment
program will be implemented during 1986-87. The basic outline of this
second phase of our adjustment program we propose to follow is presented
below. To strengthen its financial viability, our country is requesting
support from the World Bank through a second SAL operation.
I.  PROGRESS OF THE ADJUSTENT PROGRAM
(a) Economic Growth and Employment
During 1984-85 real GDP grew almost 9 percent. As a result of this
growth, the national economy has recovered to a considerable extent
from the decline of 1982-1983. The agricultural, rishing, mining
and utilities sectors already show production levels superior to
those of 1981, the peak of the previous expansion cycle.
Manufacturing is still below the 1981 level, but production of
consumer goods and intermediate products has already risen above
the levels registered before the crisis. However, the symptoms of
recession are still present in construction, trade and services.
As a result of the economic recovery, there has been a significant
increase in employment. By August 1986, unemployment had fallen to
10.8 percent. The most dynamic sectors with regard to growth in
employment are precisely those dedicated to exports and efficient
import substitution, as well as construction, which has been
stimulated by public investment in the area. These achievements in
employment would have been impossible without flexible, modern
labor legislation which permitted wages and salaries to adapt
quickly. Real wages have dropped along with Chile's terms of trade
and income, thereby facilitating recovery in employment.



- 36 -                      ANNEX V
Page 2 of 8
(b) Exports
As stated before, a major goal of economic policy during 1985 was
to provide a framework for stimulating exports. To achieve this
the following measures have been implemented:
(i) The devaluation of the peso, estimated at 18.5 percent in real
teims during 1985, over and above the devaluation of 15.8
percent which took place during 1984. A new Copper
Compensation Fund was also established to soften the impact of
the fluctuations in the price of copper on the Chilean economy,
thus stabilizing the real value of the exchange rate.
(ii) A reduction in the general import tariff, from 35 percent in
December 1984 to a uniform 20 percent in July, 1985. This
measure has reduced the cost to exporters of imported inputs
incorporated into their products. Import-competing products
have maintained their competitive position because of the
devaluation of the peso.
(iii) Minor exporters were offered a 10 percent rebate to compensate
customs duties.
(iv) Regulations have alBo been revised to facilitate export
procedures. Credit margin for exporters has been increased,
the value added tax has been remitted for the fixed assets of
export enterprises, and a program to support credit for small
and medium size companies producing export goods has been
established with the support of the World Bank.
As a result of these policies in 1985 non-copper exports went
up by 11 percent and despite lower prices than expected the
trade balance more than doubled with respect to 1984.
(c) Savin, and Investment
In 1985, investment in fixed capital grew nearly 18 percent,
reaching 14.6 percent of GDP. This rate, similar to the 1961-70
average of 15 percent, was achieved under very unfavorable
conditions. The private sector has played an important role in
increasing investment. A large number of projects have begun in
agriculture, fishing, mining and industry, expanding productive
capacity. This and a major expansion of non-copper exports (11
percent) shows that private initiative is showing that--in spite of
the recent crisis-can effectively lead the development process,
with the support of an appropriate macroeconomic policy.
The Government also improved its public finances, investment and
savings. The fiscal adjustment permitted a resource transfer to
the private sector, removing pressure on domestic interest rates.
Coasolidated public savings went up from 0.6 percent of GDP in
1984, to 3.8 percent in 1985 thanks to an austere fiscal program
which reduced tax evasion while moderating current expenditure



- 37 -                     ANNEX V
Page 3 of 8
increases. Current expenses of the General Government decreased as
a percentage of GDP from 30.7 percent to 29.8 percent from 1984 to
1985. This reduction was concentrated in purchases of consumer
goods and services which were reduced 5 percent in real terms, and
was facilitated by the process of administrative and financial de-
dentralization. Fiscal spending programs directed to the areas of
extreme poverty, however, remained unchanged.
The public sector also increased real fixed capital outlays by 15
percent in 1985, to 7.1 percent of GDP, the highest ratio since
1976. This investment was principally in public companies
producing traded goods, and in public works complementary to
exports. In this way, the State is playing an active role in the
restructuring of the productive system, as well as taking on the
necessary job of reconstruction stemming from the March 1985,
earthquake.
Thus, fiscal policy was oriented towards two objectives. First,
the Government's intention to gradually reduce the relative size of
the public sector. Secondly, an important change in the structure
of spending which has as its counterpart an increase in public
savings in order to finance more investment, and permits a gradual
decrease in the deficit.
(d) Private Sector
The Government attaches special importance to the task of
establishing an efficient, competitive and safe capital market.
During 1985 our economic policy concentrated action on the
following: first, facilitating the "case by case" renegotiation of
the obligations re debtors with problems; second, the application
of criteria and regulations designed to stimulate banks to
strengthen their capital base; third, the recapitalization and
privatization of intervened banks, and fourth, the elaboration of
reformed bank legislation which sets the basis for the sound
development of financial activity.
The recapitalizat^n of private enterprises was among priorities in
the economic policy. To serve that purpose, it has been decided
not to resort to indiscriminate reprogramming of debts, nor to a
generalized authorization of subsidies. The case-by-case
undertaking is more arduous and less spectacular, but it is the
only possible way to rescue viable productive enterprises and to
contribute to the reconversion of those which are no longer
productive.
The strategy designed to strengthen the capital of the private
banking sector operates on two fronts. On the one hand, the
Superintendency is promoting transparency in bank balances in order
to bring them in line with the true situation of these
institutions. Transparency-a basic ingredient in a competitive
market-demonstrates the need for capital in the most seriously



- 36 -                    ANNEX V
Page 4 of 8
affected institutions. On the other hand, the transfer of bank
portfolios to the Central Bank, the authorization to issue
preferred stocks, facilities ro capitalize external credit and
other measures, have led to a gradual reconstruction of the banks
capital base. In the case of intervened banks, the recapitali-
zat._on strategy also includes the issue and sale tc. the public of
shares for a major percentage of the capital. The adjustment
period designed for these changes concludes in December 1986. The
task is complex and the interests of some of the parties involved
will be affected, but it is indispensable for an efficient and
safe capital market.
Finally, the reform of the banking legislation recently proposed to
the Government Legislative Junta intends to establish the basis for
a sound and stable financial intermediation in the future. If
approved, the bill would ensure: (a) the establishment of greater
transparency in banking activities so that depositors may choose
institutions they believe are sound and efficient; (b) a gradual
lifting--beginning in 1987--of the State guarantee on saving
deposits increasing the security of demand deposits by a special
reserve requirement system; (c) the institution of an expeditious
mechanism for the allocation of capital losses among stockholders
and creditors in the case of an eventual failure of a financial
Institution; (d) a strenghtening of the faculties of the
Superintendency of Banks; and (e) an accurate delimitation of the
banks activities.
Another key element of the Government program has been the return
to the private sector of those enterprises which directly or
indirectly are under state management.
In 1985, important advances were made by the Government in the
recapitalization and return to the private sector of intervened
banks and to regularize the situation of enterprises previously
associated with the intervened banks. Important productive firms
have now been normalized through transfers, condonation, or
capitalization agreements with external and internal creditors.
The cooperation of the World Bank, through a restructuring
financial credit will be of the utmost importance for the
continuation of this task.
e) Social Policy
In times of national sacrifice such as these, the Government policy
of preference for the most needy, has been accentuated.
Unemployment and loss of purchasing power hit hardest among the
poor. It is the unavoidable duty of the State to go to their
assistance. An easy way to do this would have been to decree
excessive wage readjustments, price controls in the basic products,
or to raise taxes indiscriminately. Experience indicates that such
measures at the very best produce temporary benefits which rarely



- 39 -                     ANNEX V
Page 5 of 8
reach the most needy, and are generally oriented towards those
sectors with greater influence on the management of the economy and
politics.
We believe that the way chosen by our Government is more realistic
and lasting. This is, the improvement and progressive orientation
of the programs of public social spending toward the satisfaction
on the basic needs of the most poor. Welfare indicators show the
results of this policy. Infant mortality diminished from 65.2 per
thousand live births in 1973, to 19.6 per thousand live births in
1984; potable water increased in urban areas from 66.5 percent in
1970 to 94.5 percent in 1985, and urban sewage service from 31.0
percent in 1970 to 74.5 percent in 1985.
During the past year, the effort to improve the social system has
been strong. The family subsidy for the sector in extreme poverty,
which was created in 1981, assisted a monthly average of one
million beneficiaries. About 300,000 assistance pensions were paid
monthly during 1985, an increase of 75 percent compared to 1981. A
new Health Law recently approved will concentrate on state
subsidies for low income families, improving the quality of health
for that population. To improve the administration of these
programs, in 1986, a program of decentralization of the major
social subsidies will begin to give greater participation to the
regions in the definition of social policy ensuring the
concentration of benefifts in the poorest sectors of our
population. The rapid expansion of employment, of course, has had
a uajor impact on improving the lot of Chile's poor.
GOALS FOR 1986
The progress in the execution fo the economic program in 1985 is
only a stretch of the road that the Chilean economy has ahead ir the
structural transformation process.
The goals of the economic policy for 1986, can be defined as:
(a) to administer the macroeconomic program so that economic activity, once
the adjustment in the external account is achieved, will resume its course
of sustained reactivation, accompanied by a decline in inflation and the
progressive reduction of the need for external debt; (b) to make
substantial progress in the normalization, recapitalization and return to
the private sector of the banks and industrial enterprises most affected by
the recent crisis so that they will be in a position to contribute to their
full potential to exports, investment and increasing employment; and (C) to
increase investment and savings, with decided participation of the public
sector and with the probable materialization of important projects
involving foreign investment.
To meet these goals, our macroeconomic program contemplates a 3 to
5 percent growth in GDP, 15 to 20 percent inflation rate and strong surplus
in the balance of trade.



- 40 -                     ANNEX V
Page 6 of 8
The fiscal program presumes that the current expenditures of the
General Government will decline slightly in real terms, but that the public
invesmtent would icnrease in real terns. In the social area, spending will
continue to be oriented towards the most-needy sectors. The increase in
public investment--which as a percentage of GDP would increase from 7.1
percent in 1985 to 7.6 percent in 1986,--will be concentrated on
reconstruction of infrastructure damaged by the March 1985 earthquake, the
financing of basic and subsidized housing, the construction of public works
to support exports and the development of investment projects in CODELCO,
ENAP, ENDESA, CRILECTRA, CAP and other productive public enterprises.
The 1986 public sector budget projects a deficit equivalent to 2.2
percent of GDP, financed principally through external credits. The
moderation of current expenditure signified an increase in public aavings,
to 4.3 percent of GDP. The increase in investment responds to the official
encouragement of reactivation of production and employment and to changes
proposed in the structure of the economy. The gradual reduction fo the
deficit will contribute to balancing the external accounts and will provide
resources for the expansion of the private sector, while easing the
pressure to raise domestic interest rates.
The 1986 monetary program is consistent with the 3 to 5 percent
growth target in economic activity and a moderate inflation rate. The
program has been designed to allow the Central Bank-as in 1985--to adjust
its credit operations to the demand for liquidity observed in the market,
thereby avoiding strong fluctuations in interest rates. The Central Bank
will continue to concentrate on monetary regulation, abstain from granting
preferential credit, and implement previously established reductions on the
subsidies extended to private debtors.
To sum up, fiscal and monetary policies are now oriented towards
the recovery of productive activity and employment, price stabilization and
equilibrium in the balance of payments. We believe that the present
combination of relative prices-real exchange rate, real wages and real
Interest rates--is compatible with the objectives given, provided that
there are no contingencies on the external front.
The macroeconomic stabilization will permit us to strengthen
efforts to transform the structure of the Chilean economy. To accomplish
this, the normalization, recapitalization and return to the private sector
of banks and enterprises most affected by the recent crisis is of parti-
cular importance. In 1986, substantial progress is expected in: (a) the
regularization of the situation of debtors, "case-by-byh, without involving
the Public Treasury. Neither the Government nor the Central Bank will
grant further general rescheduling of bank loans or the concession of
subsidized credit lines for this purpose; (b) the recapitalization and
reprivatization of those enterprises of significant productive and employ-
ment potential which were severely affected by the 1982-83 recession; (c)
the return to the private sector of intervened banks; and (c) the
strengthening the capital of the private financial system.
To achieve these goals, new shareholders without access to
Central Bank purchases of portfolio in private banks, will be aLlowed to



ANNEX V
Page 7 of 8
- 41 -
increase capital through the issuance of shares with the right to obtain up
to full dividends. The revitalized banking system--protected by modern
supervisory legislation--will be able to act more efficiently and
competitively by 1987. This will allow the Government to begin to phase
out its remaining interventions in interest rates.
To ensure the long-term viability of the program, the Government
has undertaken a series of projections which have indlcated the viability
of its public finance, monetary, public investment and balance of payments
targets through 1990. In particular, the Government believes public
savings targets of 4.7 percent GDP for 1987 and 5.0 percent in 1988 can be
attained. We also believe that a continued annual 6 percent rate of growth
in the volume of non-copper exports can be achieved. The volatility of
world prices has made these projections valuable only as a general guide
for the Government's program, so that semi-annual reviews with the World
Bank-as undertaken in the last SAL--will continue to ensure appropriate
progress and to respond to changing circumstances.
Nevertheless, the Government intends to mainain a stable, real
exchange rate and-to ensure that fluctuation of copper prices do not affect
this policy--it will continue the Copper Stabilization Fund throughout
1987.
The efforts undertaken in 1985 to reduce state ownership of
property are expected to increase in 1986. The deconcentration of
property-public and private-is a national goal of particular economic and
social importance.
The administration of the economic policy and initiatives tending
toward financial normalization will have succeeded if they are able to
implement the massive investment effort which, as we have pointed out,
Chile needs in order to progress. The immediate goal is to raise
substantially the quality and quantity of productive investment. In 1986,
the public sector will continue to increase its contribution to investment
and savings.  From the private sector-both businessmen and workers-a
similar contribution ie expected. Foreign investment should play an
important part in this contribution.
The Government expects that the strong and continued support of the
IMF and World Bank for its program will permit it to begin negotiations
with its commercial creditors on an appropriate new money facility for
1987-88, ensuring a financial package consistent with the program's
projections and a continued GDP growth of 4 to 5 percent. Moreover, the
Authorities will likely be requesting its commercial creditors to
reschedule all amortizations coming due during 1988-90 in a way which
permits Chile to again borrow-in appropriate amounts-from commercial
sources in a normal manner during the 1990s. To ensure this package is
completed in a timely way, we expect it will be agreed to, at least by
mid-1987.



- 42 -                      ANNEX V
Page 8 of 8
The actions of Chile, its citizens and its foreign creditors,
during 1985 were unprecedented. Chile's recovery and far better future
prospects are the reward for this effort. We believe the continued support
of the World Bank--through a second SAL-the IMF, and our commerical
creditors during 1986-87 will lead to even more promising results. While
the road remains difficult and long, the end of the program is now becoming
visible for all.
Sincerely,
JUAN CARLOS DELANO ORTUZAR                         HERNAN BUCHI BUC
Minister of Economy                             Minister of Finance
(Signed)                                        (Signed)



ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 3
Table     CHILE - CONSOLIDATED NONFINANCIAL PUBLIC SECTOR, 1979-1938.
(Au a Percent of Current GDP))
Est.     Prg.
1979     1980     1981     1982      1983     1984     1985     19865
-------------------------------------------------------------------__--------__----------------------.-----
GOVERNMENT CURRENT REVENUE              32.6     32.9     32.1      29.9     27.7    28.7      28.6    258.
TAXES ON INCOME AND PROPERTY            7.2      7.3      6.7       6.7      5.0      4.6      3.7      3.8
TAXES ON COODS AND SERVICES            11.6     12.3     13.2     13.S      13.6     14.4     15.1     15.1
TAXES ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE            2.6      2.5      2.3       1.4      2.3      3.3      3.6      3.2
SOCIAL SECURITY TAX                     6.3      5.6      4.7       3.3      2.8      2.9      2.4      2.4
OTHER TAX NET OF IVA REBATE            -0.2     -0.8     -0.7      -1.2     -1.2     -1.2     -1.7    -1.9
NONtAX REVENUE                          6.8      6.8      6.9       7.2      6.3      4.7      5.4      4.3
OPERATrONAL SURPLUS OF THE
PUBLIC ENTERPRISES                      9.8      9.9      6.6       8.2     11.5     10.8     14.3      13.7
NET TRANSFERS                           -8.5     -7.8    -6.6       -7.1     -8.7     -8.3     -9.6    -2.8
GOVERNMENT CURRENT EXPENDITURES         24.8     24.6    26.6       31.9    306.      30.6    29.6    28.3
WAGES-AND SALARIES                      9.1      8.3      7.8       7.8      6.7      6.4      6.8      6.2
GOODS AND SERVICES                      3.0      3.1      2.9       3.3      3.2      3.3      3.2      2.7
SOCIAL SECURITY PAYMENTS                7.6      7.1      8.2      10.8      9.8     10.1      9.6      8.4
TRANFERS A SUBSIDY PAYMENTS             3.8      4.1      5.9      9.0       8.9      8.0      8.0      7.4
INTEREST ON PUBLIC DEBT                 1.2      0.8      0.4      0.6       1.8      2.4      3.2      2.3
OTHER                                   065      O.S      0.4      0.4       6.3      0.2      0.3      0.1
CURRENT ACCOUNT SURPLUS                  9.0    10.6       5.6     -0.8    -0.1        0.8      3.8      4.4
NET CAPITAL REVENUE 1/.                  L.0      0.4      0.6      2.1       1.9      1.1      O.a      0.9
CAPITAL FORMATION                        6.2      5.4      5.2      4.7       4.9      6.2      7.0      7.5
GENERAL GOVERNMENT                      3.3      2.8      2.6      2.1       2.1      2.6      3.1      3.3
PUBLIC ENTERPRISES                      1.9      2.6      2.8      2.8       2.7      3.8      3.9      4.1
OVERALL SURPLUS OR DEFICIT (-) 2/.       4.8      5.5      0.8     -3.4      -3.0     -4.4     -2.6     -2.1
FINANCING                               -4.8     -5.5     -0.8      3.4       3.0      4.4      2.6      2.1
EXTERNAL                                6.6    -6.1       2.7      2.2      -1.0      2.5      4.1      4.2
INTERNAL 3/.                           -4.7     -5.4     -3.6      1.1      4.0       2.0     -1.5     -2.0
Financing Requirement 4./               -3.8     -6.2     -0.4      6.5       4.9      5.5      3.2      3.1
1/. Not Capital Revenue equals capital revenue minus financial investment.
2/. The 1956 estimated deficit as moesured by changes in the not outstanding indebtednes- of tho
nonfinancial public sector shows a slightly larger (.2X of GDP) deficit than tho Budget Offie- estimate.
3/. Includes other financing and statistical discrepancies.
4/. Financing requirement is defined as the overall deficit plus net capital revenue.
Source: Ministry of Finance and Banco Central de Chile.
(vub fin.wkl) 23-Jul-88



ANNEX VI
44 -                              Page 2 of 3
Table    CHILE - CONSOLIDATED NONFINANCIAL PUBLIC SECTOR, 1979-1986.
(Billion Pesos)
Eat.    Prg.
1979     1996     1981     1962     1983     1954     1936     1986
GOVERNUENT CURRENT REVENUE            260.9   353.6   409.1    371.0   431.4   542.9   137.1   878.6
TAXES ON INCOME AND PROPERTY          55.3    78.8    73.z    71.0        77.8    87.1    94.8   124.6
TAXES ON GOODS AND SERVICES           86.6   132.1   167.9   167.6   211.0   272.4   388.6   493.5
TAXES ON INTERNATIONAL TRADE          16.6    21.1    28.9    17.9    36.4    62.3    93.9   133.8
SOCIAL SECURITY TAX                   40.7    59.7    60.1       40.4    43.7    66.8    62.4    77.3
OTHER TAX NET OF IVA REBATE           -1.7    -8.8      -9.6   -14.8   -19.3   -23.2   -42.8   -81.2
NONTAX REVENUE                        62.2    70.9    88.0    69.0    51.6    98.6   140.2   140.6
OPERATIONAL SURPLUS OF THE
PUBLIC ENTERPRISES                    75.3   1e6.8    71.9   161.9   178.7   204.1   389.4   448.6
NET TRANSFERS                         -65.6   -83.7   -71.3   -87.8  -135.3  -167.8  -246.2  -322.1
GOVERNMENT CURRENT EXPENDITURES       191.3   283.3   338.9   396.2   475.6   576.9   761.4   881.6
WAGES AND SALARIES                    70.6    94.4      99.0    96.7   103.7   122.1   160.5   171.3
GOODS AND SERVICES                    23.5    33.5    37.4       41.2    60.3    63.1    32.7    88.2
SOCIAL SECURITY PAYMENTS              54.0    76.0   104.4   133.6   160.3   190.8   232.2   276.9
TRANFPRS & SUBSIDY PAYMENTS           29.6     44.6    88.6   112-1   138.2   152.1   205.9   244.1
iNTEREST ON PUBLIC DEBT                9.5      9.0      6.4      6.8     27.7    44.7    83.0    76.7
OTHER                                  4.1      6.9      4.7      4.9      5.4      4.1       7.1      4.3
CURRENT ACCOUNT SURPLUS                69.3   113.6    76.8   -10.1    -0.8          12.3    98.9   142.9
NET CAPITAL REVENUE 1/.                 7.7      4.2      5.8    26.0    29.2       21.7      14.9    31.0
CAPITAL FORMATION                      40.3    53.2    66.6    67.8    75.6    118.0   180.8   244.3
GENERAL GOVERNIENT                    25.7    29.9    33.2    26.1    33.0    49.5    79.9   105.7
PUBLIC ENTERPRISES                    14.6    28.3    32.8    31.7    42.6         68.5   100.9   135.6
OVERALL SURPLUS OR DEFICIT t-) 2/.     36.7    69.6    10.6   -41.9   -47.2   -84.0   -87.0   -70.4
FINANCING                             -36.7   -69.6   -16.6       41.9    47.2    84.0    67.0    70.4
EXTERNAL                              -0.2    -1.4      34.9    27.8   -15.2       47.0   108.3   137.1
INTERNAL 3/.                         -36.6   -68.2    -45.6    14.1    62.4        37.0   -39.3   -66.7
Financing Requirement 4./             -29.0   -66.4    -4.8    67.9    76.4   105.7           81.9   151.4
1/. Net Capital Revenue equals capital revenue minus financial investment.
2/. The 1986 estimated deficit as measured by changes in the net outstanding indebtedness of the
nonfinancial public sector shows a slightly larger (.2X of GDP) deficit than the Budget Office estimte.
3/. Includos other financing and statistical discrepancios.
4/. Financing requirement is defined as the overall deficit plus net capital revenue.
Source: Ministry of Fina'ice and Banco Central de Chile.
(pub_fin.wkl) 23-Jul-86



- 45 -
AMfl VI
Page 3 of 3
CHL  - 1986 PUBLIC nIVESTH     PZOXRAN
(Millions of Ch$)
Share CZ
General Government                        108,600              44.5
Housing                    27,793                            11.4
Irrigation                  1,088                             0.4
Roads                      28,772                            11.8
Santiago Subway             1,876                             0.8
Water and Sewerage          6,781                             2.8
Health, Education and
Rousing Projects         11,652                             4.8
Other                      30,638                            12.5
Public Enterprises                        135,500              55.5
Copper Company (CODELCO)  58,700                             24.0
Power Companies (ENDESA/
CHILECTRA)               27,600                            11.3
Petroleum Company (ENAP)  20,985                              8.6
National Mining Company
(ENAMI)                  2,485                              1.0
Chemical Company
(SOQUINICH)              2,530                              1.0
Steel Company (CAP)        4,030                              1.7
National Railroads          1,380                             0.6
Port Authorities
(EMPREMAR, EMPORCHI)     2,423                              1.0
Other                      15,367                             6.3
TOTAL                              244,100             100.0



1  72                       70o    !              A                =' '
P  E  R  u                                                       Petr '-
ParinacofdtS        <        REGION  )          IC'
DE .                 San fliP
9- t   \  *  >        DE    j            } O~~~n Ar.oncds m
/         ,,o                __      VALPARAISO
t  t  1                           )  tO ~0        \--%o: Ande,S>
1-~~ ~~~~ *                                *   Chacatbuco/ 45 I
'J ,,;gc
REGION            |.                                  Ant 0,310
DE                                       o       Tala U/itO 0~~~~~~~~~~~~ Puennhi All-
20-     TARAPACA                                          5jInI Ot J 0               in_ (atinuorard
*    .  M,  /   Mp.lIa        '99. REGI
*  5   .5   -34"  *_\_   f   METROPC7
DE SAN-
REGION DEL LIBEr
7acoplln                                          GENERAL 1ERNARDIC
22-                7ocpilla                                             2?
t Mco.r4_ ChuquIcnlR~ta  .      !REGION.
*. Elenat     \        ,.*,                                     ~.  DEL
REGION        '                                                                ELE
DE                                 L La.                -                 MAULE
ANTOFAGASTA          /36.
-. /   q  .   .      REGION DEL Tolcu
ANTOFAGAS7A                                                         SIB..    /  caNcEl-
CONCEPC
r24-                             .'                            j        24                      ,L 
Anrotagasra
*1. t)  _.s;  + ~     -REGION
26'                 ,M                                                  ; 260-  LA ARAUCANIA
Chonaral         F    a
K          u~~~~LJ                    VcIdio!
CppO                                    (3            40'               La
REGION
DE         *      COPIAPO .        /                                                  0O    .
ATACAMA       '
28-C                                                                   28'       REGION
I                    28*        ~~~~~~~DE
(                               ~~~~~~~~LOS LAGOS
- _ -ifX    r   st                                                               .i:Lanqu
H-uasc         , 
0   1
X L<: / -- !.S_ j-3.1-rw .                                                         .42Ancud
/,                                .                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Castro I,.:
30   LA                                                                                   ChUlo
REGIOIY -
DE                       r. .t
CODUIMBO            .    r                             -                                         7(
U      n?  |/> l   $17^'.                                                                 , H



IBRD  14306RI
D          7                 I                          -,B,_               - A'>           C 1                                  - 1
ss   iMpniXf                      44-                                  ;''>            :<1' '-44
Z        FREGION    I urnuar4  
cOQuIMeBO        I  ,       .i                                                                          t h
LLI                                                                                                  tk ry'"  I  A s  I
1M            1   '111IuvI1                                                         Asn                 rn *       (
SEE INSET Or ChOaPd        \                                                                  C c
i   VA LPAR14 .Dw Ma,REGION AISEN DFl                                     Corhn'3uu. 
VALPARAUSO                    4-r.     GENERAL CARLOS                       -  
I                     )j     IBANEZ DEL CAMPO              ) 
Son Antonft--;                                         0~~~~~~~~ares  6A1
Sa Alnic     -    SF ti IG                                          General   eht
AMA-Ae
oat .                                                           1, 1-13,  1 
_ R A N _ A Gi  P 'I                             ( 4 u.   f ---     -     1M A IN   ;I OA D 'i
-HIGGS    5OO   n an o.                        i           *                                          PAIl WAYS
HIGGINS '1      r,,r  Ih                     48' ad                                                 L:ONTOIJRS 1000flO   INrFRVALS
r 'utilucidn  fli...  Cur,ci .Capuran Piqs                              )                 R-  fV RS
0*-ituciv.  T                                                                               S Al INF L AKfES
ymuWlrw       ,                                                                           1( 1 F IH Irs
i:                                                                           5C^~">&merro+_  *.  /   .,  . 1t -   X    MINFS
C8U Q >flOZ;k:,,i -f s-    n   s                                   >   1               +     NIERNAIIONAI     AIHP(JR TS
5an Carlosr                                                             )                  4,   PORTS 7IIROIJGHi H'il
Ck,I k l'w,J                                                     '                         EXCEEDING 300 000 TONS
( {  1 ' .tShJlon   N }  /PER YEAR
=ibe -                            50'                         I                    @    :APITAL
k7\                 a I- '  |  . D    rlr  ! :NA; (,:PITALS
Ar'qeIr3 >      ,. Blol:3lo                                           -PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
(                                                                       - . f - RFGIONAL BOUNDARIES
Dituf.a Esperanza           f       ---      NTFRNAT7IONAL BOUNDARIE3
i\MahIea         t                        e                   
/luco kuorue
a. tin;                            z             52'                             ; 
1       4.1 -Lm 
zi-  ru-i                                    Magalianes  ARENA
Va/diviMa                                                                             AR-S 0                   j/
LUJ
* O o* o    i                 L 1 J                                           .                        D eI  F u e g o
Po                          27           T      REGION DE MAGALLANESY Y
Pl. EqTQ   jDt                                    E LA ANTARTICA CHILENA            -y .   
1M D N f                                                                                       
*  PU<T         3                          7                                                         Anffr/c Chrlena
IKILOMETERS
71BenaR: >                                             0    50   100   150   200   250
MILES
-.aht        < ,.                                       7D 6M84
RECEMERE 1934



