Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16782
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1968-BU)
June 23, 1997
Water, Urban and Energy
West and Central Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Monetary unit = Burundi franc (FBu)
(FBu/US$, period average)
1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996
158.7  171.3  181.5 208.3 242.8 252.7 249.7 302.8
Source: International Financial Statistics, May 1997, IMF.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGETIP       Agence d'Execution de Travaux d'Interet Public
BPU          Bureau du Projet Urbain
CCIB         Chambre de Commerce et d'Industrie du Burundi
CNM          Commission Nationale des Marches
COOPECs   Cooperatives d'Epargne et de Credit
ECOSAT       Encadrement des Constructions Sociales et Amenagement des
Terrains
FBu          Franc Burundais
FEUCS        Fonds pour l'Equipement Urbain des Centres Secondaires
FDC          Fonds de Developpement Communal
FPHU         Fonds de l'Habitat Urbain
HIMO         Haute Intensite de Main d'Oeuvre (High Labor Intensive Social
Program)
IDA          International Development Association
SETEMU       Services Techniques Municipaux
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SME          Small and Medium Enterprises
Vice President            : Mr. Callisto Madavo
Country Director          : Mr. Nils Tcheyan
Technical Manager         : Mr. Max Pulgar-Vidal
Staff Member              : Mr. Abdelmoula Ghzala



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1968 - BU)
Table of Contents
PREFACE                                                                 i
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                      iii
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                              I
A. Background                                                         1
B. Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives                    2
C. Achievement of Project Objectives                                 3
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project                               7
E. Project Sustainability                                             8
F. Bank Performance                                                  9
G. Borrower Performance                                              9
H. Assessment of Outcome                                              10
I. Future Operations                                                  10
J. Key Lessons Learned                                                11
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES                                            13
TABLE  1:        Summary of Assessments                               13
TABLE  2:        Related IDA Credits                                  14
TABLE  3:        Project Timetable                                    14
TABLE  4:        Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual  15
TABLE  5:        Key Indicators for Project Implementation            15
TABLE  6:        Studies Included in the Project                      18
TABLE  7:        Project Costs                                        19
TABLE  8:        Project Financing                                    19
TABLE  9:        Economic Costs and Benefits                         20
TABLE 10:        Status of Legal Covenants in Credit Agreement       21
TABLE 1 1:       Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                        22
TABLE 12:        Bank Resources: Missions                             23
ANNEX - BORROWER PROJECT EVALUATION                                     25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1968 - BU)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Urban Development
Project in Burundi, for which Credit 1968-BU in the amount of SDR 16.1 million (US$21.0
million equivalent) was approved on December 6, 1988, signed on April 14, 1989 and made
effective on November 2, 1989.
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1996 one year later than the original closing
date. Final disbursement took place on June 2, 1997 at which time a balance of SDR 7.5 million
was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Gualberto Lima Campos, Consultant, and reviewed by
Abdelmoula Ghzala, Task Team Leader for the project. The report is essentially based on
material in the project file and data provided by the Government of the Republic of Burundi.
The assessment of the project's success, and therefore the preparation of this ICR, were
made particularly difficult by the political crisis that followed the July 1996 military coup
attempt. A final supervision/completion mission could not be carried out.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1968 - BU)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A. INTRODUCTION
i.   Bank operations in the urban sector in Burundi began with the First Urban Development
Project (Cr. 1049 BU signed on July 3, 1980 and closed on December 31, 1987), which provided
assistance to improve living conditions of the poor in the capital by redressing compelling
deficiencies in existing neighborhoods and laying the foundation for future growth. This project
substantially met its objectives. The project's PCR estimated that 85 percent of Bujumbura's
population and virtually all households below the poverty threshold experienced an improvement
in living standards. The project also helped strengthen Bujumbura's urban institutions through
technical assistance and the establishment of a new fiscal system. Bujumbura's municipal
revenue more than tripled between 1983 and 1986.
B. SUMMARY OF IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
ii.   The Second Urban Development Project (Cr. 1968 BU signed on April 14, 1989 and
closed on December 31, 1996) aimed at expanding the experience of the First Urban Project in
improving the living conditions of the urban population. While continuing selected actions in
Bujumbura, the Second Urban Development Project focused chiefly on five secondary urban
centers. According to the Development Credit Agreement, the main objectives of the project
were: (i) in the short term, to strengthen the economies of secondary towns and, through urban-
rural linkages, the economy of their hinterland; and (ii) in the long term, to assist the Borrower's
urban growth by improving living conditions of the urban populations in the municipality of
Bujumbura, and the communes of Gitega, Ngozi, Kayanza, Rumonge and Bururi.
iii.  The objectives were fully consistent with the government's urbanization strategy as laid
out in its Fifth Development Plan. They were important to accelerate urban growth and
encourage the modernization of agriculture, contribute to long-term food security, generate
employment opportunities, and accelerate GDP and income growth rates. The objectives were
appropriate for a country where 94 percent of the population lives in rural areas, because they
aimed to foster a sustainable increase in farm income through an expansion of urban demand for
agricultural products by economic development of urban centers. The objectives supported
IDA's country strategy in the sector, as stated in the 1984 Country Economic Memorandum and
were very explicit in the SAR and in the Development Credit Agreement. However, the project
involved complex, unrelated activities and was highly ambitious.
iv.  The project merits a rating of Satisfactory as do the Bank's and the Borrower's
performances. The project contributed extensively to improving the economy of the five
communes and of their hinterlands and the living conditions of their inhabitants. The lifting of



iv                                    ICR - Burundi: Second Urban Development Project
legal constraints on internal migration and employment and business opportunities generated by
the project encouraged the population to settle within the boundaries of the five secondary towns.
However, project implementation was severely hampered and delayed after October 1993 by
political violence and civil unrest. Neverthless, although the political crises hampered the
normal implementation of the project, the project helped to mitigate the damaging effects of the
political crises, particularly through the construction of social infrastructure and extensive job
creation. The political crises and the subsequent failure to implement some important
institutional strengthening actions, however, jeopardized project sustainability.
v.   The project's physical objectives were substantially achieved. Three health centers, seven
municipal markets, three slaughterhouses, and a community house were completed and
equipped. Construction of roads and drainage networks in Ngozi, Rumonge, Bururi and
Bujumbura were fully completed. Site development works for housing and artisanal activities
plots were extensively carried out.
vi.  Private sector development objectives were partially reached. Project implementation
had a favorable impact on the business turnover of local SMEs. Municipal markets and
slaughterhouses encouraged the development of more than 9,500 small-scale businesses, while
helping increase the small farmers' income. Training was provided to about 200 artisans, 119
plots were developed for artisanal activities and several artisanal workshops were built or being
concluded.
vii.  Sector policy, institutional development and public sector management objectives,
were partially attained. The project contributed to institutionalize urban development as an
important factor of economic growth in an over-populated but under-urbanized country.
However, the implementation of the institutional strengthening component was inadequate, due
to Borrower inactivity and/or circumstances following the events of October 1993. Some
fundamental actions were not accomplished, threatening the sustainability of the entire project.
viii. The project had a positive impact on poverty reduction and the environment, through
improvement of urban populations' living conditions and an increase in purchasing power for the
lower-income population. The project generated around 6,000 jobs for unskilled labor, provided
education and access to land and credit to the poor, and allowed small informal entrepreneurs
access to markets. More than 1,000 slum-dwellers and modest artisans became landowners, and
about 380 low-income households benefited from loans for housing construction.
ix.   Although financial objectives were negligibly reached, the project implementation had a
positive impact on the financial resources of the communes covered by the project. At the
project's close, taxes collected from markets and slaughterhouses accounted for more than 50
percent of the communes' revenues. The project provided FBu 2.8 million (US$11,500
equivalent at 1992 exchange rate) credits to artisans, and granted FBu 188.1 million
(US$770,000 equivalent at 1992 exchange rate) loans for housing construction.
C.   FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
x.   In November 1992, the Bank started discussions with the Borrower on the pre-
identification of a third urban project, the Communal Infrastructure Project. The Initial Executive
Project Summary was ready on October 1993, precisely when the political crisis erupted in
Burundi. Because of the political uncertainty, the Bank decided to postpone the appraisal of the



Evaluation Summary                                                                      v
project, and has since canceled it. Since then, no operations in the urban sector have been
identified.
xi.   The following lessons can be learned from the Second Urban Development Project:
(a)    No matter how well prepared and implemented a project is, its development
impact may be jeopardized in a situation of continued political instability and
civil disturbance. While it is difficult to foresee major political changes and
crises such as those that occurred in Burundi, sector projects should have the
flexibility to adapt to emergency needs.
(b)    To facilitate implementation and supervision, it is advisable to avoid overly
ambitious and complex urban development projects with a mix of components
and unrelated activities.
(c)    In an under-urbanized country like Burundi, urban policy and urban
development projects must focus particularly on administrative and fiscal
institution building.
(d)    To achieve a sustained urban development, institutional building and
Government strong commitment to this task are crucial and needed at early
stages of project implementation.
(e)    Responsibilities of all parties must be well defined and clearly understood before
project implementation to avoid a situation in which project units have to carry
out inappropriate tasks as a last resort.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BURUNDI
SECOND URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1968 - BU)
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.   Burundi is a small landlocked country in the Eastern Africa Great Lakes region. Its
population of approximately 6.2 million is growing at the high rate of 3.1 percent per year.
Burundi is the second most densely populated country in Africa, with a density of about 220
inhabitants per km2, ten times the average for sub-Saharan Africa. However, despite
demographic pressure, the urban population is far below the average for sub-Saharan Africa.
Agriculture is the predominant activity, contributing to half of the GDP and 90 percent of
employment and export earnings. With a per capita income estimated at US$150 in 1994,
Burundi is among the world's five poorest countries.
2.   Since 1965, Burundi has been plagued by continued ethnic strife, as its two main ethnic
groups, the Hutu majority and the Tutsi minority, have struggled for economic and political
power. In June 1993, a Hutu-dominated party won the country's first democratic presidential
elections. However, three months later, the President and other top officials were assassinated.
Widespread ethnic violence and civil unrest resulted in more than 150,000 deaths. The power-
sharing agreement endorsed in October 1994 failed to solve the crisis, and violence and
polarization continued to increase. In July 1996, the sitting Hutu president was ousted by a
former Tutsi president in a military-backed coup. The coup triggered a trade embargo by
neighboring countries which, given the country's dependency on imports and coffee exports, has
seriously affected the economic situation, and worsened conditions for project implementation.
The Bank suspended disbursements on October 10, 1996.
3.   Bank operations in the urban sector in Burundi began with the First Urban Development
Project (Cr. 1049 BU signed on July 3, 1980 and closed on December 31, 1987), which provided
assistance to improve living conditions of the poor in the capital by redressing compelling
deficiencies in existing neighborhoods and laying the foundation for future growth. This project
substantially met its objectives. It helped improve basic infrastructure and provided 750 serviced
plots and housing loans to the medium-income population, provided assistance to artisans, and
financed the construction or renovation of 19 primary schools. The project's PCR estimated that
85 percent of Bujumbura's population and virtually all households below the poverty threshold
experienced an improvement in living standards. The project also helped strengthen
Bujumbura's urban institutions through technical assistance and the establishment of a new fiscal
system. Bujumbura's municipal revenue more than tripled between 1983 and 1986.



2                                      ICR -Burundi: Second Urban Development Project
B. STATEMENT AND EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
4.   The Second Urban Development Project (Cr. 1968 BU signed on April 14, 1989 and
closed on December 31, 1996) aimed at expanding the experience of the First Urban
Development Project in improving the living conditions of the urban population. While
continuing selected actions in Bujumbura, the Second Urban Development Project focused
chiefly on five secondary urban centers. The project was designed to provide necessary
infrastructure and community facilities, develop employment opportunities in urban areas,
establish the institutional framework to help these semi-rural agglomerations evolve into real
urban centers, and contribute to rural modernization. According to the Development Credit
Agreement, the main objectives of the project were: (i) in the short term, to strengthen the
economies of secondary towns and, through urban-rural linkages, the economy of their
hinterlands; and (ii) in the long term, to assist the Borrower's urban growth by improving living
conditions of the urban populations in the municipality of Bujumbura, and the communes of
Gitega, Ngozi, Kayanza, Rumonge and Bururi.
5.   The objectives were fully consistent with the government's urbanization strategy as laid
out in its Fifth Development Plan. The project was conceived as the cornerstone of a new urban
policy and the first step in a long-term process of modernizing Burundi's economy, with
implications to all sectors, including agriculture. The objectives were important to accelerate
urban growth and encourage the modernization of agriculture, contribute to long-term food
security, generate employment opportunities, and accelerate GDP and income growth rates. The
objectives were appropriate for a country where 94 percent of the population lives in rural areas,
because they aimed to foster a sustainable increase in farm income through an expansion of
urban demand for agricultural products by economic development of urban centers.
6.   The objectives supported IDA's country strategy in the sector, as stated in the 1984
Country Economic Memorandum, "... to date, the urban project efforts have focused only in
Bujumbura. Their extension to smaller towns, in support of rural investments, would be more
difficult but, in the end, probably more useful." The objectives were very explicit in the SAR
and in the Development Credit Agreement. However, the project involved complex, unrelated
activities and was highly ambitious.
7.   To achieve its objectives, the project included the following components:
(a)    Promotion of Artisans through (a) workshops and stores construction; (b)
activity areas management; (c) training and service centers construction; (d)
training and service centers management; (e) technical assistance; and (f)
granting of credit.
(b)    Upgrading of Infrastructure, including road and drainage network construction,
mainly in low-income urban areas.
(c)    Housing through (a) upgrading of 15 ha (450 plots) and development of 30 ha
(650 new plots) in Gasenyi (Bujumbura); (b) development of new areas in
Gitega (23 ha), Rumonge (17 ha), Ngozi (9 ha) and Kayanza (9 ha); (c)
provision of housing credits mainly for low income families in Bujumbura and
Gitega; and (d) establishment of a Housing Fund.
2



Project Implementation Assessment                                                  3
(d)    Construction of Community Facilities including (a) markets with sheds, small
shops, stores, cold-storage rooms and slaughterhouses; (b) two sheds, a customs
office and a depot in Rumonge; (c) five health centers; and (d) a community hall
in Gasenyi.
(e)    Institutional Strengthening through (a) provision of technical assistance for the
communes; (b) upgrading of communes' financial resources; (c) reinforcement
of financial services; (d) creation of an Urban Fund for Secondary Centers; and
(e) a study on communal resources, and
(f)    Training for communal financial and technical staff, and for project staff.
8.   In 1995, the Borrower and the Bank agreed to include two additional activities compatible
with project objectives: (i) institution of an AGETIP for urban works; and (ii) execution of labor-
intensive urban works in Bujumbura, such as street paving, construction of drainage networks,
sanitation improvements, and infrastructure maintenance.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
9.   The project merits a rating of Satisfactory as do the Bank's and the Borrower's
performances. The 1993 crisis and the subsequent failure to implement some important
institutional strengthening actions, however, jeopardized project sustainability.
10.  The project's physical objectives were substantially achieved. Regarding the
construction of the communityfacilities component, civil works planned in the SAR were
extensively carried out. Three health centers, seven municipal markets, three slaughterhouses,
and a community house were completed and equipped. However, the construction of two health
centers, two municipal markets, two slaughterhouses, a customs office and two harbor sheds
could not be completed. Concerning the upgrading of infrastructure component, construction of
roads and drainage networks in Ngozi, Rumonge, Bururi and Bujumbura were fully completed,
in accordance with the initial estimate, although, for security reasons, works in Gitega and
Kayanza could not be carried out. In addition, some of the labor-intensive works in Bujumbura,
such as street paving and river bank protection, could not be concluded.
It.  As for the housing component, site development works for new plots were extensively
carried out as planned in the SAR, with the exception of those in Rumonge. However, plot
servicing works--piped water, electrification and sewerage--were not, for the most part,
completed, and less than 10 per cent were acquired. The exception was in Gasenyi , where the
works were completed, and all 648 plots were sold. At the project's closing about 325 new
houses had been built. Furthermore, the Borrower's unwillingness to carry out the expropriation
of 44 households, following the October 1993 crisis, prevented ECOSAT, an agency created in
1987 to implement the Government's social housing policy, from carrying out the upgrading
works in Gasenyi. Concerning the promotion of artisans component, 1 19 of the 170 estimated
artisanal activity plots were developed, but the construction of three training and service centers
was not completed. In addition, five office buildings for project coordination in the five
communes were constructed, and vehicles, computers and furniture were also adequately
supplied.
3



4                                      ICR -Burundi: Second Urban Development Project
12.  Sector policy, institutional development and public sector management objectives
were partially attained. The implementation of the institutional strengthening component was
inadequate, due to Borrower's inactivity and/or circumstances following the events of October
1993. Some fundamental actions, as explained below, were not accomplished, threatening the
sustainability of the entire project.
13.  Since the project was conceived as the core of a new urban policy, substantial and fruitful
discussions on urban policy concepts were held with Government and urban policy-makers
during appraisal and preparation missions. Burundi's Fifth Development Plan, approved in
1988, embodied a modem philosophy of urban development. As a condition of negotiations, the
Borrower approved a new National Urban Policy that included liberalization of restrictions on
migratory flows, abolition of measures to expel the peri-urban population, and allocation of land
to new inhabitants. In sum, as symbolized by the Government's adding "Urban Development" to
the name of the ministry in charge of public works at project identification, the project
contributed to institutionalize urban development as an important factor of economic growth in
an over-populated but under-urbanized country.
14.  As a condition of negotiations, the Borrower approved a new organization for the
Municipality of Bujumbura. As a condition of credit effectiveness, the Municipality of
Bujumbura signed an agreement with SETEMU, an autonomous agency in charge of municipal
services, clarifying its responsibilities and role. As a condition of disbursement for the housing
component, the Government amended the decree establishing ECOSAT, to clarify its
development role and propose a new organizational chart. Regarding compliance with credit
covenants on institutional strengthening, the Borrower enacted a new statute for communal
employees in 1990 aimed at attracting higher level staff to the communes, but the covenant
requiring the establishment of an Urban Fund for Secondary Centers, the FEUCS, was canceled
to avoid duplicating a similar fund, the Communal Development Fund (FDC), created in 1991.
The covenant on the recruitment of financial managers to supervise accounting services and the
budget in each commune covered by the project, was complied with, after long delays.
15.  To strengthen the Borrower's fiscal-institutional capacity, the project foresaw the need for
some technical experts. A municipal expert to help the communes develop an autonomous tax
system and a street market management specialist to help operate and manage community
facilities were recruited, but with considerable delay. At project closing, none of the action plans
called for in the technical experts' reports had been implemented. An artisanal specialist to
prepare proposals to improve the management of the promotion of artisans component was also
recruited after long delays. Following his final report some actions were implemented, but their
impact was negligible.
16.  The Ministry of Planning carried out the study to assess the financial situation of the
communes and to propose recommendations for municipal finance reforms. However, following
its findings, no action plan was implemented. Moreover, other studies carried out, including the
reorganization of Bujumbura's municipality, highlighting the municipality's general
management, debt, budget, and collection of taxes, the urban centers reclassification, and a FDC
study did not give rise to particular actions to implement findings.
17.  The training component aimed basically at improving institutional capacity to manage
local facilities and services, through enhancement of human resources. Two training sessions on
accounting, instead of the one foreseen, were carried out for 126 accountants and inspectors of
4



Project Implementation Assessment                                                  5
local projects of all Burundi's 114 communes. The five financial managers benefited from
training on public accounting. In addition, eight project unit technical staff participated in two
different training sessions to upgrade technical skills on maintenance of public infrastructure,
although a single session was planned in the SAR. One project staff member took part in a nine-
month course abroad on urban management and one communal inspector benefited from
graduate studies abroad on management of municipal services. One civil servant participated in
a seminar on financial management of infrastructure and one project staff member benefited
from disbursement training. However, the one-year training-of-trainers course abroad for two
inspectors, intended to create a monitoring and consultation framework within the Ministry of
Interior, and the three-month training course in taxation, administration and management for
commune financial managers, were not carried out.
18.  Although private sector development objectives were only partially reached, the
achievement was largely beneficial. Project implementation had a favorable impact on the
business turnover of local SMEs, as they were extensively contracted to carry out civil works.
However, although preliminary studies were carried out, the AGETIP was not set up.
19.  As shown in the table below, municipal markets and slaughterhouses encouraged the
development of more than 9,500 small-scale businesses while helping increase the small
farmers' income.
Markets          Occupancy    Number of traders in place
Rate    Street vendors Small retailers
Kamenge                        100%          767           155
Kinama                         100%         1,510          135
Ngagara                         90%         1,534           40
Gitega                         100%         1,569           90
Kayanza                        100%         1,163           65
Ngozi                          100%         1,576           62
Rumonge                        100%          772            73
Total                              8,891          620
Slaughterhouses     Utilization       Number of users
Rate    Small herders    Traders
Gitega                          95%           25            35
Ngozi                           50%           12            13
Kayanza                         95%           27            30
Total                                64            78
20.  The impact of the promotion of artisans component on private sector development was
less satisfactory. The component aimed essentially at promoting the growth of a class of urban
artisan-entrepreneurs by helping existing artisans to settle in secondary towns and providing
training and assistance to newcomers. About 200 artisans, were trained in the Kwijabe artisanal
training center in Bujumbura, which had been constructed under the First Urban Development
Project. However, the SAR had not identified the development of an artisan area in the capital
city, and therefore the majority of the trained artisans were not able to set up small businesses.
Attempts to set one up, following Borrower requests, were not successful because of the political
crisis. Conversely, in the communes of Gitega, Kayanza and Ngozi, although artisans did not
benefit from training, because the training centers construction was delayed, 90 of the 119
developed plots for artisanal activities were sold. At the project closing, 17 workshops had been
built, another eight were being concluded, and 70 construction permits were awaiting
Government clearance.
5



6                                      ICR -Burundi: Second Urban Development Project
21.  The project had a positive impact on poverty reduction and the environment, through
improvement of urban populations' living conditions and an increase in purchasing power for the
lower-income population. In the aftermath of the 1993 political crisis, the project was adapted to
emergency circumstances. It identified new labor-intensive activities in the capital city which
experienced a sudden influx of impoverished domestic refugees.
22.  The project generated jobs for unskilled labor, provided education and access to land and
credit to the poor, and allowed small informal entrepreneurs access to markets. It also has
contributed to improving the health and living conditions of the most vulnerable inhabitants.
Approximately 6,000 jobs were created by the construction works, instead of the 1,000 foreseen
in the SAR, and about 200 artisans were trained in the Kwijabe artisanal training center. More
than 1,000 slum-dwellers and modest artisans became landowners, and about 380 low-income
households each benefited from loans of up to US$3,300 equivalent for housing construction.
The municipal markets and slaughterhouses provided small farmers and herders access to
markets and contributed to the development of small traders, while considerably improving the
hygienic conditions of meat and vegetables to consumers. The quality of the trained artisans'
products improved, generating a positive impact on the artisans' income. The general upgrading
of infrastructure, the development of residential areas, and the health centers improved the health
and living conditions of the population. An average of 100 patients per day are being treated in
each of the health centers, exceeding the usual capacity of 60 people.
23.  Although financial objectives were negligibly attained, the project implementation had a
positive impact on the financial resources of the communes covered by the project. As a
condition of negotiations, the Borrower amended laws for transferring land and rental income
taxes to the communes. To help the communes calculate the tax base, following the transfer of
the land and rental income taxes, the project coordination unit, the BPU (Bureau du Projet
Urbain), carried out a survey of land and housing property to establish a computerized land
registry. However, at project closing, the registry had not been completed. As a condition for
disbursement, the Borrower also transferred, from the municipality of Bujumbura to the
Treasury, two loans contracted in 1987 under Government pressure, to allow SETEMU to carry
out costly infrastructure works. At the project's close, taxes collected from markets and
slaughterhouses accounted for more than 50 percent of the communes' revenues.
24.  Project housing loans were channeled through FPHU, the Housing Fund, established in
1989, to comply with a Credit covenant. The creation of an additional public enterprise, the
Housing Fund, could have been avoided and resources channeled through existing commercial
banks to ensure more efficient loan recovery. Nevertheless, the FPHU had remarkable
performance during its first three years of existence, and was transformed, in 1993, into a mixed
enterprise. It granted 325 loans for the construction of new houses and 52 for home
improvement, a total of FBu 188.1 million (US$770,000 equivalent at 1992 exchange rate), out
of FBu 530.8 million expected at appraisal. However, the FPHU remained almost inactive
following the events of October 1993 until the project's closing.
25.  The SAR identified the BPU to administer loans to artisans. The COOPECs, although
foreseen in the SAR to participate in three communes, were unable to accomplish the task. With
inadequate banking-financial skills, the BPU was unable to perform these activities efficiently,
and the administration of loans was suspended. The project provided credits of only FBu 2.8
million (US$11,500 equivalent at 1992 exchange rate) to artisans, two percent of the estimated
FBu 155.9 million. The BPU also managed recovery operations for the loans granted through
6



Project Implementation Assessment                                                   7
the First Urban Development Project. However, at project closing, 30 percent of these loans had
not yet been recovered.
26.  Conditions for project replicability were not created. According to the financial analysis
in the SAR, by the year 2009, when all artisan and housing credits and loans to the communes
were to have been reimbursed, a cumulative surplus of about US$ 20 million would have been
collected. These funds would have allowed the project to be replicated in other urban areas.
However, the amount of loans granted to artisans was negligible, and housing credits only
reached 35 percent of the estimated amount. Furthermore, effective cost recovery mechanisms
as recommended in the SAR were not established, and at project closing, the communes were not
yet repaying the Treasury the investments made under the project. In addition, the repayment of
loans granted to individuals has been jeopardized by the weakness of the judicial system in
prosecuting the parties in default.
27.  The last disbursement took place on June 2, 1997. At project closing, cumulative credit
disbursements reached 57 percent of the estimated credit amount. Some activities were canceled
or not completed due to the political crises. Project costs in general, particularly for civil works
construction, fell below the SAR estimates. This was due in part to the devaluation of the
Burundian Franc, but also to some over-ambitious estimates during project appraisal. About 25
percent of the Credit, allocated to contingencies, was not used.
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
28.  Project implementation was severely hampered and delayed after October 1993 by
political violence and civil unrest. Physical components such as the upgrading of infrastructure,
promotion of artisans, and housing components, suffered, as did institutional strengthening,
since technical experts often postponed their arrival and trained personnel fled the communes.
The project remained almost inactive throughout 1994. In 1995, efforts were made to revive the
project, and new activities, to be carried out in safe areas, were identified. The project gained
momentum and was progressing relatively well, but the political events of June 1996 lead to a
suspension of disbursements and the project was closed on December 31, 1996.
29.  Although the statute for municipal employees enacted in 1990 intended to attract qualified
personnel to the communes, it did not provide real incentives., and recruitment of high-level
accountants to be commune financial managers lagged.
30.  The project unit had to perform duties unrelated to its activity because qualified
institutions were unavailable. The BPU carried out banking-related tasks and the operation and
management of the Kwijabe artisanal training center. The Kwijabe artisanal training center was
progressively transformed from a training into a production unit. Although the center became a
self-financing establishment in 1994, following the recommendations of a technical expert,
management did not improve and at project closing it had been transformed de facto into a
production unit, employing about 20 former trainees. The BPU also executed other tasks, such
as selling plots to artisans and surveying land and houses. All of these tasks overloaded the unit,
causing bottlenecks that adversely affected project monitoring. Moreover, project
implementation was sometimes hindered by inadequate coordination among the different
institutions involved in the project. To ensure better coordination, the Bank proposed that the
Borrower set up a steering committee, integrating the main parties involved. This proposal was
never carried out.
7



8                                        ICR -Burundi: Second Urban Development Project
31.  Although the project had a consistent design, it was too complex and ambitious. As long
as the project targeted the accelerated development of embryonic secondary urban centers, it had
to combine widely unrelated activities, such as training of artisans, reinforcement of communal
financial systems, or construction of health centers. Moreover, at the time of project
identification, the population of the target secondary towns, except for Gitega, barely represented
one percent of the total population of their respective provinces and the communes lacked
adequate human and financial resources to handle new responsibilities. In addition, the risk
analysis presented in the SAR recognized certain important risks regarding the towns'
environment and the complexity of the project, but it did not clearly define effective mitigation
measures. Also, since the project was built upon experience gained during the First Urban
Development project, technical risks were considered limited. Yet, some mistakes similar to
those which were made during the First Urban Development Project implementation, regarding
the Kwijabe artisanal training center and granting operations to artisans, were repeated during
the implementation of the Second Urban Development Project. Moreover, although explicitly
recommended by the Second Urban Development Project SAR, cost-recovery mechanisms
instituted during the First Urban Development Project were not refined and improved.
32.  To enable the secondary towns to move quickly from rural to urban status, the project tried
at endow them with capable administrative, fiscal and financial institutions through institutional
strengthening actions. However, even before the political crisis of October 1993, the Borrower
neglected implementation of important actions regarding institutional strengthening of the
communes, while implementation of civil works was accelerated. As a result, in 1992, the Bank
suspended the remaining procurement for civil works, to focus on the implementation of the
delayed institutional strengthening component. The Bank also postponed the remaining
procurement for construction of artisan training centers to focus on the implementation of the
institutional aspects of the promotion of artisans component. The Bank lifted the suspensions
after the Borrower launched the bidding for the recruitment of technical experts.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
33.  The project's long-term sustainability would depend on: (i) a return to political stability;
(ii) the Government's commitment to establish in each commune effective fiscal institutions;
(iii) the allocation of sufficient funds to maintain the infrastructure constructed and to conclude
the interrupted civil works; and (iv) a successful cost recovery operation. At project closing,
given the ongoing political crisis and the overall project status, in particular because fiscal
institutional building was not achieved, sustainability is seriously jeopardized.
34.  Nonetheless, the Government has recently taken encouraging steps towards project
sustainability. New financial managers have been recruited in each commune, which is an
important step towards the establishment of capable fiscal institutions. Moreover, the
Municipality of Bujumbura privatized the management of the three health centers built under the
project and the commune of Ngozi privatized the management of its municipal market to secure
revenue collection. This practice may be extended to the other communes covered by the
project. Similarly, the Government intends to privatize the management of the Kwijabe artisanal
training center and of the other three training centers as soon as they are finished and equipped.
Therefore, if tax collection and maintenance operations are properly handled, sustainability of
community facilities built and other infrastructure upgraded under the project can be expected.
However, since credit was not granted at levels close to those foreseen in the SAR, and since
8



Project Implementation Assessment                                                   9
cost-recovery mechanisms are extremely weak, it is unlikely that urban development will be
extended to other communes, that the housing and artisan loans will be replicate elsewhere or
that the FPHU will be maintained.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
35.  The Bank's performance during identification, preparation and appraisal was satisfactory
on the whole, with much effort invested to design the project as a cornerstone of Burundi urban
policy. Project identification and preparation started in August 1985, the Executive Project
Summary was completed in June 1987, appraisal took place in October 1987 and the project was
presented to the Board in December 1988. Although three and a half years elapsed between
identification and Board presentation, this was basically due to the two-year closing date
extension of the First Urban Development Project, initially scheduled for completion in
December 1985. From Identification to Effectiveness about 72 staff-weeks were spent. The
Bank's supervision performance was satisfactory. Regular supervision missions took place,
comprising a total of 91 staff weeks. However, because of the precarious political situation that
prevailed in Burundi after June 96, the project completion mission did not take place.
36.  The life of the project was initially set at five years. The credit closing date was extended
for one year in 1995. In the aftermath of the October 1993 events, the Bank demonstrated
flexibility in adapting the project to and helping the Borrower face critical needs. When it
became clear that the Government would not be able to provide counterpart funds, the Bank
agreed to amend the Credit Agreement to increase to 100 percent the expenditures to be financed
(excluding taxes and duties). Also, the Bank agreed to identify new activities within project
objectives to be carried out in safe areas, such as labor-intensive urban works in the municipality
of Bujumbura. However, after the political events of June 1996, as conditions for project
implementation significantly deteriorated and supervision missions could not be carried out, the
Bank suspended disbursements in October 1996. The situation did not improve and the
suspension was not lifted. In accordance with Bank rules, a second one-year closing date
extension requested by the Borrower was not granted, and the Credit was closed on December
31, 1996.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
37.  The Borrower's performance was satisfactory as regards project identification and
preparation. It participated fully in discussions concerning project component identification and
urban development policies. However, negotiations and Board presentation were postponed nine
months because of Borrower's delays in meeting one of the conditions of negotiation--the lifting
of restrictions on movement between towns and rural areas. Moreover, delays in meeting
conditions of credit effectiveness, in particular the clarification of the responsibilities and the
role of SETEMU vis-a-vis the Municipality of Bujumbura, delayed significantly the Credit
Effectiveness. Signed in April 1989, the Credit became effective in November 1989 and
implementation began in early January 1990. Project implementation thus began with an
accumulated delay of about one and a half year.
38.  The Borrower's performance varied during project implementation and with regard to the
different components. During the two first years (1990/91), the Borrower's overall performance
9



10                                      ICR -Burundi: Second Urban Development Project
was quite satisfactory. However, during 1992 and until the political events of October 1993, the
Borrower's performance substantially deteriorated, particularly in the delays for the recruitment
of technical experts and the commune financial managers. From October 1993 throughout 1994,
the project remained almost inactive. The Borrower, along with the Bank, deployed considerable
effort to its revival, which occurred in 1995. From then until the suspension of disbursements in
October 1996, the Borrower's performance was satisfactory. As for the different components,
the Borrower's performance was satisfactory concerning upgrading of infrastructure,
construction of communityfacilities, housing and training, less satisfactory for promotion of
artisans and unsatisfactory regarding institutional strengthening.
39.  The Borrower's performance regarding compliance with credit covenants was overall
satisfactory despite some delays. As regards procurement, excluding two minor problems that
occurred with the CNM, acceptable procurement procedures were regularly followed by the
BPU. The quality of procurement documents also improved, along with project implementation,
and the recruitment of a technical expert to review procurement documents before their
presentation to the Bank was therefore canceled.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
40.  The aftermath of the political crisis has made obtaining economic indicators and statistical
data to assess project outcome difficult. Statistics on the growth of the per capita GDP in each of
the five secondary towns, and the evolution of the communal revenues are not available.
Nevertheless, although the five communes did not acquire urban status, in particular because
adequate institutional frameworks were not established, the Second Urban Development Project
contributed extensively to improving the economy of the communes and of their hinterlands and
the living conditions of their inhabitants. The lifting of legal constraints on internal migration
and employment and business opportunities generated by the project encouraged the population
to settle within the boundaries of the five secondary towns. The latest census shows that the
population of the five communes increased dramatically between 1985 and 1992. Furthermore,
whereas the political crises hampered the normal implementation of the project, the project
helped to mitigate the damaging effects of the political crises, particularly through the
construction of social infrastructure and extensive job creation. Moreover, although project
objectives were overly ambitious and design relatively complex, the Borrower's overall
commitment to implement the project decisively contributed to attaining some important and
valuable results. Therefore, the project merits a rating of Satisfactory. However, although some
encouraging steps were taken recently, sustainability is still seriously threatened.
1. FUTURE OPERATIONS
41.  In November 1992, the Bank started discussions with the Borrower on the pre-
identification of a third urban project, the Communal Infrastructure Project. Its objective was to
facilitate Burundi's social and economic development by improving the management and
financing of communal infrastructure through (i) labor-based rehabilitation and improvement of
communal infrastructure such as feeder roads, primary schools, health centers and market stalls
along with a matching fund mechanism, (ii) the strengthening of FDC, and (iii) support to
regional associations of beneficiaries for local infrastructure management. The Initial Executive
Project Summary was prepared by October 1993, precisely when the political crisis erupted in
Burundi. Due to the political uncertainty, the Bank decided to postpone the project appraisal,
10



Project Implementation Assessment                                                  11
and has afterwards canceled it. Since then, no operations in the urban sector have been
identified.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
42.  The following lessons, the first related to the context, the second to the design and the
three others to institutional building, can be learned from the Second Urban Development
Project:
(a)    No matter how well prepared and implemented a project is, its development
impact may be jeopardized in a situation of continued political instability and
civil disturbance. While it is difficult to foresee major political changes and
crises such as those that occurred in Burundi, sector projects should have the
flexibility to adapt to emergency needs.
(b)    To facilitate implementation and supervision, it is advisable to avoid overly
ambitious and complex urban development projects with a mix of components
and unrelated activities.
(c)    In an under-urbanized country like Burundi, urban policy and urban
development projects must focus particularly on administrative and fiscal
institution building.
(d)    To achieve a sustained urban development, institutional building and
Government strong commitment to this task are crucial and needed at early
stages of project implementation.
(e)    Responsibilities of all parties must be well defined and clearly understood before
project implementation to avoid a situation in which project units have to carry
out inappropriate tasks as a last resort.
II






PART II - STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives     Substantial       Partial      Negligible   Not Applicable
Macro policies                                                                   x
Sector policies                                     x
Financial objectives                                              x
Institutional development                           x
Physical objectives                  x
Poverty reduction                                   x
Gender issues                                                                    x
Other social objectives                                                          x
Environmental objectives                            x
Public sector management                            x
Private sector development                          x
Other (specify)                                                                  x
B. Project sustainability                          Likely       Unlikely       Uncertain
C. Bank performance                               Highly       Satisfactory    Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                                _    _ _            x       |
Preparation Assistance                                            x
Appraisal                                                          x
Supervision                                   __T___               x
D. Borrower performance                           Highly       Satisfactory    Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                                                    x
Preparation Assistance                                            x
Appraisal                                                          x
Supervision                                                        x
E. Assessment of outcome            Highly      Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory    Highly
Satisfactory                               Unsatisfactory



14                                               ICR - Burundi: Second Urban Development Project
Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Credit Title                    Purpose                Year of Approval      Status
Preceding Operations
1. First Urban Project    To redress urgent urban deficiencies in   1980          Completed
(Credit 1049-BU)      Bujumbura, including upgrading of basic
infrastructure such as standpipes, public
lighting, and street improvements,
housing improvement loan programs,
construction of community facilities and
promotion of artisans.
Following Operations
No following operations
are scheduled.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle               Date planned    Date actual
Identification (Executive Project Summary)             Mar 87        Jun 29, 87
Preparation                                            Apr 87          Jul 87
Appraisal                                              Sep 87          Oct 87
Negotiations                                           Jan 88          Jul 88
Board Presentation                                     Mar 88        Dec 6, 88
Signing                                                              Apr 14, 89
Effectiveness                                          Aug 88        Nov 2, 89
Midterm Review
Project Completion                                   Jun 30, 95      Dec 31, 96
Loan/Credit Closing                                  Dec 31, 95      Dec 31, 96



Statistical Tables                                                                         15
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY 89   FY 90   FY 91   FY 92   FY 93   FY 94   FY 95   FY 96   FY 97
Appraisal
Estimate        0.9     2.5      6.4      12.0    16.5    19.4    20.5    21.0    21.0
Actual          0.7      1.8     4.6      6.6      8.3      8.9      9.9     10.0    11.9
Actual as %
of Estimate    78%      72%      72%      55%      50%     46%      48%      48%      57%
Date of final disbursement: June 2, 1997
Table SA: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Indicators                                 SAR estimate        Actual
ARTISANS
(i) construction of activity areas
Gitega                  number of developed plots             51               61
Ngozi                   number of developed plots             68               37
Kayanza                 number of developed plots             51              21
(ii) construction of training and service centers
Ngozi                             number of units              I  Not concluded
Rumonge                           number of units              I  Not concluded
Bururi                            number of units              I  Not concluded
(iii) provision of credits
installation credits                 FBu million            36.5              0.2
equipment credits                    FBu million            27.0              1.9
supply credits                       FBu million            92.4              0.7
HOUSING
(i) Upgrading
- Bujumbura - Gasenyi
residential plots          number of upgraded plots            450               0
(ii) Development
- Bujumbura - Gasenyi
residential plots         number of developed plots            621             648
commercial plots          number of developed plots             32              18
social plots              number of developed plots              4               4
- Gitega                     number of developed ha              23              34
- Rumonge                    number of developed ha              17  Not concluded
- Ngozi                      number of developed ha               9               14
- Kayanza                    number of developed ha               9               8
(iii) Housing credits
construction loans                     FBu million                            171.5
home improvement loans                 FBu million                             16.6



16                                             ICR - Burundi: Second Urban Development Project
Table 5B: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Indicators                                 SAR estimate        Actual
INFRASTRUCTURES
(i) works in Gitega
- Nyamugari
gravel roads                                                                     0
masonry ditches                                                                  0
- Magarama
gravel roads                                    m            8,740               0
masonry ditches                                 m            5,480               0
- Shatanya
paved roads                                     m              725               0
gravel roads                                    m            1,380               0
masonry ditches                                 m            1,740               0
(ii) works in Ngozi
- Swahili and Kigarama
gravel roads                                                                     0
masonry ditches                                                                  0
- New activity zone
gravel roads                                    m            3,935           3,270
masonry ditches                                 m            3,800           3,355
(iii) works in Kayanza
- Uwingwa-Uwiraro and Kitaramuka
gravel roads                                    m            5,120               0
masonry ditches
- Commercial center
paved roads                                     m            1,530               0
masonry ditches                                 m            1,280               0
- Rwegeranya
gravel roads                                    m              635               0
masonry ditches                                 m              310               0
(iv) works in Rumonge
- Swahili
gravel roads                                    m            4,660           5,313
masonry ditches                                 m            4,640           5,541
- Administrative ward
gravel roads                                    m            1,340             722
masonry ditches                                 m                                0
(v) works in Bururi
- Market
gravel roads                                    m              375             380
masonry ditches                                 m              250             225
- Kigwati
gravel roads                                    m            1,230            1,264
masonry ditches                                 m              640             916
(vi) works in Bujumbura
- Kamenge
masonry ditches                                 m            4,050           2,964
- Himo works
streets paving                                      Not included    Not concluded
river banks protection                              Not included    Not concluded
drainage networks                                   Not included



Statistical Tables                                                                       17
Table SC: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Indicators                                SAR estimate       Actual
COMMUNITY FACILITIES
(i) Markets
Bujumbura                        number of units              4 3 & I not conclu.
Gitega                           number of units              I
Ngozi                             number of units             I
Kayanza                          number of units              I
Rumonge                          number of units              I
Bururi                            number of units             I Not concluded
(ii) Slaughter houses
Gitega                            number of units             I
Ngozi                             number of units             I
Kayanza                          number of units              I
Rumonge                           number of units             I  Not concluded
Bururi                            number of units             I  Not concluded
(iii) Health centers
Bujumbura                         number of units             3               3
Kayanza                          number of units              1              0*
Rumonge                          number of units              I Not concluded
Bururi                            number of units             I  Not concluded
(iv) Community house
Bujumbura                        number of units              I
(v) Customs office
Rumonge                          number of units              I  Not concluded
(vi) Sheds
Rumonge                          number of units              2  Not concluded
TRAINING
(i) Communal Accounts                                                Completed
(ii) Technical staff of Communes and BPU                             Completed
(iii) Inspectors of Communal Project                               Not Completed
(iv) Financial Managers                                            Not Completed
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
(i) Financial Specialist                                           Not Completed
(ii) Technical Assistance
Municipal Development Expert                                       Completed
Street market management Specialist               Not included     Completed
Artisan Specialist                                 Not included     Completed
(iii) Studies
Communal Resources                                                 Completed
Municipality Reorganization                       Not included     Completed
(iv) Urban Equipment Fund for Secondary Centers                      Postponed
(v) Agetip                                          Not included    Not Completed
. Kayanza health center, initially foreseen in this project, was financed by UNFPA.



18                                                   ICR - Burundi: Second Urban Development Project
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Study                      Purpose as defined at                 Status       Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
Communal            To assess the financial situation of the communes,  Completed       Negligible
Resources           make recommendations on municipal finance reforms,
Study               on municipal accounting, propose a draft status for
communal staff and give guidance to FEUCS.
Municipality of     To rationalize the expenditures of Bujumbura's    Completed         Negligible
Bujumbura           Municipality.
Reorganization
Study
Promotion of Artisans To improve the management of the project        Completed  Some recommendations
Component Study     component.                                                   implemented.
Urban Centers       To establish a new classification of the urban centers  Completed     None
Reclassification
Study
SETEMU              To improve the role and responsibilities of the   Abandoned
Reorganization      SETEMU
Study
FDC study           To clarify FDC internal procedures and financial  Completed           None
relationships with Central Government and the
Communes



Statistical Tables                                                                           19
Table 7: Project Costs
(US $ '000)
Project Components           Appraisal Estimates                    Actual
Local    Foreign      Total     Local    Foreign      Total
I Artisans                         879      1,710      2,589       100        500        600
2 Infrastructure                 1,248      2,307      3,555        480      2,746      3,226
3 Housing                        2,529      2,172      4,701        227      1,135      1,362
4 Community Facilities           1,240      1,123      2,363        496       449        945
5 Institutional Strengthening      723      1,592      2,315        434       955       1,389
6 Training                         108        482        590         65       289        354
7 Project Coordination             592        455      1,047        117       558        675
8 Consultancy Services             354        846      1,200        134       670        804
9 Contingencies                  2,724      3,036      5,760                               0
Unclassified                                                                          2,586
Total               10,397     13,723     24,120      2,053      7,302     11,941
Table 8: Project Financing
(US $'000)
Source                  Appraisal Estimates                    Actual
Local    Foreign      Total     Local    Foreign      Total
IDA Credit                      7,280      13,720    21,000    N/A         N/A        11,941
Government of Burundi            3,120         0       3,120    N/A        N/A        N/A
Total                10,400     13,720    24,120    N/A         N/A        11,941



20                                                ICR- Burundi: Second Urban Development Project
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
List of the benefits identified in the SAR                      Actual
Direct Benefits
(i) providing employment to approximately one    The project provided employment to about six
thousand workers in the project area;           thousand workers.
(ii) stimulating urban-rural linkages by strengthening    Urban-rural linkages are being stimulated through
commercial activities in both urban centers and  the constructed community facilities ( street
surrounding rural market places;                 markets and slaughterhouses). More than 9,500 small
business were generated.
(iii) promoting the development of the Burundian  Local SMEs were extensively contracted to carry
private sector by contracting to local SMEs and  out civil works. Artisans of the Kwijabe trainining
artisans and using local materials as much as    center were sub-contracted to fabricate components
possible;                                        for housing construction.
(iv) doubling the economic activity of neighborhoods   Although economic indicators are not available,
in 5 secondary towns by favoring the development  the economic activity of neighborhoods in the 5
of informal activities mainly in construction, trade  secondary towns improved, particularly through
and household services;                          the development of informal trade.
(v) giving lower income households access to     Site development works for new plots extensively
housing through the preparation of new plots     carried out. About 380 low-income households
and housing units, credits and rental arrangements;  benefited from FBu 188.1 million of housing credits.
(vi) increasing the purchasing power of non                            N.A.
agricultural households and their demand for rural
products through distribution of project monetary
income to artisans and workers;
(vii) tripling the total fiscal revenue of the five                    N.A.
communes covered by the project from FBu 84
million to FBu 243 million in 1994.
Long Term Impact
(i) increasing the monetary income of farmers, on                      N.A.
average, at 1.7 percent per year instead to reverse the
trend of decreasing incomes.
(ii) improving long-term growth of the communal                        N.A.
GDP to 5.4 percent from 3.3 percent;
(iii) increasing revenues and expenditures of local                    N.A.
governments at about 6 percent per year in the 5
secondary towns through the development of trade
and other activities.



Statistical Tables                                                                              21
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants in Credit Agreement
Section Covenant Status  Fulfillment       Description of Covenant            Comments
Type               Date
2.02.(b)   M         C     Continuous  Open and maintain              The account has been
a Special Account.           opened and maintained.
3.01.(b)    M,F      C                  Relend the proceeds of the    Proceeds of the Credit
Credit allocated to Parts D(a),   on-lended to the communes.
B, and D(d) of the Project
to the communes.
3.0l.(bXii   M,F      C       Jun. 30,    Review to determine          Proposals prepared by GOB,
1992     repayment terms for Parts B   submitted to the Bank on time,
and D(d) of the Project.     and agreement obtained.
3.02.     M        C                   Open and replenish a         Account opened and
Project Advance Account.     replenished on time.
3.03.(a)    T       C                   Establish implementation     Implementation commissions
commissions in each Commune. established.
3.03.(b)    M,T              Jan. 31,    Furnish quarterly            Progress reports fumished
Apr. 30,    progress reports             according to schedule.
Jul. 3 1,
& Oct. 3 1,
of each year.
3.03.(c)    M,T     C       Oct. 31,    Submit each year a detailed  Project Implementation Plan
of each year.  Project Implementation Plan.    submitted every year.
3.04.(a)    T,P     CD      Sep. 30,    Recruit high level accountants   Complied with after long
1989     in each Commune.              delays, due to the low salaries
proposed. However, some
accountants were later fired
or forced to abandon the
communes.
3.04.(b)    T,P     CD       Jun. 30    Submit the final report       Despite some delays,
1990     on communal resources.        final report on communal
resources submitted.
3.04.(c)    M,F      C       Jun. 30,    Submit a short list          Short list of independent
1989     of independent auditors.      auditors submitted.
3.04.(d)    T       NC       Dec. 31,    Establish FEUCS.             Setting up of FEUCS was
1991                                   postponed to avoid
duplication with FDC.
3.04.(e)    T,P     CD      Dec. 31,    Enact statute for             Statute for communal
1990     communal employees.           employees enacted.
3.05      M        C      Continuous  Follow procurement            The Project Unit followed
procedures.                  acceptable procurement
procedures.
4.01     M,F       CP      Aug. 31,   Submit audit reports after    Audits for 1995 were not
of each year  the end of each fiscal year.  carried out because of the
civil unrest. Audit reports
for previous years have
been submitted.
Key to Covenant Type                             Key to Covenant Status
F = Financial      P = Policy            C = Covenant complied with    CP = Complied with partially
M = Management   T = Technical           CD = Complied with after delay  NC = Not complied with



22                                           ICR - Burundi: Second Urban Development Project
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage               Planned             Revised              Actual
Project Cycle      Weeks   US$ '000   Weeks   US$ '000   Weeks   USs '000
Through Appraisal         -         -         -          -          37.7       59.9
Appraisal-Board           -         -          -         -          32.7       58.6
Board-Effectiveness       -         -         -          -           2.8        4.6
Supervision               -         -          -         -          91.3      210.2
Completion               9.3       16.1      9.3       18.6          12.0      10.4
Total                                                      176.5     343.7



Statistical Tables                                                                                            23
Table 12: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of      Month/ Number Days  Specialized Staff            Performance Rating           Types of
Project Cycle     Year       of      in          skills        Implement. Development         Problems
Persons Field      represented         Status      Objectives
Through Appraisal
Identification     Aug-85      2        8
Preparation        Sep-86      3        7   EN, EC
Pre-appraisal      May-87      3       18  EN
Appraisal through
Board Approval
Appraisal          Oct-87      5       21  EN, EC, UR, FA, AS
Post-Appraisal     Apr-88       1      8   EN
Pre-Board          Oct-88      2        8   EN
Pre-effectiveness    Mar-89      1       8   EN                                              CLC
Supervision
Supervision I      Nov-89      2       10  EN                         I             I
Supervision 2      May-90      2       15  EN                         I             I
Supervision 3      Jan-91       l      12  ME                         I             I
Supervision 4      Jun-91       l      16  ME                         I             I
Supervision 5      Dec-91      2       22  ME, FA                     2             2       PMP
Supervision 6      Apr-92      2       18  ME, FA                     2             2       PMP
Supervision 7      Nov-92      3       16  ME, FA, MDS                2             2       PMP, TAP
Supervision 8      May-93      3       16  ME, FA, MDS                2             2       PMP
Supervision 9      Sep-93      3       12  ME, FA, RA                 2             2       PMP
Supervision 10     Feb-95      3       11  ME, EN, FA.                S             S       PMP
Supervision I1      Jul-95      I      II  EN                         S             S       PMP
Supervision 12     Sep-95      2       15  EN, FA.                    S             S       PMP
Supervision 13     Feb-95       1       7   EN                        S             S       PMP
Completion
Key to specialized staff skills
AS = Artisan Specialist               EN = Engineer              UR  Urban Specialist
EC = Economist                        ME = Municipal Engineer    MDS = Municipal Development Specialist
FA = Financial Analyst                                           RA  Research Assistant
Key to performance ratin g
I = Problem Free   2 = Moderate Problems     3 = Major Problems                4 = Major Problems. Corrective
action to be taken
HS = Highly Satisfactory     S = Satisfactory   U = Unsatisfactory             HU = Highly Unsatisfactory
Key to Problems
AF = Availability of Funds            PMP = Project Management Performance     SP= Study Progress
CLC = Compliance with Legal Covenants   PP = Procurement Progress              TP = Training Progress
FP = Financial Performance                                                     TAP = Technical Assistance Progress






ANNEX 1
BORROWER PROJECT EVALUATION






RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU PROJET
BURUNDI
SECOND PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT URBAIN
(CREDIT 1968-BU)
I. INTRODUCTION
L'objectif A long terme du projet etait de mettre en place des moyens d'une acceleration
du taux de croissance urbaine dans les centres urbains secondaires. A court terme it s'agissait du
renforcement de 1'economie des centres urbains en favorisant des infrastructures et des
equipements socio-economiques necessaires, des possibilites d'emplois d'une part et en
etablissant des conditions institutionnelles et financieres pour aider ces centres urbains A evoluer
vers de reelles villes d'autre part. Les centres urbains concernes par le projet etaient Gitega,
Ngozi, Kayanza, Rumonge, Bururi ainsi que Bujumbura la capitale. Les composantes du projet
6taient les suivantes : Infrastructures, Equipements socio-economiques communaux, Habitat,
Promotion de l'artisanat, Renforcement institutionnel des communes et la fonnation.
Cette deuxieme phase du projet (credit n1968-BU) a et identifiee en AoGt 1985 et
1'6tude de factibilite a demarre en Avril 1986. Une mission de pre-evaluation a eu lieu en Mai
1987 et la mission d'evaluation en Octobre 1987. L'Accord de Credit a ete signe le 14 Avril
1989 et la date de cloture du credit est intervenue le 31 Decembre 1996 apres la suspension des
d6caissements A partir du 10 octobre 1996 suite au blocus economique injustement impose au
Burundi par les pays voisins. Beaucoup de chantiers etaient encore en cours d'execution suivant
le Plan d'action convenu avec la Banque. Les derniers chantiers devraient se cloturer en Avril
1997, au plus tot. Tous les chantiers non encore acheves ont ete abandonnes.
Le projet s'etait bien deroulejusqu'en Octobre 1993 date A laquelle une crise socio-
politique sans precedent est intervenue.
Les rapports de travail entre la Banque et l'Emprunteur ont ete excellents tout au long de
1'execution du projet, la Banque ayant meme accepte de porter le niveau de financement A 100 %
pour toutes les categories de decaissement suite a l'indisponibilite de la contrepartie nationale
resultant de la crise socio-politique. Le seul point negatif A souligner aura et l'abandon des
chantiers en cours ce qui aura A terme un impact negatif sur les finances publiques car le
Gouvemement du Burundi (Emprunteur) devra rembourser le cout des investissements non
acheves conformement A l'Accord de Credit.
Ce rapport d'achevement redige par l'Emprunteur s'interesse particulierement aux lecons
a tirer au niveau des objectifs et de 1'execution du projet. ll ne sera pas utile de reprendre tous les
chiffres qui sont d'ailleurs detailles dans le rapport redige par le bailleur de fonds.
II. EXECUTION DU PROJET PAR COMPOSANTE
11.1 Composante Emploi
11 s'agissait de la promotion de l'artisanat en milieu urbain en apportant une assistance
technique et financiere aux artisans et par une mise A disposition d'ateliers et de magasins, la



28                                       ICR - Burundi: Second Urban Development Project
creation de zones d'activite, la construction des centres de machinage et de formation, ainsi que
l'attribution des credits d'installation et d'equipement. Le Centre de formation Artisanale de
Kwijabe construit dans le cadre du Premier Projet Urbain a et transforme en centre de
Production suite au refus de la Banque de financer l'amenagement d'une zone artisanale A
Bujumbura malgre une forte demande de parcelles artisanales. Les artisans formes sont donc
restes au Centre parce que n'ayant pas d'autres parcelles pour construire leurs ateliers propres.
Une reflexion sur la privatisation du centre est en cours.
Dans les centres secondaires, Gitega, Ngozi, et Kayanza des zones d'activites ont ete
creees. Sur les 1 19 parcelles artisanales amenagees dans ces centres 90 ont dejA ete attribuees
(75,6 %), 17 ateliers sont deja fonctionnels, 8 sont en construction.
Sur 1'ensemble 138 demandes avaient ete enregistrees d'ou une demande qui depasse l'offre. La
longueur des procedures administratives pour obtenir les autorisations de bAtir freine le
dynamisme des artisans non habitues A ces tracasseries. Un allegement de ces procedures
s'impose.
Les Centres de Promotion Artisanale de Ngozi, Rumonge et Bururi ont ete construits,
seul le centre de Bururi a e  termine, les deux autres etaient A 93% A la cl6ture du credit. Les
travaux n'ont pas e  termines A temps A cause de l'insecurite sur les axes reliant Bujumbura et
ces centres d'ou des problmes d'approvisionnement. Cette situation a e  aggravee par le blocus
dconomique injustement impos6 au Burundi par les pays voisins.
La fourniture de 1'equipement de ces centres n'a pas pu avoir lieu parce que la Banque a
refuse de payer sous pretexte que le credit documentaire a et6 introduit apres la suspension des
decaissements. Pourtant suite au blocus economique I'Emprunteur avait demande A la Banque de
changer le mode de transport ce qui fut accepte par celle-ci le 10.12.1996 moyennant la signature
d'un avenant incluant le supplement du au transport aerien au lieu du transport maritime qui etait
impossible ce qui fut fait.
C'est le 25 Avril 97 que la Banque a notifie a l'Emprunteur que ces fournitures ne seront
pas payees sur le credit parce que non encore embarquees A la date de clBture du credit. Pourtant
une attestation du transitaire du fournisseur date du 12/12/1996 a et6 foumie A la Banque pour
montrer que ces fournitures n'attendaient que l'acceptation du credit documentaire par la Banque
pour etre embarquees dans l'avion.
Cette situation difficile A comprendre non seulement va entrainer l'inexploitation de ces
centres mais aussi et surtout l'Emprunteur devra payer le prejudice cause au foumisseur pour une
rupture unilaterale du contrat dont l'execution avait deja commence.
Dans I'avenir le systeme de promotion artisanale devra etre repense pour pouvoir arriver
aux meilleurs resultats, le secteur informel n'etant pas facile A promouvoir malgre ses
potentialites en matiere de creation d'emplois.
11.2 Composante Infrastructures
L'objectif de cette composante etait de rehabiliter la voirie et le drainage dans les
quartiers urbains A faibles revenus en vue d'ameliorer les conditions de vie des populations de
ces quartiers. Tous les travaux initialement prevus ont et executes sauf ceux de Gitega et
Kayanza qui ont ete frappes par la suspension des decaissements et puis par la cloture de credit.
Le dossier etait A la phase de non-objection. Le retard dans 1'ex6cution de ces travaux a ete dui au
fait que 1'entreprise qui avait gagne le marche s'est desistee apres plusieurs tergiversations et
l'appel d'offre a e  relance. Sur les 6 villes concernees par le projet, 2 seulement n'ont pas
b6neficie des infrastructures. Tous les travaux realises ont et executes par des entreprises



Borrower Project Evaluation                                                          29
etrangeres parce que demandant un equipement important. Par contre la proposition d'attribution
du marche de travaux A Gitega et Kayanza etait en faveur d'une P.M.E. nationale.
Des travaux A haute intensite de main d'oeuvre (HIMO), pavage et assainissement des
voies, amenagement des rivieres ont ete inities A Bujumbura. Malheureusement ils ont ete
frappes par la mesure de suspension des decaissements. Executes tous par des P.M.E. locales ces
travaux ont pu en deux mois creer 1 104 emplois soit en moyenne 186 emplois par chantier.
La crise d'octobre 1993 a perturbe le planning des travaux d'infrastructures et
d'equipements. Mais avant cette date c'est-A-dire en 1992 la Banque avait suspendu le lancement
des travaux sous pretexte que les assistants techniques aux communes n'6taient pas encore
recrutes. Or le retard au niveau du recrutement de ses assistants techniques ont e  du (il faut le
souligner) A I'ancien Chef de Projet qui a exige de faire appel aux consultants independants et
non aux bureaux d'etudes. Les consultants independants retenus apres une consultation ont ete
refuses par ce meme chef de Projet, sans explications convaincantes. Sa proposition s'etant
revelee infructueuse il a fallu retourner A la formule initiale qu'il avait refus&e c'est-A-dire la
consultation des bureaux d'etudes. Toute une annee a ete inutilement perdue. Cette responsabilite
n'est donc pas A imputer au Bureau du Projet Urbain (BPU) mais au chef de Projet de l'epoque.
Heureusement que la Banque a pu redresser la situation par apres.
11.3 Composante Equipements
Dans le but d'ameliorer les ressources communales il a ete prevu la construction des
equipements economiques dans les cinq centres secondaires concernes par le projet et A
Bujumbura la capitale. A Bujumbura 3 marches ont dejA ete construits et sont fonctionnels, le
4e situe A Kanyosha au Sud de la ville n'a pas et6 acheve A cause du blocus 6conomique impose
au pays. Dans les centres secondaires tous les marches initialement pr6vus sont actuellement
fonctionnels sauf celui de Bururi frappe d'abord par la suspension des decaissements et ensuite
par la cl6ture du credit. Le taux d'occupation de ces marches est tres encourageant (90 A 100%).
Des abattoirs ont egalement ete construits A l'exception de ceux de Rumonge et Bururi frappes
aussi par le blocus. Trois centres de sante ont ete construits A Bujumbura et sont fonctionnels,
leur gestion a ete confiee aux prives. Les centres de Sante de Rumonge et Bururi n'ont pas ete
termin6s pour les memes raisons dejA 6voquees. 11 en est de meme des hangars du port de
Rumonge et le local de douane. Le Centre Communautaire de Bujumbura a et termine et
receptionne. II est actuellement fonctionnel.
Tous ces chantiers arretes etaient tres avances au moment de la suspension des
decaissements. Leur abandon constitue une grande perte pour le pays sauf si on trouve un autre
financement pour les terminer.
L'am6nagement des marches a eu un impact positif sur les recettes communales. La
numerotation des stands facilite la perception. Le marche de Ngozi est dejA privatise tandis que
les autres marches percoivent les taxes suivant le modele propose par l'assistant technique charge
de mettre en place les regies des marches meme si le personnel recommande n'est pas encore
recrute.
Les autorites locales actuelles manifestent un dynamisme tres encourageant et meritent
une assistance soutenue. Meme si le travail sur l'amelioration du systeme de gestion des finances
locales reste A faire, cette composante du projet a eu un impact evident sur les finances
communales.



30                                      ICR - Burundi: Second Urban Development Project
11.4 Composante Habitat
Cette composante comprenait les sous-volets suivants: Iamenagement des parcelles
neuves A Gasenyi, I'amenagement des parcelles non assainies dans les 4 villes secondaires
(Gitega, Ngozi, Kayanza et Rumonge) le credit au logement neuf, le credit pour amelioration des
logements dans les quartiers populaires de Bujumbura.
Les dtudes et la surveillance des travaux d'amenagement des parcelles neuves ont ete
confies A l'ECOSAT tandis que l'octroi des credits A I'habitat passait par le Fonds de Promotion
de l'Habitat Urbain (FPHU). L'amenagement des parcelles non assainies dans les centres
secondaires a ete confie aux entreprises privees par le Bureau du Projet Urbain (BPU).
Tous les travaux d'amenagement ont ete realises en totalite. Le Fonds de Promotion de
l'Habitat Urbain (FPHU) a accorde 325 prets pour la construction de nouveaux logements et 52
pour I'amelioration des logements existants pour 188,1 millions de FBu. Ses activites ont et
paralysees par la crise d'octobre 93 mais une reprise des activites A Gasenyi se concretise
actuellement avec une demande reelle de parcelles.
La rehabilitation d'une partie du quartier spontane de Gasenyi a e  abandonnee parce
que les menages qui devaient etre recases A Ruziba au sud de la ville ne se sont pas deplaces A
cause de la crise.
Cette composante a ete serieusement perturbee par la crise d'octobre 1993 surtout A
Gasenyi. Heureusement qu'avec le retour A la paix une reprise de la vente des parcelles est
effective. Etant donne que les prets A la construction etaient pris en charge sur le credit 1968-BU
cl6ture il faudra que le FPHU fasse recours aux recouvrements du Premier Projet Urbain et du
Projet Habitat Social pour permettre la mise en valeur de ces parcelles. It s'agira donc de la
replicabilite de l'operation qui est le principe qui a guide le montage de cette composante habitat.
11.5 Composante Renforcement Institutionnel
Cette composante visait l'amrlioration des ressources humaines et financieres des
communes pour leur permettre de jouer leur r6le dans le developpement economique en gendral
et surtout dans la realisation et la gestion des equipements et services locaux. Cette composante
prevoyait les actions suivantes:
la fourniture d'une assistance technique aux communes, I'amelioration des ressources financieres
des communes, la creation d'un Fonds d'Equipement Urbain des Centres Secondaires et l!etude
sur les ressources communales.
L'assistant technique charge de la mise en place des regies des marches a ete recrute et a
produit le rapport final et organise des seances de travail avec les administrateurs communaux
concemrs. La seule action qui restait A ce niveau etait le recrutement et la formation d'un
personnel A affecter aux differentes regies A mettre en place dans les communes ayant ben6ficie
des constructions des marches. Les administrateurs communaux sont determines A mettre en
place ces regies avec l'appui de lassistant technique meme si cette action va au-delA des delais
du projet . 11 en est de meme de l'assistant technique charge de l'amelioration du systeme de
gestion des communes. Ces deux actions auraient pu &re menees A temps si l'ancien chef du
Projet n'avait pas recommande une formule qui s'est revelee infructueuse, celle qui consistait A
faire appel aux consultants independants au lieu des bureaux d'etudes. La situation a e  aggrav6e
par son refus des consultants independants retenus apres la consultation. Apres les differentes
tergiversations et surtout la suspension des marches de genie civil et d'equipements il a e
recommande de faire appel aux bureaux d'tudes, ce qui a permis de debloquer la situation. Non
seulement la formule de consultant independant a entrain6 un retard considerable dans



Borrower Project Evaluation                                                          31
1'execution du projet mais aussi et surtout a occasionne des frais supplementaires car il a fallu
lancer un avis d'appel d'offre dans un Journal international pour avoir plus de candidats.
Les consequences r6sultant de cette situation ne devraient donc pas etre imput&es au seul
Emprunteur. La question devrait etre analysee objectivement en vue d'une bonne repartition des
responsabilites. La Banque a heureusement redresse la situation A temps et le projet a pu
redemarrer.
La creation du Fonds d'Equipement Urbain des Centres Secondaires (FEUCS) n'a pas 6te
jugde opportune a c6td du FDC dejA fonctionnel. 11 a plut6t ete juge necessaire d'apporter un
appui technique a celui-ci en vue de bien clarifier ses missions et ses procedures de gestion et de
fonctionnement.
Un consultant a ete recrute pour va mais malheureusement les recommandations issues
de cette etude n'ont pas ete suivies d'effets d'un c6t6 A cause de la crise et de l'autre a l'absence
prolongee d'un responsable titulaire du Fonds.
Ces actions commencees devraient etre poursuivies car le FDC constitue un instrument
technique et financier important pour les communes.
Les recommandations issues de l'etude du renforcement des capacites de gestion de la
Municipalite de Bujumbura n'ont pas ete mises en oeuvre par la Mairie malgr6 differentes
insistances.
L'6tude sur les ressources communales initialement prevue dans le cadre du projet a e
lancee par le Ministere du Plan. Malheureusement les conclusions de l'etude n'ont pas e  celles
qu'on attendait.
Etant donne que le renforcement institutionnel de collectivit6 locales a l'echelle du pays
reste une prioritd et que l'objectif vise par l'dtude en question n'a pas etd atteint, I'actualisation de
cette etude et une bonne definition et orientation des objectifs vises semblent indispensables.
Ainsi toute intervention future en faveur des communes se baserait sur des donnees fiables.
Malgre le contexte difficile dans lequel s'est deroule le projet cette composante a pu
inciter certaines reformes notamment la revision de la loi communale, la generalisation A toutes
les communes du transfert de recettes provenant de l'imp6t foncier et de l'imp6t sur les revenus
locatifs etc... meme si certains textes meritent une adaptation au contexte actuel. Les actions
entamees par les assistants techniques aux communes sont A finaliser pour arriver aux resultats
attendus.
I1.6 Composante Formation
La formation prevue etait destinee au personnel technique et financier des communes et
du projet. La priorit6 a et donnee aux comptables communaux au niveau national suivie d'une
formation plus poussee en comptabilite publique dispensee en faveur des 5 comptables des
communes concernees par le projet.
Etant donne que le premier inspecteur des projets communaux qui a beneficie d'une
formation A lNtranger a prefere poursuivre sa formation en 3e Cycle aucune autre bourse n'a pu
etre octroyee. A la place il y a eu organisation de deux sessions de formation en faveur des
administrateurs des 5 communes du projet organisees par l'assistant technique charge de la mise
en place des regies des marches et de I'amelioration du systeme de gestion des communes. La
premiere session portait sur l'organisation de la gestion des marches tandis que l'autre portait sur
la gestion financiere. 11 a donc fallu adapter la formation initialement prevue aux souhaits des
autorites locales confrontees A certaines realites de gestion des ressources communales. Le
personnel du projet de toutes les categories a beneficie d'une formation, principalement les



32                                      ICR - Burundi: Second Urban Development Project
techniciens affectes dans les antennes locales. Deux sessions sur l'entretien des infrastructures
publiques ont ete organisees en leur faveur.
III. ENSEIGNEMENTS A TIRER DE L'EXPERIENCE DU PROJET
1. La derniere phase du projet etait la premiere experience en matiere de developpement des
centres urbains secondaires au Burundi. Se voulant plus complete cette phase a touche
beaucoup de secteurs allant de l'infrastructure physique A la formation en passant par le
renforcement institutionnel et l'artisanat ce qui la rendait plus complexe et difficile A piloter.
2. La multiplication des composantes du projet entraine automatiquement la multiplication des
intervenants d'ou un probleme de les mettre tous au rythme de l'execution du projet. La ou
les phase(s) ulterieure(s) du projet devrait cibler des composantes limitees mais coherentes
tels que les infrastructures pour ameliorer les conditions de vie des populations urbaines, les
equipements economiques generateurs des recettes pour les communes et le renforcement
institutionnel des collectivites locales beneficiaires de ces infrastructures et equipements. Les
autres composantes tels que lthabitat et l'artisanat devraient etre executees dans d'autres
cadres.
3. Etant donn6 que des changements structurels et autres initialement non prevus peuvent
intervenir au cours de l'execution du projet, une certaine flexibilite s'impose pour s'adapter
au nouveau contexte ce qui a heureusement e  le cas dans le cadre de ce projet.
4. Les collectivites locales etant les beneficiaires des actions du projet leur organisation et leur
fonctionnement devraient se faire independamment des courants politiques. Le projet n'a pas
pu beneficier d'un appui soutenu de l'administration territoriale A cause des changements
intervenus A la tete des communes d'une part et le depart massif des comptables communaux
ayant dejA beneficie de la formation d'autre part. Les fonctions techniques ne devraient pas
etre confondues avec les fonctions politiques.
5. Le renforcement institutionnel des collectivites locales demeure une priorite d'ou la necessite
d'adapter au contexte actuel la legislation regissant leur organisation et leur fonctionnement.
Ceci conceme principalement la loi communale et le statut du personnel communal. Malgre
qu'ils aient ete adoptes suite A l'intervention du projet ces deux textes comportent encore des
blocages qui ne permettent pas aux communes d'accomplir leur mission d'entite de base de
developpement.
6. Les interventions des consultants A courte duree se sont revelees plus efficaces et plus
economiques que l'assistance technique A longue duree.
7. Une collaboration etroite et franche entre la Banque et l'Emprunteur est un gage de reussite
d'un projet. A part un problme tres mineur rencontre lors du recrutement des assistants
techniques aux communes le projet a entretenu une excellente collaboration avec la Banque
ce qui lui a permis d'executer les programmes initialement prevus et meme d'initier d'autres
en rapport avec ses objectifs de base.
8. Le blocus economique impose au Burundi a eu comme consequence directe l'abandon de
tous les chantiers en cours ce qui va entrainer le paiement par l'Emprunteur d'un prejudice
important cause aux P.M.E. qui avaient des contrats avec lui. Meme si on ne peut pas prevoir
A l'avance des situations exceptionnelles du genre, la Banque ne devrait pas arreter
brusquement un financement des travaux en cours d'execution conformement au Plan
d'action convenu entre les deux parties. Sinon l'Emprunteur est non seulement oblige de
rembourser les fonds engages pour 1'execution des travaux non acheves conformement A



Borrower Project Evaluation                                                          33
I'Accord de Credit mais aussi d'indemniser les P.M.E. dont les contrats sont resilies du fait
de l'administration.
9. La Banque en accord avec l'Emprunteur a finance une etude de mise en place d'une AGETIP
(Agence d'Execution de Travaux d'Interet Public). Le rapport provisoire de cette etude est
disponible mais il n'y a pas eu de suite a cause de la suspension des decaissements suivie de
la cloture du credit. II serait dommage d'abandonner une etude aussi avancee et dont
l'objectif etait d'apporter des ameliorations structurelles notables au niveau de l'execution des
projets futures.
IV. CONCLUSIONS
Malgre le contexte difficile dans lequel il s'est d&eoul d'une part et sa complexite d'autre
part le projet a ete executd de facon satisfaisante. Conformement a la politique urbaine nationale
le projet a realise la premiere experience en matiere de developpement des centres urbains
secondaires en mettant l'accent sur l'amelioration des conditions de vie des populations des
quartiers a faible revenu d'un cote et de l'autre I'augmentation des ressources communales. Les
recettes communales se sont nettement ameliorees a cause de l'aminagement des marches bien
structures. Mais le probleme de ressources humaines reste un handicap majeur raison pour
laquelle la legislation regissant l'organisation et le fonctionnement des communes doit etre
adaptee au contexte du moment.
Au lieu d'aborder dans le cadre d'un meme projet tous les domaines concernant le
developpement urbain il serait plus judicieux dans le cadre des operations futures de concentrer
tous les efforts sur les secteurs ayant un impact direct sur le renforcement des collectivites
locales. II s'agirait principalement des infrastructures pour rendre plus viables les centres urbains,
les equipements economiques generateurs des recettes aux communes et le renforcement
institutionnel de celles-ci afin d'en faire de reels partenaires de developpement a la base.
La Banque vient de cl6turer le financement de cette premiere experience de
d6veloppement des centres urbains secondaires. Sur base de cette experience des consultations
entre la Banque et l'Emprunteur ont ete entamees en vue de l'identification d'un troisieme projet
urbain, le Projet d'Infrastructure communale. Cette initiative a et gelee a cause de la crise
d'Octobre 1993. Une etude de mise en place d'une AGETIP a ete financee mais arretee au niveau
du rapport provisoire. Des travaux HIMO entrant dans l'objectif du projet ont et inities vers la
fin du projet. lus ont malheureusement ete arretes suite a la cloture du credit. Mais en quelques
mois de leur execution il a ete prouve que leur pertinence au niveau de la creation d'emplois n'est
plus a demontrer.
Compte-tenu de tous ces elements positifs d'une part et le retour effectif de la paix et de
la securite au niveau national d'autre part, il serait tres opportun d'initier une autre phase du
projet urbain tenant compte des experiences anterieures, les besoins en developpement urbain
etant encore immenses.






MAP SECTION






IBRD 28085
CAMEROON   CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUSIC    SUD  r ETHCOA                           300
EQ4i,_.        (2-g             ' ' .UGAND          2iKEA
ABJ   2      AIRE    rrwWNDtZI                                                              BURUNDI
TANZANLA  [[IN
ANGOLA          '       ,                                                                               >0 t -  :   '
ZAMBIA           MOZAMBI0AUE                     (                K R                                                  2
NAMIBIA  .-- ~-~dZIMBABWE'                                                     KIRRUNDO
I                             290   -  RWANDA                                                  / RUN  RD
TCyonngug_
,_6\;          W                  ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~To KI0igl/  
ojg  -IBITCOK.E   l                   }        ..,                        MUYINGA                     TANZANIA
*\\\<              -         2-  ~~~~~~~~~NGOZI                      MUYINGA(
* CIBITOKE
70   BUBANZA   8 KAYANZA                   KARUZI                              CANKUZO
'    Blg )N,':A      \>KARUZI                                                                            .
CANKUZO
To Mulong.e                                                                              RUYIGI
#  ,BU2A/9i)ITEGA  RUYIGI
- 3'30'               ,                WU'   B'JA_'30
ZAIRE                j                                                                                 /
d   j  1             %           ~~~~GITEGA|          
t  \             >                  $ ~~~~~RUTANA 
\    Hk    \     ~~~BUTUTSI                 IRUTANA  
- 455,                        '/9 i h    BURURt                                 >hofi                          _    Paved Roads
-  Ya  ><Routes RevetOes
;  1  \  >^-    >   > .  r   ,,   International Airport
..Aeroport International
Port
t   <  \   \ - -  MAKAMBA  f--   t'                         f'bPort
Province Capitals
Chef-Lieux des Province
\ \wMAK"AMBA                                         National Capital
-jCapitale Nationale
|  I                     ~                       Province Boundaries
Frontieres des Province
1430                                                              __:    International Boundaries
Frontieres lnteMotionales
,                ,0 This mop was pre.pred by the Mop Design Unit of the World Bonk.
The boundories, colors, denominations Rod any other informotion  0    10   20   30   40
shoon on this mop do not imply, on the port of Ihe World Bolk  L
Group, osy o.dgenst on the egolSIRU of any territory, or any       KILOMETERS
endorsement or occeptonce of such boundRrirs.
2sw      ,730                                                       30W                               303r
JUNE 1996









IMAGING
Report No..          16782
Type.      ICR



