Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 1968 BU
(Second Urban Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated April 14, 1989
CREDIT NUMBER 1968 BU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated April 14, 1989, between REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI (the "Borrower") 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the "Association").
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has  requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed  on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last  sentence of 
Section 3.02 deleted (the "General Conditions") constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement  have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional  terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"BPU" means Bureau de Projet Urbain, the Urban Project Unit of  the 
Borrower's Ministry of Public Works and Urban Development responsible, inter alia, for 
implementing Parts A(a), A(b), A(c), A(e), A(f), B, C(b),  D, E(a), E(e) and E(f) of 
the Project and for monitoring, reporting and supervising execution of the Project in 
its entirety;
(b)
"CCIB" means the Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Agriculture and 
Handicraft of Burundi responsible, inter alia, for implementing Part A(d) of the 
Project;
(c)
"COOPECs" means Cooperatives d'Epargne et de Credit, the Savings and 
Credit Cooperatives established in the Borrower's territory and responsible, inter  
alia, for implementing, together with BPU, Part A(f) of the Project;
(d)
"ECOSAT" means Encadrement des Constructions Sociales et Amenagement des 
Terrains, the Borrower's Housing and Land Development Agency created by the Borrower's 
Decree No. 100/53 of March 31, 1987 and responsible, inter alia, for implementing 
Parts C(a) and C(c) of the Project;
(e)
"FEUCS" means Fonds d'Equipement Urbain des Centres Secondaires, the 
Borrower's Urban Equipment Fund for Secondary Centers to be established  pursuant to 
Section 3.04 (d) of this Agreement;
(f)
"FH" means Fonds de l'Habitat, the Borrower's Housing Fund to be  
established pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement;
(g)
"Franc Burundais" and "FBu" mean the currency of the Borrower;
 
(h)
"Implementation Agreement" means any of the agreements to be entered into 
pursuant to Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time 
to time;
(i)
"MH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
 
(j)
"MI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Interior, responsible, inter alia, 
for implementing Parts E(b) and E(c) of the Project;
(k)
"MTPDU" means Ministere des Travaux Publics et du Developpement Urbain, 
the Borrower's  Ministry of Public Works and Urban Development;
(l)
"Project Account" means the account referred to in Section 3.02 of this 
Agreement;
(m)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange  of letters dated 
December 11, 1986 and June 15, 1987 between the Borrower and the Association;
(n)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(o)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any of the agreements to be entered 
into pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from 
time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Page  3
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to sixteen million one hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 16,100,000).
Section 2.O2. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in a banking institution acceptable to the Association on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out 
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 
to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
cancelled.
Section 2.O3. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.  
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from a date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the "Accrual Date") to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied as of the next payment date in 
that year, specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, except that the rate set as of 
June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.O5. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
March 1 and September 1 commencing March 1, 1999 and ending September 1, 2028. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on September 1, 2008 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever:
 
(i)
the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as determined by 
the 
Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 
Page  4
dollars for five 
consecutive years; and
 
(ii)
the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank 
lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association 
and after due consideration by them of 
the development of the Borrower's 
economy, modify the terms of repayment of 
installments under 
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay 
twice 
the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, 
the Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some 
or 
all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the 
payment of 
interest at an annual rate agreed with the 
Association on the principal amount 
of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in 
the judgment of the 
Association, such revision shall not change the grant 
element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to  paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so  requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through BPU, CCIB, COOPECs, ECOSAT  and MI, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with   appropriate administrative, financial and urban 
planning practices, and  shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall relend to the municipality of Bujumbura and the 
communes of Gitega, Ngozi, Kayanza, Rumonge and Bururi, under subsidiary loan 
agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and such municipality and communes 
including terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association:
(i)
the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Part D(a) of the Project 
at an annual 
interest rate of eight percent (8%), a repayment period of 
ten (10) years 
after the date of this Agreement and a grace 
period of five (5) years; and
(ii)
the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Parts B and D(d) of the 
Project at 
terms and conditions that shall be agreed between the 
Borrower and the 
Association not later than June 30, 1992.
 
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive any of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Without limitation to the generality of the provisions of Section 
3.01 (a) with regard to the provisions of funds, the Borrower shall:
(i)
open, and thereafter maintain, in the Borrower's currency and in 
the name of 
MTPDU - Second Urban Project, an account in a banking 
institution acceptable 
to the Association on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association;
(ii)
deposit into such Project Account an initial amount of FBu 
Page  5
50,000,000; and
(iii)
thereafter deposit into the Project Account, not later than March 
31 of each 
year during Project implementation, a sum necessary to 
replenish the Project 
Account up to the original amount of FBu 
50,000,000.
Amounts deposited into the Project Account pursuant to sub-paragraphs (ii) and (iii) 
above shall be used only to make payments to meet local expenditures made or to be 
made in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services for the Project and not 
eligible for financing under the Credit.
Section 3.03. In order to supervise the execution of the Project, the Borrower 
shall:
(a)
(i)
at the central level employ its Commission Nationale de 
l'Urbanisme integrated 
by representatives of CCIB, COOPECs, ECOSAT 
and FH; and
(ii)
at the local level, establish implementation commissions in each 
of the 
communes covered by the Project to be chaired by the 
governors of the 
respective provinces and, in the case of the 
commune of Rumonge, by the 
communal manager, and composed of 
representatives of the central and local 
governments and of 
representatives of commerce and handicraft;
(b)
not later than January 31, April 30, July 31 and October 31 of each year 
before completion of the Project furnish to the Association quarterly progress 
reports; and  
(c)
not later than October 31 of each year before completion of the Project, 
submit to the Association a project implementation plan for the following year of 
Project implementation in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request and 
the Borrower's revised three-year rolling Program of Investments and Public 
Expenditures for the urban sector, with terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) cause each of the communes participating 
in the Project to select and employ, not later than September 30, 1989, a specialist 
to carry out local accounting, budgeting, taxation, administration and management 
tasks;
(b)
not later than June 30, 1990 submit the final report of the study on 
communal resources of Part E(f) of the Project; 
(c)
not later than June 30, 1989, submit to the Association a short list of 
independent auditors to carry out the audits referred to in Section 4.01 (b) and 4.01 
(c) of this Agreement;
(d)
not later than December 31, 1991, establish FEUCS in accordance with the 
recommendations included in the study on communal resources of Part E(f) of the 
Project; and
(e)
not later than December 31, 1990, enact a statute for communal employees 
deemed satisfactory by the Association for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
Page  6
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of CCIB, COOPECs and 
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project 
or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles connsistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than eight months after the end of each such year, a 
certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditures submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any of BPU, the municipality of Bujumbura, the communes of Gitega,  
Ngozi, Kayanza, Rumonge, Bururi, CCIB, COOPECs or ECOSAT shall have failed to perform 
any of their obligations under any Implementation Agreement;
(b)
any of the municipality of Bujumbura, the communes of Gitega, Ngozi, 
Kayanza, Rumonge and Bururi, shall have failed to perform any of  their obligations 
under any Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(c)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall   have 
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of BPU, CCIB,  COOPECs, 
ECOSAT or FH or for the suspension of the operations of any of them.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of this 
Page  7
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Borrower has submitted draft legislation satisfactory to the 
Association for the establishment of FH;
(b)
the Borrower has enacted legislation satisfactory to the Association 
transferring to the municipality of Bujumbura and to all of the communes of the 
Borrower the power to levy and collect property taxes and taxes on rental revenues;
(c)
Implementation Agreements have been entered into between BPU and the 
municipality of Bujumbura, the communes of Gitega, Ngozi, Kayanza,  Rumonge, Bururi, 
CCIB, COOPECs, and ECOSAT respectively, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association;
(d)
Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been entered into between the Borrower, 
the municipality of Bujumbura, and one of the communes of Gitega, Ngozi, Kayanza, 
Rumonge, or Bururi, respectively, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association; and
(e)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account and deposited the initial 
amount referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be  included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association,  namely that the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement referred to in Section 6.01 (d) of this Agreement has been duly authorized 
or ratified by, and is legally binding upon, the parties thereto in accordance with 
its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for Urban 
Development is designated as representative of the Borrower for the  purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Travaux Publics et
   du Developpement Urbain
B.P. 1860
Bujumbura
Republic of Burundi
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MTPDU
5048 BDI
Bujumbura
Page  8
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as  of the day and year first 
above written.
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
By /s/ Edouard Kadigiri
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Paul Isenman
Acting Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit  to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works under all       3,500,000       80%
     Parts of the project
     except C(a), D(a)
     and D(c)
(2)  Civil works                   610,000       80%
     under Part C(a)
     of the Project
(3)  Civil works                   760,000       80%
     under Part D(a)
Page  9
     of the Project
(4)  Civil works,                  310,000       90%
     equipment and
     furniture under
     Part D(c) of
     the Project
(5)  Equipment,                    610,000       100% of foreign
     vehicles,                                   expenditures and
     and furniture                               80% of local
                                                 expenditures
(6)  Technical assistance          760,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 80% of local
                                                 expenditures
(7)  Training                      380,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 80% of local
                                                 expenditures
(8)  Consultants'                  380,000       100% of foreign
     services                                    expenditures and
                                                 80% of local
                                                 expenditures
(9)  Goods and services          2,600,000       80%
     financed under
     housing credits
(10) Artisans credits              760,000       80%
(11) Operating expenses            610,000       80%
(12) Refunding of                  530,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(13) Unallocated                 4,290,000
                               ___________
         TOTAL                  16,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals  shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures:
(a)
prior to the date of this Agreement;
 
(b)
under Category (4) of paragraph 1 above until MH and MTPD have agreed, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, on the staffing of the health 
centers to be built under Part D(c) of the Project;
(c)
under Category (2) of paragraph 1 above until the Borrower's Decree No. 
100/53 of March 31, 1987, is amended in a manner satisfactory to the Association; and
Page  10
(d)
under Category (11) of paragraph 1 above after three years from the date 
of this Agreement.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) in the short-term, to strengthen  the 
economy of secondary towns in the Borrower's territory and, through urban-rural 
linkages, the economy of their hinterland; and (ii) in the  long-term, to assist the 
Borrower's urban growth by improving the living  conditions of the urban population in 
Bujumbura, Gitega, Ngozi, Kayanza,  Rumonge and Bururi.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Promotion of artisans through: (a) construction of workshops and stores; (b) 
management of activity areas; (c) construction of training and  service centers; (d) 
management of training and service centers; (e) provision of technical assistance; and 
(f) granting of credit.
Part B:
Upgrading of roads and drainage, mainly in the low-income urban areas.
Part C:
Housing through: (a) upgrading of 450 plots and development of 650 new  plots in 
Gasenyi; (b) development of new areas in Gitega, Rumonge, Ngozi  and Kayanza; (c) 
provision of housing credits; and (d) establishment of a Housing Fund.
Part D:
Construction of community facilities including: (a) markets, small shops, cold 
storage rooms and slaughterhouses; (b) two sheds, a customs office and a depot in 
Rumonge; (c) five health centers; and (d) a community hall in Gasenyi.
Part E:
Institutional strengthening through: (a) provision of technical assistance for 
the communes; (b) upgrading of communes' financial  resources; (c) reinforcement of 
financial services; (d) creation of an  Urban Equipment Fund for Secondary Centers; 
(e) training for financial, technical and Project Staff; and (f) a study on communal 
resources.
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those  set forth in 
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under  IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the "Guidelines").
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more each.
Page  11
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Borrower's territory may be  granted a margin of 
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the  provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
 
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Office equipment, furniture and furnishings for BPU and communal services and 
construction works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $1,000,000 may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of  competitive bidding, advertised 
locally, in accordance with the Borrower's  applicable procedures and paragraph 3.3 of 
the Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $6,700,000.
2.
Items which cannot be grouped or groups of items to cost less than the 
equivalent of $100,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis  of 
comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers 
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with paragraph 3.4 of the Guidelines.
Part E:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
(a)
With respect to each contract for civil works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $300,000 or more, and to each contract for equipment,  vehicles and 
furniture estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or  more, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where 
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures 
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to 
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to 
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in 
respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to  the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made  out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure  that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other  information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall  not 
apply to contracts on account of which the Association has authorized withdrawals from 
the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditures. Such contracts shall be 
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 25% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants and experts whose qualifications, experience and terms and 
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to  the Association. Such consultants 
shall be selected in accordance with  principles and procedures satisfactory to the 
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981.
Page  12
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (11) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to  the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to SDR 
760,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account may be made as follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from  the Credit Account and 
deposit in the Special Account such amount or  amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested; and
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for replenishment 
of the Special Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Association shall withdraw  from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amounts  as shall be required to replenish the 
Special Account with amounts not  exceeding the amount of payments made out of the 
Special Account for  eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by the evidence 
supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account for which the 
Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of  this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, prior to  or  at the time of such request, 
such documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request, showing 
that such payment was made  for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, no 
further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by the Association  when either 
of the following situations first arises:
(i)
the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be  
made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 
2.02 of this Agreement; or
 
(ii)
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the 
eligible 
Categories, minus the amount of any outstanding 
special commitment entered 
into by the Association pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the 
Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the 
amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining  
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
Page  13
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice  will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii)  was not justified  by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the  Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, 
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Association 
into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or 
refund.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding  amount for crediting to the Credit 
Account.
