Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  04/13/2006 
Report No.:  AC2256
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Bangladesh 
Project ID:  P098273 
Project Name:  Local Governance Support Project 
Task Team Leader:  David T. J. Savage 
Estimated Appraisal Date: April 16, 2006 
Estimated Board Date: June 15, 2006 
Managing Unit:  SASES 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Sub-national government administration (100%) 
Theme:  Decentralization (P);Participation and civic engagement (P);Public expenditure, 
financial management and procurement (S);Other accountability/anti-corruption 
(S);Rural services and infrastructure (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
106.90 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
77.50
77.50 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
The project development objective (PDO) of the Local Governance Support Project 
(LGSP) is to develop effective and accountable Local Governments (LGs) providing 
services that meet community priorities, supported by a predictable and transparent fiscal 
transfer system.  Achievement of the PDO will be measured in terms of maintaining a 
significantly scaled-up level of basic service provision at the UP levels during FY2008-
2011 as compared with previous years.   
 
3. Project Description 
Component 1 - Fiscal transfers: This component will support the ongoing clarification of 
intergovernmental roles and relationships through strengthening transparent, rules-based 
fiscal transfers for basic local service delivery while providing incentives for good 
governance and service delivery performance. Significant incremental increases in the 
size of the block grant to eligible UPs are an essential, practical and simple step towards 
increasing local accountability 
–
without sufficient resources at the local level, there is 
little incentive for anyone to hold UPs accountable. These additional resources will 
provide momentum to efforts to clarify the functions of UPs relative to other tiers. The 
block grant will be allocated in the medium term budget framework, through a simple, 
Page  2
population-based formula with a minimum allocation to protect small UPs. It will be 
partially financed by the IDA credit, and disbursed in a predictable manner directly to the 
bank accounts of eligible UPs via a national commercial bank. Eligibility will be earned / 
maintained through meeting a set of basic requirements on financial (e.g. having a bank 
account, receiving timely unqualified financial, procurement and social “audits”) and 
community accountability (e.g. open planning and budgeting, public reporting.) 
Resources will help fund a portion of the costs of services, based on an open menu of 
allowable expenditures, with a short negative list, within the functional domain of UPs. 
Project approvals will be decentralized to UPs. The risks of elite capture and the misuse 
or inappropriate use of resources will be addressed through effective, transparent and 
participatory local planning, budgeting, approval, auditing and environmental and social 
management processes, complemented by oversight from higher tiers of government. The 
project will provide support to build adequate fiduciary safeguards in the preparation of 
accounts and financial statements of expenditures and auditing of records relating to 
implementation of this component. A separate performance grant will be provided to 
those UPs that demonstrate improvements in participatory governance, measured through 
year-on-year improvements in own revenue generation. This will build on recent 
measures to strengthen UP revenue administration, and offset disincentives to revenue 
mobilization arising from an expanded block grant and a perceived disinclination of UPs 
to raise taxes from their local electorates. Own revenue mobilization entrenches 
community accountability for UP spending, which reinforces a key objective of the block 
grant. Over time good performance may be accompanied by expanded functional 
competence and revenue authority.  
 
Component 2 - Institutionalizing local accountability: The program seeks to 
institutionalize accountability into existing systems based on a set of incentives 
associated with the expanded Block Grant, and complemented by mandatory disclosure 
by UPs to both communities and to higher tiers of government. Regular open meetings 
and access to information will be at the core of the local participatory process and will be 
conditions of block grant release.  Thus the project places the onus of accountability on 
the Union Parishad.  The project requires:  1)  Mandatory quarterly reporting to 
government (through reports) and communities (through open meetings) as a prerequisite 
for further grant installments. 2) Mandatory annual financial, procurement and social 
assurance process undertaken for each UP to become or remain eligible for the expanded 
block grant. The project will provide technical and financial support to upper tier 
monitoring agencies and capacity building at all levels to ensure adequate tracking of 
project inputs and outputs, and to introduce these simple but comprehensive social and 
financial assurance procedures. Supervision will verify these processes on a sample basis. 
The project will be supported by a proposed competitive grant facility that will assist civil 
society in undertaking activities that support the inclusion of marginalized communities 
in UP decision-making.  
 
Component 3 - Supporting core LG capacity development: LGs require support to 
undertake participatory strategic planning, design and manage project implementation, 
and monitor and evaluate project outcomes. The project will provide information and 
support to the various actors involved in block grant implementation, including 
procurement, as well as local Public Expenditure Management (PEM) and the 
Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF). The project will assist GoB 
Page  3
in developing a capacity building framework that meets emerging nationwide local 
government capacity development needs.  It will directly strengthen the capacity of GoB 
institutions 
–
such as the Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development 
(MLGRD), the National Institute of Local Government (NILG), the Comptroller and 
Auditor General (CAG) and Upazila Nirbhai Officers (UNOs) and Upazila level staff – to 
implement the reform process, through enhancing and repositioning their roles as 
appropriate.  This component will consist of four subcomponents: (i) Information, 
Education & Communication concerning the LGSP block grant condition and cycle 
(eligibility, use and performance); (ii) Training and capacity building activities of UPs 
around the local PEM cycle; (iii) Developing peer learning mechanisms for participating 
UPs and local officials; and (iv) Providing institutional support for the overall 
decentralization process and for policy development.  
 
Component 4 – Support to ongoing policy evaluation and development capacity: GoB 
will be assisted to conduct regular, outcomes-based evaluations of the project in order to 
contribute to the evolution of the local governance system. The measurement of the 
projects impacts will help to establish the link between project inputs and outputs and 
whether some of the main goals of the project were achieved. In this way, evaluation of 
the project links closely with ensuring accountability and inclusiveness in the project. 
Formal evaluations of policies are also intended to assist in making mid-course 
corrections to the design of the program and to lay the empirical groundwork for its 
possible future expansion. Activities will include: (i) formal evaluation of the block 
grant; (ii) evaluation of other decentralization efforts, including the learning and 
innovation components of the program, namely the UNDP-supported 6 district pilot and 
the social protection pilot (Component 5); (iii) strengthening the capacity of MLGRD for 
policy analysis; (iv) conducting a consultative forum and dissemination of the results of 
the various studies on decentralization issues; and (v) development of models for the 
survey instruments and sampling techniques. UPs will be selected on a random basis for 
impact evaluation purposes in order to set up a rigorous mechanism at entry to assess and 
track impacts.  
 
Component 5 - Social Protection Pilot.  This component promotes the objective of the 
overall program by testing the use of conditional fiscal transfers for national functions 
that can be administratively devolved, in addition to block grants. This will be done by 
piloting activities in a sector where technical ministries currently play a lead role but 
some administrative activities may be naturally moved to UP control, and which could 
form part of a second generation of decentralization reforms. For these activities, 
conditional fiscal grants can be used as they are an instrument to transfer funds to UPs for 
pre-specified purposes, and would form part of any future intergovernmental fiscal 
framework. Future grants may be linked to attaining certain pre-agreed performance 
criteria. The project will include a pilot program of conditional fiscal grants for safety 
nets to be implemented in a limited number of UPs.  Funds for the program will be 
released in a predictable and timely fashion to scheme providers (the UPs) through a 
conditional fiscal transfer, based on the annual budget cycle and coordinated with other 
transfers envisaged in the program. The same transparency and disclosure requirements 
will apply to this component as elsewhere in the program. The UP’s will implement the 
program according to its pre-specified design parameters.The first year grant will be 
given on a flat rate basis.  A performance incentive will kick in the following year with 
Page  4
the performance based proportion rising annually. Initially, programs will be introduced 
in fifteen UPs where funds will be conditional upon being spent on agreed schemes with 
a
pre-determined targeting formula. The operation of this component will be ring-fenced 
and carefully evaluated at the projects mid-term.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The rural local governments (union parishads - UP) that meet the minimum conditions 
will receive the block grants.  However, all UPs will receive assistance from other 
components e.g. capacity building, monitoring and evaluation.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Nilufar Ahmad (SASES) 
Mr Dr. M. Khaliquzzaman (SASHD) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
In this project local governments will use block grants for the provision and rehabilitation 
of small-scale community infrastructure works (CIWs), costing between $500 to 1000. 
Environmental assessment indicated that these will not lead to environmental impacts of 
any significance. However, to avoid potentially adverse environmental impacts and 
improve existing environmental conditions, World Bank Operational Policy on 
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01) is triggered an Environment and Social 
Management Framework (ESMF), and an Operational Manual for UPs will be in place.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
None   
 
Page  5
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
N/A   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
The Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development (MLGRD) already has an 
Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF) and Operational Manual 
(OM) for community infrastructure. For assessing triggering of World Bank operational 
policies and revision of existing ESMF, an environment and social assessment was 
carried out in different union parishads (UP), especially, Sirajganj Local Government 
Pilot project, Social Investment Project and tribal areas of Chittagong Hill Tracts (CHT). 
The assessment indicate that UPs are using part of the block grants for the provision and 
rehabilitation of small-scale rural community infrastructure works (CIW), e.g. 
rehabilitation of rural roads, rehabilitation and construction of culverts/footbridges, 
rehabilitation drainage systems, construction of water and sanitation facilities, rain or 
spring water harvesting, social forestry, solid waste management etc. These will not lead 
to environmental impacts of any significance. However, to avoid potentially adverse 
environmental impacts and improve existing environmental conditions, World Bank 
Operational Policy on Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01) is triggered for this project 
and all community infrastructures will be subject to environmental screening exercise. 
The study also found that these sub-projects are built on public lands, and there was no 
land acquisition or involuntary displacement. Assessment in tribal areas indicates that 
they are the major beneficiary of block grant schemes. Therefore, no other operational 
policies are triggered. Based on the assessment, MLGRD updated the ESMF and drafted 
an Operational Manual (OM), to identify, mitigate and monitor environmental impacts of 
sub-projects.  The draft ESMF and OM and Bangla translation of executive summary will 
be finalized in an open meeting and disclosed by April 13, 2006.  
 
MLGRD already has an Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF), 
which was developed earlier to establish a set of steps and procedures for compliance 
with the World Bank’s safeguard policies. In addition, MLGRDC has been implementing 
many World Bank financed projects, including the ongoing Municipal Services 
Development, Arsenic Mitigation, Water Supply, Rural Roads and Markets projects. 
Through these projects, MLGRDC has demonstrated adequate capacity to ensure 
compliance with safeguard policies.  
 
UPs did not receive grant directly for implementing community infrastructure before, so 
their capacity for implementing environment and social guidelines need to be enhanced. 
An ESMF training manual will be prepared by National Institute of Local Government 
(NILG), and all UPs, their secretaries and local level extension officials (agriculture, 
livestock, health) will be trained for the implementation of ESMF. Furthermore, upazila 
level MLGRD officials (LGED, DPHE, cooperatives) will also be trained to provide 
oversight support.   
 
Page  6
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
IDA has been working closely with the key stakeholders e.g. MLGRD NILG, UPs; and 
Development Partners through the local consultative group of donors (LCG), and 
UNDP/UNCDF and EU will be co-financiers of the project. The team has been working 
closely with civil society, NGOs and local government leaders which will continue 
during implementation phase. An Implementation Monitoring Group (IMG) consisting of 
eminent members of civil society will be constituted to play an oversight and advisory 
role in project implementation. At the local level, Upazila Block Grant Committee 
(UBGC), together with UPs, sub-project implementation committee (PIC) and sub-
project support and monitoring committee (PSMC)will organize consultation and 
disclose ESMF and assist mitigating any adverse impacts.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
04/13/2006 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
04/13/2006 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
04/13/2006 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Cultural Property, the 
respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
N/A 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Page  7
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr David T. J. Savage 
04/13/2006 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Dr. M. Khaliquzzaman 
04/13/2006 
Social Development Specialist 
Ms Nilufar Ahmad 
04/13/2006 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
Mr Dr. M. Khaliquzzaman 
04/13/2006 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Mr Junaid Kamal Ahmad 
 
Comments:   
