                                          Documentof
                                        TheWorld Bank

                                 FOROFFICIALUSEONLY

                                                                        ReportNO:35494-BD




                            PROJECTAPPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                             ONA

                                     PROPOSEDCREDIT

                         INTHEAMOUNTOFSDR76.3 MILLION

                            (US$111.5 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                            TO THE

                         PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH

                                            FORA

                       LOCAL GOVERNANCESUPPORT PROJECT

                                          May 11,2006




EnvironmentandSocialDevelopmentUnit
SouthAsia Region


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World
Bank authorization.

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (ExchangeRateEffective April 15,2006)


                          Currency Unit = BangladeshTaka (Tk)
                               Taka69 = US$1
                              US$0.015 = Taka1

                              .  FISCALYEAR
                                July1    - June30

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP    Annual Development Plan
BG     Block Grant
BGCC   Block Grant Coordination Committee
C&AG   Comptroller & Auditor General
CAO    ChiefAccounts Officer
CAS    CountryAssistance Strategy
CIW    CommunityInfrastructure Work
CHT    Chittagong HillTracts
EC     European Commission
ESMF   Environmental and SocialManagementFramework
FA     Financing Agreement
FAPAD  ForeignAidedProjects Audit Division
FMR    Financial MonitoringReport
GOB    Government o fBangladesh
ICAB   Institute o f CharteredAccountants o fBangladesh
IDA    InternationalDevelopment Association
IEC    Information, Education and Communications
JICA   Japanese International Cooperation Agency
KPI    KeyPerformanceIndicators
LG     LocalGovernment
LGD    Local Government Division
LGED   Local Government EngineeringDepartment
LGSP   Local GovernanceSupport Project
MDG    M i l ~ e ~Development Goal
                      i u ~
M&E    Monitoring andEvaluation
M E .  Monitoring, Inspection andEvaluation
MIS    Management InformationSystem
MOF    MinistryofFinance
LGD    MinistryofLocalGovernment, RuralDevelopment &Cooperatives
M O U  Memorandum o fUnderstanding
MTBF   Medium-TernBudgetary Framework
MTR    Mid-TermReview
NCB    Nationalized Commercial Bank
NGO    Non-Governmental Organization

NILG  NationalInstitute ofLocal Government
NPD   NationalProgramDirector
OM    Operational Manual
PDO   Project Development Objective
PEM   Public ExpenditureManagement
PWI   Project Implementation Manual
PRSP  PovertyReduction StrategyPaper
PSC   Program SteeringCommittee
RMP   RuralMaintenance Program
SIC   Scheme Implementation Committee
ssc   SchemeSupervision Committee
SIL   Specific Investment Loan
SOE   Statement ofExpenditures
UDCC  UpazilaDevelopment Coordination Committee
UNCDF UnitedNations CapitalDevelopment Fund
UNDP  UnitedNations Development Program
UNO   UpazilaNirbhaiOfficer
UP    UnionParishad
URT   UpazilaResource Team



                      Vice President:   Praful C. Pate1
           Country ManagerlDirector:    Christine Wallich
                      Sector Manager:   Junaid KamalAhmad
                   Task Team Leader:    David Savage


                                                    BANGLADESH
                          LOCAL GOVERNANCE SUPPORT PROJECT
                                                       CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                             Page

A
.  STRATEGIC CONTEXT AND RATIONALE                                           ...............................................................  10
 1. Countryandsector issues..................................................................................................                 10
 2. Rationale for Bankinvolvement.......................................................................................                      12
 3. Higher levelobjectives to which the project contributes..................................................                                 12

B
.  PROJECTDESCRIPTION                       ...............................................................................................   12
 1. Lendinginstrument...........................................................................................................               12
 2. Program objective andphases...........................................................................................
                  . .                                                                                                                          13
 3. Project development objective andkeyindicators............................................................                                 13
 4. Projectcomponents...........................................................................................................               13
 5. Lessons learned andreflected inthe project design..........................................................                                15
 6. Alternatives considered andreasonsfor rejection                              ............................................................  16

C IMPLEMENTATION
 .                                 ........................................................................................................    16
 1. Partnership arrangements..................................................................................................                 16
 2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements.,..............................................................                                 17
 3. Monitoringandevaluation o foutcomeslresults................................................................                                18
 4. Sustainabihty.....................................................................................................................
          *    ..                                                                                                                              19
 5. Criticalrisks andpossible controversial aspects...............................................................                             20
 6. Loadcredit conditions andcovenants...............................................................................
                           ..                                                                                                                  22

D APPRAISALSUMMARY
 .                                        .................................................................................................    24
 1. Economic and financial analyses......................................................................................                      24

 2. Technical...........................................................................................................................       24

 3. Fiduciary ...........................................................................................................................      25
 4. Social.................................................................................................................................    26
 5. Environment......................................................................................................................          27
 6. Safeguardpolicies............................................................................................................             :27
 7. PolicyExceptions andReadiness......................................................................................                        28

Annex 1:CountryandSector or ProgramBackground                                 .........................................................     29

Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedbythe Bankandlor other Agencies                                                       .................30
Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring                       ........................................................................       31

Annex 4: DetailedProjectDescription           ......................................................................................        33

Annex 5: ProjectCosts...............................................................................................................        48

Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements                 .................................................................................       49

Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements                                              .....................................   54

Annex 8: ProcurementArrangements              ......................................................................................         66

Annex 9: EconomicandFinancialAnalysis                   .............................................................................        89

Annex 10: SafeguardPolicyIssues         ............................................................................................         93

Annex 11:ProjectPreparationand Supervision                       .....................................................................       98

Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile                .................................................................................        99

Annex 13: StatementofLoansand Credits                  ............................................................................        100

Annex 14: Countryat a Glance       ...............................................................................................         102

Annex 15: Map IBRD34626      ....................................................................................................          104

                                    BANGLADESH

                      LOCAL GOVEFWANCE SUPPORT PROJECT

                           PROJECT APPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                    SOUTHASIA

                                        SASES

late: May 11,2006                          TeamLeader: DavidT. J. Savage
zountry Director: Christine I.
                             Wallich       Sectors: Sub-national government
Sector Managermirector: JunaidKamal        administration (100%)
b a d                                      Themes: Decentralization(P);Participation
                                           andcivic engagement(P);Public expenditure,
                                           financial management andprocurement
                                           (S);Other accountabili~/anti-co~ption
                                           (S);Rural servicesandinfrastructure (S)
?rojectID: PO98273                         Environmental screening category: Partial
                                           Assessment
-_-
LendingInstrument: Snecific Investment Loan
       "                                                                               I




For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 111S O
Prooosedterms:




INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENT




Borrower:
Government o fBangladesh
Bangladesh

Responsible Agency:
MinistryofLocalGovernment, RuralDevelopment andCooperatives
Bangladesh

Expected closingdate: June 30,201 1
Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?
Re$ PADA.3                                                                        [           No
Does the projectrequire any exceptions from Bankpolicies?
Re$ PAD D.7                                                                       [ ]Yes [XINO
Havethese beenapprovedby Bankmanagement?                                          [ ]Yes [XINO
I s approval for anypolicy exception sought from the Board?                       [ ]Yes [XINO
Does the project include any critical risksrated "substatitial" or "high"?
Re$ PAD C.5                                                                       [XjYes [ ] N o

Does the projectmeet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?
Re$ PAD D.7                                                                       [XIYes [ ]No

Project development objective Re$ PAD B.2, TechnicalAnnex 3
Accountable LGprovidingservicesthat meet communitypriorities, supportedby apredictable
andtransparentfiscal transfer system

Project description[one-sentence summary of each component] Re$ PAD B.3.a, Technical
Annex 4
 Component 1:Fiscal transfers to eligible LGs for basic local service delivery andproviding
                 incentives for good governanceand service deliveryperformance.
 Component 2: Direct mobilization o f communities to prioritize development needs community
                 andgovernment monitoringsystems.
 Component 3: Support incore LGcapacity development inthe implementationofthe block
                  grant.
 Component 4: Support GOBto conduct regular, outcomes-based evaluations ofthe project inthe
                  context of the evolution of the local governance system.
 Component 5: Support a social protection pilot which will test the use of conditional transfers for
                  national functions that canbe devolved to the LGs.

 Which safeguardpolicies are triggered, if any? Re$ PAD D.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
 Environmental Assessment (OP4.0 1)

  Significant, non-standardconditions, if any, for:
 Re$ PAD C.7
  Boardpresentation:
  (i)SubmissionofthefinalLetterofSectorPolicydulysignedbytheMinisterofLocal
     Government, RuralDevelopment and Cooperatives.
  (ii)
     Submission ofthe revised Program Implementation Manualand OperationalManual .

  Loadcredit effectiveness:

:ovenants applicable to project implementation:
I. Block Grants: Component 1yearlyreleaseswillbemadedirectlyfromthe IDACredit
SpecialAccount to the GOB Consolidated FundinBangladeshTaka. Triggers for the
4ssociation's yearly releasesare as follows:
 (a) For the first year release, the receipt of:
     0Initialcashflow forecasts for FY 200712008 for UP grants basedonthe results o fthe
      annual audit assessment, which includes the allocations byUP, as published inthe
      budgetschedule;
     0UP Resolution;
     0A copy o fanagreement, inform satisfactory to the Association, with acommercial bank,
       for direct disbursement o f h d s to UPS.
 (b) Forthe secondyear release, the receipt of:
     0 A scheduleindicating the finds releasedbythe GOBto the UPSthroughLGSPgrants
       duringtheprevious FiscalYear, andamountsto bereleasedinthe inthe following Fiscal
       Year, includingthe date ofeachrelease, andaninitialcashflow forecastsfor FY
       200812009 for grants basedon the results o fthe annual assessment;
     0 Certificationindicatingthat there have beenno: (a) significant reallocations, deviations;
       or (b) suspensiono fFinancing inthe first year, as compared to the indicative planning
       figures for the UPS;or providing clarifications andreasonsfor deviations, if any, that are
       consistent with the Program Implementation Manual andthe UP Operational Manual;
     0 UP Resolutioninrespecto f any Eligible UPSparticipating for the first time;
     0 A copy o fanagreement, inform satisfactoryto the Association, with acommercial bank,
       for direct disbursemento f funds to UPSinrespecto f any Eligible UPSparticipating for
       the first time, or EligibleUPSthat hadparticipated inthe earlier years but have switched
       to a newbank.
 (c) For the third year release, the receipt of:
     0 A financial performance assessment report withrespectto expendituresfor Subgrants, in
       form and substancesatisfactory to the Association, carried out byMLGRDinthe
       precedingFiscal Year;
     0 A scheduleindicatingthe funds releasedbythe Recipient to theUPSthrough Subgrants
       duringthe previous FiscalYear, and amountsto bereleasedinthe following Fiscal Year,
       includingthe date o f each release, and an initial cashflow forecasts for FY200912010
       for Subgrantsbasedon the results o f the annual assessment;
     0 Certification indicatingthat there have beenno: (a) significant reallocations, deviations;
       or (b) suspensiono fFinancinginthe second year as compared to the indicative planning
        figures for the UPS,or providing clarifications andreasons for deviations, ifany, that are
        consistentwith the Program Implementation Manual and the UP Operational Manual;
     0 UP Resolution inrespect of any EligibleUPSparticipating for the first time;
     0  A copy ofanagreement, inform satisfactory to the Association, with a commercial bank,
        for direct disbursemento f funds to UPSinrespect o f any EligibleUPSparticipating for
        the first time, or Eligible UPSthat hadparticipated inthe earlier years but have switched
        to a newbank.
  (d) For the fourth year release, the receipt of:
        A financial performance assessment report with respectto expendituresfor Subgrants, in
        form and substance satisfactory to the Association, carried out byMLGRDinthe

    preceding Fiscal Year;
   0A scheduleindicatingthe funds releasedbythe Recipient to the UPSthrough Subgrants
    duringthe previous FiscalYear, and amountsto bereleasedinthe following FiscalYear,
    includingthe date o f eachrelease, andaninitialcashflow forecasts for FY 201012011for
     Subgrantsbasedonthe results ofthe annualassessment;
   0 Certificationindicatingthat there havebeenno: (a) significant reallocations, deviations;
     or (b) suspensiono fFinancing inthe secondyear as compared to the indicative planning
     figures for the UPS, or providingclarifications andreasons for deviations, ifany, that are
     consistent withthe Program Implementation Manualandthe UP OperationalManual;
   0 UPResolution inrespectofanyEligibleUPSparticipating for the first time;
   0 A copy ofanagreement, inform satisfactoryto the Association, with acommercial bank,
     for direct disbursement o ffunds to UPSinrespect o f any EligibleUPSparticipating for
     the first time, or EligibleUPSthat hadparticipated inthe earlier years buthave switched
     to anew bank.
       Fundswillbereleasedbythe Government to UPSon a semi-annualbasis. The
     conditional grants o fthe SP component will follow the same proceduresand
     requirements, but will be slightlymodifiedto include SP-specific performance criteria,
     which are delineated inthe Project Implementation Manual.

2. MonitoringandEvaluation: MLGRDwill submit semi-annualprogressreports to IDA.

3. Mid-TermReview: MLGRDwill conduct amid-termreview of LGSPbyApril 30,2009.

A. STRATEGICCONTEXTAND RATIONALE

1. Country andsector issues

        Public sector governanceand service delivery arrangementsinBangladeshare amongthe
most centralized inthe world. Less than two percent o f total public spending flows towards the
delivery of local services, with the bulk o fresourcesprovidedon a highly conditional basis. The
4488 Union Parishads(UPS)-the lowest tier o fgovernment for rural areas inBangladesh-have
a highly limited degree o f authority over a far smaller level o f resources - less than Tk12 (or
US$O.18) per capita annually. Yet UPS are a century old tier o f local government, with an
average population size o f 28,800, and a history of several decades o f regular elections. As a
result, an independenttier o f government linking the center and public service delivery systems
to communities has yet to emerge. For such a large country, this is an important "missing tier"
of governance - one that can enable the voice and oversight o f local governments and
communities inthe delivery process.

        Strengthening local governancethrough communityparticipation and oversight has been
identified as animportant element o fthe Government ofBangladesh's (GOB)PovertyReduction
Strategy Paper (PRSP). Following the PRSP recommendations, the GOBhas already taken
important steps to strengthen local governance, particularly through the introduction o f the UP
Block Grant. Although small (Tk7 or US$O.lO per capita annually), the grant has establishedthe
important principles of local discretion and accountability, with community oversight. GOBalso
legislated an extra 30% of UP seats to be held by women, to address their historically
marginalized role in decision-making. Other important measures include the revision o f local
revenue generation procedures, the development o f a UP Plan Book, and the development of
localgovernment (LG) trainingprograms andPerformance assessmentprocedures.

        These reforms have been drawn from considerable piloting o f local government systems
inBangladesh. The Sirajganj Local Government Support Project (UNCDFIUNDP), the Tangail
Participatory Rural Development Project (JICA), and the Social Investment Project and
Municipal ServicesProject (World Bank) have typically expandedthe resourcesavailable to LGs
or communities, while strengthening local institutional capacity, community participation and
oversight through introducing participatory and transparent mechanisms for budgeting,
expenditure and performance review. This provided a usefbl body o f experience on the benefits
of effective and empowered local governance and mechanisms o f community participation. The
experience has shown that LG-led projects save time and money inprovidingbasic services to
the poor, and that development outcomes improve when communities participate in decision-
making and are able to hold their LGs to account for their performance - as evidenced in
stronger own-revenue mobilizationandvery low levels o f fund leakage.

        The pilots suggest that there are several pre-requisites for achieving these results. To
begin with LGs must have adequate resources to plan for and implement basic development
activities. This allows them to buildcapacity inrelationto actual functions they mustperform, to
experiencereal accountability (``learning by doing"), andto claim a rightto beconsulted on other
development activities within their jurisdiction (the gradual clarification o f functional
assignments). Also required are mechanisms o f voice and client power for communities -



                                                 10

including organized civil society - to influence the decision-making processes of LG and
monitor the delivery system. Finally, third party oversight is required to ensure inclusive forms
o fparticipationandoversight bycommunities.

        The GOBand development partners have agreed at the recent PRSP Implementation
Forum to support a strategy o f gradually strengthening local governance, through increasing the
size o f the block grant to UPS while enhancing community oversight, strengthening
administrative capacity and improving local revenue performance. This agreement builds on a
policy commitment to strengthen institutions o f local governance as an important step towards
reducing poverty and enhancing basic local service delivery. It also reflects an emerging
consensus that centralized service delivery arrangements have remained unaccountable to
citizens and have failed to improve services in a sustainable manner. This recognition i s most
visible within Bangladesh's rich and vibrant Non-Governmental Organization (NGO) sector that
has become a vocal supporter for strengthening local governments. Finally, there i s a growing
recognition within policymakers and donors alike that scaling up and sustainability of existing
community based systems - sponsored mostly by central government and NGOs - will require
support from an effective systemo f government at the locallevel.

        However, despite this support for strengthening local governance there is still some
apprehension incertain sections of political leadership andbureaucracy about the consequences
o f such a change. These concerns have stalled reforms inother areas o f sub-national governance,
such as the provision o f greater functional clarity on the roles of central agencies and local
governments, and grantingo f greater discretion to localgovernmentsmore broadly. International
donors have also sent mixed signals about the importance of bringing government closer to
communities and improving local governance. Donor fbnding has largely by-passed local
governments and focused either on line agencies or supporting the direct mobilization o f
communities around service delivery.

        Inthis overall context, a "big bang" decentralization of authority - along the lines of
Indonesia or South Afiica - is not expected to be the norm in Bangladesh. Instead the political
economy suggests that the challenge is now to incrementally expand systems that strengthen
local governance. Such a process will require the gradual clarification o f the relationship
between central and local government, while ensuringthat LGs become directly accountable to
citizens for service delivery. Expanding the block grant program of Government o f Bangladesh
provides an important and strategic opening to strengthening local governments in rural areas
andcatalyzing the emergenceof an effective system oflocalgovernance. The acceptanceo fU P S
as a legitimate tier o f local governments and the existence of the block grant systems makes this
approach immediately feasible. Inthe short run, it can provide a necessary counterweight to the
voices that would suggest that local governance is best served through centralized systems of
service delivery. Inthe longer term, the emergence o f effective LGs can also open the space for
broader political participation andbringingwith it a chance for greater accountability o fthe state
to citizens. Inturn, by strengthening the UPS,the process will ensure local governments and
communities are more effective as stakeholders in Bangladesh's growing policy debate on the
future of the decentralization process.




                                                 11

2. Rationale for Bank involvement

        Inorder to supportGOB'Soverallprogramofstrengtheningrurallocalgovernments,this
project will assist Government to scale up and institutionalize the system o f fiscal support and
mechanisms o f accountability for UPS.The Bank brings to this task both the experience and
lessons from other countries and transition financing to support a program for scaling up and
institutionalizing systems o f local governments. In addition, the process o f building
intergovernmental systems requires a long term engagement. Here too, the Bank has a
comparative advantage by beingable to support such a long term engagement usingbothpolicy
based loans and sector investments. In addition, the project complements existing Bank
supported sectoral development and community mobilization projects (particularly in water
services and Community Driven Development) by laying the foundations for a strong local
governance that i s essentialfor sustaining these investments.Finally, the Bankhasthe convening
ability to support GOBin bringing the different donors around a common platform. This shift
into local governments inBangladeshbydonors will require a coordination o f donor approaches.
Overall, this project i s markinga newphaseofBank engagement inBangladesh.

3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes

        The Country o f Assistance (CAS) (Ii2006-001713, CAS Discussion dated February 7,
2006) prioritizes improvements inthe investment climate, empowering the poor and improving
governance. It recognizes that the policy context is slowly changing towards strengthening local
governance as a mechanism to enhance basic local service delivery in a sustainable manner.
There is increasing recognition that effective local governments can provide citizens an
alternative locus o f political participation, challenging the exclusive hold o f political parties at
the center, with empowered LGs more likely to be held electorally accountable for their
performances inensuringbasic local services are delivered.

         The project will contribute to improved public services and investment in functions for
which UPSare responsible, contributingto achieving MDGtargets and fostering local economic
growth. It will also provide significant momentum to the decentralization reform process, by
consolidating reforms already undertaken, leveraging further reforms through a demonstration
effect, and financing some o f the implementation costs o f the reform more rapidly than
government would currently be able to achieve.

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

 1. Lendinginstrument

    The lending instrument chosen for the IDA support i s a Specific Investment Loan (SIL) as
the timing and duration of project phases will relate to actual project performance. Other
developmentpartnerswill complement project components, within a commonprogram.




                                                  12

2. Program objective and phases

        Government is committed to an incremental strengthening o f local governance in
Bangladesh over the mediumterm, as an agency for effective, responsive local service delivery
and accountable governance. This credit will assist government to consolidate the first steps
towards strengthening elected UPS, through expanding the size of the block grant and
institutionalizingmechanismsof community accountability. The success o f this intervention will
set the stage for a more systemic strengthening o f systems of local governance, through
expanding the hnctions and resourcesprovided for UPS,further expanding their capacities, and
entrenching community participation and oversight in local decision making processes, The
credit is thus the fust step ina longer term initiative to expand the coverage and quality ofbasic
local services, particularly with regard to the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), and
improvedlocal governance.

3. Project development objective and key indicators

        The project development objective (PDO) o f the Local Governance Support Project
(LGSP) is to develop accountable LGs providing services that meet community priorities,
supported by a predictable and transparent fiscal transfer system. Achievement o f the PDO will
be measuredinterms o f maintaining a significantly scaled-up level of basic service provision at
the UP levels during FY2008-2011 as compared with previous years. Indicators to monitor
progress will be (i) 95% o f LGs receiving block grants; (ii) o f LGs having annual audits;
                                                                95%
(iii) ofLGsholdingopenbudgetconsultations;and(iv)30%increaseinpeoplesatisfiedby
     95%
UP activities over the baseline.

4. Project components

         Component I - Fiscal Transfers: This component will support the ongoing clarification
ofintergovernmental roles andrelationships through strengthening transparent, rules-basedfiscal
transfers for basic local service delivery while providing incentives for good governance and
service delivery performance. Significant incremental increases inthe size o f the block grant to
eligible UPSare an essential, practical and simple step towards increasing local accountability -
without sufficient resources at the local level, there is little incentive for anyone to hold UPS
accountable. These additional resources will provide momentum to efforts to clarify the
functions o f UPSrelative to other tiers. The expanded block grant will be allocated in the
medium term budget fi-amework, through a simple, population-based formula with a minimum
allocation to protect small Ups. Itwill be partially financed by the IDA credit, and disbursed ina
predictable manner directly to the bank accounts o f eligible UPSvia a NationalizedCommercial
Bank(NCB). The existing GoB-tbndedblock grant will continue to beallocated to all other U p s
ind disbursed through existing channels until they become eligible for the new program.
Eligibility for the new grant will be earned I maintained through meeting a set of basic
requirements on financial (e.g. having a bank account, receiving timely, independent financial,
procurement, social and environmental "audit" opinion without a qualification) and community
accountability (e.g. open planning and budgeting, public reporting.) Resources will help fund a
portion of the costs of services, based on an open menu o f allowable expenditures, with a short



                                                  13

negative list, within the fimctional domain o f UPS.Subprojects (hereinafier called Schemes)
approvals will be decentralizedto UPS.The risks o fmisuse or inappropriateuse o fresourceswill
be addressedthrough effective, transparent andparticipatory localplanning, budgeting, approval,
auditing and environmental and social managementprocesses, complemented by oversight from
higher tiers o f government. UPSwill report quarterly on basic financial, procurement, social and
environmental aspects of activities funded under the block grant (see Component 2). The project
will provide support to build adequate fiduciary safeguards in the preparation of accounts and
financial statements o f expenditures and auditing o f records relating to implementation of this
component. A separate performance grant will be provided to those UPSthat demonstrate
improvements       in participatory governance, initially measured through year-on-year
improvements in own revenue generation. This will build on recent measures to strengthen UP
revenue administration, and offset disincentives to revenue mobilization arising from an
expanded block grant and a perceived disinclination of UPSto raise taxes from their local
electorates. Local revenue mobilization entrenches community accountability for UP spending,
which reinforces a key objective o f the block grant. Over time good performance may be
accompaniedby expanded functional competenceandrevenueauthority.

        Component 2 - InstitutionalizingLocal Accountability: The objective o f this component
is to institutionalize accountability into existing systems basedon incentives associated with the
expandedBlock Grant, and complemented by mandatory disclosure byUPSto both communities
and to higher tiers of government. Regular open meetings, public disclosure and regular
reporting will be at the core of the local participatory process and will be conditions o f block
grantrelease. Underthe project, UPSwill submit quarterlyreportsto LGDandcommunities and
the Government will carry out annual financial, procurement, environmental and social
assurance audits for each UP to become or remain eligible for the expanded block grant. The
Audit Quality Assurance (AQA) Cell o fthe Comptroller &Auditor General (C&AG) will verify
these audits on a sample basis. The project will also provide technical and financial support to
upper tier monitoring agencies and capacity buildingat all levels to ensure adequate tracking of
project inputs andoutputs. Theproject will be supportedby aproposed competitive grant facility
that will assist civil society inundertaking activities that support the inclusion o f marginalized
communities in UP decision-making. A Block Grant Coordination Committee (BGCC) at the
Upazila level will ensure coordination, peer learning, oversight by Upazila Nirbhai Officers
(UNOs) andprovide an avenuefor grievance redress.

        Component 3 - Supporting Core LG Capacity Development: LGs require support to
undertake participatory strategic planning, design and manage project implementation, and
monitor and evaluate project outcomes. The project will provide information and support to the
various actors involvedinblock grant implementation. Theproject will assist GOBindeveloping
a capacity building framework that meets emerging nationwide local government capacity
development needs. It will directly strengthen the capacity o f GOBinstitutions - such as the
Local Government Division (LGD) o f the Ministry o f Local Government, Rural Development
and Cooperatives (LGD), the Comptroller and Auditor General (C&AG), the National Institute
of Local Government (NILG), and UNOs and Upazila level. Activities under this component
will include: (i)   Information, Education & Communication (IEC); (ii)Training and capacity
building activities of UPS around the local PEM cycle; (iii)Developing peer learning




                                                  14

mechanisms for participating UPSand local officials; and (iv) Providing institutional support for
the overall decentralization processand for policy development.

         Component 4 - Performance Review and Policy Development: GOBwill be assisted to
make better use o f data in its policy analysis and formulation. There will be a large variety o f
monitoring data generated by the project through its quarterly and annual financial flow,
procurement, social and environmental audits. This dataneeds to be collated, organized, put ina
usable electronic form and analyzed in order to make it useful in practice. Under the project,
regular, outcome-basedevaluations o f the project will be conducted inorder to contribute to the
evolution o f the local governance system. The measuremento f the project's impacts will help to
establish a causal linkbetweenproject inputs as collected by the monitoring systemand outputs.
This will determine whether the main goals o f the project were achieved and attributable to the
project. Formal evaluations of policies are also intended to assist in making mid-course
corrections to the design o f the program and to lay the empirical groundwork for its possible
future expansion. Activities will include: (i)formal evaluation o f the block grant; (ii)
                                                                                       evaluation
of other decentralization efforts; (iii)strengthening the capacity o f LGD for data organization
and policy analysis; (iv) conducting annual workshopslseminars with a broad range of
stakeholders and dissemination o f the results of the various studies on decentralization issues;
and(v) development of models for the survey instruments and sampling techniques. UPSwill be
selected on a random basis for impact evaluation purposes in order to set up a rigorous
mechanism at entry to assess andtrack impacts.

         Component 5 Social Protection (SP) Pilot. This objective of this component is to test
                       -
the use o f conditional fiscal transfers for national functions that can be administratively
devolved, in addition to block grants. This will be done by piloting activities ina sector where
technical ministries currently play a lead role but some administrative activities maybe naturally
moved to UP control, and which could form part of a second generation o f decentralization
reforms. For these activities, conditional fiscal grants can be used as they are an instrument to
transfer funds to UPS for pre-specified purposes, and would form part o f any future
intergovernmental fiscal fi-amework. Future grants may be linked to attaining certain pre-agreed
performance criteria. The project will include a pilot program o f conditional fiscal grants for
safety nets to be implemented in a limited number o f UPS.Funds for the program will be
releasedin a predictable and timely fashion to the UPSas a conditional fiscal transfer, based on
the annualbudget cycle andcoordinated with other transfers envisagedinthe program. The same
transparencyanddisclosure requirements will apply to this component andwill be outlined inthe      '
supplementaryOM. The operation o fthis component will bering-fenced and carefully evaluated
duringthe Mid-TermReview(MTR) o ftheproject.

5. Lessonslearnedand reflected inthe project design

         A `rapid' review of relevant experience in Bangladesh and internationally was
undertaken to inform project preparation. A more detailed examination o f these experiences i s
available in the project file (see Annex 12). The key lessons of these pilot experiences are that
greater LG discretion in resource allocation and project management can be successful in
providing high quality infiastructure and services at lower cost and in a manner that is more
reflective o f local needs. When combined with strong forms o f community participation and



                                                 15

oversight, this can create incentives for improved own revenue mobilization and reduce leakage
o f funds at LGlevel. However, these experiences emphasizethe challenges o fweak LGcapacity
and ensuring effective forms of community engagement. Addressing both the supply and
demand-sideo f governanceis demonstrably both cost and labor-intensive. A single operational
vehicle may not be adequate, nor the optimal means to address the two sides of the governance
equation.

        Inthe light of this evidence, the design of LGSP consciously tries to avoid `over-
programming' in an environment where capacity at central Ministrylevel, UP level and among
rural communities i s constrained. LGSP's aim i s therefore to support a core coherent package o f
incentives, support services and measures to stimulate performance o f local governments that
centers on the delivery and management o f the enhanced block grant. It will also lay the
groundwork for the institutionalization o f mechanisms to enhance downward accountability o f
UPSto their constituents. This `core' system will beaugmentedbyother Bank-financedprojects,
development partners and local civil society actors, utilizing additional channels to supplement
the foundation laid by LGSP. This includes both the partnershipsoutlined in Section C1, below
as well as ongoing IDA-financedprojects, such as the Social Investment Program that focuses on
institution building and community mobilization at the village level, and through which civic
engagement with newly established UP planning processes can be promoted. These
complementary activities are necessary elements o f a systemic effort to strengthen local
governance, and also reflect the international experience o f the multi-dimensional, multi-actor
approachnecessaryto buildsub-national tiers o f government.

6. Alternativesconsideredandreasonsfor rejection

        The team considered andrejected a development policy design for the project. Although
such an approachmay have been appropriate fiom IDA'Sperspective to enhance the progress on
certain policy reforms, it may not have been a robust choice capable of ensuring an acceptable
level o f predictability o f financing for basic services in an environment already marked by a
number o f sources of uncertainty. At the same time, there i s a heightened need for tracking the
use o f external funds for specific purposes and to monitor their fair distribution across different
regions and local governments. The development policy design was also rejected because it
would not have provided the opportunity for detailed project implementation support as i s
possible under investment lending. The technical support is particularly critical at central
government level. Given these various considerations, inparticular the heightened requirements
in terms of fiscal reporting, transparency and downward accountability measures, a Specific
Investment Loan(SIL) instrument hasbeen deemedappropriate for the proposedoperation.

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnershiparrangements

        The project introduces an innovative framework for coordination between IDA support
and the activities of other development partners, including donors and civil society. Specific
innovations include:




                                                 16

a) A proposed 6 district learning and innovation program that will be supported by the
    UNDPIUNCDFIEC, costing US$16 million. This initiative will top up the expanded block
    grant to eligible UPSinsix districts to a rangeof higher levels to test the design of a second
    generation o f reforms in the assignment of functions to UPS,local public expenditure
    management and capacity building strategies. Government will implement this component
    through the same project framework as will be used for IDA support, providing a basis for
    future donor harmonization to evolve.
b) Manydevelopment partners already support communities to directlyengage UPSat the local
    level, both to jointly determine local development priorities and to hold UPSaccountable for
    their performance. The increase in resources being provided to UPSand requirements for
    transparency will increase incentives for community engagement. A grant facility has been
    proposed to support innovative proposals by civil society that would strengthen the
    interaction between citizens and UPS,with a specific focus on marginalized groups. GOBis
    also developing a framework for development partnersto complement the LGSP over time.

These complementary activities will be monitored in the course o f the project to evaluate the
efficacy o fthe approachand suggestmid-course corrections as appropriate. While the IDA credit
will not directly finance these initiatives, it will support a joint evaluation and policy support
component in GOB'Sprogram, to promote coordination and allow a focus on the generation o f
highquality lessonsfi-omboththe scaleupandthe innovations inatimelyway acrossthe project
cycle, andtheir coordinated dissemination on a national basis. A common approach to providing
technical assistanceto GOBhas also beendeveloped.

2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

        At the central level, the LGD and Ministry of Finance (MoF) will be responsible for the
execution o f the project, ensuring that the project resources are budgeted for and disbursed
within the national MTBF, and the project accounts audited as per the Financing Agreement
(FA) and GOB requirements respectively. LGD will be responsible for managing and
coordinating the activities for the project. LGD will be directly responsible for implementing
Components 2 to 5. LGD will prepare work plans, budgets, reports and other documents, will
disburse funds and review fund accountability, organize and oversee quarterly review meetings,
procure equipment and services, monitor and evaluate the impact o f the activities and the
Program Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), contract and supervise consultancy assignments
and prepare reports reviewing project progress and detailing consultancy findings. LGD will
introduce dedicated procurement capacity by project effectiveness. Regular national level
coordination of the program will be provided through a Program Steering Committee (PSC),
comprising the relevant heads of departmentlgovernment officers and development partners.
Workshopdseminars will be held annually by the LGD to present progress, monitoring and
evaluation reports generated through project activities, identify and discuss implementation
issues, and receive inputs to the policy making process in a manner that encourages broader
ownership of the reform program. These events will include a broad range o f stakeholders, and
betimedto coincide with project supervision missions.

        Inaddition, two key government agencies will be responsible for priority functions of
quality assured audit provision, and capacity building and IEC: (i)     C&AG will serve the key



                                                 17

function o fpre-qualifying aroster o faudit providers, quality assurance o f UP audits on an annual
basis and liaisingwith the Institute o fCharteredAccountants of Bangladesh(ICAE3) andLGD on
quality assurance matters. The Audit Section of LGD will compile and review the audits, and
makerecommendations to the NationalProgramDirector (NPD)to decideon appropriate actions
on any adverse or disclaimed audit opinions and would serve as the channel for grievance
redressalregarding any auditors; and(ii) within the LGDwill coordinate capacity building
                                          NILG
activities and IEC.

        At the local level, the UPSshall be responsible for meeting the eligibility requirements
and utilizingthe grants as per their work plans andbudgets, subject to community participation
and oversight complemented by quarterly reporting, annual auditing and evaluations.
Implementation structures will be formed on a scheme or program-specific basis, as appropriate,
andsupportedby central line agencies. They will be overseenbya separateUP levelsupervision
committee that will be ring-fenced from the implementation process. A Block Grant
Coordinating Committee (BGCC) will also be established for grievance redressal, peer learning,
coordination and improving transparency at Upazila level. Component 3 o f the project provides
significant capacity support to UPSin the performance o f these functions. Existing district and
Upazilalevel officials will continue to support UPSthrough existing mechanisms.

        Under Component 5, the pilot will use facilitators because this is a new approach. There
will also be a partnership agreements between the LGD and the pilot UPSwhich will stipulate
additional implementation arrangements. A supplementary operational manual will be prepared
for this component.

3. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomeslresults

        Monitoring and evaluation are part of the core activities o f the LGSP. Regular quarterly
reports andannual, independent financial, procurement, social and financial accountability audits
will generate data for continual tracking ofproject funds. Eachrelease of disbursementsto UPS
i s conditional on quarterly reports being received on time. A consolidated in-year monitoring
report will be preparedby LGD every six months, as the basis for further grant releases. The
Audit Section of LGD will compile a consolidated annual report on financial, procurement,
social and environmental assurance outcomes and issues. This will be complemented by sample
review of approximately 20% o f the audits o f eligible UPSby the Quality Assurance Cell o f the
C&AG. This annualreport will be the basis onwhich sanctions are imposedonUPS.

        Inaddition, the formal evaluation component ofthe project will supplyhouseholddataat
baseline, mid-term and completion of the project. The timing o f these surveys will match both
the budget cycle of the UPSas well as the requirements o f the project's Mid-Term Review and
Completion reports, through paying explicit attention to the realization o f the overall project
objective. These reports will inform and complement a separate annual program report o f the
LGD and will be presented and discussed at the scheduled workshops/ seminars on local
governance. Finally, six-monthly supervision missions will coincide with key project outputs
such as the holdingo fbudgetingandimplementation review meetings inUPS.




                                                 18

        At present, the Monitoring, Inspection and Evaluation (ME) wing of the LGD has
limited capacity to manage the quantity o f data that will be generatedby the project. The ME
will be strengthenedthrough technical assistanceto processthe large number ofreports that will
flow to it directly and on the basis of which it will release successive installments o f the block
grant to UPS.The MIEwill also fulfill the role of determiningeligibility ofthe entrants into the
BG program. In addition, it will maintain a comprehensive database of the data available on
allocations anddisbursementsto UPSandthe results o fthe UP audits and ensure public access to
the data byuploadingit onto its website.

        The Social Protection pilot will require a supplementary external monitoring agency, to
be hired by LGD, which will reinforce the accountability framework for all participating UPS.
This external agency will provide continuous monitoring of safety net program implementation
and will provide quarterly reports on UP performance to the UP, UNO, and LGD. The specific
performance indicators are specified inthe Project ImplementationManual.

4. Sustainability

        This project builds on PRSP commitments and an existing expenditure program o f GOB,
both o fwhich recognize that strengtheninglocal governancei s necessaryto provide citizens with
greater participation inpublic decision-making, to encourage more effective delivery o fpoverty-
reducingprograms, and to deepenthe structure o f accountability. Thiswill remain an incremental
process, but it is certain that electedUPSwill be retained and gradually strengthened, The project
will assist this processthrough strengthening systems of intergovenunental relations on a nation-
wide basis, and local public expenditure management systems. It does not directly attempt to
resolve the lack o f clarity infunctional assignments, but rather allows expandedfiscal capacity to
highlight areas of de facto uncertainty through permittingblock grants to be spent on subjects
prioritized by communities. This will give local communities greater leverage over resources
spent through centralized delivery mechanisms and may lead to more ambitious attempts to
clarify or reassign functions over time. This approach i s complemented by the learning and
innovationprogramsupportedbyUNDPAJNCDFEC.

        IDA funding will match GOBcontributions to the LGSP block grant over the life of the
program GOBScontribution are anticipated to grow at around 20% per year, which reflects the
growing participation of UPSas well as steady increases inthe average annual grant size. IDA
support is necessary to assist GOBto more rapidly achieve a more suitable level of fimding per
UP. International experience supports an optimal initial average annual grant size of US$9,000 -
US$15,000. The Sirajganj pilot provided US$7,500 to US$12,000 per year in addition to the
ADP block grant of US$3,500. Incentives for own revenue mobilization will also raise the total
revenue envelope available to UPS,enabling them to sustain higher levels o f services to rural
people. The project would also increase accountability to rural people and therefore lead to
expenditures that are more consistent with local preferences. This will create incentives for UPS
to maintain and operate the assets created. Studies carried out by the World Bank in both
Bangladesh and India has demonstrated the positive correlation between higher revenue
collection andimprovedserviceprovision.




                                                 19

5. Critical risks and possiblecontroversial aspects

        The project manages critical risks through simultaneously strengthening and embedding
inthe design: (i) Mechanisms of community participation in decision-making and oversight of
outputs; (ii) Complementary GOBregulation (through grant rules) and financial, procurement
and social monitoring and independent auditing; (iii) policy evaluation capacity to
                                                         Central
continue to fine-tune approachesto risk management; and (iv) Extensive consultations with civil
society inproject design andimplementation.

                                      RiskMitigation Measures

Financial     0   Buildsystemsoffinancial management, oversight andsanctions,           S
malfeasance       alongside trainingon reporting and spendingprocedures.
              0   Empower communities to demandaccountability andmakepublic
                  informationdisclosure by LGa condition of grant disbursement.
              0   Support GOB'Ssupervisoryrole inensuringcommunity participation.
              0   Support independentaudits andenforcement ofpenalties for
                  mismanagement, and spot audits on the credibility of financial
                  assurance processI outputs.
              0   Involvecivil society inproject preparationI implementation so that
                  voices ofthe communities areheard.
Delayor loss  0   Transparentallocation anddisbursementprocedures for grants.           N
o f funds in  0   Direct transfer via commercial bank, with UP Resolution andreports.
transmission  0   Mandatory UP reporting linkedto disbursementcycle, with hture
              -releasesdependent      onreceipt ofreports.
Capture o f   0   Strengthen inclusive mechanisms o fcommunity participationand          S
LGs               oversight, andrequirements for transparentdecision-making. Central
                  monitoringto guaranteeparticipationandoversight at local level.
                  Phasedimplementationto allow learning I redesign.
              0   Independentdisclosure ofallocations to UPSvia the independent
                  media.
              -Mandatory,
              0               independent andpublic assuranceprocess at UP level.
Weak UP       0   UP capacity buildingactivities infinancial management, planning,       S
and               project managementandreportingprovidedwithin an incentives
insufficient      framework alongside informationdissemination to communities to
nation-wide       holdUPSto account.
capacity      0   Annual work programwithbenchmarks to strengthen NILG
support           coordinating and monitoringcapacity to utilize innovativeand
mechanisms        competitive means ofobtainingIEC & capacity support services
                  through regional service providers.
              0   Phasedimplementation to allow learningI redesign.
Weak          0   Financial managementimprovement planwillbe input inplace,              H
financial         includingcapacity support fi-omproject and simplified, consolidated
management        FMprocedures.
capacity in    0  Predictable, transparent allocation anddisbursement o fblock grant



                                                20

                     synchronized with UP budgetcycle andMTBF.
                 I,  Grant conditions createincentives for compliance with requirements
                 I,  Dedicated financial managementcapacity to beinstalledinLGD.
                 I,   "Insourcing" o faudit capacity, strengtheningofthe audit review
                     function.
                 I,  UP annual allocations dependent onreceipt of audit opinion that is  s
the audit            unqualifiedor with non-fundamental exceptions.
process          I,  Mandatory requirementfor localpublic disclosure o f audit findings
                     contractually imposed on independentCA.
                 I,  C&AG to prequalifythe list o fCAS, establishmento fauditreview
                     panel, C&AG sample audit of 20% ofindependent audits, with
                     additional IDA supervision.
                 I,  EnhancedselfregulationbyICAB.
Weak             I,  Training andcommunity awareness programs at UP level, adoption     H
procurement          o fstandardproceduresoutlined inthe OM, andregular supervision.
capacity and     I,  Procurement unit establishedinMinistry with adequatepersonnel,
experience       4
Policy           I,  StrengtheningUPSas accountabletier ofgovernment reducesthis        M
uncertainties        uncertainty andwill support communityvoices inpolicy debates.
inintergov.          Involving andsupporting national-level civil society inproject
system               preparationandimplementation.
Reduced          0   One set ofquarterly reports to UNO, with opportunity to            M
oversight by         transparentlyrecommendwithholdingo fgrants for non-perfonning
UNO                  U P S .
                 I,  BGCC with UP andUpazilalevelofficials as members for collective
                     monitoringandgrievanceredress.
Mis-                 Independent continuous monitoringby an external agency.
targeting o f        Regular open community meetings onbeneficiary selection at ward
social               andUP levels.
protection           Complaints andgrievance mechanism where concernscanberaised.
                     Empower communities to demandaccountability andmakepublic
                     information disclosure by LGa conditiono f grant disbursement.
                     Support GOB'Ssupervisory role inensuringcommunity participation.
                     Support independentaudits andenforcement o fpenalties for
                     mismanagement, and spot audits onthe credibility o ffinancial
                     assuranceprocessI outputs.
                     Engagecivil society inproject preparation I implementation so that
                     voices o fthe communities are heard.
Leakage o f      I,  Mandated threeparty signatureprocess for benefittransfer to each
social               beneficiary.
protection       I,  Complaints and grievance mechanism where concerns canberaised.

Rating: H(High): 5 (Substantial); M(Modest); N(Low or Neglible)




                                                        21

6. Loanlcredit conditions and covenants

Conditions of Eflectiveness:

(i)    that the Recipient has appointed a procurement specialist within LGD, with terms o f
       reference, experience andqualifications satisfactory to the Association

Others:
1. Block Grants: Component 1 yearly releases will be made directly from the IDA Credit
   Special.Account to the GOB Consolidated Fund in Bangladesh Taka. Triggers for the
   Association's yearly releasesare as follows:
   (a) For thefirst year release, the receipt of:
           Initial cashflow forecasts for FY 200712008 for UP grants based on the results o f the
           annual audit assessment, which includes the allocations by UP, as publishedin the
           budget schedule;
           UP Resolution instandardformat; and
           A copy of an agreement, in form satisfactory to the Association, with a commercial
           bank, for direct disbursemento ffinds to UPS.

   (b) Forthe secondyear release, thereceipt of:
       0   A financialperfomance assessmentreportwithrespectto expenditures for UP grants,
           in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, carried out by LGD in the
           preceding Fiscal Year;
       0   A scheduleindicating the funds releasedbythe GOBto theUPSthroughLGSPgrants
           during the previous Fiscal Year, and amounts to be releasedinthe following Fiscal
           Year, including the date o f each release, and an initial cashflow forecasts for FY
           200812009for grants basedon the results o f the annual assessment;
       0   Certification indicating that there have been no: (a) significant reallocations,
           deviations; or (b) suspension of Financing in the first year, as compared to the
           indicative planning figures for the UPS; or providing clarifications and reasons for
           deviations, ifany, that are consistent with the Project Implementation Manual andthe
           UP OperationalManual;
       0   UP Resolution instandardformat, inrespect o f any EligibleUPSparticipatingfor the
           first time; and
       0   A copy of an agreement, in form satisfactory to the Association, with a commercial
           bank, for direct disbursement of hnds to UPSin respect o f any Eligible UPS
           participating for the first time, or Eligible UPSthat had participated in the earlier
           years but have switched to a new bank.

   (c) For the thirdyear release, the receipt of:
       0   A financial performance assessment report with respect to expenditures for
           Subgrants, inform and substance satisfactory to the Association, carried out by LGD
           inthe precedingFiscal Year;
       0   A schedule indicating the h d s released by the Recipient to the UPS through
           Subgrants during the previous Fiscal Year, and amounts to be released in the



                                                 22

            following Fiscal Year, including the date of each release, and an initial cashflow
            forecasts    for FY 200912010 for Subgrants based on the results of the annual
            assessment;
         0  Certification indicating that there have been no: (a) significant reallocations,
            deviations; or (b) suspension o f Financing in the second year as compared to the
            indicative planning figures for the UPS, or providing clarifications and reasons for
            deviations, ifany, that are consistentwith the Project Implementation Manual and the
            UP OperationalManual;
         0  UP Resolution instandardformat, inrespect o f any EligibleUPSparticipating for the
            first time; and
         e  A copy of an agreement, in form satisfactory to the Association, with a commercial
            bank, for direct disbursement of hnds to UPSin respect o f any Eligible UPS
            participating for the first time, or Eligible UPSthat had participated in the earlier
            years but have switched to anewbank.

     (c) Forthefourth year release, the receipt of:
         0  A financial performance assessment report with respect to expenditures for
            Subgrants, inform and substance satisfactory to the Association, carried out by LGD
            intheprecedingFiscal Year;
         a  A schedule indicating the funds released by the Recipient to the UPSthrough
            Subgrants during the previous Fiscal Year, and amounts to be released in the
            following Fiscal Year, including the date o f each release, and an initial cash flow
            forecasts    for FY 201012011 for Subgrants based on the results o f the annual
            assessment;
         0  Certification indicating that there have been no: (a) significant reallocations,
            deviations; or (b) suspension of Financing in the second year as compared to the
            indicative planning figures for the UPS, or providing clarifications and reasons for
            deviations, ifany, that are consistent with the Project Implementation Manual andthe
            UP OperationalManual;
         0  UP Resolution instandardformat, inrespectof any EligibleUPSparticipating for the
            first time; and
         e  A copy of an agreement, in form satisfactory to the Association, with a commercial
            bank, for direct disbursement of funds to UPSin respect of any Eligible UPS
            participating for the first time, or Eligible UPSthat had participated in the earlier
            years but have switched to anewbank.

Fundswill bereleasedbythe Government to UPSon a semi-annualbasis. The conditional grants
o f the SP component will follow the same procedures and requirements, but will be slightly
modified to include SP-specific performance criteria, which are delineated in the Project
ImplementationManual.

2. Monitoring andEvaluation: LGDwill submit semi-annual progress reports to IDA.
3. Mid-TermReview: LGDwill conduct a mid-termreview of LGSPbyApril 30,2009.




                                                 23

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economicandfinancialanalyses

        As Bangladesh's lowest tier of directly elected government, UPScan perform a crucial
role in the provision o f local public goods, which the private sector is likely to under-provide
relative to the social optimum due to their non-excludable and non-rival nature. Positive
externalities associated with many public goods (such as sanitation systems) provide fin-ther
economic justification for LG involvement. Due to the fact that UPSwill have discretion inthe
selection o fpublic investments with block grant funds, it i s not possible to determine ex ante the
precise composition of investments to be made; an economic analysis o f the project cannot be
based, then, as is the case with traditional investment projects, on a cost-benefit analysis o f
specific investments with expected rates of return. LGSP's participatory, demand-driven and
decentralized approach to the provision o f infrastructure and service delivery by UPS,however,
establishes the conditions for improved allocative efficiency as local priorities and needs are
better reflected in community investments. Evidence from Bangladesh suggests that
discretionary schemes implemented by UPSalso achieve productive efficiency gains ranging
from 23 to 37 percent. Assuming these savings accrue at a similar rate for the increased block
grants under LGSP, then the project can expect to yield absolute gains inproductive efficiency in
an amount ranging from US$41 million to US$63 million over the five-year project
i~pze~entutionperiod alone. LGSP i s thus expectedto generate substantial benefits interms o f
allocative andproductiveefficiency, as well as a largenumber o frelatedunquantifiable benefits.

2. Technical

        The project will use existing GOBprocedures for the technical design, costing and
procurement o f investment projects, inaccordancewith IDA Operational Procedures. The Local
Government Engineering Department (LGED) officials at the Upazila level will assist UPSto
finalize the technical design and costing o f budgeted schemes, using existing thresholds for
approval by certified professionals. Inmost instances standard designs will be used, adapted to
localcircumstances.

        Extensive requirements for disclosure, community participation and oversight are
included inthe project fiamework. Schemes will be selected through ward levelmeetings and an
open UP budget process, subject to social and environmental screening, and implemented
through localized Scheme Implementation Committees (SIC) subject to UP level approval.
Procurement functions are ring fenced fiom implementation functions, and made transparent.
The resultant high level of comhunity awareness o f proposed investments and their
implementation, alongside regular reporting and an independent and public annual assurance
process is anticipated to result in greater technical quality o f expenditures. This effect has been
evidenced inpilot projects, includingthe Sirajganj pilot. The project includes extensive capacity
support to UPSand communities in the process o f public expenditure management, including
planning, procurement andcommissioning ofinvestments.




                                                24

3. Fiduciary

FinancialManagement

        The Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) carried out by IDA in 2001
shows that the country fiduciary risk in public spending to be high and recommended
improvements in public sector financial management. Since the last CFAA, GOBhas made
substantial progress in improving its Public Financial Management Systems. However,
substantial risks remain in terms of Accounting, Internal Control, Financial Reporting and
Audits, andbudgetingandfunds flows to the UPS.

        Underthe Project, h d s for Component 1will flow into the Consolidated Fundof GOB
and are included in the Annual Budget and Medium Term Budgeting Framework (MBTF).
Disbursement o f the funds will be through nationalized commercial bank and the funds will be
managed by the UPS. The f h d s for Components 2 to 5 will be managed by LGD. Given the
limitedfinancial management(FM) capacity inthe LGD, which hasno FMwing, the project will
provide support to LGDinthe creation of anFMcell which will beheadedby a DeputyDirector
(Finance)/Finance Manager and assisted by an Accounts Officer and an Accountant to perform
the FM functions of the project. The FMcell will be fdly establishedby December 31,2006. In
addition, a Local Government FMSpecialist will be appointed to assist LGDandUPSinbuilding
capacity inthe areas o f financial management, audits, and monitoring o f UP budgets and block
grant transfers, andto overseethe quality of the financial management systems andprocesses o f
UPS,throughout the duration ofthe project. .The project's financial statements will be auditedin
accordancewith statutory requirement.

        Weak FM capacity inUPSmakes the fiscal transfers under Component 1o f the project
susceptible to fiduciary risks. The project design seeks to fast track fund flow arrangements
through a nationalized commercial bank to streamline project implementation, while retaining
oversight o f funds flow through regular andtimely financial reporting bythe bank andbyUPSon
a quarterlybasis. The project has built inmeasuresto mitigatethese risks into its design, through
strengthening community involvement alongside supervision and monitoring by central
government and Upazilas. Also the project has a strong capacity building component that will
enable UPSto improvethe quality o f financial management.

        Actions outlined inthe Financial Management Action Plan (as detailed inAnnex 7) will
be undertaken by the project to strengthen the financial managementsystem. The risk mitigation
steps outlined in the Action Plan are in various stages o f implementation and the Bank will
monitor closely the implementation of the actions outlined in accordance with the timelines
specified. Inorder to ensure that the project i s effectively implemented, LGD will ensure that
appropriate staffing arrangements are maintainedthroughout the life o fthe project.

        A financial management assessment was carriedout and the report is providedinAnnex
7. The conclusion o f the assessment i s that the financial management arrangements for the
project satisfy the Bank's minimum requirements under OPlBP10.02 and are adequate to
provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status o f the project



                                               25

as required by IDA. With the implementation of the action plan, the financial management
arrangementswill be strengthened.

Procurement

        A Procurement Capacity Assessment was camed out for LGD, NILG and UPS,and the
report is provided inAnnex 8. The Procurement Risk Assessment canied out indicates that the
overallrisk is rated as high. Thekey issuesandrisks concerning procurement for implementation
o f the project have been identified andmitigation measures suggestedfor implementation. These
will be monitored closely. The project envisages two sets of procurement arrangements: (a)
procurement o f infrastructural works, goods and services by U p s under the Block Grant, and (b)
remaining procurement packages o f goods and services by LGD. For procurement o f
infrastructural works, goods and services, UPSwill follow a simplifiedprocess defined in the
OM. LGD will procure goods and services using the Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (May, 2004 edition) and the Public Procurement Regulations
(PPR), 2003. Inthe case o f inconsistenciesbetweenPPR and IDA guidelines, the IDA guidelines
will prevail.

         Since the weak procurement capacity of the implementing agencies correspond to high
procurement risks likely to be arising out o f procurement by U p s under the Block Grant, these
are planned to be mitigated by: (i)   establishing simple procurement procedures; (ii)providing
training and technical support; and establishing robust reporting, oversight, and monitoring
processes. Simple procurement procedures ensuring separationbetween the implementation and
supervision o f projects have been defined in the OM. Simultaneously, training will also be
provided on the OM, as well as in areas like effective project management and supervision.
Monitoringo f procurement will take place at a number o f levels. The most basic andpotentially
most effective monitoring o f procurement will be performed by community members who will
be included inthe committees responsible for the implementation, supervision and procurement
o f the schemes; public disclosure o fprocurement information andcomplaint disposal mechanism
will also serve as tools for monitoringofprocurement as well as act as risk mitigatingmeasures.
Adherence to formal requirements will be monitored through the procurement section o f the
quarterlyreports that are to be submitted by all participatingUPS.Procurement transactions and
practices will be subject to yearly auditing. Monitoring results and audit findings will be
summarized inthe annual report to be issued by the C&AG. The annual report will also contain
an evaluationo fthe direct procurement executedbythe LGDunder the project.

4. Social

        The social analysis for the project indicates that women and vulnerable groups are
generally excluded from the decision making process, which reduces their voice as well as
benefits o fprograms carried out byUPS.Previously, all decisions regarding the programs o f U p s
were taken at the Upazila Development Coordination Committee (UDCC). Generally, UP
members and the local community have less access to information on the amounts of funds
received or how it was spent. Women members elected directly in all UPS are often
marginalized. Cultural obstacles that women face when sharing male-dominated public spaces
can exclude them fiom decision making. Similarly, illiterate people, village women, physically



                                                26

challenged people and the poorest groups are often not able to access important information,
such as the annual budget anddevelopmentprograms.

        Recognizing the challenges faced in strengthening transparent and accountable local
governance, within the project, an effective, accountable and inclusive mechanism for local
decision-making hasbeen developed andwill be made functional. This mechanism includes: (a)
The Block Grant (BG) bank account has 3 co-signatories -the UP chair, a female member and
the secretary; (b) The UP has to hold a minimum number of open UPlwardmeetings annually;
(c) Scheme Implementation Committees (SIC) will be established, with membership from
vulnerable groups, and all schemes will be prioritized and implemented by the SIC; (d) Ifmore
thanone SIC is formed, womenmemberswill becomechairs ofat least 30%ofthe SIC; (e) The
community will have scheme oversight function as members o f Scheme Supervision Committee
(SSC); (0Enhanced transparencythrough open decision makingmeetings, SIC and SSC will be
a condition for receiving the BG. Social development outcomes include (i)     establishment o f
inclusive and accountable local governance institutions; (ii)empowerment o f rural women by
giving them greater access, choice and voice in decision making,; and (iii)    improvement in
service delivery measured by the number of satisfied UP residents. These will be monitored
annually through universal financial and social assuranceprocess, and evaluation surveys, which
will be introduced under this project. The Management InformationSystem (MIS) o f LGD will
be strengthened and civil society organizations will be involved in the monitoring the local
outcomes.

5. Environment

        UPS will use LGSP block grants for the provision o f small-scale community
infrastructure works (CIWs) and other beneficial facilities for communities throughout the
country. Environmental issues that may arise in these schemes are likely to be minor, and
addressedthrough an environmental screeningprocess. The environmental assessment identified
some environmental concerns in rural areas that need to be addressed during LGSP
implementation. These include (i)   arsenic and bacteria contamination in drinking water, (ii)
unplanned road construction blocking drainage, (iii)  improper sanitation and sewage systems,
(iv) inadequate solid waste management, and (v) improper land filling leading to loss o f water
bodies and biodiversity. At present, UPSare not given any environmental and social guidelines
or relevant training for safeguarding the population and sustainability aspects o f initiatives.
Therefore, to avoid potentially adverse environmental impacts and improve existing
environmental conditions, World Bank Operational Policy on Environmental Assessment (OP
4.01) is triggered for this project and. all community infrastructures will be subject to an
environmental screeningexercise.

6. Safeguardpolicies

        The implementing agency, LGD, already had an Environmental and Social Management
Framework (ESMF) for community infiastructure. For assessing the triggering o f World Bank
operational policies and to revise the existing ESMF, an environmental and social assessment
was carried out in UPS,especially the Sirajganj Local Government Pilot project, the Social
Investment Project and tribal areas of the Chittagong Hill Tracts (CHT). The assessment



                                               27

indicated that UPSare usingpart o f the block grants for the provisiono f small-scale rural CIWs,
and these will not lead to environmental impacts o f any significance. However, to avoid
potentially adverse environmental impacts and improve existing environmental conditions,
World Bank Operational Policy (OP) on Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01) i s triggered for
this project. The assessment also found that these sub-projects are built on public lands or lands
contributed voluntarily by community, and there was no land acquisition or involuntary
displacement, Therefore, OP 4.12 on InvoluntaryResettlementis not triggered. The assessment
inCHT andother tribal areas indicate that tribal populations are the majorbeneficiary ofblock
grant schemes. Therefore, OP 4.10 on Indigenous Peoplesis not triggered. LGD revised existing
ESMF, which includes a negative list and states that CIWs that require land acquisition or
involuntary land contribution will not be eligible to receive block grants. Furthermore, intribal
areas, the UPSwill apply the ESMF formats consistent with the OP 4.10 and the participatory
decision making process and accountability requirements, as adopted for the project, will
facilitate inclusiono f tribal populations inthe use o f the block grants and insharingthe benefits
o f the CIWs. All schemes would be subject to an environmental and social screening which
would ensure that no activities with significant negative impact will be implemented. A
grievance mechanism will be inplace to resolve conflict ina transparent and fair manner. LGD
has been implementing IDA- financed projects, and has demonstrated adequate capacity to
ensure compliance with safeguard policies. The ESMF was disclosed on the LGD website on
April 13,2006, andthe Bank's Info ShoponApril 14,2006. Incompliancewith OP 4.01, the EA
category assignedto the LGSP is Category B and the safeguards screening category o f LGSP is
s2.

   Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                            Yes                    No
   Environmental Assessment (OPIBP 4.01)                                                  [XI                     [I
   NaturalHabitats (OPIBP 4.04)                                                            [I                    [XI
   PestManagement (OP 4.09)                                                                [ I                   [XI
   CulturalProperty (OPN 11.03, beingrevisedas OP 4.11)                                                          [XI
   InvoluntaryResettlement(c')P/BP 4.12)                                                   E11l                  [XI
   Indigenous Peoples(OPIBP 4.10)                                                          [I                    [XI
   Forests(OPIBP 4.36)                                                                     [I                    [XI
   Safety ofDams (OPIBP 4.37)                                                              E[Il                  [XI
   Projects inDisputed Areas (OPIBP 7.60)*                                                                       [XI
   Projects on International Waterways (OPIBP 7.50)                                        [I                    [XI

7. Policy ExceptionsandReadiness

Theproject complies with all applicable Bankpolicies. TheProject Implementation Manual,
includingthe Operational Manual, hasbeenprepared.




 * By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties' claims on the
disputed areas


                                                             28

                    Annex 1:Country and Sector or Program Background
                      BANGLADESH: LocalGovernance Support Project

The Government of Bangladesh (GOB)and development partners agreed at the recent Poverty
Reduction Strategy Implementation Forum to support a strategy o f strengthening local
governance, particularly through increasing the fiscal size and design of the block grant system
to Union Parishads (UPS). This agreement builds on a policy commitment to strengthening
institutions o f local governance as an important step towards reducing poverty and enhancing
basic local service delivery. It reflects an emerging consensus that centralized service delivery
arrangements have remainedunaccountable to citizens and have failed to improve services in a
sustainable manner. It also recognizes that scaling up o f existingcommunity based systems will
require support from an effective system o f local governments. Finally, it has the potential to
bringgreater accountability ofthe stateto its citizens.

GOBhas recently taken a number o f steps to strengthen local governance, buildingon the long
history of elected UPSand more recently some innovative pilot projects. These steps include the
introductiono f the direct transfer o f untiedblock grant to UPSand the revision o f local revenue
generation procedures. Although small (Tk7 per capita annually), the block grant has established
the important principles o f local discretion and accountability, with community oversight. In
order to address women's historicallymarginalizedrole indecision making, the government also
legislated an extra 30% of seats to be held by women members. These reforms have built on
considerable donor-supported analysis and piloting, These projects have typically expandedthe
resource envelope to LGs, while strengthening local institutional capacity, community
participation and oversight through introducing participatory and transparent mechanisms for
budgeting, expenditure andperformancereview.

This approach has developed a useful body of experience on the benefits o f empowered local
governments and mechanisms o f community participation. Initial assessments suggest that LG-
ledprojects save bothtime andmoney inprovidingbasic services to the poor. These experiences
have shown that development outcomes improve when communities participate in decision-
making and are able to hold their local governments to account for their performance. Inorder
for this to happen local governments must have adequate roles, fictions and resources to plan
for and implement basic development activities allowing them to build capacity in relation to
actual functions they must perform, to experience real accountability ("learning by doing"), and
to claim a right to be consulted on development activities within their jurisdiction. Also required
are mechanismsof voice and clientpower for communities - including organized civil society        -
to influence the decision-makingprocesseso f local government andmonitor the delivery system.

The challenge is now to incremental& expandthe system o f localgovernance. Inthis context,
this project will assist Government to scale up and institutionalize the system o f fiscal support
andmechanismsofaccountability for UnionParishads.




                                                29

         m      m




     0
     n   m      m

                        u
                        W
                        \
                        F4
                        u
                        n




                        P
                        h

                              0
                              m




                -4-3

..               8

c1              p3
                 P)
                20


                mP)




     fr   00
         r-
         In
         m
         In
         0PI

                           Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
                       BANGLADESH: LocalGovernanceSupportProject

                                         ResultsFramework




                                                                    YR1-YR;! Measure the
                                                                    achievement o fthe KPIs
priorities, supportedby a            95% o fLGshavingannual         YR3 Determine ifstrategy
predictable andtransparent                                          requiresrestructuring
fiscal transfer system               95% o f LGsholdingopen         YR5 Lead into the
                                     budget consultations           implementationo f the second
                                     30% increaseinpeople           generationo fLGreforms
                                     satisfiedbyUP activities2
                                     over the baseline

    IntermediateOutcomes               IntermediateOutcome
                                                 Indicators
Outcome1:                            Outcome 1:                     YR1-YR3 Low levelo f annual
Block grants budgetedinMTEF 31% annual growth in                    growthwill constrainthe intake
                                     block grantbudget              ofnew LGs into the program
Outcome2:                            Outcome2:                      Delays inqualityassurance
C&AG carries out quality             360 o f annual quality         reviewwill threaten the quality
assuranceo fLG audits                assurancereviews carried       o fLGaudits andaccountability
                                     out
Outcome3:                            Outcome3:                      Lack o f consultationwill
LGscarrying out community            70%o fall LGsholding           threatenthe achievement o f
consultations on the budget          openbudget meetings            communitypriorities
Outcome4:                            Outcome4:                      Inabilityto fulfill IDA credit
LG's eligible for project funds      3200 o fUPScoveredby           requirements will limit
                                     training                       coverage
Outcome5:                            Outcome5:                      Informationneededto check
Informationon public opinion         Evaluationsurveys              the validity ofthe monitoring
andcostso finfrastructure            completed                      systemand to track project
                                                                    txomess
Outcome6:                            Outcome6:                      Datawill beusedto estimate
UPSdevelop andimplement              UPSdistributesafety net        performance grants for
their own safetynet programs         benefits to those eligible in subsequent years.
following criteria specified as      a cost-effective and           Success will be usedto expand
partofconditional fiscal grants      transparentmanner              d o t .
Notes:
1)Receivingtheblock grant presupposesthat manyofthe intermediate outcomes havebeenmet
2) Satisfaction indicators will be available after the baseline survey done inthe thirdquartero f
the first year o f the project. Measurement will be interms o f agreement to a survey question such
as: "My UP makes decisions that helppeople like me"



                                                      31

3
3     n
      s




               3          s
               9     0
               x,    N
                     d     v,
                           r-

   s  sx qf
          I       -

               3     0    8
   v,
    m 0 -      3     2    n
      N              3    r-


               3     0
        I      ;fl   0
                     N   N
                      M



                      0
             M        53
             M        3
                  -
                      0
               3      0
          +           5
                  -




    3     +    3      0

                                      Annex 4: Detailed Project Description
                                BANGLADESH: LocalGovernance Support Project

         Component 1: FiscalTransfers (USSl65.5 million)

         The objective of this component i s to support two forms o f fiscal transfers: a largely
         unconditional block grant anda performance grant. These grants are the foundations uponwhich
         other components o f the program are built that institutionalize accountability, strengthen local
         govemtnent capacity, evaluate performance and assist in the further articulation of the policy
         environment for local governance in Bangladesh. The learning and innovation aspects o f the
         program will complement these transfers on apilot basis ina smaller number ofUps. The UNDP
         financed component will provide additional block grant resources, through the same process, in6
         districts. Component 5 o f the IDA credit will finance a conditional grant for social safety nets in
         15 UPS.

         The grants will be disbursedintwo equal installments, inJuly andJanuary o f each financial year.
         Disbursements will be made directly to the bank accounts o f eligible U p s , through a
         Nationalized Commercial Bank(NCB). A UpResolution will be submittedto LGD andthe NCB
         outlining procedures, service standards, costs, penalties and reporting requirements in such a
         mannerthat the IDA can monitor the timely transfer of funds to the bank accounts ofUps. Ups
         receiving the existing, non-IDA financed block grant will continue to receive those allocations
         through the existing disbursement system, allowing for a comparison of the efficiency o f each
         modality.

         Block Grants. The core fiscal transfer i s the block grant. The program will expand the block
         grant available to UPSin a phased manner, in terms of both the U p s that receive the grant
         (subject to achievingpredefined eligibility criteria) andthe size of the grant, as shown inTable 1,
         below.

InTaka                                                                    Projec mplementatior Ieriod
                            FY04         FYO516         FY06'I        FY078         FYO819        FYO9110       FYlOlll
Numberof eligible UPS               0             0             0         1,000         1,800          3,200         4,300
Grant per ineligibleUPS      200,000        250,000       300,000       300,000       300,000        300,000       300,000
Grant per eligible UPS
...avg                       200,000        250,000       650,000       747,500       859,625        988,569      1,136,854
       per capita for
eligible UPS                        7             8            22             25           29             33             38

Existing ADP Block
Grant (GOBonly)        1,000,000,000   1,200,000,000 1,345,200,000 1,045,200,000  805,200,000    385,200,000    55,200,000
% annual increase                   0          20%           72%           -22%          -23%           -52%          -86%


LGSP Block Grant                    0                           0   747,500,000  1,547,325,000  3,163,420,000 4,888,472,469
... of which GOB                    0                           0   373,750,000   773,662,500   1,581,710,000 2,444,236,234
...ofwhich IDA                      0                           0   373,750,000   773,662,500   1,581,710,000 2,444,236,234
% annual increase                   0                           0              0         707%           704%           55%


Total all grants        1,000,000,000  1,200,000,000 1,345,200,000 1,792,700,000 2,352,525,000  3,548,620,000 4,943,672,469
% annual increase                   0          20%           72%            33%           37%            57%           39%




                                                            33

UPSthat are eligible to receive the block grant will receive an average total block grant
allocation o f Tk650,OOO per year inFY20076108, which will rise to an average o f Tk 1,136,000
by FY2010111. This represents a nominal increase of 15% per annum, which may be
supplementedby inflation adjustments. The block grant will be allocated on a per-capitabasis to
all UPS, with a minimum allocation o f Tk400,OOO per capita to protect UPS with small
populations. Sufficient official data does not exist to allow for amore refinedformula, andthis is
regardedas sufficient to ensure equity inallocations betweenUPS,while retaining the benefits of
simplicity and transparency associated with using a flat rate (as is the case with the existing
block grant). Amendments to the formula will be considered during the mid-term review,
depending on official data availability. A minimum allocation of Tk400,OOO is necessary to
ensurethat even smallUPShave an incentive to seek eligibility for the new grant, andcan deploy
it for useful purposes. It is estimated that, on average, an additional 25% of UPSwill become
eligible from the block grant in each year untilall are eligible (although it is projected that entry
willbe skewedtowards later years ofthe program).

The existing block grant, currently providedto all UPSat a flat rate o f Tk250,OOO per year, will
be phased out over the course of the program. It i s projected that it will rise to Tk300,OOO in
FY2007108 and remains at around this level untilit i s phasedout. This will provide an incentive
to UPSto obtain eligibility for the expanded Block Grant. UPSthat are not able to achieve
eligibility will continue to receive this grant until such time as they are eligible, but will not be
able to revert to it should they fail to retain their status. This old block grant will remain fully
fundedbyGOB.The totalblock grant program is thus projectedto increasebyanaverageo f29%
per annum, with GOB'Scontribution increasinginby 12% per mum. The IDAwill fund 50% o f
the cost o ft h ~ enhancedblock grant to UPS.Boththe old andthe newblock grant programs will
                  s
be managed within the medium term budget framework that is being introduced for the LGD
from FY2007108. The grant programs will be separately and explicitly budgeted for innational
budget documentation over a three-year horizon. Individual allocations will be published in
conjunction with the national budget documentation and widely disseminated. Indicative
allocations of the expanded LGSP block grant to individual UPSfor the forthcoming financial
year will be made available to UPS in April of each year, following their application for
prequalification based on meeting the eligibility criteria outlined in the table below. This will
allow them to include projected grant revenues in the preparation of their annual budgets.
EligibleUPSwill receive training (see Component 3) infinancial management andprocurement
procedures prior to receiving the grant. A final allocation will be confirmed subject to the
preparation o f the UP budget through an open process, and announced shortly after the approval
of the national budget.Eligibility for the block grant will be earned and retained on the basis o f
the following criteria, which will be assessedannually.

 Criteria                      Indicator                         Documentationrequired from W
 Official UP bank account*     Existence o f officialbank a/c    Details o fbank account
 Staff capacity*               Post o fUP Secretary filled       Name o f UP secretary
                               Attendance at LGSPFMI             Evidenceone UP member or staff
                               procurement training              having attended LGSP training
 Unqualifiedfinancial          Independent audit undertaken      Request for audit submittedbyUP
 assurancefor the previous     andno financial irregularities    Audit report with opinion
 financial year*               identified



                                                   34

Annual budget for the           Annual budget approved by UP      Copy o fbudgetwith minutesI
 forthcoming financial year     council inopen public meeting     register of openbudget meetings



In addition to the above eligibility requirements, UPS will be required to hold quarterly
community meetings for planning and budgeting, publicly and regularly disclose Up level and
project specific information, and submit timely quarterly reports to LGD. Compliance will be
verified in the course o f the annual independent assurance process, with default linked to the
withdrawal o f eligibility to receive future releaseso f the block grant (see Component 2). Failure
to submit in-year reports will be measured on a 6-monthly basis, and linked to the delay in the
releaseo ftransfers. The risks ofmisuse or inappropriate use o fresourceswill be addressedunder
Component 2, through requirements for participatory local planning, open budgeting, approval,
auditing and environmental and social management processes, complemented by central
oversight. Component 3 provides support to UPSto build adequate fiduciary safeguards in the
preparationo f accounts and financial statements o f expenditures and auditing ofrecords.

Scheme approvals will be decentralized to UPS,but they will be required to introduce a high
level of transparency in their operations through verifiable and regular reporting to ward
meetings and the central government. The grant may not be used without the completion of an
environmental and social screening, using the formats specified inthe Environment and Social
Management Framework., whereupon UPS must not elect to undertake projects that have
significant negative environmental or social impacts or require private land acquisition.
Compliance will be reported inquarterly, and reviewedannually as part o f the independentaudit
process. Expenditures under the block grants will not be restricted by any additional condition
other than:
a) those impliedby existing legislation related to the functional domain o f UPS(as specified in
     the Local Govemment Acts, as amendedfrom time to time)
b) The grant may not be used to fund salaries, wages or allowances of staff or elected
     representatives,
c) The grant may not be usedfor items identifiedon the negative list inthe Environmental and
     Social ManagementFramework


Compliance with grant procedures and conditions will be monitored through the in-year and
annual reporting cycles, and monitored by LGD. As the enforcement o f compliance is essential
to the operation of key incentives for accountability inthe program, any non-compliance by U p s
with grant conditions will result inthe application of a clear set o fpredefined sanctions relatedto
the delay or withholding o f grant releases, as shownbelow:
                  Trans~ression                                       Sanctionapplied

Adverse or disclaimed audit opinion                I Block Grant withheld with immediate effect, until
                                                     query i s resolved
                                                     Civil and criminal proceedings launched as
                                                    appropriate,     following   final audit   findings
                                                     (including appeals)
                                                      Misappropriated fmds to be repaid to LGD
                                                    through the UP


                                                  35

                                                  Names o f UPS published by LGD in national
                                                  media
                                                  Inaddition, theIDAmayrequire:
                                                   -   the permanent disqualification of the UP from
                                                   -   the LGSP
                                                       Prosecution o f UP officials identified in audit
                                                       report.
Failure to produce evidence o f an open budget Block Grantnot allocated for forthcoming year
(budget document and evidence of open budget
meeting)
Failure to submit complete quarterly report       Delay in transfer double the length of the delay in
                                                  the receipt o fthe complete report
Failure to holdrequiredward meetings              Withholding of transfer
Failure to comply with Environmental and Social Block grant not allocated for the forthcomingyear
Management Framework

Performance Grant. The Performance Grant will be allocated simultaneously with, but
separately from, the Block Grant. It will be available to eligible UPSonly, and initially based on
their year-on-year improvement in holding tax revenues, in order to protect and increase the
fiscal effort of UPS.The calculation o f allocations will be measured from information in the
Annual Financial Statementsof the UPSandverified duringthe annual audit process. An. average
allocation o f Tk 200,000 will be budgeted for from the 2008109 financial year. No additional
spending restrictions will be placed on the use of the performance grant other than those
associatedwith the block grant, although as a UP revenue source its allocation must be made in
the annual UP budget process. LGD will manage the calculation, allocation, publication and
disbursement o f both grants, based on eligibility and compliance information received from the
C&AG andthe monitoring cell within the Ministry.

Component2: InstitutionalizingAccountability(US$3.2 million)

The program seeks to institutionalize accountability into existing systems based on a set of
incentives associated with the expanded Block Grant, and complemented by mandatory
disclosure by UPS to both communities and to higher tiers o f government. Regular open
meetings, public disclosure and regular reporting will be at the core o f the local participatory
process and will be conditions o f block grant release. The project places the onus o f
accountability on the UPS.Inaddition, the project supports capacity buildingat several levels in
order to institutionalize and absorb the message o f accountability and the means by which it is
implemented. Resources will also be provided to assess the impact o f various activities in the
project and the degree to which the objective o f accountability is achieved. Inherent in the
implementation of the accountability framework i s that it will alter the nature o f institutions.
This expectedly gradual and incremental transformation will take place through modificationsin
bothrelationships andprocedures.

Relationships: The project aims not only to enhance local resources, but also to make planning,
budgeting, procurement and expenditure more efficient, transparent and accountable. In this
pursuit,the keyrelationship that is sought to be affected is that betweenUPSandthe citizens that




                                                36

elect them. However, in achieving this, certain components of Ups' relationship with the tiers
above will undergoinevitable redefinitionandchange.

Procedures: The project marks a shift in the way core business is conducted. The crux o f this
shift i s the requirement o f regular and accurate flow o f information and public disclosure to
citizens andto highertiers o f government. Thus, standardfinancial managementprocedures like
financial reporting and audit that constitute the core o f project monitoringwill have an aspect of
accountability built into their design. A new conception of monitoring links upward with
downward monitoringthrough complementary processes.

Sub-Components
Reporting and Monitoring. The project will strengthen existing requirements for monitoringo f
U p s byhighertiers of government, while making some keymodifications which will include:
e   Revised and modifiedreporting format to include a quarterlyreport on the block grant. The
     format will include financial, procurement and environmental and social management
    reporting as well as report on open meetingsheld inthe last quarter and certificationthat the
     quarterly report is displayed on the UP notice board. The report would be signed by the
     Chairman, Secretaryand one womanmember on a rotating basis.
a    Rigorous enforcement o f the reporting cycle: The release o f successive installments o f the
     block grant wouldbe contingent uponreceipt o fregular quarterly reports by a specified date.
e    Reportingchannel: The current system o freporting is basedon the utilization of fhds on a
     project basis to the UNO. The revised format will report on receipt and expenditures on the
     block grant, as well as procurement, environmental and social screening activities. Three
     copies o f the quarterly reports, one each addressedto the LGD, the UNO and a third for the
     community notice board will be generated. A simplified format for quarterly reports will be
     developed. The MonitoringCell o f LGD will process the next tranche o f the grant based on
     the second and fourth quarter reports, unless they see irregularities inthe report. The UNO
     will have 15 days to record objections on eachreportingcycle basedonhis assessment. The
     seriousness o f the UNO'Sobjections will be evaluatedby the NPD and suitable action taken.
     Incase of allegations of criminal misconduct coming from any source (whether public or
     private) in the expenditure of the block grant, the NPD will immediately initiate civil or
     criminal action as per the provisions ofthe Act.
a    Training: The capacity building phase would train and orient UP members, staff and
     communities (e.g. SIC members) and launch a publicity campaign for the community about
     the block grant and its conditions and the new reporting requirements. Lack o f clarity and
     training hasbeen an important determinant o fhitherto poor compliance
a    Monitoring, Inspection and Evaluation (MIE): The MIS in the MIE wing in LGD will be
     strengthenedthrough the provision o f technical assistance in the development of software,
     data entry andanalysis. The MIEwing will also beresponsible for determining eligibility of
     the entrants into the block grant program. It will maintain a comprehensive database of the
     data available from in-year reports and the annual reports o f the UPS and ensure public
     access to the databy uploading it on to its website. Inaddition, an annual report basedon the
     reports received duringthe year will be prepared.

Audit Strategy, Integrating social accountability assurance into the financial and procurement
assurance i s a key innovation o f the project and the means by which accountability permeates



                                                 37

and is integrated into existing procedures and practices. Its role in making auditors aware of
requirements o f transparency inaddition to financial proprietyis also expectedto be salutary for
local governance. Independent external audits on a regular and timely basis will play a major
role in ensuring the integrity of the public financial management and procurement systems o f
UPS,as well as increatingandsustaining arobust accountability framework.

The C&AG has the mandate for the external audit of public sector entities, but due to capacity
and resource constraints has not been able to carry out the annual external audit of UPSon a
regular and timely basis. The project proposes to introduce timely, universal audits to provide
financial, social, procurement and environmental assurance by forging a partnership among
LGD, C&AG, and the ICAB. The LGD incollaboration with the C&AG has prepared an Audit
Strategy for the implementation o f this public-private partnership. The Audit Strategy lays out
the details o f the implementation arrangements and the arrangements for the dissemination,
follow up and quality control of the audit process. The Audit Strategy i s includedinthe Project
Implementation Manual (PIM)

The annual external audits o fthe eligible UPSwill be carried out by chartered accountants under
the project. The primary objective of the audit will be to provide financial assurance on the
annual statements of the UP. In addition, the audit will also provide limited assurance on the
UP'Sprocurement activities, its compliance with transparency and participation requirements,
aridthe environmental and social management framework. The auditor will be requiredto form
an audit opinion ( UnqualifiedlQualified ("except for")/Adverse) or express a disclaimer of
opinion, andpresent the audit report to the local community inperson inan open meeting o f the
UP and consider the comments received from the meeting. The Audit Section of LGD will
segregatethe audit opinions into unqualified opiniondqualified ("except for")/ Adverse opinions,
or disclaimers o f opinion . It will then review the audit opinions and inparticular the qualified
opinions, adverseopinions and disclaimer ofopinions expressedbythe auditor anddecide on the
follow uphemedial actions ina time bound manner so that the results of the review are linkedto
the disbursementcycle. The Audit Section will submit a report to the National Program Director,
LGSP on the audit opinions and the remedial actions. UPSwith Adverse Audit Opinions or
having a disclaimer of opinion from the auditor will not be eligible to continue to receive block
grants under the program, until an unqualified opinion is received. The National Program
Director will review these reports in consultation with the Program Steering Committee, will
decide on the continuing eligibility o fthe UPSto receiveblock grants under the project.

The C&AG will ensure the quality and integrityof the audit process through the Audit Quality
Assurance (AQA) cell within itself An annual sample o f approximately 20% o f the audits
conducted o f eligible UPSwill be subject to a professional review by the AQA Cell. These
sample reviews will be conducted randomly on the basis o f audit documentation and field spot
checks, with half of the UPSnotified in advance o f the financial year o f their selection, and the
other half notified at the closure o f the financial year. The review i s intended to appraise the
audit methodology employed to ensure the integrity of the audit process, as well as obtain more
detailed information on compliance with program requirements and issues faced in their
implementation. The AQA Cell will conduct this review in a time-bound manner, and will be
able to contract in additional expertise necessary to introduce modem audit practices, social




                                                38

evaluation andprocurement monitoring. The AQA Cell will prepareareport basedon the review
andsubmititto the C&AG, who will share itwithLGD

Participation and Public Disclosure. LGSPprovides a vehicle to strengthen communityvoice at
the local level, At the core of community participation is regular and reliable flow o f information
to the community. The IEC strategy is an important part o f this process, as is the core training
for UP officials, which will make various stakeholders aware of participatory methods and
disclosure requirements (both programmed under Component 3). Specific requirements for
public disclosure are indicated in the audit strategy and monitoring procedures. In particular,
three major elements o f participation and disclosure are requiredin the project: open meetings,
UP level notice boards and signboards displaying infor~ationof each infrast~~turescheme.

Block Grant Coordination Committee (BGCC): A BGCC will be formed at the Upazila level,
comprising UP chairmen, the UNO and Upazila level officers. The UNO would convene and
chair monthly meetings o f the BGCC. The BGCC meetings will have a threefold role - (a) to
facilitate the UNO'Sassessment o f the progress o f the block grant inall UPSinthe Upazila and
provide a forum for the UNO'Sguidance and support to the UPS;(b) a forum for peer exchange
and learning, and (c) an avenue for grievance redress and for sharing information. The UNO'S
reports to the LGD on the block grants will also be tabled before the committee. Specific TOR
would be drawn up for the BGCC.

Grievances redress avenuesfor citizens. Citizens will have three avenues to seek redressincase
all safeguards and checks built in to ensure accountability fail: (i)Open ward or UP meetings;
(ii)Meeting o f the Block Grant Coordinating Committees, which will be held bi-annually in
different UPSon a rotational basis; and (iii) complaint to UNO, DC or LGD. It is
                                                 Written
expected that transparency at the UP level andpeer pressurefiom other UPSwill reduce the risk
o f major mismanagement of funds. In such cases the DC, UNO or independent audit team can
investigate and send recommendation to LGD. These activities are intended to complement
existing programs by NGOs that already mobilize communities to engage their UPSindecision-
making and performance review. Forums and information flows to communities that are
mandatory inthe LGSP are intended to provide opportunities for communities to increase their
level o f engagement, basedon the growth inthe resourcesunder uf control. The efficacy o fthis
strategy will be closely monitored and evaluated during implementation, with mid-course
corrections introduced as necessary.

Component3: SupportingCoreLGCapacityDevelopment(US$16.4 million)

This project component will provide information and support to the various actors involved in
block grant implementation, in particular, and local PEM, in general, and will assist GOBin
developing a capacity building framework which will adequately meet emerging nationwide
local government capacity development needs.        Activities under this component will focus
primarilyon informing the generalpublic andU p s about the conditions of access to and use of
block grants, and will also supply quality core training around the local Public Expenditure
Management (PEM) cycle,          In addition, peer learning activities across participating local
govemments will be implemented. Finally, LGSP will also directly strengthen the capacity o f
GOBinstitutions - such as LGD, C&AG, NILG, and local officials (UNOs) - to implement the



                                               39

reform process. LGD would be directly responsible for the management o f procurement and
funds inthis Component, with NILG acting as the execution arm for managing implementation
o f activities and would coordinate with LGD in monitoring progress. An implementation
agreement based on performance benchmarks for NILG and LGD will establish a
coordinatiodwork-plan framework which will enable both parties to monitor the progress o f
implementation by specifgng clear indicators relatedto NILG's activities andperformance. This
component will consist o fthe following sub-components:

Info~ution,Education & C o ~ ~ ~ n ~ c u(IEC): nThe objective o f this sub-component is to
                                                     t i ~   s
provide basic information to all UPS,local government officials, communities and civil society
on the size and conditions o f access to the UP block grants. The IEC campaign will providethe
UPSandlocalofficials (UNOs, Upazilaofficers, membersofthe UpazilaResourceTeam(URT))
with detailed information on the rules andprocedures for compliance, via internal channels and
guidelines. LGSP-supported IEC activities will also inform cornunities and the general public
about the block grant provisionlconditions,                citizen's      entitlements to participate in
planninglmonitoring processes and also the list of eligible UPS in a given year.                       LGD in
cooperation with NILG will coordinate IEC implementation through selected service providers:
various media, NGOs, private communications companies, internal government channels, URT,
etc. This core information package will be disseminated nationally every year. Additional IEC
activities on the conditions o f access to and outcomes of the performance grant will be designed
and undertaken in year two of the project. In addition, a series of sub-district level workshops
will be heldannually to ensure the project launch, informationdissemination andproject follow
upby all the stakeholders(District Staff, selectedUpazilaofficers, selectedUP staff, URT, etc.),
this will act bothas a mean for assistingproject launching as well as a mechanism enabling local
stakeholders to discuss project progress. Resources will be provided to support the IEC
campaigns. Activities will include: (i)    Designo f the IEC material andcore message; (ii)              training
of trainers for service providers;(iii) mediacampaign; and(iv) assessment o f IEC outcomes,

Supply of Core Trainingto LGsfor block grunt i~ple~entution:                 The aim ofthis sub-component
will be to develop of a range of skills courses that cover the core needs of newly eligible (or
qualified) UPS,related to the MinimumMandatory Conditions o f access to and management of
the Block Grants. Inorder to provide a minimumlevel o f standardization andharmonization for
the process, LGDthrough NILGwill coordinate a network o f localtrainers (training institutions,
NGOs, private firms) and sensitize UPSon the availability of training courses and providers.
The core curriculum will bedividedinto 3 basic modules:

        Module                                               Core Content
 1:LGSPcode&f&fC             Conditions for eligibility -4 basic criteria clearly explained (bank account, staffiig,
o f access to the BG         financial assurance, openbudget)
                         e   Conditions attached to use of LGSP block grants (planning andbudgeting process,
                             appraisal requirements, procurement procedures)
                         e   Reporting and other requirements for LGSP (quarterly reports, audits, BGCC, etc.)
                             Capacitybuildingcommitments upon entry into LGSP block rantscheme
                             Process for applying for inclusion inLGSP block grant scheme (resolution, letter o f
                             application, addressto sendto)
2: LocalPEM 1(UP             Localplanning process -actors and stakeholders listingholes
planningand                  Indicative localplanningcalendar andprocess -synthesis o f steps
                             Step by step description (including elements on public disclosure of information,


                                                      40

budgeting)                   openmeetings, ward functions, etc.)
                             Planning tools and formats (for guiding consultations, for prioritization, etc.)
                             Appraisal and screening tools (for ensuring ESMF compliance as well as other
                             feasibility criteria [e.g. economic sustainability, O&M considerations, etc.])
                             Simple design and costingtechniques
                             Planning andbudgeting(budget formats, disclosure requirements, etc.)
                             Budget approval process (open meeting, UP meeting, etc.)
3: LocalPEM2 Cup             Implementation actors and stakeholders
implementation and           Indicative implementationcalendar and steps
reporting)                   Fundflow processandrequirements
                             Procurementprocedures andformats (thresholds, procurement methods,
                             stakeholders, etc.)
                             Disbursement procedures (contract management, advances, etc.)
                             Accounting procedures (recording transactions, book-keeping, etc.)
                             Rqorting procedures and formats (by whom, what, how, to whom and when)
                             Scheme implementationarrangements (notice boards, social audit, monitoring and
                             supervision, etc.)
                             Hand-over arrangements(official completion, O&M arrangements, etc.)

These training modules will be dispensed to all eligible UPSand will be mandatory to access the
Block Grant. However, additional training modules will be prepared and dispensed to better
performingUPS.Refresher trainingmodules will also be proposed annually to identified"under-
performing" UPS participating to the LGSP in order to allow them to remain eligible and
improve their performance. Activities will include: (i)              preparation o f the core training and
refresher modules; (ii)  training o f trainers for delivering the core training curriculum and peer
learning activities; and (iii)   conduct an evaluation survey o f the capacity building service
providers.

Peer Learning and review activities: The aim o f this sub-component i s to develop a cross
district peer review process, through which selected UP members will review and assess the
performance of UPSin neighboring districts. Peer learning activities will be dispensed annually
to all eligible UPSby the selected regional providers. This activity will be offered along the
training services as "hand on" capacity developmentand will contribute to reinforce gradually a
comunity o f practice among participating UPS.Inaddition, LGSP will also support a Block
Grant CoordinatingCommittee (BGCC), made of UPSthat are eligible for access to LGSP-
fimded fiscal transfers, to organize monthly open meetings for peer learning and knowledge
sharing and improvingtransparency at UP level. A provision for a UP performance award will
be made to provide an incentive for the peer reviewers. Activities will include: (i)                identification
of the regionalhhematic service providers; (ii)           training of trainers; (iii)  implementation o f the
peer learning process and evaluation ofthe peer learning activities; (iv) launch and facilitation of
BGCC; (v) study tours; and(v) provisionofperformance fund to rewardhighperformers.

Capacity Building at the national level: This component will provide support to the LGD, NILG
and C&AG in overall coordination, implementation, monitoring and evaluation as well as to
provide mentoring and backstopping functions in key central support activities such as
assessment o f the UP performance, the review and control o fthe transfer system, monitoring and
capacity development o f Deputy Directors of Local Government (DDLGs), UNOs and other
officers at Upazila level, andquality assurance of audit reports:



                                                        41

   Audit of the UPS. LGSP will provide resources to carry out audits of the accounts of all
   eligible UPSunderthe project with capacity buildingassistanceinareas like modem auditing
   techniques and practices as well as modules on specific technical topics. The Audit Quality
   Assurance cellwithin C&AG will verify the CA's audits on a sample basis to ensurethat the
   audits are conducted according to established audit standards and procedures, The Quality
   Assurance cell will be provided with capacity building assistance and exposure to
   international best practices, and will be able to contract in support to conduct sample audits
   of 20% o f eligible UPSineachfinancial year.
   Financial Management. Technical assistance will be provided under the project to support
   LGD in the implementation of any capacity development activities identified by the
   institutional and financial management assessment and in the areas o f the revision of codes,
   procedures and functions regarding financial management, audit, procurement and
   monitoringofUP budgetsandblock grant transfers.
   Procurement capacity building. LGSP will support the harmonization o f procurement
   regulations andpractices of LGswith those of central government. This is to be achieved by
   the revision o f the O M within the framework o f the PPR, 2003. The OM would introduce
   slight modifications to the existing Block Grant manual on procurement inorder to ensure
   consistency with the PPR. The procurement implementation arrangements will be
   communicated to the target trainees (LG leadersloffice-bearers, and other concerned people
   inthe fieldline ofoperationsandimplementation) throughthe core trainingmodules for UPS
   (Local PEM 2). Technical assistance will be provided under the project to support the
   procurement performance o fGOBcounterparts.
   Support to project management:            Resources will be provided towards office and
   administrative expenses to support LGD and C&AG inoverall coordination, implementation,
   project audits, monitoringandevaluation.
   Specialist technical assistance: Resources will beprovidedto LGD and NILGinthe design
   and implementation of monitoring and evaluation activities. . A MIS specialist and data
   entry operators will be provided to support the development o f software, data entry and
   analysis for the MIE wing. In addition, provision o f an MIS international expert and MIS
   software development will be available. To assist the preparation and the implementation o f
   outsourced capacity support activities, a capacity building specialist and punctual technical
   assistance for the IEC activities will bemade available to NILG.

Component 4: PerformanceReview and Policy Development (USS2.7 million)
The goal o f this component i s to improve GOB'Sability to make use of data inits policy analysis
and formulation. There are two major subcomponents to achieve this goal. First, a formal
evaluation ofthe impact of the block grant andthe extension ofthe Sirajganj model as part o f the
parallel-financed LIC component. Second, there will be a large variety o f monitoring data
generatedby the project throughits quarterly and annual financial flow, procurement, social and
environmental audits. This data needs to be collated, organized, put in a usable electronic form
and analyzed in order to make it useful in practice. There also needs to be institutional
arrangements for "digesting" this information and using it as an aid to decision-making by the
Steering Committee.

Formal evaluations of project components. The first sub-component supplementsprojectwork
on accountability by doing detailed analyses o f key performance indicators that must be



                                                42

collected from household surveys and therefore are too expensiveto be done on a routine basis.
Formal evaluations o f policies are intended to assist in making mid-course corrections to the
design of the program and to lay the empirical groundwork for its possible future expansion.
Further,while there are lessonsto be learnedwithin the context ofthis particular program, there
are many other activities surrounding local governance inBangladesh and around the world that
should be used to learn more about the promise and the problems o f decentralized service
delivery.

For the formal evaluation o f the block grant, three rounds o f surveys are proposed- at baseline,
at mid-term and at the end o f the project period. The baseline survey will be composed o f
sections for households and for communities andwill be undertakenprior to the disbursement o f
moneyto UPS.This is currently scheduledfor May o f2007 to coincide with the budgetcycle and
follow closely behind the period in which participatory planningmeetings would be held. This
type of analysis i s technically demanding but there are many organizations in Bangladesh with
this capacity. It will be necessary to contract out the surveys both to take advantage o f this
capacitybut also to maintainindependencefrom implementing agencies.

The focus of household surveys is to determine: (i)how many people attend community
meetings andhowthey differby socio-economic status, gender andother potentialdimensions of
social exclusion; (ii) what are the preferences over alternative patterns of public spending by
people o fdifferent backgrounds andhow do these comparewith decisions actually taken byUPS;
and (iii) satisfaction with services. As a by-product of the household surveys, the
          current
employment patterns, income, gender composition, inter alia, of people will be measured. The
community survey at baseline will determine: (i) cost o f recently constructed infrastructure
                                                    the
and other public services delivered inthe selected villages; and (ii)"qualitative" analysis of
                                                                        a
patterns o fpower relationships withinthe village.

The follow-up survey will compare those UPSthat have received the block grant with those that
continue to have public expenditures undertaken by higher tiers of government on the same
variables as at baseline. Questions that can be answered include: (i)Does the increase in
resources under the discretion o f the UP increase peoples' participation inpublic meetings? (ii)
Do poor people, women and other ofbexcluded groups attend such meetings more or less with
the change? and (3)How does the change in spending procedures influence satisfaction with
andthe cost ofservices?

The evaluation as described is substantially different then those which focus on ultimate
outcomes such as higher incomes, better health and money or time savings from infiastructure.
This is for two main reasons. First, the amount o f the loan per recipient i s very small -
approximately 10 cents per capita. Therefore, "outcomes" or "outputs" or "services" will
necessarily be very modest. Line ministry budgets are several orders o f magnitude higher than
this grant so even if a UP concentrated on only one sector, the impact of the additional funding
would be very small and hard to detect. The loan's contribution is to increase the amount of
genuinely untied discretionary spending o f the UPSby a substantial amount, not the overall
amounts spent inthe UP by agencies. Hence the emphasis on what they do with the money and
how well this reflects citizens' preferencesrather than true outcomes,




                                                43

Second, the relevant counterfactual o f the loan is spending by line ministries as per status quo
not that the money fails to be spent at all. The cost and quality of infrastructure or small repairs
to schools and clinics done via this loan should be better than those done through normal
channels. This could be picked up in the monitoring data but could also be left to the three
surveys. Related, more careful random financial audits o fthe project (andnon- project) activities
will beusedto compare "leakage" incommunity-led versus lineagency activities.

Routinemonitoringwill be able to tell how manypeople attendmeetings but only the household
surveys will be able to identify who these people are and if they represent groups that are
frequently excluded from public decision-making. Ifthere is a problemwith inclusion, the mid-
term round o fthe survey will allow mid-course modifications inprogram design. Monitoring and
audit data will be analyzed alongside the survey data. This will help determine ifmore regular
meetings, larger meetings, more conscientious use o f signboards, higher quality financial audits
(above the minimum threshold for project compliance) or other regularly monitored variables
can serve as reliable measuresof ultimate objectives such as satisfaction with services or higher
quality (or lower cost) o fconstruction.

Later recipients of the block grant will serve as a comparison or "control" group for the early
recipients. To the extent that any o fthe project inputs (such as facilitationinauditingaccounts or
in IEC coverage) need to be rationed because of resource or implementation constraints, it is
proposed that the rationing be done on a random basis rather than by administrative decision.
This will protect the program from accusations of political interference by using a selection
process based on pure chance via a lottery. It will also serve as "best practice" in evaluation
design as the random assignment will allow for wider generalizations to be made from project
results.

Evaluation o f other decentralization efforts will also be included inthis component. The project
will fund a similar evaluation for other on-going projects. In particular, the project will
collaborate with the proposed expansion o f the UNCDF Sirajganj program to five new districts.
The emphasis o f this sub-component is to find out how much of the facilitation to UPSthat the
original program in Sirajganj was necessary and whether some parts o f this facilitation can be
reduced. The five new districts will have varying modalities o f help provided to the UPSand
independent measureso f their relative effectiveness will contribute to the ability to scale-up this
form of intervention as capacity constraints to such support may interfere with larger programs.
The same methodology as described insub-component 1will be used but with substantial over-
sampling in the six (Sirajganj plus five) districts. The evaluation o f the Social Protection
component o f this project is discussed separately as the methodology for sampling and for
questionnaire design are quite different andcomponent specific.

LGDcapacityfor policy analysis:A wide variety ofinformationis becoming available, or will.
become available as a result of the project, on the effectiveness o f local decision making. There
i s the Sirajganj project and its evaluations (done by UNDPlLTNCDF itself as well as by
independentagencies such as the ADB), the extension to the five new districts, the evaluation of
the block grant inthis project, the collationo fmonitoringinformationthat also is included inthis
project as well as a variety of studies inBangladesh and internationally. Absorbing the lessons
fi-om so many examples and sources o f data i s a new role for the LGD. This sub-component



                                                 44

proposes three activities. First it will support the LGD make policy decisions basedon this wide
range o f information. The second activity is to provide technical assistance to help with writing
terms o f reference for relevant studies as requested by the LGD (or as recommended by
stakeholders in the annual workshops / seminars) and to develop enough in-house capacity to
"digest" the informationinorder to contribute useful inputs to the workshops / seminars. Third,
wide dissemination o f the results o f all such studies is essential for stimulatinginformedpublic
debate on decentralization issues. Therefore, the project will also fimd this dissemination through
a variety o f means. One i s to find a form o f information dissemination that can be usedby the
UPSto see how their experience compares to similar UPS.A second is to fund a series of
workshops and seminars that brings the lessonsto awide rangeo f stakeholders,

Hence, "policy analysis" comes to include a wide variety o f actors. The LGD and concerned
elements o f civil society will benefit from the results o f the various studies in debates about
overall policy direction. More importantly, the UPSand the public at large will benefit from the
comparison o f their own experience with those inUPSin the sample survey to see if there i s a
deficiency in their measures to assure inclusion or if the efficiency of their spending can be
improved.

Implementation o f this component overall is, intertwinedwith component 3. In-house capacity
will take time to develop but simple aspects of management such as writing TOR'S for the
formal evaluation will be addressed with technical assistance for the procurement specialist as
per component three. Substantial help fkom IDA (including models for the survey instruments
andadvice onsampling) willbegivenduringsupervision.

Component 5: Social Protection Pilot (US$2.1 million)
The objective of this component is to pilot a program o f conditional fiscal grants for safety nets
to be implementedina limited number o f UPS.Safety nets have been chosen becausethe global
experience in safety nets indicates that this is an area which i s best financed centrally but
implementedlocally. InBangladesh this fact is already acknowledged inpractice as beneficiary
selection in existing centrally controlled safety net programs uses local governments for
beneficiary selection but then keeps the final choice in the hand o f central ministries. The
experience of conditional fiscal grants insafety net programming can open the door inthe future
for further conditional fiscal grants inother areas where UPShave a comparative advantage.

Bangladesh currently has a range o f safety net programs aimed at different risk groups and
administered througha number o f lineministries. Evaluation studies o fthese programspresent a
mixedpicture on their impact. The programs reach only a fractiono f those inneed and are often
poorly targeted with high levels o f leakage. LGSP offers an opportunity to introduce two well-
designed and better targeted safety net programs in some UPSas a precursor to a larger project
planned for preparation starting spring o f 2007. The programs will be so designed as to have
built-inincentives for goodperformance. Inparticular, funds for the programwill bereleasedin
a predictable and timely fashion to scheme providers (the UP) through a conditional fiscal
transfer, on the same timeji-ame as other transfers inthe program. A separate operating manual
will beprepared for this component, which will be specifically targeted at beneficiary UPS.The
UPSwill implementthe programaccording to its design parameters. The first year grant will be
given on a flat rate basis. A performance incentive will kick in the following year with the



                                                  45

performancebasedproportionrisingannually. The h d swill be conditional uponbeing spent on
agreed schemes with a pre-determined targeting formula.           For this purpose, vulnerable
householdswill be grouped into two types: those who cannot andshould not work, andwhere no
able-bodied unskilled labor is available for work, and households inwhich able-bodied labor i s
available for work. The former will receive a cash grant if such householdsare not currently in
receipt o f any other publicly or privately supported cash assistance. For the latter group o f
households, apublic workfare fare program will be introduced.

SeZection of the UPS. The pilot UPSwill be in Sirajganj district where there already have been
capacity buildingprograms. The following poverty indicators --illiteracy, absence o f a sanitary
toilet, and lack o f electrical connection, and the proportion o f landless laborers to total
population -will beusedto construct a composite index o fvulnerability at the UP level. To this
will be added the information on the ranks obtained inperformance criteria developed by the
DGLG. Using both these sets o f information, a list of eligible UPSwill be drawn based on a
combination o f highest vulnerability ranking and highest management scores. From this list,
those UPSwhich are currently beingassistedbyvarious programs will be excluded.

Performance Grants. Duringthe first year, selectedUPSwill be given the grant based on their
population. From Year 2 a proportion of the grant will be given conditioned on attainment of
targets in the preceding year.     During Year 2, the performance component will be lo%,
increasing to 20% inYear 3, 30% in Year 4 and 40% inYear 5. The eligibility criteria for the
performance grant will include number of beneficiaries reached the rapidity with which
payments are received bybeneficiaries, and an assessment o fwhether the actualbeneficiaries are
the target group.

Program choice. There will be two safety net program choices: (i) trunsfers which are
                                                                       Cash
usually the preferred choice especially for households with no adult labor for work, such as
women with many children, widows, and the disabled. Such householdswill normally not be in
a position to engage inprograms such as food-for-work or other income-earning activities. Cash
transfers, however, are open to abuse more than other programs ifnot targeted well andbasedon
transparent criteria. (ii) worh$are is the preferred choice where communities inthe past
                         Public
did not enjoy the opportunity to select project'activities that are of immediate importance to
communities, adult male labor i s available for work in poor households, and where seasonal
shortfalls in employment are pervasive. InBangladesh, several workfare programs have been
implemented including food-for-work and cash-for-work, such as the Rural Maintenance
Program @NIP).       However, evaluations have shown these programs to suffer from serious
leakages. One of the main reasons for poor performance o f public works programs i s that they
are generally implemented by contractors with little involvement o f communities. Under this
project, the plannedpublic workfare will be cash-wage-based and community-driven. It will be
implemented by the UPSwith significant community oversight and involvement in decision-
makingat all stages.

Level of benefits. Under the cash transfers, the proposed level o f benefit i s equal to those being
offered under the current disabilityprogram. Adopting a scale o f benefit (US$2.15 or Taka 150
per month) for this component that i s currently being used for the disabled will avoid confusion
at the level of implementers (i.e. UPS). Inaddition a small benefit will not create a future fiscal
burden as we want these transfers to be replicated by the Government.            Under the public


                                               46

workfare, the benefit will be based on the local wage rate for unskilled day labor. The RMP
wage rate will be used because it has proven to be sustainable can be used as an acceptable
benchmark, and research has shown that the RMP program has played an important role in
reducingpoverty inBangladesh.

Targeting criteria. Bangladeshhasrich andvariedexperienceintargeting programs to identified
vulnerable groups. UPSin particular have a lot of experience in targeting since they have
worked with many programs. For purposes o f beneficiary selection, objective indicator-based
targeting (sometimes called proxy means testing) will be used to increase transparency.
However, the list o f selectedbeneficiaries ina village obtained from the proxy means test (PMT)
will be finalized after a community meeting to reduce both inclusion and exclusion errors. The
indicators selected are based on past experience by govemment and NGOs and are found to be
statistically significant predictors of poverty in a PMT test conducted for a health project. A
two-stage processwill be followed byidentifylngbeneficiaries for bothprograms. The first stage
will use a single indicator -- whether or not a householdhas adult labor available for work. The
households will be divided into two non-intersecting sets of households: those with adult labor
for work -- Set A, and those without available adult labor resources - Set B (mostly single
women with many children, divorcees, widows with young children, and the elderly). Those in
Set B who currently receive cash benefits from the old age program or widows program or the
disability program will be excluded from Set B. The second stage is application o f the proxy
meanstest to bothsets but onlythose from Set Bwill be eligible for cashtransfers. The lists will
be compiled and then discussed in open meetings in each ward. Once the community ward
meetings have ratifiedthe lists, beneficiaries will be finalized. All eligible Set A households that
are selected by this process will be given the chance to benefit by rotating work opportunities
among beneficiaries.

Monitoring and Evaluation. Inorder to double check on the accountability and transparency of
the whole process, the criteria for selection and the individualscores obtained for beneficiaries
and non-beneficiaries will be discussed in community meetings and posted. During the pilot
phase, facilitators will evaluate and make recommendations to discrepancies found in the
process. A complaints cell will be established as part of Component 2 o f LGSP; this will also
serve as a grievance redress mechanism related to the safety net programs for participatingUPS.
Space for complaints will also be discussed at the regular community meetings. Giventhat this
i s a small attempt to assess the feasibility o f letting UPSexercise control over funds in order to
target transfer programs to the very poor, impact evaluation will be relatively simple but will be
supplementedby rigorous, continuous monitoring. The impact assessment will be carried out on
the following: (i)  beneficiaries selected against the targeting criteria; (ii)proportion o f eligible
beneficiaries missed out (exclusion errors); and (iii)     selected household welfare indicators of
families assistedwith similarly placed families inthe control group.




                                                   47

                                      Annex 5: Project Costs
                      BANGLADESH: Local Governance Support Project



 Project Cost By Component                                   Local            Foreign       Total
                                                          U S $millitan U S $million US $million
 1.FiscalTransfers                                           165.5                         165.5
 2. InstitutionalizingLocalAccountability                      3.0                          3.0
 3. Support Core LGCapacity Development                      15.0                0.7        15.7
 4. PerformanceReviewandPolicyDevelopment                      1.2               1.4        2.6
 5. Social Protection Pilot                                    1.7               0.4        2.1

 TotalBaseline Cost                                          186.4               2.5       188.9
  PhysicalContingencies                                        -                 -           -
  Price Contingencies                                          0.9               0.1         1.o
                                  Total Project Costs'       187.3               2.6       189.9
                           Interest duringconstruction         -
                                          Front-endFee         -
~

                           Total FinancingRequired           187.3               2.6       189.9
 Estimatedtaxes account for a very small proportion(about 1.5%) of the total project cost.




                                                  48

                           Annex 6: Implementation Arrangements
                     BANGLADESH: LocalGovernanceSupport Project

NationalProjectlprogram oversight: Inorder to provide for national leveloversight andinter-
institutionalcoordination of the program, forums would beconstituted: atwice yearly
stakeholder workshop l seminar; and anoperational Program Steering Committee, comprising
the relevant heads of departmentlgovement officers directly involved inprogram execution:


0   Program Steering Committee (PSC): The PSC will be chaired by the Secretary, LGD and
    include membership of relevant LGD Units, C&AG, NILG, Finance Division, Planning
    Commission, Implementation Monitoring and Evaluation Department, other relevant
    ministrieslagencies, and development partners. This committee will be responsible for
    overseeing execution, supervision and monitoring of LGSP, in line with the project
    implementation schedule. Its role i s also to providequality controlfor annual work programs
    andbudgets and to facilitate critical day-to-day decisions for the implementation of various
    components.
0   Workshopslseminars will be held annually by the LGD to review progress in strengthening
    local governance. The workshops l seminars will provide an opportunity for govement to
    present progress, monitoring and evaluation reports generated through project activities,
    identify and discuss implementation issues, and receive inputs to the policy making process
    in a manner that encourage broader ownership of the reform program. These events will
    include a broad range o f stakeholders, and be timed to coincide with project supervision
    missions; and

Program Management:          LGD, through the Director General of MIE, will have overall
responsibility for project management, coordination and performance. This unit would take the
lead role inplanning, coordinating and monitoring the activities that are taking place at UP level
and any that require involvement of DistrictlLTpazila officials and staff. Specifically, LGD is
responsible for:
 1. Monitoring and ensuring timely implementation, according to the Project Implementation
    Manual andannual GOBbudgetcycle;
2. Preparingthe annual work planandbudgetfor LGSP;
3.  Operating the Special accounts;
4. Preparingwithdrawal applications for disbursement and forwarding them to IDA;
5.  Maintaining consolidated Project accounts, andarrangingfor annual audits;
6. Monitoringandevaluation project progress;
7. Monitoringandinteracting with NILGand the C&AG; and
8. Preparing quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs),            including information on
    financial execution and activity progress (results indicators) as well as on procurement
    progress in all components o f the project for the current quarter and cumulative for the
    project life.

Key agency roles: Working in coordination with LGD, will be two key government agencies,
with responsibility for key functions of capacity building; IEC; and quality-assured audit
provision:




                                                 49

   ComDtroller and Auditor General (C&AG): C&AG has the mandate for the external audit of
   public sector entities. The C&AG will continue to conduct a regular audit o f UP in
   accordance with their constitutional obligations. Under LGSP, it will serve the key function
   of pre-qualifyinga roster of audit providers, quality assuring UP audits on an annual basis
   and liaising with ICAE3 and LGD on any matters relating to QA. The Audit Quality
   Assurance Cell within the C&AG will undertake a sample check of the audits o f UPSdone
   during the year. The Quality Assurance Cell will present a report on their findings to the
   C&AG, who will share itwith the LGD.

   National Institute for Local Government NILG): NILG i s an institute under LGD, with
   national responsibility for capacity building, training and researchon local govemment. Its
   role under LGSP would be to coordinate, plan, supervise and monitor the outsourcing of
   capacity buildingand IEC activities through regional service providers andother contractors,
   thereby ensuring consistency o f initiatives nationwide, NILG would fidfill a capacity
   building coordination role by maintaining a roster of regional capacity building providers,
   preparing annualplans andbudgets, providingguidanceonhumanresource development and
   capacity building options to UPS,preparing quarterly reports on capacity development
   activities and performance to contribute to LGD's quarterly progress reports, raising public
   awareness on LGSP through coordination o f a public IEC campaign. LGD would be
   responsible for direct management o f procurement and funds under the capacity-building
   supply window, NILG would act as the execution arm for managing implementation of
   activities and would coordinate with LGD in monitoring progress o f the same. An
   implementation agreement based on performance benchmarks for NILG and LGD
   (represented by the DS Upazila and UP, acting as focal point for overall coordination of
   Component 3) will establish a coordinatiodwork-plan framework which will enable both
   parties to monitor the progress of Component 3 implementation by specifying clear
   indicators related to NILG's activities and performance. These indicators will be used to
   monitor progress on the implementation o f activities and to assess the performance o f NILG
   inimplementingthe capacitybuildingcomponent ofLGSP. Two types ofperformance-based
   indicators will be used by LGD and NILG: (i)       Planning/coordination of capacity building
   activities and (ii)Timeliness & quality o f capacity building outputs delivered. Progress on
   those indicators will be reported by NILG to LGD through quarterly reports, linked to
   mutually agreed and regularly up-dated annual work plans. In essence, the coordination
   framework for the LGSP capacity building between NILG and LGD would amount to an
   annual work-planning exercise - to be undertaken by NILG - with work plans (and
   indicators) submitted on anannual andquarterlybasis to LGD for endorsementandapproval.

Implementation Support: LGD and has identified specific focal points for day-to-day
management and coordination of each LGSP component or in-house function. The designated
focal points will be in charge of coordinating, monitoring and reporting on their respective
components-hctions. The focal points will work under and be coordinated by the NPD (DG
MIEWing), with their assignmentsreviewedannually. The identifiedfocal points for the initial
phaseof project implementation are as follows:




                                               50

   LGSPcomponentlfunction                                        FocalpointinLGD
   Component 1-FiscalTransfers                                   DSUzlup
   Component 2 -InstitutionalizingAccountability                 Monitoring: DS Monitoring
                                                                 Audit: DS audit
   Component 3 -Capacity Building                                DSU z mincoordination withNILG
   Component 4 -EvaluationandPolicy Development                  DC Planning
   Component 5 - Social Protection Pilot                         D C Planning
   LearningandInnovation(UNDPEU)                                 D C Planning
   Financial Management                                          CAO
   Procurement                                                   DC Planning

  Inorderto ensuretimely andcoordinatedprogramexecution, strongleadership, cleardesignated
  responsibilities, professional skills andtechnical competencewill be required. LGSP's technical
  assistance and support to LGD for program implementation will thus be tailored to fit into the
  above framework for coordination and management, Strategic technical support i s needed inkey
  institutionallocations where sufficient capacity does not currently exist:


       SubjectArea
 1. FinancialManagement




 2. Procurement



~

\3. Monitoringand




                          months over project period
                          NationalExpert Safety Nets for 6 personmonths    LGD
                          per year
                          3 Facilitator's Full-time serving 5 UPSeach      LGD (Located at Sirajganj Project
                                                                           Office)
                          NationalTechnical Support for Workfare           ContractedbyLGD (located infield)
                          ExternalMonitoring Agency                        ContractedbyLGD at their own




                                                       51

In addition, for Monitoring and Evaluation UNCDFAJNDPlEC will provide 1 Monitoring
Adviser, and 2 Data Entry Operators to support LGSP implementation. Duringthe discussion,
LGDagreedto assignroomsto locatethe agreedTA.

UnionParishads

Union Parishads (UPS) are the only elected rural local government in Bangladesh. The
Constitution o f Bangladesh, in Articles 59 and 60 has laid down a framework concerning local
Government bodies. Article 59 (1) states that: Local Government inevery administrative unit o f
the Republic shall be entrusted to bodies, composed o f persons elected in accordance with law.
Article 59(2) spells out the broad functions o f local government as: (a) administration and the
work o fpublic officers; (b) maintenanceo fpublic order; and (c) preparation and implementation
o f plans relating to public services and economic development. Article 60 stipulates that : "For
the purpose o f giving full effect to the provisions o f article 59 Parliament shall by law, confer
powers on the local Government bodies referred to in that article, including power to impose
taxes for local purposes, to prepare their budgets and to maintain funds". Furthermore, the UP
Ordinance 1983 stipulates roles and functions o f UP. They have 39 functions, which are
executed by 13 Standing Committees. Previously, UPSdid not receive any direct fund from
central government; rather they have had to support Upazila officials for the implementation o f
Annual Development Plan(ADP).

Currently, UPShave on an average 28,800 people and are divided in nine wards. There are 12
elected functionaries at the UP.Elections are held every five years, one chair i s elected from the
whole union, nine members are elected from nine ward and three women members are elected,
each representing three wards. Each union has one secretary, who i s a full time staff. There i s
also 10 support staff - one Dafadar and nine Chowkidars for maintaining law and order,
collectiono ftaxes anddissemination of information. Central government pays 75% of the salary
o f staff, while the rest i s paidthe UP.

In2004, government initiateda direct Block Grantto UPSanddrafted a guideline for managing
the process. Based on the Guideline, the LGSP implementation arrangement at the UP will
require the following: UP to form a minimum o f two committees (a) Scheme Implementation
Committee (SIC), and (b) Scheme Supervision Committee (SSC) in each UP inopen meetings,
where communities will nominate members and will consist of representation from poor,
women, professionals and other groups. However, the UP and community may decide to have
more than one SIC or SSC e.g. one SIC and one SSC for each sub-project'scheme. The UP
Chairman and secretary will not be a member o f any Committee and no one can be members o f
more than one committee. The SIC will be chaired by a ward member, andifthere is more than
one SIC, women ward memberswill chair at least in30% o f SICS.The SSC willbe chairedby a
community member, while membership will include government technical staff (LGEDDPHE,
agriculture and livestock extension workers, teachers, health workers) and members of
community with technical knowledge. Each Committee will have around 719 members. All
schemes o f the UP under the Block Grant will be implemented through the SIC and supported
andmonitored duringimplementationbythe SSC (detailedinAnnex 8, Appendix -I).




                                                 52

LGSP will also support Upazila based Block Grant Coordinating Committees (BGCC), which
will providea forum for peer learning, coordination, and grievancemonitoring. It will consist of
all UP chairs, two women and two general members from each UP and be convened by the
UNO. The UNO will organize six-monthly open meetings on a rotational basis between UP
offices, supportedbyother Upazila-level officials as necessary,
Supportinggovernmentdepartments:

District: TheDeputyCommissioner (DC) is mandatedto support the UPS,andis assistedinthis
work byDeputyDirector-LocalGovernment (DD-LG)-who is anLGD staffmember.

Upazila: The DC usually delegates the UP monitoring responsibility to the Upazila Nirbahi
Officer (UNO). The UNO is assisted in this role by LGD staff working at the Upazila level      -
Local Government EngineeringDepartment (LGED), Department o f Public Health Engineering
(DPHE), Rural Development and Cooperative staff. All LGD staff supports UPSto fulfill their
constitutional roles. For improved coordination o f UP activities; there i s an Upazila
Development Coordination Committee (UDCC), consisting o f all UP chairs. One UP chair
becomes the chair of this committee on a rotational basis, while the relevant MP is an advisor
andthe UNOisthe member-secretary.




                                              53

             Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
                      BANGLADESH: LocalGovernanceSupportProject

Introduction:The Local Government SupportProject (LGSP) will beimplementedbythe Local
Government Division (LGD) o f the Ministry o f Local Government, Rural Development &
Cooperatives (LGDC), and Government of Bangladesh. Inaccordancewith OPBP 10.02 o f the
Operations Manual o f the World Bank a detailed financial management assessment o f the
implementing entity was carried out during the pre-appraisal stage. The objective of the
assessment was to determine the adequacy o f the proposed financial management arrangements
for the project including the financial management capacities o f the implementing entity, the
disbursement, reporting and auditing arrangements, to identify the key fiduciary risks and to
identifythe risk mitigationmeasures.

ImplementingEntity: The Local Government Division (LGD) is one of the two divisions of
the LGDC which is headedby a Permanent Secretary to the Government. The Secretary, LGD
reports to the Cabinet Minister for Local Governments, RuralDevelopment & Cooperatives. The
Secretary, apart from being the administrative head o f the ministry, is also the principal
accounting officer o fthe ministryandas suchhas the responsibility to exercise oversight over all
the financial activities o f the ministry. LGD does not prepare any entity-level annual financial
statements; however GOB'Sannual financial statements, prepared by CGA, reports expenditures
by LGD from the allocations from the annual budget of the GOB. LGD has limited
organizational capacity in financial management and does not have a have a specialized unit in
financial management. Like all other ministries in GOB, a Chief Accounts Officer (CAO)
reporting to the Controller General of Accounts (CGA), i s assigned to the LGD. The CAO at
presentperforms limited financial management functions that include pre-audits andpayments o f
all budgeted expenditures of LGD and its offices and institutions located in Dhaka city and
submission of quarterly and annual expenditure statement o f the Ministry to the CGA. An in-
house Accounts Officer performs the payroll related function and arranges payments of the
Ministry's expenditures. The budgeting process for the LGD i s coordinated by the Ministry's
planning wing, which coordinates and compiles the annual development and revenue budgets
proposals for submission to the Ministry of Finance (MOF). GOB has recently includedLGD in
the second group o f pilot ministries for Medium Term Budgetary Framework (MTBF) from
FY2007 to provide it with three years resource envelope for combined recurrent and
development activities. LGD's selected officials have been trained by MOF in the budgeting
processunder MTBF andthey will get mher support and guidance from a highlevel committee
comprisingofLGDandMOF. LGD's organization includes an audit sectionheadedby aDeputy
Secretary (Audit) who i s assisted by two Senior Assistant Secretaries (Audit) who have the
responsibility to review audit reports of local governments and ensure follow up o f audit
recommendations. LGD follows the GOB'SGeneral Financial Rules (GFR) that stipulates the
procedures for the incurring of expenditures including expenditure approvals and payment
procedures.    In addition, the specific directives from the GOB including the Table of
Organization and Equipment (T&OE), Code o f Accounts, Delegation o f Fihancial Authorities
for Development projects, and the Project Accounting Manual that provide for the internal
control arrangements on financial transactions, creating staff positions and hiring, acquisition
and use of fixed assets, accounting controls and delegations and controls on project
implementation are followed across the units and projects under LGD. The Ministryo f Finance


                                                54

has recently brought out an Internal Control Manual to be implementedinall line ministries and
departmentso f GOB, includingLGD.

Assessment of the Proiect Financial Management Arrangements of the Imdementing;
entitv

Project FinancialManagement Organization: The LGD will have overall responsibility for
project management and will be responsible for operating the project special accounts,
maintainingproject accounts, preparingquarterly financial reports (FMRs) and arranging for the
annual project audit. To supplement the financial management organizational capacity of the
LGD and to ensure that the LGD has adequate financial management arrangements for the
smooth implementation of the project, it was agreed with the LGD to create a Financial
Management Cell (FM cell) under the National Program Director of LGSP. The FMcell will be
headed by a Deputy Director (Finance) who will be assisted by an Accounts Officer and an
Accountant. The first two positions will be recruited by LGD with adequately qualified
personnel through open recruitment notice and the personnel put inplace within three months of
project effectiveness. The third position (Accountant) will be appointed by LGD on deputation
from CGA's office. LGD will also assign to the FM Cell, adequate number o f Data Entry
Operators from its own staff. The cost o f the cell will be financed from GOB's share in the
project fmancing. The Terms o f Reference including qualification profiles have been agreed
between the Bank and the LGD. The recruited staff will perform the project financial
management functions including project budgeting, disbursement planning and forecasting,
operation of IDA Special Account including claiming replenishments, financial administration o f
contracts for supply of goods and services for the project, disbursingfunds to UPSand associated
monitoring, maintaining books and records for project's financial transactions, submission o f
monthly, quarterly and annual reports to various GOB agencies, submission o f quarterly FMRs
to IDA for the whole project, preparationo f annual project financial statements andinteract with
the project auditors on the project audit including audit follow up. It was agreedwith LGD that
the CAO will be responsible for the financial management functions of the project till such time
that the FMCellbecomesoperational.

Budgeting:LGD's budgetingunderMTBFwill allow itselfto allocate the necessaryfunds to the
eligible UPSinthe project as block grants without depending on MOF. Every year, early inthe
budget preparation cycle or inthe process o f annual adjustment to MTBF, LGD will prepare a
list o f UPSthat qualify for the LGSP block grant meeting the agreed criterion, and allocate the
requisite GOB and IDA resources inthe annual budget/MTBF and submit the allocationto the
MOF for inclusioninthe National Budget.Annual allocations to individualUPSwill be attached
as a schedule in the budget documentation. MOF will include the annual allocations under the
Fiscal Transfers component o f the LGSP inGOB's annual budget statement under the line item:
UP Block Grant-LGSP.

Disbursement of IDA funds: Disbursement arrangements of IDA funds vary between
Component 1and Components 2-5 o f the project. IDA will disburse funds to finance the fiscal
transfers under Component 1 into a US$ denominated Special Account. Releases will be made
from the SA into the GOB'SConsolidatedFundon a semi-annual basis. Approval o f the releases
from the SA will bebasedon timely submission of cash flow forecasts and satisfaction of access



                                                55

criteria as set out inSection C, paragraph6 o fthe PAD. Onreceipt ofthe budget approvedbythe
parliament and fulfillment o f the IDA conditions for fund releases, the IDA funds will be
advanced fiom the SA to GOB'Sconsolidated fund. Releases from the consolidated fund to the
Project Bank Account will follow requests from LGD to the MOF andwill be made on a semi-
annual basis. The UPSwill be required to submit quarterly financial statements and output
reports inorder to properly document the use of the funds received. Project expenditures under
Component 1(block transfers) would be recognized (i.e. treated as expenditures) when these are
released(i.e.paid) from the ConsolidatedFundto the UPS.IDA is financing 100%o fthe 50% o f
the total cost for component 1. The quarterlyFMRwill include a report o f the actual transfers to
the UPS.Any amounts withdrawn from the Special Account but not transferredto UPS,or lapsed
byUPSdueto non-spending, willbeusedfor the secondyear allocation andthe GOBwill reduce
its request to IDA taking into account that there are unused funds from the previous financial
year. This approach avoids currency conversion costs associatedwith redepositing funds to the
Special Account.

Disbursementof funds fromMoFto UPS:The block grantswill be allocated to UPSwho meet
the minimum eligibility conditions. Activities to be financed using the block grants will be
indicated in the annual budgets and work plans of UPS.These will be submitted to LGD for
approval. Releases from the Consolidated Fundwill follow requests from the LGD to the MOF
and will be made on a semi-annual basis in July and January o f each financial year. LGD,
through the CAO, will release the funds to all UPSby issuing a single check for both the IDA
and GOB funds to a commercial bank. Approval of releases by the LGD will be based on the
satisfaction ofcertain criteria, e.g. submission o f acceptabledocumentation for previous releases.
The commercial bank will provide a report to LGD on the actual transfer o f fimds to the eligible
UPSon a semi-annual basis. UPSwill manage the bank accounts and will provide LGD with
quarterly accountability reports.

Disbursement o fthe IDA Credit for activities under Components2 - 5 ofthe Project will initially
be transaction-based, requiringsubmission o f Statement o f Expenditures (SOE) for expenditures
claimed under contracts that are below Bank's prior review threshold and documentation for
expenditures claimed under contracts that are above Bank's prior review thresholds. Inaddition
to the above, direct payments, reimbursements and special commitments are also eligible
disbursement methods. IDA funds will be disbursed into another US$ denominated Special
Account with Bangladesh Bank that would be operatedby the LGD. Once the FM cell is hlly
functional, IDA and LGD will examine the possibility o f and decide on switching over to the
Report Based Disbursements that would allow disbursements on the basis of fund requirement
forecast through quarterly FinancialMonitoringReports (FMRs).

Special Accounts: Inorder to ensure timely release of funds to finance eligible expenditures
under the project, the Government will open and maintain two separate Special Accounts
denominated inUS dollars with BangladeshBank. Special Account A inthe amount based on
the annual cash flow requirements will finance activities under Component 1. Special Account
B in the amount of US$3.0 million will finance activities under Components Two to Five.
Agreement has been reached regarding the arrangements for establishing and operating the
Special Accounts.




                                                 56

Project Bank Account: The Government will open and maintain a project account in
Bangladesh Taka ina commercial bank acceptableto the Association to facilitate transfer to UPS
under Component 1. Payment to suppliers of goods and services under components 2-5 will be
made directly fromthe SA-B requiringno useo fthe Project BankAccount.


ExpenditureCategory                                         Amount in     FinancingPercentage
                                                           US$million
                                                              Credit
1. Subgrants for Subprojects Under for Part A of the            87.1              1OO%*
Project
2.  Subgrants for Subprojects Under Part C o f the              1.6                100%
Project
3.  Subgrants for Subprojects under Part E of the               1.4                100%
Project
4. Operating Costs                                              0.7                100%
5. Consultant Services,. including training, workshops          18.6               100%
andaudits, andgoods
6. Unallocated                                                  2.1
Total                                                          111.5




Fund Flow Arrangements for UP Block Grants: The core of the project's fund flow
arrangements for Component One is the direct transfer o f the block grants intwo releaseswithin
a fiscal year from the Government's Consolidated Fund to the eligible UP's bank accounts
through a commercial bank. This mode of disbursementi s different from the current system o f
fund transfer in the government where funds are sent to the Upazila Accounts office for
disbursement to UPS. Immediately following the GOB'Sannual budget approval by the
Parliament, LGD will release the first half of the total block grant for all the eligible UPS,and
have its Chief Accounts Officer issue an `Advise' to Bangladesh Bank for transferring the
amount out o f Government's account into a designated bank account o f LGD in a commercial
bank for onward transfer to the eligibleUP's bank accounts across the country. The commercial
bank will provide the LGD with the actual date of transfer of finds to UPS,and the receipt o f
finds by UPSwill be verified by LGD through the quarterly financial reports from the UPS.
Receipt of the financial reports for the first quarter from the UPSby LGDwill be a pre-condition
for the transfer o f the second release to the UPS. In addition, the Upazila Nirbahi Officers
(UNO) will have the authority to advise LGD to stop disbursingthe second release to a UP, if
there is evidence of serious irregularity inthe utilization of the block grant. Submission o f a UP
Resolution to LGD will be a requirement for disbursement o f the grants. (See attached
DisbursementandFundsflow diagram at the endofthis Annex)




                                                 57

Accounting and Reporting: The project will follow GOB Project Accounting Manual in
maintaining books o f accounts and in complying with monthly, quarterly and annual financial
reporting requirements of various government agencies as well as the Bank. IDA, through an
IDFGrant is supporting the GOB incomputerization ofits Project Accounting Manualwith the
objective to provide universal software to all the development projects. This project's accounting
systemwill promptlyadopt suchuniversal systemwhenever it is ready. The FMCell ofthe LGD
will provideFinancialMonitoringReports (FMRs) on aquarterlybasis showingprojectprogress
on all components on a user fr-iendly format. The FMRs will report on the disbursement o f the
project funds from the LGD to the UPSunder Component 1as well as the expenditures incurred
bythe LGDon componentsTwo to Five. The format ofthe FMRwas discussedandagreedwith
the LGD duringproject negotiations.

Internal Controls: The FM Cell will ensure that project management follows the standard
internal control procedures o f GOB as embodied in the GOB'S Internal Control Manual; The
Project Accounting Manual will follow the provisions and approval requirements o f the GOB'S
"Delegation of Power to Development Projects''. LGD does not have an InternalAudit unit and
no project specific internal audit arrangement has been set up as monitoring through UNOs,
LGDandwider communityinvolvement havebeenfound to bemore cost effective. The capacity
building component of the project will review the existing controls in UPSand will improve
them as necessary.

External Audit: The Comptroller and Auditor General (C&AG) through the Directorate o f
Audits, Foreign Aided Projects (FAPAD) carries out the external audit of all donor funded
projects as such will be the principal external auditor for the LGSP. Annual audit reports will be
submitted by FAPAD to the IDA no later than six months after the end o f each fiscal year.
FAPADwill examine the externalauditreports ofU P S informingthe audit opinionofthe LGSP.
The Audit Section o f the LGD as per its mandated responsibilities will liaise with FAPAD and
follow up on all audit recommendationsrelatingto the LGSP.

The following audit reports would be monitored by the Bank inthe Audit Report Compliance
System (ARCS):

    Implementing           Audit Type                    Auditor                  Deadline
    Agency
    LGD                    Project          Financial C&AG                        December
                           Statement                                              31

Assessment ofthe Financial Management arrangements of UPS

Financial Management systems and capacities of UPS:Since the major part o f the project
funds (undercomponent One) willbetransferred to the UPS,the Bank has reviewedthe existing
financial management systems andpractices o f UPSto assess the fiduciary risks associatedwith
the transfer o f funds. The field study undertaken as part o f the Financial Management
Assessment o f UPSrevealed that though a legal and procedural framework for budgeting,
accounting and financial reporting for UPSi s in existence, there are deficiencies intheir content
andcompliance. As explained indetail inAnnex 4 ofthe PAD, the capacitybuildingcomponent



                                                 58

of the project will be working with the UPSto improvethe systems andprocedures for efficient
and transparent budgeting, accounting and reporting of public finances. Financial management
capacity building activities will be supervised by a full time Local Government Financial
Management Specialist (LG FMSpecialist), who will berecruitedlocally andwill be inplace by
project effectiveness. Duringthe first year o f the project, the LG FM Specialist will review the
present systems o f financial management including accounting, controls and reporting as is
practiced inUPSand will recommend changes to them, ifnecessary. The recommended changes
to the systems andprocesses will be implementedstarting from the first year o f the project, The
LGFMSpecialist will overseethe qualityo fthe financial managementprocessesandsystemsof
UPSthroughout the project. The key office bearers of the UPSwill be exposed to focused
training programs in financial managementprior to the disbursement o f the block grants as well
as duringthe course o f the project. Inaddition, the services o f an international expert on public
financial managementwill be made available throughout the project on anas requiredbasis.

Financial reporting of UPS:UPSreceiving block grants under the project will submit quarterly
financial reports to the LGD which will include information on receipts, expenditures and the
balance o f the block grant funds. The UPSwill also submit a copy o f the report to the Upazila
Nirbahi Officer (UNO). These reports will be required to be sent on a regular and timely basis
andcompliance will bemonitoredbythe Monitoring & Evaluation (ME)wing ofthe LGD and
i s a condition to remain eligible to continue to receive the block grants. As described inAnnex 4
of the PAD, submission o f the quarterly reports will be measured on a six-monthly basis and
linkedto the release of the block grant transfers. The formats for the quarterly reports will be
reviewed and redesigned, if necessary, during the first year of the project, to ensure that the
reports convey relevant information. The UPSare required by the Local Govemment (Union
Parishad) Ordinance, 1983to prepareAnnual Financial Statementsdetailingthe sources and uses
of funds for the year. The Annual Financial Statements will report all the receipts and
expenditures of the UP, specifically including the block grants. The format o f the Annual
financial statements is being revised to ensure that relevant, comprehensive information i s
reported.

UP Staffing: The financial managementfinction ofUPSis handledby the Secretary ofthe UP.
TheUP Secretariesare currently providedtrainingbyNILGintopics relatingto managementof
UPS and the training includes modules on financial management. However, the recently
undertaken Institutional Study and FM Accountability Study revealed that most UPSdo not
comply on a timely basis with many o f the existing directives on periodical financial reporting
due to information and capacity constraints, especially in the area o f financial management. It
was agreed with the LGD that there is a vital need for UPSto have adequate capacity to handle
financial management, accounting andreporting functions. The LGSP seeks to ensure that this i s
inplace byprovidingboth incentives for UPSto buildup their capacity inthe area of financial
management andbyproviding UPSwith access to appropriatecapacity buildingservicesthat will
enhance their knowledge and skills in this key area. LGD has proposed that UPSbe encouraged
to obtain the services o fAccounts Assistants, fundedfiom their ownrevenue. The Bank supports
this flexible, UP-centered approach of promoting local choice in how this is done, with local
accountability for its outcomes. This approach also avoids the potential pitfalls of a "one-size-
fits-all" approach, i s consistent with current public sector reforms, and allows for innovative and
local solutions to be identified. At the same time, the project.wil1 strengthen the existing capacity



                                                  59

o f UPSby providing focused training in financial management skills and techniques to the UP
Secretary and other key UP fiinctionaries in financial management skills and techniques
throughout the duration o fthe project.

External audits of UPS:The UPSwill be audited annually by chartered accountants (CAS)
procured by the LGD. The audits will be conducted within six months after the close o f the
financial year and will be conducted according to the Bangladesh Auditing Standards that are
compatible with the International Standards on Auditing (ISA). The LGD will procure the
services o fthe auditors duringthe duration o fthe project andthe external auditors for the first set
of UPS applying for the block grants will be contracted within one month o f project
effectiveness. The auditor will express an opinion - Unqualified /Qualified ("except for")/
Adverse- or express a Disclaimer ofopinion, basedon the audit work undertaken. The audit will
provide assurance on the annual financial statements o f the UP, and specifically on compliance
with the rules and procedures for the use of the Block Grant. Inaddition, the auditor will also
provide social, procurement and environmental assurance on a limited scale based on
requirements specified in the Audit Terms of Reference (TOR). The eligibility audit o f UPS
seeking to enter the program for the first time will be a more traditional financial audit, which
will be reflected inthe TOR. The auditor will present the audit report inperson before the open
meeting of the UPSas well as submit three copies o f the audit report, one each to the UP, LGD
andthe C&AG respectively. The annual external audit does not intendto displace the existing
audits bythe C&AG. The cost o faudit fees o fU P S will be financed under the project.

Quality Assurance of external audits: The C&AG will ensure quality assurance o f the annual
external audit o fthe UPSbytest checking a sample o f approximately twenty percent o fthe audits
of UPSdone during the year by chartered accountants. It is agreed that the Audit Quality
Assurance (AQA) Cell within the CAG's office will carry out these sample checkings, with the
assistance o f technical expertslconsultants as required and the checking will be conducted soon
after the audit reports are submitted. The Quality Assurance process will be in the nature o f a
"peer review" o f the audit procedures used by the external auditor o f the UP(Chartered
Accountant) and will appraise the audit methodology employed to ensure the integrity of the
audit process, as well as obtain more detailed information on compliance with program
requirements and issues faced in their implementation. The Bank will provide technical
assistanceto the AQA Cell starting from the first year o f the project and continue to do so during
the course of the project on improving the skills and techniques o f the cell in carrying out the
quality assurance process. On completion o f the Quality Assurance checks, the AQA cell will
present a report on their findings to the C&AG, who will share it with the LGD. The Instituteo f
Chartered Accountants o f Bangladesh (ICAB), through its professional development committee
and its Investigation & Disciplinary committees will provide strongprofessional oversight over
the Chartered Accountants conducting the audit andhave assuredthe Bank that any reference to
the ICAB by the C&AG and/or LGD on audit quality concerns will be objectively investigated
and that the Institute is authorized to take disciplinary action against its members. A
Memorandum of Understanding(MOW will be entered, by project effectiveness, between the
LGD and ICABto cement the professional quality control role ofthe ICAB. The LGDwill also
black list those auditors against whom allegations o f professional malpractice are proven and
will explore the possibilityoftakingpunitivelegal action, ifrequired.




                                                 60

Audit review and follow up: The Audit Section of the LGD headedby the Deputy Secretary
(Audit)will review the audit reports of the UPS. The Audit Section will utilize the services of
consultants in the review of audit reports, as necessary. Inaddition, specific capacity building
will be provided to the Audit Section throughout the project to improve their skills in Audit
Report review and follow up. The review o f the audit reports will initially segregate the audit
reports into the unqualified opinions, qualified opinions, adverse opinions and disclaimer o f
opinions, The Audit Section will call for explanations from those UPSwho have not received
unqualified audit opinions and after evaluating those explanations, will recommend remedial
actions in accordance with the gravity o f the audit recommendations. The Audit Section will
submit a report to the national Program Director, LGSP on the audit opinions and the remedial
actions. The National Program Director will decide on the continuing eligibility o f the UPSto
receive block grants under the project based on the report o f the Audit Section. Inthose cases
involvingmisappropriationo fthe block grant b d s (regardless ofwhether these are IDA or GOB
financed), the LGDwill prescribe strong measuresincluding immediate suspensionofthe further
disbursementso f the block grant as well as initiate recovery proceedings for the misappropriated
amounts. The Bank will pay close attention to the follow up o f such cases, if any. Inextreme
cases, the Bank may seek permanent disqualification andlor prosecution o f those UPSagainst
whom cases o fmisappropriation havebeenproved.

Audit Strategy: The LGD has already prepared an Audit Strategy, in consultation with the
C&AG, which lays out the partnership approach with the C&AG and the ICAB to ensure that
annual external audits of UPSare done on a regular and timely basis. The Audit Strategy links
the quality assurance role o f the C&AG as well as the professional oversight o f the ICAB to
ensure that the external audits o f UPSprovide a true and fair opinion on the annual financial
statements o f the UPS. In addition, the Audit Strategy also provides the basis for widening the
scope of assurance to include social, procurement and environmental assurance. The Audit
Strategyhasbeen submittedto the Bank as part o fthe PIM.

Social Protection Safety Net Pilot: Under Component: 5, the project will include a pilot
programofconditional fiscal grants for safety nets to be implementedina limitednumber(15) o f
UPSinthe district o f Sirajganj where capacity buildinginitiatives are ongoing through a UNCDF
program. Funds for the program will be released in a predictable and timely fashion to scheme
providers (the UPS)and will be conditional upon being spent on agreed schemes with a pre-
determined targeting formula. Vulnerable households will begroupedinto two:
o Thosewho cannot andshouldnotwork andwhere no ablebodiedunskilled labor is available
     for work.
o Inwhich ablebodied labor is available for work
 The former will receive a cash grant equivalent to the Government's old age pension(Tk.150 or
 200 permonth) if such households are not currently inreceipt o f any other publiclyor privately
 supported cash grant. For the latter group of households, a public workfare program will be
 introduced. The fiduciary assurancewill be achieved through the following measures:

o The beneficiaries of the program will be identifiedby transparent and objective procedures
    whichwill bedetailed inanOM.
o Disbursement, transparency, participation requirements, reporting and auditing requirement
    wouldbe alignedwith the standardblock grant proceduresundercomponent 1,



                                                61

o Actual disbursementsto the beneficiaries underboththe groupswill be acknowledged bythe
    recipients' signatures I thumb impressions, vouched by the concerned ward member, the
    women member and the UP Secretary as would be evidenced by their counter signatures in
    eachpayment sheet.
o A list ofeligible beneficiaries includingpayment date will be announcedon notice boards in
    the UP office, in a conspicuous place in the local market and school, one week ahead o f
    payment date and shall not beremoveduntilone week after the payment datesdate.
o A public workfareprogram as applicable to group 2 ofbeneficiaries will contain a restriction
    in using more than 40% of any scheme on materials or earth work to ensure substantial
    spendingon safety net targets andto guardagainst fabricated expenditures.

RiskAssessment andMitigation

Overall inherent risk is "high" contributed equally by Country level entity level and Project
level. The Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA), 2001 assessed the country
fiduciary risk in public spending to be high and recommended significant improvements in
public sector financial management. Accordingly GOB is implementing several reforms in
public financial management financed by donors including the World Bank. Specific reform
efforts expectedinthe short term include preparation of entity level financial statement inFY 07
as planned by CGA to be followed by entity wide auditing planned under FMRP, which will
cover the Ministries o f GOB, including the LGD. Though these nationwide efforts have
significantly improved the overall fiduciary risk environment, it i s recognized substantial risks
still exist andrequire risk mitigationefforts.

The majority o f the project funds flow into the Consolidated Fund o f GOB and are included in
the Annual Budget, discussed and approved by the Parliament. The enactment o f the Medium
Term BudgetingFramework (MTBF) andthe provisiono f a three year resource envelope reduce
uncertainties on budget allocations. The selection of the UPSfor inclusion inthe project i s based
on simple andtransparent criteria. The disbursemento fthe project funds will be made through a
well establishedcommercial bank to ensure that funds reachthe UPSintime. The mitigation of
the project level inherent risk have been built into the project design by way o f community
involvement, guidance fi-om the interactions with civil society and the Project Steering
Committee, strengthened supervision and monitoring by UNOs and LGD's monitoringwing and
clear incentives and sanctions for UP level compliance. Inaddition the partnership between the
C&AG and ICAB, supplementedby the Quality Assurance efforts o f the C&AG is expected to
mitigate such risks. Overall control risk is assessed as high contributed by the risks in
Accounting, Internal Control, FinancialReportingand Auditing and highrisks inbudgetingand
funds flow of UPS.Though capacities and systems for accounting andreporting at all levels are
weak, the project recognizes it upfi-ont and hasincluded a strong capacity buildingcomponent as
part of the project activities. Specific efforts to improve the systems and process of public
financial management as well as the insistence o f independent external audits on a regular and
timelybasis will mitigate control risks to a certain extent. While mitigation measureshavebeen
built into project design for most o f the factors, residual risks remain in the timely and
satisfactory implementation o f these measures, as well as in Financial Reporting and Auditing
due to capacity constraints exposing the risk in quarterly reporting, annual financial statement




                                                62

preparation and constraints in capacity to review UP audit reports. Therefore based on the
assessment o fthe inherent andcontrol risks,the overallproject fiduciary riski s rated"high".

Financial Management Action Plan: On the basis of the risk assessment detailed in the
previous paragraph, a set of risk mitigation steps have been identifiedand the following Action
Plan detailing these risk mitigation steps and the schedule for the implementation o f such steps
hasbeenprepared and agreedwith the LGD. The progress inthe achievemento fthe Action Plan
will be closely monitoredby the IDA inthe leadup to project effectiveness and the first year o f
implementation, in order to ensure these actions are completed in a timely and satisfactory
manner, andto provide follow up support as necessary.
 -
 No. RiskMitigation Steps
 -                                       Time Schedule                  Responsibility
 1    Establishment       o f     the ByDecember 31,2006                LGD
      Financial Management Cell
       at the LGD and have the
 -three      FMStaffinposition
 2    MOUbetweenMLGRDand BySeptember30,2006                             LGD
       ICAB on the quality control
                                        ~


       role ofthe ICAB
 3     Recruitment o f the LG FM By September30,2006                    LGD
       Specialist
 4     Review       o f     financial ByJune 30,2007                    LGD
       management systems and
 -     txocedures ofU P S
 5     Preparation o f TORSfor the By July 31,2006                      LGD
 -     external audit ofUPS
 6     Procurement     o f   external ByOctober 31,2006
 -     auditors for the audit o fUps
 7     Development        o f    FM ByAugust2006                        NILG
       training curriculum
 8     Procurement     o f   training December 31,2006                  LGD
       service providers for FM
       training
 9     Provision of training in To be completed by June LGD, NILG
       financial   management to 30,2007
       eligible UPS to receive
       transfers inFY 08
 10    Procurement o f Consultant To be completed by December LGD
       with satisfactory TOR and 31,2006
       qualifications,  to provide
       technical assistance to the
       AQA cell of CAG
 11 Provision        o f   technical To be provided throughout the LGD
       assistance to the AQA Cell duration of the project, starting
 -     o fthe CAG                        fi-omthe first year
 12    Procurement o f Consultant, To be completed by December LGD


                                                  63

       with satisfactory TOR and 31,2006
        qualifications,  to provide
        technical assistance to the
        Audit SectionofLGD
 13   I Provision      of   technical To be provided throughout the LGD
        assistance to     the Audit duration of the project, starting
                                     1
        Section o fthe LGD             from the first year
 14     Review           of      the To be done during the Mid LGD
        implementation o f the Audit term review ofthe project
        Strategy

Itshouldbenotedthat inadditionto this ActionPlan: (i) arrangementsareconfirmed and
                                                          interim
inplace at the project level inthat the CAO will take responsibility for project FMissues; and
(ii) actionsrelatingtotheblockgrantshavesufficienttimetobeaccomplishedsincethe
    the
block grants don't start until August 2007. This approach allows for the implementation of the
Action Planduringproject start-up while mitigatingimmediate risks relatedto FMcapacity.

Conclusion: Based on the Assessment conducted, the analysis of the risks outlined and the risk
mitigation measures outlined, the project financial management arrangements for the LGSP i s
considered to be satisfactory.

Supervision Plan:Consideringthat the overallrisk ofthe project i s "high" a supervisionmission
will be conducted at least every six months, and more intensively up to the endo f year 1(given
the risk that project implementation and disbursements may be slower than planned if the FM
Action Plan i s not implemented effectively). The supervision missionwill ensure that adequate
financial management arrangements are maintained for the project, both at the implementing
entity level as well as in the UPSreceiving block grant funds as part o f the project. Regular
reviews will be carried out to ensure that the expenditures incurredby the project remaineligible
for IDA fimding. The supervision missionwill review the working o f the Audit Strategy as well
as the progress inthe achievement o f the actions listedinthe Action plan. The Implementation
Status Report (ISR) will include a financial management rating for the project. This will be
arrivedat bythe Country Office Financial Management Specialist after anappropriate review.




                                                64

                               Diagram: FundsFlow Arrangements


      IDA
I                 I                                                                             ~




                                               ..........................................
                                         -j          Released                              j

(2)                                            !..........................................
                                                     Disb.




                                            (3)                                              CONSOLIDATEDFUND
                                                                                                 BangladeshTaka
                                                                                      Managed byMinistryof Finance (On Budget)



                                                                                                                         -
                                                                                              Commercial Bank (4)



                                                                                             UP'SBankAccount (5)




Notes to the FundsFlow Mechanism
(1)      IDA will disburse its funding for component 1into a US$ denominatedSpecialDeposit Account (SDA), in
accordance with IDA OPBP 12.00. Advances will be made from the SDA into the GOBConsolidated Fund on a
semi-annual basis. Approval and releases will bebased on the satisfaction o f certain criteria.
(2)      IDA funding for components 2- 5 will be disbursed into a US$ denominated Special Deposit Account
maintained with Bangladesh Bank and managed by the LGD. Disbursements will be transaction based and
payments to suppliers o f goods and services will be made directly from the Special Deposit Account.
(3)      Releasesfrom the Consolidated Fundwill follow requests from the LGDto the MOFand will be made on a
semi-annual basis inJuly and January o f each financial year. LGD, through the CAO, will release the funds to all
UPSby issuing a single check for both the IDA and GOB funds to a commercial bank (SonalilJanata Banks),
Approval o f releasesby the LGD will be based on the satisfaction of certain criteria, e.g. submission o f acceptable
documentation for previous releases.
(4)                              ..
the eligible UYS on a sem-annual oasis.
 ......  The commercial bank (SonalilJanata Banks) will provide a report to LGD on the actual transfer o f funds to
            *m                       ,


(5)       UPSwillmanagethe bank accounts and willprovide LGD withquarterly accountability reports.


                                                                               65

                             Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements
                     BANGLADESH: LocalGovernance Support Project

General

Thetotal value o ftheproject isUS$189.9 millionofwhich anIDACredit will finance US$111.5
million and the Borrower will provide an equivalent o f US$78.40 million, Total procurement o f
US$20.7 million will largely involve consultancy services including training, to the tune o f
US$20.5 followed by goods amounting approximately US$0.2 million. It i s to be noted that
procurement under this project will beimplementedbythree implementingagencies:
1. the LocalGovernments (LGs, Le. the UnionParishadsor UPS);
2. the National Institute for LocalGovernment (NILG), and
3. the Local Government Division (LGD) under the Ministry o f Local Government, Rural
   Development andCooperatives (MLGRD&C)

Rules and Guidelines

Procurement by Local Governments(UPS):All localprocurements o f goods, works, and services
will follow the Government's Public Procurement Regulations, 2003 (PPR) acceptable to IDA,
withnecessarycustomization for the LocalGovernments;

Procurement by theNILGand LGD:

(i)     All procurement using international competitive bidding (ICB) will follow procedures
        outlined in the Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under LE3R.D Loans and IDA Credits"
        (May, 2004)- Procurement Guidelines;
(ii) Consulting services and training obtained through international advertisement
        (dgMarketKJNDBonline) will follow the procedures outlinedinthe Bank's "Guidelines:
        Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (May, 2004)-
        Consultant Guidelines;
(iii)   All local procurement of goods and services will follow the PPR (goods-<US$200,000,
        and consultants' services- < US$lOO,OOO for firms and < US$50,000 for individual
        consultants).

Procurement Responsibility and Components

The project comprises five components, namely: Component 1: Fiscal transfers to Union
Parishads (UPS) for      community sub-projects, Component 2: Institutionalizing Local
Accountability, Component 3: Supporting Core Local Government Capacity Development,
Component 4: Performance Review and Policy Development, and Component 5 - Social
ProtectionPilot.

Procurement o f goods and works (community sub-projects) under Component 1,Fiscal Transfer
will be implementedby the UPSusingBlock Grant money. Procurement of goods and services
under Components2,3 and4, andsupport to Component 1will beimplementedbyLGD.NILG




                                              66

will implement procurement relating to the coordination and management o f Component 3,
subject to their Work Agreementwith LGD andthe ProcurementPlan.

Following the procurement responsibilities and components, the procurement arrangement has
been set in two parts, namely: Part A, for the UPS,and Part Byfor the LGD (by the LGD and
NILG).

                                    PartA: ProcurementbyUPS

ProcurementMethods

Underthe existing arrangements,UPSare implementingtheir infrastructural sub-projects byway
o f procuring necessary works, goods and services by themselves. Rules stipulating procedures
required to be used by the UPShave been issued by the Government in February, 2005 in a
Guideline titled "Instructions RegardingUse of Union ParishadDevelopmentAssistance Fund"
("Instructions").  The procedure provides for three committees to be formed from within the
community, namely, (i)Scheme Implementation Committee (SIC), (ii)              Scheme Supervision
Committee (SSC) and(iii)     Procurement Committee (PC), andthe concernedGovernment official
being a member of the SSC. Other member of these committees could be from among teachers,
social activists, representative o f the concerned"Gram Sarker' or Village Government, and from
the beneficiaries. Under the existingprocedure, the oversight to the works contracts is provided
by the Local Government Engineering Department official(s) working at the Upazila level by
way o fincorporation ofthe concernedofficial into the committee as amember.

Under this project, public procurement at the UP level will largely follow the procedures
stipulated inthe Instructions. Some changes have introduced in the organizational arrangements
in order to ensure the appropriate separation of responsibility for implementing projects from
responsibility for supervising projects. Moreover, the role ofthe UP Chairman hasbeenclarified.
Inlinewiththe UP Chairman's overall responsibility for ensuringthat theprocurementprocess
i s done properly andthat procured projects are delivered, the Chairman i s enjoined from serving
on the implementation committee but may be a member and chair the supervisory committee.
The project also provides increased flexibility in procurement arrangements by reposing the
procurement responsibility in the Scheme Implementation Committee (SIC) with discretion o f
the SIC to install a separate Procurement Committee (PC) from among its members. In the
proposed arrangements, the Upazila level government official has been included as a member o f
the Scheme Supervision Committee (SSC). Inaccordance with the policy o f the Government o f
Bangladesh, representativesof the community should be members o fboth the SIC and SSC, and
one-third o fcommittees should be chaired bywomen.

Theproposed size ofthe block grants will beinthe rangeofUS$9,000 to US$16,000 per UP per
year increasing over the project period subject to inflationary adjustment. The procurement
activities will comprise mostly o f infrastructural community works (construction or
rehabilitation) like roads, culverts, schools, markets, water and sanitation, etc. Inconformity with
the provisions of the PPR, UPSwill follow the procurement methodsmentioned below up to the
threshold limitsapplicable for eachmethod:




                                                 67

(i)   Restricted Tendering Method: any procurement estimated to cost more than Taka 100,000,
      butnot exceeding Taka 1,000,000 percontract;
(ii)  Request for Quotation Method: any procurement estimated to cost not more than Taka
      100,000 per contract; and
(iii) Direct Procurement (DP) Method: any procurement estimated to cost not more than Taka
      15,000 per contract

  Threshold levels will bereviewedon a yearly basis andadjustedupwardsifdeemedappropriate.
  Threshold levels shall not bereduced,

  SchemeImplementation


  Prioritizationand Approval mechanism as appendedinAppendix - Ito this Annex. The UPSwill
  The UPSwill selectlidentify schemes of importance to the community following a Selection,

  have two committees, namely the Scheme Implementation Committee (SIC) and Scheme
  Supervision Committee (SSC) comprising community representatives and government technical
  staff to procure, implement, supervise and monitor the community schemes; however, the SIC
  retains discretion to establish a Procurement Committee fiom among its members to discharge
  the procurement functions. Procedures for formation o f those Committees, and functions and
  responsibilities thereof are detailed inAppendix - I1to this Annex.

  Roleof Different Government Departments in the Upazila level

  Different Government departments at the Upazila level will provide the required technical
  support to the UPSwhen they will start implementing sub-projects under the Block Grant.
  Departments like Local Government Engineering Department, Department Agricultural
  Extension, Department of Fisheries, Department o f Livestock, etc., will provide the UPS
  technical support services by providing design, estimate, specification, etc., before start of the
  project, and will also inspect the works during implementation to ensure quality of material and
  work-standard, among other factors, for their respective disciplines like forestry, agriculture,
  horticulture, water-resources, education, electricity, telecommunication, etc.

  Operational Manual

  Details of the procurement procedures for the community driven schemes that the UPSwill
  follow to implement all procurement under the Block Grant are described in the UP OM, and
  agreedwith the Bank. The procedures are simple and participatory with suitable mechanism for
  checks andbalances. The manual also provides for disclosure o f informationon procurement and
  grievancemechanism.




                                                   68

                             Part B: Procurement by LGD and NILG:

Goods

Goods to be financed under the project will include, among others but not beinglimitedto office
equipment (computers with accessories, photocopiers, fax machines, communication equipment,
etc.), air conditioners, training equipment,training materials, office furniture, etc.
        ~nternationalCompetitive Bidding (ICB):Contracts estimatedto cost the equivalent to or
        more than US~200,OOOeach will be procured following ICB method as stipulated in the
        Bank's Procurement Guidelines;
        National Open TenderingMethod: Contracts estimatedto cost the equivalent o fnot more
        than US$200,000 each may be procured following open tendering method as per the
        PPR,
        Requestfor Quotations (WQJmethod: Goodslequipment o f small value, or off-the-shelf
         items, estimated for each contract not to exceedthe monetary limit stipulated inthe PPR,
         2003 will beprocured as per the PPR, 2003;
        Direct Procurement (DP) method : Goodslequipment o f small value, or off-the-shelf
         items, estimated for each contract not to exceed the monetary limit stipulated inthe PPR,
         2003 will beprocured as per the PPR, 2003;

Services and Training: Consultants' Services

Major consulting servicesinclude but are not limitedto variouskindso f studies, such as study on
social protection, evaluation of policies, impact evaluation, capacity development, extensive and
intensive training, awarenessbuildingamongthe communities, etc.

         Quality- and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS)/ Fixed Budget Selection (FBS): Consulting
         services from firms estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more for each
         contract will be procured following QCBS or FBS method in accordance with the
         Consultant Guidelines;
         Consultants ' Qualz~cations(C@: Consulting services fi-om firms estimated to cost less
         than the equivalent o f US$lOO,OOO    for each contract will be procured following CQ
         methodinaccordancewith the Consultant Guidelines;
         Quality- and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS)/ Fixed Budget Selection (FBS): Consulting
         services from firms estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$200,000 for each
         contract will be procured following QCBS or FBSmethod as per the PPR, 2003;
         Least Cost Selection (LCS): Consulting services fiom firms estimated to cost not
         exceeding the monetary limit stipulated in the PPR may be procured following LCS
         methodinaccordance with the PPR, 2003; for any contract o f an estimate exceeding the
         LCS limit stipulated inthe PPR, the Bank's Consultant Guidelines will beapplicable;
         Single Source Selection (SSS): Consulting services from fmslCommunity Services
         OrganizationsLJN Agencies estimated to cost below US$50,000 may be procured
         following SSS method in accordance with the PPR, and US$50,000 or more as per the
         Bank's Consultant Guidelines;




                                                 69

(vi)    Selection of Individual Consultants (SIC): Consulting services from individuals with
        contracts below US$50,000 may be procured following SIC method in accordance with
        the PPR, andUS$50,000 or more as perthe Bank's Consultants Guidelines.

Procurement and Selection Planning

Procurement by UPS: UPSwill prepare and approve their own project implementation plans
which will include the schemes along with implementation schedule. Detail procedure has been
stipulated inAppendices IandIIto this Annex.

Procurement by LGD and NILG: A procurement plan for goods and a selection plan for
consultants' services are attached as Appendix-IV to this Annex. The plan covers the whole
project period, and will be updated as needed or annually always covering the no less that the
subsequent 18 months o f the project. The use o f procurement methods defined in the plans i s
mandatory. Prior to the issuance o f any invitation for bids for goods andlor request for
expressions o f interest for services, the proposed plan shall be fimished to IDA for its review
and approval. Procurement of goods and selection of consultants for serviceswill be undertaken
inaccordancewiththe plan(s) approved byIDA.Procurement relating to capacity development
andtrainingwithbe executedbyMLGRD&C -the NationalInstitutefor LocalGovernment will
not bethe procuringentity.

Use of Standard Procurement Documents

Procurement by UPS: Borrower will develop a customized document(s) for the purpose and
obtain IDA clearance to one model document for each applicable procurement method prior to
starting the procurement process.

Procurement by LGD and NILG: For ICB procurement o f goods, the use o f IDA'SStandard
BiddingDocuments (SBD)is mandatory. For NCB and other procurement o f goods, documents
standardizedinaccordancewith the applicable guidelineslregulations and acceptable to IDAwill
be used. For selection o f consultants under contracts estimated to cost more than US$200,000,
the Bank's standard request for proposals (SRFP), including the standard contract form will be
used. For the selection o f consultants below the above-mentioned threshold, the standard
documents prescribed under the Borrower's PPR, 2003 will be used. Depending on the type o f
procurement, the Bank's or the Borrower's standard bidlproposal evaluation form will be used
for preparationof evaluation reports.

Prior Review Thresholds

Procurement by UPS:N o contract under Part A (Procurement by UPS)will be subject to prior
reviewbyIDA.

Procurement by LGD and NILG:

(i) AllcontractsforgoodslequipmentestimatedtocosttheequivalentofUS$200,000
    Goods:
    and all contracts, regardless of value, under DP method, will be subject to prior review by



                                                70

    IDA.The first goods contractsfor eachprocurementmethod, regardlessofvalue, will also be
    subjectto prior reviewby IDA.
(ii)Services: All contracts for services from firms, etc. estimated to cost the equivalent of or
    more than US$lOO,OOO,      all contracts on single source basis, and all contracts for services
    fiom individual consultants estimatedto cost the equivalent o f or more thanUS$ 50,000 will
    besubjectto priorreview byIDA.

Post Review

Procurement by UPS:Contracts under Part A will be subjectto post-review by IDA as part of the
annual audit process for UPS,as per the auditing arrangements described in Annex 7, and
performance monitoring will be undertaken by LGD. The terms o f reference for the annual
assurance process will include specific requirements for procurement assurances, which will be
overseen in the quality assurance conducted by the C&AG. IDA supervision and procurement
monitoring will further verify compliance with procurement procedures and independently
monitor procurement outcomes on a sample basis. UPSwill provide quarterly reporting on their
procurement transactions following a simple questionnairelchecklist containing a combination o f
procurement and financial management issues,

Procurement by LGD and NILG: IDA will carry out sample post review o f contracts that are
below the prior review threshold for compliance with the procurement procedures as defined in
the legal documents. IDA will also carry out procurement audits by independent procurement
auditors. Such reviews (ex-post andprocurement audit) may be conducted for a sample o f 15%-
20% o f contracts under the project. In addition, the Government will conduct independent
procurement review o fthe contracts inaccordancewith PPR, 2003.

Review of Procurement Peflormance: IDAwill monitor the compliance with the requirements o f
the applicable procurement methods and performance standards on a continuous basis. This
independent procurement monitoring will focus on providing additional information and
strengthening oversight in3 distinct areas: (a) adherenceto the stipulated procurement principles
and procedures; (b) organization and functioning of local accountability institutions; and (c) the
quality o f procurement outcomes. A detailed procurement review will take place at the UP level
after the first six months o f the release o f the BG (December 2007) to ensure that procurement
staff have received adequate training and that all necessary bodies and procedures required to
conduct effective procurement have been put in place. A second UP procurement review will
occur after the second 6 months (June 2008) to examine the functioning o f the procurement
system and establish key performance baselines. The results o f the second review will be
reported inthe Annual Report. Additional detail on these exercises can be found inAppendix I11
to this Annex.

Monitoring o f procurement outcomes at UP level will include, but will not be limited to, the
following indicators: (1) evaluating extent of mobilization o f grant fimds; (2) measuring the
degree of competition for projects; (3) assessingrates o f completion o f projects; and (4) number
o f grievances. Quarterly reports required o f all participating UPSwill provide year-in basic
procurement information and form the basis for the procurement performance component o f the
Yearly Report. A comprehensive assessment of procurement performance will be carried out as
part of the projects' planned annuallmid-term review. Based on the review, IDA may revise the


                                                   71

prior review threshold includingthe procurement and selection methods. The Borrower will be
mandatedto providebiddingprocessdata to the MIS o f the Central ProcurementTechnical Unit
(CPTU) under the Ministry of Planning, GOB, in respect o f contracts valuing equivalent to or
more thanthe equivalent o fTaka 10million.

ProcurementManagementCapacityReview andRiskAssessment

Procurement Environment: The general environment inpublic procurement in Bangladesh was
weak as reflectedinthe Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR), broadly acceptedby
the Government in February 2001. On this context, the Government initiated the Public
Procurement Reform Project (PPRF') with financial and technical assistance from the Bank.
Under the Project, the Public Procurement Regulations, 2003 has been promulgated, the Public
Procurement law has been placed with the Parliament for passage, and standard procurement
documentations like biddingdocuments, etc. have been prepared and circulated for mandatory
use by all government agencies. But implementation o f the system i s slow and it is a challenge.
Ingeneral, theprocurement environment isnotconducive to efficient procurement.

Implementing Agencies: The LGD the NILG and the UPS have been identified as the
procurement implementingagenciesfor the project. A procurementcapacity assessment hasbeen
carried out for the LGD and for UPSon samplebasis. Inaddition, since the MLGwill coordinate
andmanage the capacity development component, the procurement capacity of this Institutehas
been assessed to determine if the Institute could also procure goods and services using its own
capacity. The mainfindings as observedthrough the procurement capacity assessment are:

ProcurementbyUPS

   (i)     The UPSdo not have significant experienceinprocuringgoodslworks bythemselves;
           the only experience they have has been obtained in using the Government's Block
           Grant, which hasbeen allocated from 2005;
   (ii) TheUPSarenotaccustomedtoproperdocumentationandorrecordkeepingrequired
           for procurementprocessing;
   (iii)UPSwill require extensive support in term of technical assistance through
           procurement training and establishment o f a simplified procurement process inorder
           to initiate andcarry out procurement activities under theproject;

Procurementby LGD

    (i)    LGDhas notpreviouslycarried out anIDA-financed project; they haveno experience
           with applying IDArules andrelativelylimitedmanpower;
   (ii)    They do not haveexposure to handlingor maintainingrecords to meet IDA standards
           and have been subject to limited oversight and review in the performance of the
           procurement they have executed;
    (iii)  Adequate manpower with appropriate experience in procurement will need to be
           imported fi-om other agenciesldepartments o f the government in order to meet the
           required performance standards, and the additional human resources should be
           organized to form adedicatedprocurement cell;



                                              72

    (iv)    The procurement cell, when formed, will be trained inprocurementprinciples andthe
            application o f procurement rules in a procurement workshop to be facilitated by the
            Bankwith acurricula specifically customizedfor the project;

    Procurement byNILG

    (i)     NILGhas not carried out any project under IDA financing before; therefore, they
            have no experienceapplying IDArules andrelatively limitedmanpower;
    (ii)    NILGhasbeenprocuringtrainingequipment, office furniture andequipment, training
            material, etc., through a procurement unit functioning within the NILGset up;
    (iii)   NILG will arrange adequate manpower with appropriate experience inprocurement
            from other agenciesldepartmentso fthe government to start with.

Results o f the assessment suggest that the over-all procurement capacity of the UPSand LG
Divisioni s inadequateandthe risk involvedis high for two ofthe three entities.

Procurement RiskMitigationMeasures

Procurement by UPS:Procedures for executing andmonitoringprocurement at the UP level have
been designed to mitigate short-term risk and establish the foundation for sustained high
performance. In many respects, the entire project design is focused on establishing clear
accountability and constructive accountability arrangementsthat are fundamental to reducingthe
risk o fmisuse ofpublic funds. Specific mitigatingmeasures include, among others:

 (i)   The simplification o f rules and the enhancement of procurement skills through the OM
       within the framework of PPR, 2003 for the UPS(to be acceptable by IDA) and extensive
       trainingon its application;
 (ii)The    clarification o f responsibilities through the creation o f UP bodies with responsibility
       for oversight of procurement and project supervision, including the Scheme Supervision
       Committee andthe prohibitionagainstmembership inmore than one committee;
 (iii)Theprovisionofinformationtobecommunitythroughextensiveandintensivedisclosure
       and dissemination o f sub-project and procurement information among the community,
       using publicly exposed billboards, wide verbal publicity, holding open community
       meetings, etc.;
 (iv) The establishment of mechanisms that enable effective community oversight through
       requirements for public meetings and community membership on the both procurement-
       related committees.
 (v)   The creation o f meaningful reporting requirements and mechanisms to provide adequate
       analysis and auditing of these reports through the quarterly reporting system and the audit
       plan;
 (vi) The provision of focused support to the proper establishment o f procurement procedures
       through the performance on a procedural review after the first six months o f project
       operation;
 (vii) Provision of bank account operation in the OM for UPS(account will be operated under
       thejoint signatures of the UP Chairman, one UP woman member andthe UP Secretary);




                                                   73

(viii) The OM will address the issue of complaint handling, mitigation of collusion and
       applicable remedial measures.
(ix) The OM included as a chapter of the Block Grant OperatingManualwill address the issue
       ofdeclaring contractsmisprocurement as one ofthe remedial measures.
(x)    A simplework-standard chart indicating admissibletime-line will beincluded inthe Block
       Grant OperatingManualfor mandatory adherencebythe UPS.

Procurementby LGD andNILG

        Placement of a Procurement Specialist at the LGD to provide technical assistance in
       procurement activities;
        BidEvaluationCommitteeto includeoutsidemembersas perPPR, 2003;
        Bidproposal evaluation and timeliness: Inclusion of certificates o f impartiality in the
       bidproposal evaluation report and timely submission o f the same to the approving
        authority following the stipulated timeline in accordance with the procurement approval
       process ofthe Government;
        Debarment o fbidders/ consultants ifcomptlfraudulent practice is evidenced; sendingthe
        names of the bidderslconsultants to CPTU web site putting it as a lesson to discourage
        corrupt or similar behavior.
        Low competition among bidders and highprice o f bids: Conducting investigations and
        carrying out o f a detailed enquiry of the reasonsincase o f low participation o fbiddersin
        spite of adequate advertisement; sharingo fthe investigation report with IDA;
        Conducting detailed investigation incase coercive practices are alleged resulting into low
        competition;
        Publication of award o f all prior review contracts inthe CPTUweb;
        Publicizinggovemancelcorruption issues inappropriate media;
        Liquidated damages (LD): imposition o f liquidated damages (LD) for delayed contract
        implementation;
        Delayedpayments: Developing mechanismsto avoid delayed payments, andpayment o f
        interest on delayedpayment indelay occurs;
        Filing and Record-keeping: maintaining proper procurement filing and records by the
        implementingagencies;
        Designing customized practical training modules and organize periodic workshops for
        LGDandNILGprocurement personnel; and
        Reviewofprocurementtransactions as acomponent of the yearly audit.

Frequencyof ProcurementSupervision Missions

For the UPS,provision o f involvement o f community as an internalcontrol mechanism has been
built-ininto the Up procurement procedures for the Block Grant. The procurement supervision
missionsare proposedevery six months duringwhich they may visit UPSto seethe schemeson a
samplebasis. For procurement to be carried out bythe LGD andNILGIDA will follow its post-
review strategy; in addition, procurement supervision missions are proposed every six months
during which they may see the relevant contract documentations regarding procurement carried
out bythese two implementingagencies.




                                                 74

                                                                                    Appendix I

Selection, prioritization and approval of sub-aroiects imtdemented bv UPS

To disseminate all necessary information to the UP community about the implementation
arrangements and procedures under the project, UPS will hold a minimum number o f open
meetings to be attendedbypeople from all walks o f life from the community.




 )   Selection o f schemes will be done through involvement o f the local people by arranging a
    planning meeting through wide publicity at the ward level of the Up. Attendance of all
    classes o f local people including women in that meeting should be will be ensured. The
    concernedward memberwill preside over and conduct the meeting.Uponconsultation with
    the people, the meeting will prepare a list of projects to be undertaken for the ward in
    consideration ofthe following, among other factors:
     (a) the monetaryallocation for the wardnrp,
     (b) necessity ofthe project for the community,
     (c) comparative urgency o fvarious projects within the ward,
     (d) short-term andlong-termbenefits for the communityfrom the projects,
     (e) technical feasibility o fthe projects.

     The UP will maintain records o f the proceedings, discussion and decisions taken in these
    meetings with utmost diligence.

(ii)Theward-wiseprioritylistofprojectswillthenbesubmittedbeforetheUPforapproval;
     accordingly the technical member o f the Scheme Implementation Committee (SIC) (see
    Appendix - 11) will prepare the design, specifications, drawings, etc., for the projects that
     are technically feasible. TheUP will maintain all such records withutmost care.

(iii) concernedwardmemberwill disseminate allinfomationregardingapprovedand
     The
     unapproved projects to the ward people by convening a meeting at the ward level, along
    withprojectedcompletion scheduleo fapprovedprojects.

(iv) The UP will handover related documentation to the concerned SIC for implementation o f
     the projects, andto the SSC (see Appendix -11)for supervision andmonitoring.




                                                75

                                                                                 Amendix I1

    Formationand Functionsofthe SchemeImplementationCommittee(SIC) andScheme
                                SupervisionCommittee(SSC)

        The UPSwill follow the O M which will be consistentwith the regulatory framework of
the Public Procurement Regulations, 2003. A check-and-balance mechanism, in-built into the
formation proceduresandcharter o f functions o ftwo Committees, will beput inplace. Important
features to benoted are as follow:
 i. Therewillbetwo committees asdetailedbelow, namelySICandSSCineachUP;
        however, the UP may, at its discretion, decide to have one SIC for each sub-project (or
..      scheme) depending onthe nature andother factors;
...
11.     Nomember ofone committee canbeincluded inanother Committee; and
111.    UP Chairmanwillnotbeincludedinthe SIC.

Outlines on formation andfunctions o fthe Committees are givenbelow:

SchemeImplementationCommittee(SIC)
     e)Formation:    All schemes o fthe UP under the Block Grantwill beimplemented through a
     Scheme Implementation Committee (SIC); since each UP consists o f nine (9) wards,
     composition ofthe SIC will be as follows: 5-7 membersnominated ina communitymeeting
     to beorganizedbythe wardmember(s) concerned) as detailed inAppendix -Iabove:
     (a)  At least one ward-member and one woman ward member, one of whom will be the
           Chair o fthe Committee - Chairman
     (b) Other remainingmembersto benominatedbythe community - Members.

      (id Functions and Responsibilities:
      (a)   SIC will be responsible to implement the approved projects handedover to them by
            the UP following the procedures as stipulated inthe UP OM;
      (b)   Receive the goods/ works/ services from the supplierlproviderl as per work-order/
            purchaseorder issuedbythe PC;
      (c)   Discharge any other function as maybe assignedbythe UP.

      It will be up to the SIC to decide, at its discretion, whether SIC will form another sub-
      committee from among its members to act as a Procurement Sub-committee. If it i s so
      decided, the Procurement Sub-committee will act following terms of reference to be
      decided by the SIC. If no Procurement Sub-committee is formed, then all procurement
      functions under the Block Grant will beundertakenbythe SIC itself.


 SchemeSupervisionCommittee(SSC)

      (9 F o ~ ~ ~ ~Alloschemes of the UP under the Block Grant will be supervised and
                        j   n :
        monitored during implementation through a Scheme Supervision Committee (SSC)



                                               76

   composition o f which will be as follows: (5-7 members nominated in a community
   meetingto be organized by the ward member(s) concerned) as detailed in Appendix - I
   above. The UP has discretion to define the composition o f the SSC as long as it upholds
   the principle that no individual can serveonboththe SIC andthe SSC. The UP Chairman
   may serve on the SSC. It is expected that lessons will be learned throughout the life on
   good practice inregardto the composition ofthe SSC. This issue will bereviewedas part
   o fthe mid-yearreview andthe ICR andguidanceon SSC compositionmay be issuedas a
   result ofthese reviews.

 (ii) Functions and ~esponsibilities: SSC will be responsible to discharge the following
functions -
(a)    Supervise implementation of any scheme interns o f quality, quantity and timeliness,
       as indicated inthe approved procurement andimplementationplan;
(b)    Advise the SIC o f rectifylng measures in case it observes any defect in the
       implementation o fthe project;
(c)    Incase the SICdoesnot addressthe advice ofthe SSC,thenrefer the issueto the UP
       for remedial measures;
(d)    Discharge any other function as maybe assignedbythe UP;
(e)    Approve the award recommendation andissue the work-order I purchase order to the
       recommendedbidderwith copy to the UP, SIC andthe SSC; and
(0 Dischargeanyother function asmaybeassignedbytheUP;




                                            77

                                                                                   Appendix-I11

                     ProcurementMonitoringandReportingArrangements

Introduction

The success of the Project in improving service delivery and supporting local development
depends in large part on how well UPSare able to manage their procurement processes. The
additional grant financing made available through the project canhave significant impact ifplans
arewell specified, contractors are well selected, andprojects are carefully managed. Muchworse
outcomes are likely to be producedwhen the various stages inmanaging the interaction between
the local community and private contractors break down, and the risk o f wastage o f funds and
opportunities i s significant.

TheProject designincludes a set ofmeasuresthat seek to ensure effective procurement at the UP
level. Procurement will be guidedby limitedrules that reflect the principles o f good procurement
found in the Procurement Rules (The Public Procurement Regulations, 2003) and the OM. In
order to provide community oversight over the use o f hds, a set of accountability institutions
have also been created. Training is plannedfor procurement officials and individualsinvolved in
oversight inorder to establishthe skills necessaryfor effective performance.

Monitoringmechanisms andreportingrequirements havebeendesignedto strengtheneacho fthe
key features of the UP procurement arrangements. Monitoring and reporting processes are
planned as an integrated element of overall Project monitoring and reporting. Procurement
monitoring will focus on providing additional information and strengthening oversight in 3
distinct areas:
        -adherence to the stipulated procurement principles andprocedures
        -organization and finctioning oflocalaccountability institutions
        -the quality o fprocurement outcomes

A special monitoring exercise designed to ensure the effectiveness of procurement capacity
buildingwill take place during the first year of the project and will complement the work that
will take place acrossthe life ofthe project.

ProcurementOverview

Under the project, the procurement arrangement have been divided into two parts: (i)
procurement at the Ministry level by the Local Government Division o f the LGD and NILG
largely for services and goods, and (ii) the UP level, by community groups for infra-structural
                                        at
works, and some extent of goods, usingthe block pant fund. .

The UPSwill follow the country procurement system andthe OM. Thekey features will include:

(i)Separate committees established to handle the project implementation (including
    procurement) and project supervision with an injunction upon any member serving on both
    committees. Communityrepresentatives will serve as memberson eachcommittee;



                                                78

(ii) internalcontrolandsanctionmechanismtodeterinappropriate/ collusive/ corrupt
     In-built
     procurement practices;

(iii)Enhanced disclosure of information, complaints handling, and oversight by community
     groups o fprocurement outcomes;

(iv)Wide dissemination of project and procurement information to the community as part o f
     behavioralchange and social accountability.

The project will start with about 1000 UPSinthe first year; extensive and intensive trainingwill
be imparted to officials o f UPS and community groups of the application of the OM and
procedures for effective oversight. The UPSwill ensure clarity in organizational h c t i o n with
separate committees tasked with responsibility for implementing and supervising projects. No
individual will be allowed to be a member of both committees. The committees will feature UP
representatives as well as a cross-section o f people within the community with due regard to
gender balance. The manual will have room for flexibility inorder to allow and encourage the
application o f lessons learnedas procurement experienceis gainedbythe community.

Initial Process andPerformance Monitoring

As we have discussed above, much o f the success of the project depends upon the establishing
the procedural foundations for effective procurement andutilizingthose foundations to carry out
high-quality procurement. Two separate procurement reviews will be conducted during the
course of the first 12 months o f project operation in order to support the creation o f effective
procurement operations and create the framework for procurement monitoring and oversight
over the lifetime o fthe project.

The first procurement review will take place at the end of the initial six month operation o f the
BG in December 2007. This review will determine the extent to which proper procedures for
procurement have been put inplace. Topics to be covered in this "establishment o f processes"
review might include, but are not limited to examining the extent to which staff understand and
can carry out necessary procedures, the existence of required committees and their composition,
the adequacy o frecord keepingprocedures andmechanismsfor the provisiono finformation, and
the degree to which the community knows the type o f information the UP i s required to provide
and the mechanisms by which it can participate in oversight. The results of the review will be
provided to the participating UPS in order to help them manage the implementation o f new
procurement procedures andshared with the LGD.

The second procurement review will take place one year after project implementation, in June
2008. This review will focus on procurement performance and determine the extent to which
UPShave been able to use their funds effectively. The performance reviews may include but are
not limited to an evaluation of the proportion o f project h d s used, the method of procurement
used, the number o f bids and the quality o f the bids, the proportion o f completed projects, the
number of complaints and grievances, the quality of the assets that have been obtained and the
price paid for various types o f projects. The findings o f the report will be shared with the



                                               79

participating UPSand the LGD, and will be included in the procurement component o f the
Annual Report. The performance review will establish a baseline for procurement performance
of UPSwithinthe Project and, together with the initial processreview, will create the framework
for all futuremonitoring andoversight.

The monitoring will be conducted in20% i.e. 200 o f the UPSincluded inthe project inthe first
year and will be conducted by contracting with CSOs, consultants, and research organizations
with experience andexpertiseinthe discipline.

RegularMonitoringofAdherenceto Procurementprinciplesandprocedures

UPSwill send reports directly to the LGD on their procurement practices on a quarterly basis as
part of their standard reporting requirements. The reportable items will include salient
information onprocurement activities that have taken place duringthe quarter. A sampletable to
be filled inbythe UP will be annexed inthe procurement chapter ofthe Block Grant Operating
Manual.

Information may include, but is not limited to: the number andvalue of contracts awarded inthe
quarter, the number o f bidders, the number of projects completed inthe quarter, and the number
of complaints received and their disposition. The procurement information include in the
quarterlyreport may also serve as aninitiatingtool for LGDofficials or other officials instructed
byLGDto undertake spot inspection oftheworks to verify substanceofimplementation

Procurement transactions will be reviewed as part o f the annual audits stipulated in Annex 7.
Enhanced assessments of procurement practices and outcomes will occur as part of the quality
reviewo farandom selection of audits that is elaboratedinAnnex 7.

Monitoringthe OrganizationandFunctioningofAccountabilityArrangements

A set of accountability institutions will be created as part of the Project in order to provide
meaningful community oversight of spending. Those institutions include a Scheme
Implementation Committee (SIC), and a Scheme Supervision Committee (SSC). Project
documents also provide a limited number o f rules relating to the composition of these
committees and the scope of their work. These procurement-specific entities support and
complement accountability processes established across the project, such as the public provision
of project information stipulated in Annex 4, and the organization o f public meetings on a
quarterlybasis.

The application of these rules will be monitored directly and indirectly. The activity o f the SIC
and SSCs will be reviewed during the quality review of audits that will be performed in a
significant proportion of participating UPS.Information on the operation o f the accountability
institutions will also be provided through an examination o f the distribution o f audit findings
across UPSas well as information on the number o f complaints and grievances raised within
individual UPS.Quarterly reports will check compliance with the requirements to provide
information, andholdpublic meetings.




                                                80

Monitoringthe Quality of ProcurementOutcomes

The quality of outcomes for UP procurement as well as procurement by the LGD at the central
level will be monitored on an annual basis as part of the Annual Report, Outcomes monitoring
may include, but will not be limitedto: (1) evaluating extent o f mobilization o f grant funds; (2)
measuring the degree of competition for projects; and (3) assessing rates of completion o f
projects; and (4) number of grievances. It is expectedthat monitoringprocurement outcomes will
assist inidentifyinggood practicesas well as provideuseful informationon where accountability
institutions may not be performing adequately. The mechanisms to be used for monitoring and
reporting onprocurement outcomeswill be stipulated inthe instructions on preparingthe Annual
Report.

The Annual Report shall also include a review o f the findings of the Auditor General on
procurement transactions undertakenwithin the Project, and the remedial actions that have been
taken in response to those findings. Procedures to be used in conducting external audits of
procurement transactions will be customized to accommodatea set ofpertinent questionnaire on
procurement so that response to these questions will present a cognizable profile o f the
procurement activities interm o fquality andefficiency.

                             Procurement Requirements and Sanctions

                                           Indicator        Transgression          Saiction
            Functional manpower at the  SIC andPSC         SIC andPSC not      Noblock grant
                                        formed following   formed              allocatedto the
                                        laiddown                               UP
                                        procedure
      2     Provision o finfomation     Auditfindings on   Informationon       Procurement
            necessary for local         adherence to       contract            activities
            accountability              disclosure rules.  opportunities,      suspendedand
                                                           awards, and         block grant
                                                           justifications not  withheld with
                                                           provided.           immediate effect
      3     Compliance withguidelines   Audit findings.    Violation of        Procurement
            for undertaking procurement                    procurementrules    activities
            at the UP level.                               relating to method  suspendedand
                                                           o fprocurement,     block grant
                                                           treatment o f       withheld with
                                                           bidders, and        immediate effect
                                                           awarding o f
                                                           contracts.




                                                    81

 .1i      I




    0




        sP
         L3
        ?
         ?
         8
         3




             2C        z
             2C    z



         0
         8     C       oc
               C        Y '
         m     C        In'
               v        N <




                        s
3                  8
                         I

m
00

     3 24 34




J




          3
          4   3
              4     3
                    3   n
                        s



       10
      ?             9
                    ?    W
                         9
                    -i  3
                    3    3
      72          .i

       3            3b   ?
                         00
       N            N    N

                I
                        I




                    m   /E
    2         0
    6         '?
    0         0
    N         5
              Ni




                        ja
           m        2    d
       m
       N   m  d     d
              m     m    m

     34  34  34




3




     3
     3   3
        3
     9
     ?  b
        ?
     ?
     &  ?&
     b
     N  bN




            r-           l~
            ?
            3
            ? s     s
                   -.)

              Do    36    03
             N     N      N




     0
     2   0    =i;   0     3

              od    r!
                    +     x
         d    m     115   e4

                I
                            9
                            >
                            5




                            3      3
3




                            3-1
                     9
                     ?
                     s
                     U



                     3
                     N




     W     W
           g     W   9
                 z
    08&    9     9   zl4                 W
     d               -3                  00
     Pl'   W     c-.               i
                 Pl  -3            u




                                   9
                                   9
                                   m
                                   N
                                   -!
                                   N




                            n
           0                \d     N
                                   W
           m
           N                cl
                            KA     m
                                   Pl

J         i3   i3    3   3


   n3    sa   sa




                              t-
                              oo




               0
               r-:
               3N
               3




     c?
     W
     N
     m

                    9
                    II




MI/




nnnnnnnn-
W N M b l A U O P - 0 0

                           Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis
                     BANGLADESH: Local Governance Support Project

Bangladesh's PRSP identifies improved governance as a national priority for the poverty
reduction agenda. Inparticular, the PRSP highlightsthe governance challenges that the country
faces in the delivery o f services to the poor, which comprise approximately 50 percent o f the
total population (as o f 2000). This reflects Bangladesh's great need to improve both governance
and access and quality of services ifthe country is to expanduponrecent gains for the poor and
further reduce poverty. This project, which intends to enhance local governance and service
delivery by bolstering the capacity and resources o f UPS,thus targets precisely two interlinked
areas that are o fprimaryimportto Bangladesh's development.

Role of the Public Sector
As Bangladesh's lowest tier of directly elected government, UPScan perform a crucial role in
these respects, by strengthening the relationships o f accountability between citizens and
government andbyprovidingbasic infrastructure and services to meet local economic and social
needs. There i s a particularly important role for UPSin the provision o f local public goods,
which the private sector i s likely to under-provide relative to the social optimum due to their
non-excludable and non-rival nature. Additionally, positive externalities associated with many
types o f public goods (such as sanitation systems) provide further economic justification for
local government involvement. Thus, there i s a strong economic rationale for boosting the
capacity and resourceso fUPSso that they are more capable o fremedyingthe likely undersupply
o f localpublic goods.

A key design feature ofthis project is that UnionParishads (UPS)will possessthe responsibility
and discretion to implement local development projects in accordance with locally determined
priorities.  It is therefore not possible to determine ex ante the precise composition o f
investments to bemade withproject funds. An economic analysis o fthe projectcannot bebased,
as is the case with traditional investment projects, on a cost-benefit analysis o f specific
investments with expected rates o f return. Accordingly, the principal economic benefits o f
LGSP are not quantifiable prior to project implementation and evaluation. Rather, an economic
analysis of LGSP must focus on the theoretical benefits, supported by empirical data when
available, that can be reasonably expected given the project-induced change in the process o f
resource allocation, investment selection, and scheme implementation and maintenance. On
these counts, LGSP's participatory, demand-drivenand decentralized approach to the provision
of infrastructure and service deliveryby UPSis likely to improve allocative efficiency and social
welfare as localpriorities andneeds arebetter reflected incommunity investments.

Theoretical Benefits
Providing discretionary resources to elected local governments i s likely to improve allocative
efficiency because preferences for public goods differ across individuals and groups, and local
governments are more closely situated than central government to the individuals and groups
they represent and for whom they make decisions. Local governments are thus better equipped
to elicit information regarding local preferences, and citizens are better able to communicate
their interests to local governmental decision-makers. This exchange o f information regarding
preferences, when coupled with financial resources and strong relationships o f accountability,


                                                89

ensures that locally determined priorities are better addressed than through more centralized
mechanisms for resource allocation andinvestment selection.

Related Empirical Evidence
These theoretical predictions regarding allocative efficiency are supported by empirical
evidence, which demonstrates that decentralization can improve the responsiveness of public
spending to local needs (see, for example, Faguet, 2004; Manor 1999). There i s also much
evidence that shows decentralization and community involvement in public investments
improves productive efficiency as well, usually resulting in lower costs, more productively
employed assets, and enhanced sustainability. For example, studies of community-organized
irrigation systems in Asia have found that infrastructure constructed and operated by farmers
themselves generates a higher level o f agricultural productivity than more modern systems
constructed by government agencies (Lam, 1998; Tang, 1992). Another experience in South
Afiica demonstrated that when CBOs are responsible for all aspects o f a project (including
design, management, and monitoring), costs per beneficiary are less than halfthose when CBOs
are not decision-makers (Adato, Besley, Haddad, and Hoddinott, 1999). Similarly, other studies
have found that improvements in quality o f roads and reduced costs o f maintenance when
maintenance is decentralized (Humplick and Moini-ha&,               1996).  A large study of water
supplyprojects inrural communities across six countries (Benin, Bolivia, Honduras, Indonesia,
Pakistan, andUganda) indicates that sustainability o fwater systemsis significantlyhigher when
communities control key investment decisions (Sara and Katz, 1997).              Additionally, fiscal
decentralization hasbeen found to be associatedwith decreasedcorruption across a large sample
o f countries (Fisman and Gatti, 2000). These examples suggest that investments made by UPS
under LGSP would likely be a more cost-effective, locally appropriate, and sustainable use o f
financialresources thancentrally allocated alternatives.

Productive Efficiency
Bangladeshhas only very recent experiencewith nationwide, discretionary block grants to UPS,
and so there i s little reliable data regardingthe efficiency o f use and impact o f those funds ut the
national scale. Still, the evidence that does exist validates both the theoretical predictions and
empirical evidence presented above.          A detailed case study and impact evaluation o f the
Sirajganj experience (SLGDP-a           UNDP and UNCDF project) by GHK International, for
example, highlightsmajor real cost differences between schemes financed alternatively by ADP
or SLGDP. The study team found an average ~            i   n difference of 30~percent inthe value o f
                                                                ~   ~   u
an asset createdthrough ADP and SLGDP funds, that is, the value added associatedwith SLGDP
schemes was estimated to be anywhere from 23 to 37 percent o f total costs. It is therefore
reasonable to assume an immediate return to all public investments made through UPSunder
LGSPbetween23 and37 percent relativeto the ADP-financed counterfactual.

From Sirajganj and other experiences, we have data that suggest approximately 80 percent of the
block grant i s spent on roads, other transportation related infrastructure, and water and sanitation.
These are the same sector-specific investments for which the GHK study cited above found
increases in productive efficiency between 23 and 37 percent.               Taking ,these efficiency
improvements on 80 percent of the block grant, then, represents a minimum return (based on
savings) to this project and avoids making assumptions about the cost-effectiveness o f the
remaining 20 percent of UP expenditures. There is of course reason to believe that the UPS



                                                   90

realize additional value added for the remaining20 percent. Therefore, the following estimates
of returns to LGSP may be underestimating total savings and shouldbe viewed as conservative.
The table below summarizes the absolute returns that accrue through value added to assets
generatedbythe block grant during theproject implementationperiod aZone.

                  Estimated absolute gains inproductive efficiency(in 2006 USD)

                    Total BG 80% of BG           Low gains
                                                    23yo        High gains            Ave. gains
                                                                   (37%)                (30%)
     N06107 20,912,121             16,729,697     3,981,668     6,189,988             5,018,909

     FY07108 29,162,121           23,329,697      5,552,468      8,63 1,988           6,998,909
     N08109 35,644,318            28,515,454      6,786,678     10,550,718            8,554,636

    IN09110 53,766,970
                  I                              10,237,231     15,915,023            12,904,073      I
    ~ 1 0 1 1173,636,168
                   1                             14,020,326     21,796,306            17,672,680      1
     Total        1213,121,6981170,497,358
                                I1 58,908,934 1II
                                  43,013,576


                                                 40,578,371 I11 63,084,023       III  51,149,208
    (Note that 80% ofBGreflects the expectedproportionofBGinvested inroads, other transport-related
    infi-astructure, andwater and sanitation.)

Leakages
LGSP will also have an immediate impact on leakages ofblock grant funds by changing current
disbursement arrangements and delivering the block grant directly into UP accounts. LGED
staff and senior ministryofficials inLGD have informally estimated that about 20 percent of the
block grants leaks before reaching the UP. Though the economy-wide impact o f such leakages
on efficiency i s uncertain, changes induced by this project will tend to increase, on average, the
resources that the UPShave in handby an estimated 20 percent relative to the existing ADP-
financed system. During the project implementation period alone, this estimated percentage
would translate into an additional USD 43 million in finds reaching UP bank accounts rather
thanleakingout athighertiers ofgovernment.

Leveraging Additional Community Resources
This project will create capacity and establish incentives for UPSto increase their own revenue
generation. Similar experiences in Sirajganj and USAID's project areas demonstrate that UPS
generally apply very well their new capacities to improve their own resource base. InSirajganj,
for example, UPShave, on average, improved their tax position by 100 percent annually during
the first two years through a combination of capacity building and performance-based financial
incentives. USAID'Scapacity buildingproject inthree districts (without any performance grant
incentives) has found comparable increases intax revenues on the order o f 200 percent. Given
that the average UP tax position tends to range between Tk. 50,000 and Tk. 80,000, similar
responses by UPS under the LGSP, which has both capacity building and performance
incentives, could leverage an additional Tk. 100,000 to Tk. 160,000 per UP in own revenue
generation. During the final year of project implementation (FY 1011l), similar         assuming
increasesinparticipating UPS,total tax revenueswould then averagebetween 13 and 21percent
of the total block grant amount.




                                                     91

The GHK analysis and audit reports of Sirajganj also demonstratedthat increased community
participation facilitated feelings in community members o f greater ownership o f schemes.
Recognizing the relevance and importance o f schemes, community members were more willing
to make charitable contributions to improve the quality o f those schemes. Many community
members provided additional cash contributions, fi-ee labor, aesthetic upgrades (such as putting
grass on roadsides), provision of earthldirt, etc.   The increased community participation in
scheme selection and enhancedrelationships o f accountability under LGSP will likely generate
similar contributions of resources that complement those provided by the block grant under
LGSP, though the amount cannotbepredicted at presentwith any accuracy.

Non-QuantifiableBenefits
The existing system suffers fiom  a lack of uniformityandpredictabilityinfind allocation, which
severely impairs UPS ability to engage in medium-term planning and budgeting. The
consequence o f this is that schemes are selected on an annual cycle and have no linkage with
future plans. Under LGSP, however, UPSwill receive funds in a predictable manner and
amount, whichwill helpto improve the efficiency o fdevelopment planning andspending,

Theblock grant funds will bereleasedto the UPSina timelymanner under LGSP, incontrast to
the grant system under ADP, which created many opportunities for disruptive interventions by
higher levels o f government. These delays often lead to early termination o f schemes and or
comprises on quality of design by project implementation committees or contractors. Evidence
fiom  Sirajganj shows that under a system o f timely finding installments, UPShave been able to
pay schemeimplementation committees inanefficient manner innearlyall cases.

Some of the most important benefits o f LGSP relate to the enhanced community participation
andaccountability mechanismsthat governthe useofthe block grantbythe UPS. Thesebenefits
cannot be calculated ex ante, but can be captured during evaluation once data becomes available
on the schemes actually selected by UPSand those preferred by community members. These
benefits associated with community participation in scheme selection can later be estimated by
trying to capture improvements in allocative efficiency, seen as shifts in the allocation o f
resourcesthat better map financial resources onto communityneeds.




                                                92

                                Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues
                     BANGLADESH: LocalGovernance Support Project

1.EnvironmentalandSocialAssessmentandManagement

The Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) provides general policies,
guidelines, codes of practice and procedures to be integrated into the implementation o f IDA
financed operations. Consistentwith existing national legislation, the objective o fthe Framework
is to help ensure that activities under the proposed operation will protect humanhealth, prevent
or compensate any loss of livelihood, prevent environmental degradation as a result o f either
individual subprojects or their cumulative effects, enhance positive environmental and social
outcomes, and ensure compliance with World Bank safeguardpolicies.

The LGD already has anEnvironmentand Social Management Framework (ESMF) and OM for
community infrastructure. For assessingwhether World Bank operational policies are triggered
and revision of existing ESMF, an environment and social assessment was carried out in
different UPS,especially, Sirajganj Local Government Pilot project, Social Investment Project
and tribal areas o f Chittagong HillTracts (CHT), and a few socio-economic and geographically
diverse areas. The revised ESMF follows the keyprinciples o f (a) enhancing environmental and
social awareness of UP and communities, (b) avoiding adverse environmental impacts and
improving existing environmental and social conditions, and (c) reducing social conflicts and
improvinginclusion ofvulnerable groups insharingbenefits,

The objectives o fthis ESW are:
e   To establish clear procedures and methodologies for the environmental planning, review,
    approval andimplementationo f subprojects to be financedunderthe Project;
0   To specify appropriate roles and responsibilities, and outline the necessary reporting
    procedures, for managingandmonitoringenvironmental concernsrelated to subprojects;
e   Establish clear procedures and methodologies for assessing social safeguards (involuntary
    displacement and indigenous peoples) issues and impacts in selection and design o f CIWs,
    review and approval, andimplementation o f CIWs to be financed under LGSP;
e   Establishprinciples, policies, guidelines, practice codes, andprocedures to,
    1.  Assess whether the safeguardspolicies would apply under particular CIWs;
    2.  Assess alternatives, in terms o f design, location, etc., to avoid or minimize adverse
       impacts; and
    3. Deal with adverseimpacts where they are unavoidable.
e   Specify appropriate roles and responsibilities o f UPS,Wards, and others, and outline the
    necessary reporting procedures, for managing and monitoring social concerns related to the
    selected CIWs; and
e   Determine the training, capacity building and technical assistance needed to successhlly
    implement theprovisions o fthe ESMF.
The assessment was conducted to understand the issues I concerns prevailing in the union
parishads (UPS)in order to determine what and how environment and social concerns are to be
addressed. The assessment included(i)review ofUP activities from an environment and social
                                         a
perspectives by analyzing secondary information as well as undertaking field visits to and
stakeholder consultations in pilot districts and tribal areas; (ii)capacity needs assessment to
                                                                  a


                                                 93

form the basis for developing a training plan, and (iii) development of a monitoring
                                                              the
framework to ensure that environment and social safeguards are addressed during project
implementation.

The assessment findings indicate that UPSare usingpart of the block grants for the provisionof
small-scale rural community infrastructure works (CIW), e.g. rehabilitation o f rural roads,
rehabilitation and construction o f culvertslfootbridges, rehabilitation drainage systems,
construction o f water and sanitation facilities, rain or spring water harvesting, social forestry,
solid waste management etc. These are mostly rehabilitation o f existing small scale
infrastructure, and therefore, will not lead to environmental impacts o f any significance. The
review of development activities in UP revealed that there are some environmental issues l
concerns arising out of activities in which the UPSare not involved and there are others which
are caused by the UP activities, The concerns l issues include (i)          arsenic and bacteria
contamination in drinking water, (ii)unplanned road construction blocking drainage, (iii)
improper sanitation and sewage systems, (iv) improper solid waste management, and (v)
improper and unstructured infrastructure. Furthermore, UPSwere not given any environmental
and social guidelines during planningand implementation for safeguarding the population and
sustainability aspects of initiatives. Also, capacity and awareness o f the UPSon environmental
issues /concerns was not developed. Therefore, to avoid potentially adverse environmental
impacts andimprove existing environmental conditions, World Bank Operational Policy (OP) on
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01) is triggered for this project and all community
infrastructures will be subject to environmental screeningexercise.

In addition, the ESMF developed a `negative list' of activitieslactions (which would cause
adverse social and environmental impacts that UPSwould be unable to deal with) that the BGs
would not finance under this project; practice codes related to social issues; and a capacity
buildingplanfor UPS;andanOMto usethe Framework.

The study also found that these sub-projects are built on public lands, and there was no land
acquisition or involuntary displacement. These public lands were also free o f squatters and
encroachers. Insome cases, donated lands for CIWs were properly registered by community and
individuals. Therefore, OP 4.12 on Involuntary Resettlement i s not triggered. Assessment in
CHT and other tribal areas indicate that tribal population was in the decision making and the
major beneficiary of block grant schemes. The communities were able to come together for
implementingthe block grant schemes, which increased social cohesion, reduced conflicts and
no one was negativelyaffected. Therefore, OP 4.10 on Indigenous Peoples is not triggered.

The ESMF includes information on applicable national and local govement policies, a simple
and user-friendly framework comprising screening ofUP activities and mitigation measures for
those activities that create environmental impacts, and capacity-building plans for all UP
functionaries, as well as government andNGO extension workers.

For proper implementation of ESMF,UPScapacity requires to be strengthened. Trainingwill be
givento allUP members, secretaries, locallevelgovernment extensionworkers and communities
to augmenttheir awareness and competenceto identify I address environmentalissues.




                                                 94

2. E S M F Preparation

The World Bank has developeda generic toolkit to help in the development o f ESMFs for CDD
(Community DrivenDevelopment) type o f sub-projects. The approachinthe WB Toolkit' for an
ESMF with multiple small scale subprojects was followed in developing the ESMF for this
project. The experiences on CIWs from Sirajganj Local Governance Project (UNDP), Social
Investment Project (SIPP) in Jamalpur and local initiatives in some other areas including the
CHT mainly populated by indigenous peoples were taken into count for this framework. In
carrying out the assessment, public I stakeholder consultations were carried out in 110UPSin45
districts. A questionnaire was usedto collect information from these field visits and a check list
was used for consultations. Based on the feedback collected, the role of the UPS,their existing
capacity and needs have been determined for identifylng environmental and social issues and
adhering withmitigationmeasures.

ESMF is based on the Environment Management Framework EMF and OM preparedby the
Local Government Engineering Department (LGED)2and SIPP ,inconjunction with the World
                                                                        '1.
Bank Operational Policy on Environmental Assessment (OP 4-01), Bangladesh ECA 1995
(Environmental Conservation Act, 1995) and ECR 1997 (Environmental Conservation Rules,
1997). The experience from other countries like India4, Afghanistad, Pakistan6and countries in
AiXca for similar initiatives were also studied for this ESMF.

3. Basic Principles of ESMF

The Framework is based on an assessment of the nature, scope, and scale o f safeguardsimpacts
under CIWs that UPSundertake with the presently available BGs and those likely to be
undertaken with relatively larger BGs, and their capacity to address environmental and social
safeguardsissues. The following principles will apply for selection andimplementation o f CIWs:
' Priorto selection ofspecific CIWs, the UPSwouldundertake communityconsultation
    regardingtheir objectives, scopes as well as environmental andsocial safeguardimplications,
    especially withrespectto environmental impacts anduse o fpublic andprivate lands.
'   All proposed CIWs projects to be fundedbyblock grant will be subject to an environmental
    and social screening in order to prevent execution o f projects with significant negative
    environmental and social impacts and the UPSwill not elect to undertake CIWs whose could
    result significant negative impact.
'   The UPSwill not elect to undertake CIWs that may require private land acquisition, and will
    try to keep the development works limitedto improvement ofthe existinginfrastructure, and
    use their own or other public landswhere new CIWs would be built.



'ESMF   for WB Projects with Multiplesmall-scale subprojects-A Toolkit (WB 2005)
 EMFfor RTIP, LGED(2002)
 SIF'P Environmental Assessment Manual(SDF, 2002)
 B.RahillandS. Vaideeswaran, EnvironmentalManagementMechanisminFI, Quasi- FI&CDD Operations
(2003)
 ESMFfor WorldBanksupported emergency reconstructionoperations inAfghanistan
 ESMFfor PMSIP (Pmjab Municipal Social Investment Project) supported subprojects (2005)


                                                     95

'  Where use o fprivate landis essentialfor critical CIWs, UPSmay seek voluntary contribution
   from the concerned landowners, andlor members o f the beneficiary communities would
   collectively explore alternatives to voluntary contribution, including `contribution against
   compensation'.

4. SafeguardScreeningandMitigationGuidelines

Safeguard screening will consist of an examination of requirements o f the possible CIWs, and
guidelines that will apply in terms funding eligibility and impact mitigation. The following
guidelines, practice codes andrequirements will apply inselection, design andimplementation of
particular CIWs:
   Negative List. The CIWs that have characteristics as those described inthe `Negative List'
   will be ineligiblefor fundingunderLGSP;
'   Guidelinesfor Environmental Management: Principles, policies and codes o fpractice for the
   mitigationo fpotential environmental impacts;
'   ~ i d e z i n e s ~Land Use. Principles, policies and guidelines for use of public and private
                       o r
    lands and adverse impact mitigation; impact assessment procedure; and implementation and
   monitoringarrangements; and
    Guidelinesfor Indigenous Peoples Plan. Principles and guidelines to identify and deal with
    adverse impacts on indigenous peoples (IP), and a consultation framework for adoption of
   mitigationanddevelopment measures, where CIWs wouldadversely affect IPS.

5. ESMFand CIW Implementation

UPSwill be supportedby a minimum of two committees for the implementation o f LGSP - (a)
Scheme Implementation Committee (SIC), and (b) Scheme Supervision Committee (SSC). These
committees will be formed in open meetings, where communities will nominate members and
will consist of representation from poor, women, professionals and other groups. UP and
community may decide to have more than one SIC or SSC e.g. one SIClSSC for each sub-
project`scheme. The UP Chairman and secretarywill not be a member of any Committee and no
one can be members of more than one committee. The SIC will be chaired by a ward member,
andifthere is more thanone SIC, women wardmembers will chair at least in30% o f SICS.The
SSC will be chaired by a community member, while membership will include government
technical staff (LGED, DPHE, agriculture and livestock extension workers, teachers, health
workers) and members of community with technical knowledge. Each Committee will have
around 719 members. While the UPSwould manage and allocate the BGs, the SIC will oversee
implementation of the selected CIWs, and will arrange for collective mitigation of their
environmental and social impacts. SSC will provide technical support indesign, implementation
andmitigation

All sub-projects of the UP under the Block Grant will be implemented through SIC and
supervised and monitored during implementation by SSC. SIC along with the community,
especially the concernedpersons, will screen and select the desired CIWs to propose to Union
Parishads. SSC will visit the CIWs locations and verify the records with the communities,
especially with those who would contribute lands for the proposed CIWs for approval ofward or


                                                 96

UP levelproposals. The SICs will select and implement all CIWs inan UP,while the SSC will
provide technical support as and when necessary, and will play an oversight role during
implementation, andindependentlypreparea completion record for eachCIW.

6. Screening and Mitigation Responsibilities

At the ward levels, the Scheme Implementation Committees (SICs), along with the concerned
persons, will conduct the environmental and social screening exercises and select the desired
CIWs to propose to Union Parishads. Depending on scope, likely impacts and the proposed
mitigationmeasures, the SSC may decide to visit the CIW locations and verify the findings with
the communities, especially with those who might be displaced ffom public lands and who
would contribute lands for the proposed CIWs. For screening, the SICs may seek technical
support of SSC which will havemembershipofUpazila levelgovernment professionals.

While the UPSwill manage and allocate the BGs to the wards, the SICs will implement the
selected CIWs, and arrange for collective mitigation o f their environmental and social impacts.
Inaddition to technical support for CIW design andimplementation, the SSCswill also provide
support to interpret and apply the environmental and social impact management guidelines
adoptedinthis ESMF.

7. Grievance Redress

Outside of their official conflict resolution mandate, the UPSwill set up a procedure to
address complaints and grievances regarding LGSP procedural irregularities and environmental
and social guidelines mentioned above. The procedure will not pre-empt an aggrieved person's
rightto seek redressinthe courts oflaw. All complaints will first be discussedat the openward
meetings. If this fails, the SIC can refer the complaints to the SSC and then UPSwith the
minutes of the hearing taken place at the ward level, and discussion will be held in open UP
meetings. IfUP fails to resolve the matter, it canrefer the case to the UNO or LGD. A decision
agreed with the aggrieved person at any level o f hearingwill be binding on the UP. The UPS
willkeep the records of all complaints andgrievanceswhich may remainunresolved.

8. Capacity Building

The UPShave a limited institutional capacity to implement the ESMF. Except for a Secretary,
who usually keeps track of all activities in a union, the 13 others, including the Chairman, are
 elected community representatives. As such, GOB has planned to organize specific capacity-
building training programs for UPS which will be included in the core training package
mandatory for all eligibleUPS.




                                                97

                       Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision
                    BANGLADESH: LocalGovernance Support Project

                                                Planned                   Actual
PCNreview                                                                1210812005
InitialPID to PIC                                                        1211512005
InitialISDS to PIC                                                       1211512005
Appraisal                                                               0411612006
Negotiations                                  0510212006                0510312006
Boardapproval                                 0611512006
Planneddate o feffectiveness                   913012006
Planned date ofmid-termreview                 0413012009
Plannedclosingdate                            0613012011

Key institutions responsible for preparation of the project:
Local Government Division, Ministryo fLocalGovernment, RuralDevelopment and
Cooperatives

Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:
Name                                                   Title                      Unit
DavidSavage                                       Team Leader                    SASES
Nilufar Ahrnad                                 Sr. Social Scientist              SASES
Kishor Uprety                                      Sr. Counsel                  LEGMS
MaitreyiDas                                Sr. Social Sector Specialist          SASES
Jeffrey Hammer                                   LeadEconomist                   SASES
M.Khaliquzzaman                            Sr. Environment Specialist            SASES
NicolasPenin                              Social Development Specialist           SDV
NatashaHayward                            Social Development Specialist          SASAR
QaiserKhan                            LeadHumanDevelopment Specialist            SASHD
Yaniv Stopnitzky                          Junior ProfessionalAssociate           SASHD
BurhanuddinAhmed                        Financial Management Specialist          SARFM
Venkateswaran RamaKrishnan              Financial Management Specialist         TUDCA
Zaii-ul Islam                              Sr. Procurement Specialist            SARPR
Mohammed AbdullahSadeque                     Procurement Specialist              SARPR
DavidDe Groot                                  Sr. UrbanSpecialist               AFTUl
RowenaMartinez                                  Operations Officer               AFTUl
Razia Sultana                                   Program Assistant                SASES
Joel Turkewitz                             Sr. Procurement Specialist            SARPS
MadhurArora                                     Program Assistant                SASES

Bank funds expended to date on project preparation:
     1. Bankresources: US$431,763.36
    2. Trust funds: NIA
    3, Total: US$431,763.36
Estimated Approval and Supervisioncosts:
     1. Remainingcosts to approval: NIA
    2. Estimatedannual supervision cost: US$40,000 (variable cost)


                                             98

                  Annex 12: Documentsin the Project File
            BANGLADESH: LocalGovernance Support Project



A review ofinternational experienceinstrengtheningsystems oflocalgovernance

Capacity assessment o fUnionParishadsandthe central government

FinancialManagementAssessmentReport

Procurement Assessment Report

Project ImplementationManual

Operational Manualfor Component 1

Supplementary Operational Manualfor Component 5

SignedLetter o f Sector Policy bythe Minister o fLocal Govement, RuralDevelopment,
andCooperatives




                                       99

                                       Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits
                               BANGLADESH: LocalGovernance SupportProject

                                                                             ~~~~~~


                                                                                                            Difference between
                                                                                                            expected and actual
                                                          OnginalAmount inUS%Millions                          disbursements

ProjectID FY   Purpose                                  IBRD     IDA      SF         GEF   Cancel. Undisb.  Orig.    Frm. Rev'd

PO89382   2006 InvestmentPromotionFinancingFacility       0.00   50.00     0.00       0.00   0.00   51.34    0.00        0.00
PO74841   2005 HNP SectorProgram                          0.00 300.00      0.00       0.00   0.00  238.17   -14.74       0.00
PO74966   2004 PrimaryEducationDevelopmentProgram         0.00  150.00     0.00       0.00   0.00  117.83    0.39        0.00
               I1
PO78707   2004 PowerSector DevelopmentTA                  0.00    7.10     0.00       0.00   0.00   14.25     6.59       0.00
PO81969   2004 EnterpriseGrowth & BankModernization       0.00 250.00      0.00       0.00   0.00  139.96    -0.40       0.00
PO86791   2004 ReachingOut of School ChildrenProject      0.00    0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00   48.83     2.35       0.00
PO86661   2004 iBD Water SupplyProgramProject
                   -                                      0.00    0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00   38.12    -1.15       0.00
PO83890   2004 EconomicManagementTA Program               0.00    0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00   18.93     4.32        0.00
               (EMTAF')
PO81849   2003 BD:TelecommunicationsTechnical             0.00    9.12     0.00       0.00   0.00    8.66     3.17        0.15
               Assist.
PO71435   2003 RuralTransportImprovementProject           0.00  190.00     0.00       0.00   0.00  153.42    42.50        0.00
PO53578   2003 Social InvestmentProgramProject            0.00   18.24     0.00       0.00   0.00    9.37     2.93        0.00
PO62916   2003 CentralBankStrengtheningProject            0.00   37.00     0.00       0.00   0.00   37.06    31.01        0.00
PO44876   2002 FemaleSecondary School Assis. I1           0.00  120.90     0.00       0.00  31.06   43.08    49.44       -0.72
PO75016   2002 PublicProcurementReformProject             0.00    4.50     0.00       0.00   0.00     1.18    0.52        0.27
PO71794   2002 RuralElect. RenewableEnergyDev.            0.00  190.98     0.00       0.00   0.00  118.98    68.33        0.00
PO74040   2002 Renewable EnergyDevelopment                0.00    0.00     0.00       8.20   0.00    2.75     4.04        0.00
PO74731   2002 FinancialServices for the Poorest          0.00    5.00     0.00       0.00   0.00    2.04     1.40        0.00
PO69933   2001 HIVlAIDSPrevention                         0.00   40.00     0.00       0.00  21.98    4.52    22.17        2.17
PO57833   2001 Air Quality ManagementProject              0.00    4.71     0.00       0.00   0.00    3.04     2.57       -0.13
PO50752   2001 Post-Literacy& ContinuingEducation         0.00   53.30     0.00       0.00   0.00   37.92    30.82        7.82
PO44810   2001 Legal&Judicial CapacityBuilding            0.00   30.60     0.00       0.00   0.04    17.57   12.39        0.00
PO09468   2000 FourthFisheries                            0.00   28.00     0.00       5.00  10.46    3.96    13.60        0.92
PO50751   2000 NationalNutritionProgram                   0.00   92.00     0.00       0.00  24.02    10.20   27.21        4.38
PO41887   1999 Municipal Services                         0.00  138.60     0.00       0.00   0.68    57.08   55.00        3.50
PO50745   1999 Arsenic MitigationWater Supply             0.00   32.40     0.00       0.00   4.35     7.87   10.76        1.33
PO44789   1998 BDPrivateSectorInfrastructureDev           0.00  235.00     0.00       0.00  36.41    59.41   92.87        5.68
                                                 Total:   0.00 1,987.45    0.00      13.20 129.00  1,245.54 468.09      25.37




                                                              100

                                               BANGLADESH
                                            STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                        HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                           InMillions ofUSDollars



                                                    Committed                           Disbursed
                                                   IFC                                IFC

FY Approval Company                    Loan       Equity    Quasi   Partic. Loan      Equity      Quasi  Partic.

2001        BRAC Bank                  0.00         1.63     0.00    0.00      0.00    1.60   . 0.00      0.00
1997        DBH                        2.10         0.65     0.00    0.00      2.10    0.65       0.00    0.00
1991        Dynamic Textile            0.00         0.00     0.00    1.48      0.00    0.00        0.00   1.48
2004        GrameenPhoneLtd            27.00        0.00     0.00    0.00     27.00    0.00       0.00    0.00
1998        IPDC                       3.75         0.00     0.00    0.00      3.75    0.00        0.00   0.00
1998        Khulna                     11.27        0.00     0.00    13.19    11.27    0.00        0.00  13.19
1998        LafargelSurma              35.00       10.00     0.00    0.00     35.00   10.00        0.00   0.00
2000        LafargelSurma              0.00         0.00     0.00   15.00      0.00    0.00        0.00  15.00
2003        RAKCeramics                8.40         0.00     0.00    0.00      8.40    0.00        0.00   0.00
2000        United Leasing             3.07         0.00     0.00    0.00      3.07    0.00        0.00   0.00
                       Totalportfolio:  90.59      12.28     0.00   29.67     90.59   12.25        0.00  29.67




                                                               Approvals PendingCommitment

             FY Approval    Company                        Loan      Equity     Quasi      Partic.

             2000           USPCL                        0.00         0.00       0.00       0.00
             1998           Khulna                       0.00         0.00       0.00       0.00
             2006           GrameenPhone111              0.07         0.00       0.00       0.00

                                 Totalpendingcommitment:    0.07      0.00       0.00       0.00




                                                        101

                                           Annex 14: Country at a Glance
                          BANGLADESH: LocalGovernanceSupport Project


POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          South      Low-
                                               Bangladesh    Asia    income      Development diamond'
2005
Population,mid-year(millions)                         1418    $447      2,343
GNIpercapita(A!las method, US%)                       470     590         5 0                 Lifeexpectancy
GNI(Atlas method,US%billions)                         66.3    859

Average annual growth, 1999-05
Population(%J                                           19      17         19
Laborforce (%)                                         2.2     2.1        2.2    GNI                               Gross
                                                                                 per                               primary
W ost recent estimate (latest year available, 1999-05)                           capita                          nmllment
Poverty(%ofpopulationbelownatlonal~ve~y/ineJ           50
Urbanpopulation(%oftotalpopula!ion)                    25      29          31
Lifeexpectancyat birthIvearS)                          62      63          58                      i
Infantmortality(perfO0Olive births)                    48      66          79
Childmalnutrition(%ofchildrenunder5)                   52      49          43         Access to improvedWatersource
Access to animprovedwatersource(%ofpopulation)         75      84          75
Literacy(%of populationage By                           41      61         61
Grossprimaryenrollment (%of school-agepopulation)      96      0 3        a0           -Bangladesh
  Male                                                 94      0 8        a 5            ...  Lowincomegroup
  Female                                               98      97          94

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                             1985    1995    2004      2005       Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                             216    37.9    56.6       MI.O
GrosscapitalformationlGDP                      6.3     8.1    24.0       24.4
Exportsof goodsandserviceslGDP                  5.6    n.9    15.5        16.1                    Trade
GrossdomesticsavingsiGDP                        8.6    Q.6    B.7         17.9
Gross nationalsavingslGDP                      13.4    B.6    24.6       29.7
Current accountbalancdGDP                      -2.8    -18     0.3       -0.5
InterestpaymentslGDP                            0.6    0.5     0.3        0.4     Domestic                     Capital

Total debtlGDP                                30.8    42.0    35.4       35.3    savings                       formation

Total debtserviceleaports                      210     142     8.0        8.3
Presentvalueof debtlGDP                                       24.9
Presentvalueof debtleaports                                   m.4
                                                                                               Indebtedness
                                   1985-95 1995-05  2004     2005 2005-09
(averageannualgrowth)
GDP                                     4.0     5.3    6.3     5.4        6 2            -Bangladesh
GDP percapita                           17      3 2    43      3.5        4A
~xportsof goodsandservices             0 3      92     Q.5     it9        0.0



STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY

(% of GDPJ                                                                      j                                      ' II
Agriculture                                   32.8    26.4    210        20.5                                             1
Industry                                       214    24.6    26.6       28.0    "mT
 Manufacturing                                 142     E.3     6.1        ff.0
Services                                      45.8    49.1    52.4       515
                                                                                 04       :
Householdfinalconsumptionexpenditure          87.2    82.7    75.8       76.6            MI     01   02    03    04   05
Generalgov'tfinalconsumptionexpenditure         4.2    4.6     55         5.5
Imports of goodsandservices                    13.2    17.3   20.8       22.6



(averageannualgrowth)
Agriculture                                     2.2    3.7     4.1
Industry                                        6.3    6.8     7.6
 Manufacturing                                  6.3    6.0     7.1
Services                                        3.7    5.3     5.7
~ouseholdfinalconsumptionexpenditure            3.2    3.2     4.6
Generalgov't finalconsumptionexpenditure        4.0    7.3    13.7
Gross capitalformation                          6.3    8.7     9.2        6.8
Importsof goodsandservices                      5.6    4.7    x).6        0.7


Note:2005dataarepreliminaryestimates.Groupdataareto 2004,
"Thediamondsshowfourkeyindicatorsinthecountry(inbold)compamdwithits income-groupaverage.lfdataare missing,thediamondwill
  beincomplete,

                                                           102

                                                                                                      Bangladesh

PRICESand GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                          1985   1995    2004   2005
Domestic prices                                                         Inflation(%)                               1
(% change)
Consumer prices                                    8.9     4.3     5.9
ImplicitGDP deflator                      11.1     7.3     4.2     5.0

Governmentfinance
(% of GDP, includescurrentgrants)
Currentrevenue                              6.2    9.3   10.1    10.5
Currentbudget balance                       1.o    2.5     2.4     2.1
Overallsurplusldeficit                     -6.6   -5.2    -3.2    -3.1 1        -GDP       deflator +cPI

                                                                       ~1
TRADE
                                          1985   1995    2004    2005
(US$millions)                                                           Export and importlevels (US$ mill,)

Totalexports(fob)                          940  3,464   6,959   8,573
  Rawjute                                   151    79
  Leather andleatherproducts                70    225
  Manufactures                             571  2,821   6,529   7,530   10,m

Total imports(ci0                         2,647 5,834   9,871  11,485
  Food                                     607    499                    5.m
  Fueland energy                           359    209   1,077
  Capitalgoods                             691  1,480   3,865   4,342         0

Exportprice index (2000=100)                41      83     115     117
Importpriceindex (2000=100J                 44      77     130     137
Tens oftrade (2000=1001                      95    108     89       85

BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                          1985   1995    2004    2005
(US$mil/ions)                                                           Currentaccount balanceto GDP (K)

Exports of goods and sewices              1,162 4,130   8,445   9,640    ' T
Importsof goods and Sewices               2,864 6,580  11,638  13,560
Resourcebalance                          -1,702 -2,450  -3,193  -3,920

Net income                                  -90    -41   -374    -641
Netcurrenttransfers                       1,178  1,827  3,743   4,245

Currentacwunt balance                     -613   -684      176   -316

Financingitems(net)                         536  1,116      59     475
Changesin net reserves                       77  -452    -235    -160

Memo:
Reservesincludinggold(US$ milliofls)            3,007   2,714   2,944
Conversion rate (DEC,/maVUS$)              26.0  40.2    58.8     61.4

 EXTERNAL DEBTand RESOURCEFLOWS
                                          1985   1995    2004    2005
 (US$ mi/lionsJ                                                            :ompositionof 2005 debt(US$ mill.)

Total debt outstandinganddisbursed        6,658 15,924  20,019 21,180
   IBRD                                      55     55       0       0
   IDA                                    2,021  5,638   8,895   9,624

Totaldebt service                           332    780     945   1,105
   IBRD                                       3      8       8       0
   IDA                                       22     84     208     222

 Composition of net resourceflows
   Officialgrants                           472    489     319
   Officialcreditors                        548    253     557
   Privatecreditors                                        -16
   Foreigndirectinvestment(netinflows)        0      6     385
   Portfolioequity(net inflows)               0     61       6                                     C:301
Worid Bank program
   Commitments                              378    359     827     550    ,i IBRD                       E Bilateral
   Disbursements                            279    198     615     803    8 IDA
                                                                            --      D Othermultilateral F private
                                                                                      -                    --
   Principalrepayments                        6     46     148     153  IC-IMF                          G Short-term
                                                                                                           -
   Netflows                                 273    152     467     650
   Interestpayments                          19     46      68      69
   Nettransfers                             254    106     399     581


 DevelopmentEconomics                                                                                         5110106




                                                      103

MAP SECTION


            88                                                                       89                                                             90                                                              91                                                             92

                                        Tetulia



                                                  Panchagar                       Patgram



                                       Atwari
                                           PANCHAGAR

                                                    Boda


                         Baliadangi                                      Dimla
                                                                 Domar
                                                       Debiganj
                             THAKURGAON                                                                                                                                                                                BANGLADESH
                                                                                            Hatibanda                              Bhurungamari
                                                                 NILPHAMARI
           26                                                              Jaldhake
                                    Thakurgaon                                                  Kaliganj                                                                                                                                                                                                                      26
                                                    Khansama    Nilphamari
                      Ranisonkail                                                                 LALMONIRHAT
                                                                                   Kishorganj                                   Nageswari                         LOCAL GOVERNANCE SUPPORT PROJECT
                                                                                                                         Fulbari
                                    Pirganj                                                          Aditmari
                                                    Birganj
                   Haripur                                                                    Gangachara     Lalmonirhat    KURIGRAM
                                                  Kaharol             Saidpur                                                Kurigram
                                       Bochagan
                                                    DINAJPUR                      Badarganj
                                                                                            Rangpur         Kaunia     Razarhat

                                                          Chirirbandar            Taraganj    RANGPURPirgachha              Ulipur
                                               Biral                Parbatipur
                                                       Dinajpur                                 Mithapukur                               Rahumari
                                                                                                                                Chilmuri
                                                                                                                  Sundarganj

                                                                     Fulbari
                                                                                      Nowabganj     Pirganj                        Razibpur
                                                                                                             Sadullapur
                                                                      Birampur
                                                                                                               GAIBANDHA
                                                                                  Hakimpur                Gaibandha
                                                                                           Ghoraghat         Palasbari                   Bakshiganj
                                                                                   Panchbibi                              Fulchari
                                                                                                                                                     Jhinaigati
                                                                          JAIPURHAT                   Gabindaganj                  Dewanganj
                                           Shapahar         Dhamoirhat    Jaipurhat                                  Shaghata                   Sribardi             Haluaghat
                                                                                                                                                           Nalitabari                                                        Tahirpur
                                                                                                                                Islampur                                                     Durgapur  Kalmakanda                   Bishambarpur    Dwarabazar   Companiganj
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Jaintapur
           25                                           Patnitala                              Kalai                                                                               Dhubaura
                                           Porsha   NAOGAON                            Khetal        Sibganj         Sonatola                       SHERPUR                                                                                                                 Gowainghat
                                                                                                                                                                                            NETRAKONA                                    Sunamganj                                              Kanairghat
                                                                        Badalgachhi                                                                                                                                        Jamalganj                   Chatak                                                                 25
                                                        Mohadebpur                   Akkelpur          BOGRA                        Melandaha     Sherpur                                 Purbadhala                 Dharmapasha
                 Bholahat                                                                                                                                     Nakla
                                                                                          Dupchachia           Gabtali          Madarganj                                   Phulpur                                                                                           SYLHET
                                                                                                                                                                                                          Barhatta                   SUNAMGANJ
                                                      R A J S H A H I                                                                                                MYMENSINGH                                                                                                                          Zakiganj
                                                                                                                     Shariakandi               Jamalpur                                      Netrakona                                                                           Sylhet     Beani

                           Gomastapur      Niamatpur                                                                                    JAMALPUR                                                                   Mohanganj                                   Biswanatn        Golapganj   Bazar
                                                      Manda                                                                                                               Mymensingh                                                     Dirai
                                                               Naogaon             Adamdighi    Kahalu     Bogra                                                                                         Atpara
                                                                                                                                                             Muktagacha                                                                       S Y L H E T
             Shibganj               Nachol                                                                                                                                                Guaripur                                                Jagannathpur
                     CHAPAI                                              Raninagar                                    Dhunot                                                                                                                                                Fenchuganj
                                                                                              Nandigram                                Sarishabari                                                   Kendua    Modan                                                                                        I N D I A
               NAWABGANJ                                                                                                                                        D H A K A                                                                                        Balaganj                  Barlekha
                                            Tanor                                                          Sherpur          Kazipur                                                                                       Khaliajuri
                                                             Bagmara              Atrai                                                           Madhupur                             Ishwarganj                                    Sulla

                     Chapai                                                                                                                                      Phulbaria
                                                                                                                                          Golpalpur                            Trisal                                                              Nabiganj            Rajnagar
               Nawabganj                         Mohanpur                                   Singra                                                                                                         Tarail                     Ajmiriganj                                   Kulaura
                                   Godagari                                                                                                                                                   Nandail                                    HABIGANJ
                                         RAJSHAHI        Durgapur                                                 Raiganj                                                                                                  Itna
                                                                                                                          Sirajganj                                                                                                                          Moulavibazar
                                                                        Natore       NATORE                                                         Ghatail                                                                               Baniyachang
                                                 Paba                                                         SIRAJGANJ               Bhuapur                                                Hossainpur   Karimganj
                                                                Puthia                                   Taras                                 TANGAIL                                                                                                           MOULAVIBAZAR
                                                                                           Gurudaspur                   Kamarrhandi                                                  Gafargaon     Kishorganj         Mithamoin
                                                    Rajshahi                                                     Ullapara                      Katihati                 Bhaluka
                                                                                                                                                                                                      KISHORGANJ                                                      Kamalganj
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Srimangal
                                                                     Bagatipara                                                                           Shakhipur                           Pakundia                 Astogram              Habiganj
                                                            Charghat                    Baraigram                             Belkuchi                                                                Katiadi   Nikli                               Bahubal
                                                                                                     Chatmohar                            Delduar                                                                                   Lakhai
                                                                                                                                                     Basail                       Sripur                      Bajitpur
                                                            Bagha     Lalpur                             Bhangura     Shahzadpur
                                                                                                                                               Tangail
                                                                                                 PABNA                          Chauhali
                                                                                                              Faridpur                                                   GAZIPUR                       Kuliarchar          Nasirnagar           Chunarughat
                                                                                       Ishardi                                                                                            Kapasia Monohardi
                                                                                                    Atgharia                                                                                                    Bhairab                Madhappur
                                                            Daulatpur   Bheramara                                                                      Mirzapur                                                           Sarail
           24                                                                                                               Bera          Nagarpur               Kaliakoir    Gazipur             Sibpur   Belabo
                                                                                                     Pabna         Santhia
                                                                                                                                                                                                 NARSINGDI            Brahmanbaria                                                                                            24
                                                                          Mirpur                                                                                                      Kaliganj
                                                                                                                                                                                                Palas      Raipur
           Note: Meherpur upazila has                                                                                          Daulatpur          Saturia
                                                                                                                Sujanagar                                  Dhamrai                                                  BRAHMANBARIA
          been divided into two upazilas:                                               Kushtia                                              Ghior                   Savar                           Narsingdi

           Meherpur and Mujibnagar.                      Gangni                          Kumarkhali                                               Manikganj           DHAKA                                     Nabinagar
                                                                                     KUSHTIA                                          Sibalay                                        Rupganj                                   Akhaura
                                                                                                    Khoksa                              MANIKGANJ          Singair                                     Bancharampur
                                                 Meherpur                                                                                                                                   Araihazar
                                                                                                              Pangsa                                                    DHAKA                                             Kasba
                                            MEHERPUR            Alamdanga                                                                  Harirampur                              NARAYANGANJ
                                                                                                 Sailkupa        RAJBARIRajbari                                                         Sonargaon
                                                                                                                                                         Nawabganj                                            Muradnagar
                                                                                     Harinakundu                                       Faridpur                         Keraniganj      NarayanganjHomna                 Brahmanpara
                                                     Damurhuda   Chuadanga JHENAIDAH                                Baliakandi
                                                                                                           Sripur                                 Char        Dohar     Serajdikhan       Bandar
                                                                                                                                                  Bhadrassan      Srinagar                                       Debiduar
                                                    CHUADANGA                                                                                                                              Gazaria
                                                                                          Jhenaidah                      Madhukhali  FARIDPUR                                       Munshiganj Daudkandi                Burichang
                                                                                                                                                 Sadarpur
                                                                        Kotchandpur                     Magura Mohaminadpur                                         MUNSHIGANJ
                                                                                                                                    Nagarkanda                       Lohajang Tangibari                      Chandina
                                                     Jiban Nagar                         Kaliganj       MAGURA                                                                                                               Comilla
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Baghaichari
                                                                                                      Salikha                Boalmari            Bhanga     Sibchar    Janjira                Matlab                 Barura
                                                             Maheshpur                                                                                                                                  Kachua
                                                                                                                                                                     SHARIYATPUR
                                                                                                                                         Muksudpur
                                                                        Chaugacha                                            Alfadanga              MADARIPURShariyatpur          Naria        CHANDPUR                  COMILLA                                          Panchari
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Hajiganj                                                                       Dighinala
                                                                                                  Bagherpara                                                                                     Chandpur                      Chauddagram
                                                                                            Jessore                    Lohagara    Kasiani               Madaripur                Bhedarganj                             Laksam                                         KHAGRACHARI
                                                                                                                     Narail                        Rajoir
                                                                                                                                                                                                            Shahrasti                           Pashuram
                                                                      Jhikargacha                                NARAIL                                                      Goshairhat          Faridganj                                                                    Khagrachari
                                                                                    K H U L N A                                      GOPALGANJ                  Kalkini       Damudya                                          Nangalkot
                                                                                                                                                                                          Haimchar
                                                                     Sarse                                                                                                                              Ramganj
           23                                                                                                                              Gopalganj                                                                                                                    Matiranga
                                                                                           Manirampur     Abhaynagar        Kalia               Kotalipara                                       Raipur          Chatkhil      Senbag    Feni                                                                                 23
                                                                                        JESSORE                                                                           Muladi
                                                                                                                                         Tungipara      Agailjhara                                                                              Chhagalnaiya
                                                                                                                                                                                      Hizla      LAKSMIPUR                                                          Ramgar       Mohaichar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Laigadu
                                                                                                            Phultala     Terakhada                                Gaurnadi                                                           Daganbhuiya
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Begumganj             FENI
                                                                         Kalaroa            Keshabpur            Daulatpur                                Ujirpur        BARISAL                      Laksmipur
                                                                                                                                Mollahat                                                                                                  Sonagazi                     Manikchari   Nannerchari
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  C H I T T A G O N G
                                                                                                                                                                               Mehendiganj
                                                                                                        Dumuria           Khulna                       Banaripara                                                      Noakhali
                                                                                                                           Rupsa                                    Babuganj
                                                                        Satkhira             Tala                            FakirhatChitaimari Nazirpur                                                          NOAKHALI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Companiganj      Mirsharai                Laksmichari                 Barkal

                                                                                                               Batiaghata                            Sarupkati                                                                                                    Fatikchari
                                                                                                                               Bagerhat        PIROJPURJhalakati              Barisal      Bhola
                                                                                                                                          Kachua                                                                                                                                                           Jurachari
                                                                                                                                                                        Nalchiti                                                                        CHITTAGONG               Kawkhali    Rangamati

                                                                        Debhata                                           BAGERHAT                 Kawkhali
                    I N D I A                                                                                                                                JHALAKATI                          Daulatkhan Ramgati
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Sitakunda
                                                                                         Asasuni  Paikgacha Dacope          Rampal                        Rajapur
                                                                                                                                            Pirojpur                                                                                                                                            RANGAMATI
                                                                                  SATKHIRA                                                                             Bakerganj                                                                                            Rauzan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Hathazari               Kaptai
                                                                                                                                   Morelganj     Bhandaria                                   Burhanuddin                                       Sandwip                            Rangunia
                                                                                  Kaliganj                                                                     Betagi                                    Tajumuddin
                                                                                                       KHULNA             Mongla                       Kathalia                      Bauphal      BHOLA
                                                                                                                                                                Mirzaganj                                                Hatiya                                                Boalkhali       Rajasthali    Belaichari
                                                                                                       Koyra                                                                Patuakhali
                                                                                     Shyamnagar                                Sarankhola                                                                                                                Chittagong
                                                                                                                                           Mathbaria  Bamna   B A R I S A LLalmohan                                                                                             Patia

                                                                                                                                                                                     Dashmina               Monpura                                                                                Rowangachari


                 This map was produced by                                                                                                            BORGUNA                                                                                                             Anwara   Chandanais
                                                                                                                                                                                             Char Fasson
                 the Map Design Unit of The                                                                                                                                 Galachipa
                                                                                                                                                      Borguna                                                                                                                                  Bandarbon
                 World Bank. The boundaries,                                                                                                                       Amtali                                                                                                           Satkania    BANDARBON
                 colors, denominations and
                                                                                                                                               Patharghata                                                                                                                                                     Ruma
           22    any other information shown                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Lohagara
                 on this map do not imply, on                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Banskhali                                        22
                 the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                         PATUAKHALI
                 Group, any judgment on the                                                                                                                    Kalapara
                 legal status of any territory,
                 or any endorsement or                                                                                                                                                                                Bay of Bengal                              Kutubdia                                          Thanchi
                 a c c e p t a n c e o f  s u c h                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Chakaria     Lama
                 boundaries.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Alikadam


          NEPAL                                   BHUTAN                                                                                                                                                                                                              Moheshkhali

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COX'S BAZAR          Nakhyangchari


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Ramu
                                                         I N D I A                                                                                                                                                                                                 Cox's Bazar


                                                                                                                                                                                                             UPAZILA HEADQUARTERS

                              BANGLADESH                                                                                                                                                                     DISTRICT HEADQUARTERS                                                      Ukhia                      MY
                                                                                                                                                                                                             DIVISION HEADQUARTERS
                                            DHAKA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ANMAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                             NATIONAL CAPITAL
          I N D I A                                                                                                                                                                                          UPAZILA BOUNDARIES                                                                                               21


                                                                                                               0            20           40                60 Kilometers                                     DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Teknaf

                                                                           MY                                                                                                                                DIVISION BOUNDARIES

                                                                             ANMAR                             0                    20                  40 Miles                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD
MARCH                                                                                                                                                                                                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                              Bay of Bengal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          34626
     2006
                                                                                                                                                 90                                                                 91                                                              92

