Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
CREDIT NUMBER 4193-BD 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Local Governance Support Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated June 28, 2006 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 4193-BD 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated June 28, 2006, between 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF 
BANGLADESH (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”). The Association has decided to provide the financing 
provided for in this Agreement, on the basis, inter alia, of the commitment of the 
Recipient to the Program which is defined in Appendix to this Agreement. The Recipient 
and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
 
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a  credit in an amount equivalent to 
seventy six million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 76,300,000) (
“Credit”) to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”).  
 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
shall be equal to three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are February 1 and August 1 in each year. 
 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Credit shall be repaid in accordance with repayment 
schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
 
Page  3
-
-
2
ARTICLE III - PROJECT 
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through LGD and the Eligible UPs 
in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
 
(a) 
A situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program, or a significant part thereof will be carried out. 
 
(b) 
The Local Government (Union Parishads) Ordinance shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated or waived so as to materially and 
adversely affect the ability of the Recipient or Eligible UP to perform 
any of their obligations. 
 
(c) 
Any of the Legal Instruments has been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
the Recipient or the UP  to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project. 
 
(d) 
Any provisions of the Project Implementation Manual and UP 
Operational Manual shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived, so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of 
the Recipient or the UP  to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that 
either event specified in paragraph (b), (c) or (d) of Section 4.01
 
of this 
Agreement has occurred. 
Page  4
-
-
3
ARTICLE V 
–
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
 
5.01. 
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that 
the Recipient has appointed a procurement specialist within LGD, with terms of 
reference, experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Association. 
 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date 120 days after the date of this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE VI – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES 
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Secretary or the Additional Secretary, or 
any Joint Secretary, Joint Chief, Deputy Secretary, Deputy Chief, Senior 
Assistant Secretary, Assistant Secretary, or Assistant Chief of the Economic 
Relations Division of the Ministry of Finance. 
 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Economic Relations Division 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Government of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh 
 Dhaka, 
Bangladesh 
 
Cable address:   
 
 
Telex: 
 
BAHIRSAMPAD 
 
 
642226 SETU BJ 
Dhaka 
    672796 
SETU 
BJ 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
    Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
   248423 
(MCI) 
or 1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
   
 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  5
-
-
4
AGREED at Dhaka, 
People’s Republic of Bangladesh, as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH 
 
By /s/ Ismail Zabihullah 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Christine Wallich 
Country Director 
Bangladesh 
Page  6
-
-
5
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description 
 
The objective of the Project is to develop an accountable system of local 
governance, capable to  provide basic services that meet community priorities, supported 
by a predictable and transparent fiscal transfer system.  
 
PartA
:
Sub-grants for Subprojects
1. 
Strengthening the capacity of Eligible UPs in planning, implementation and 
sustainable service delivery, and their financial sustainability, through the provision of a 
series of Subgrants for implementation of local infrastructure and investment 
Subprojects, and carrying out of a series of maintenance and management services related 
thereto.  
2. 
Improving revenue generating capacity of Eligible UPs through the provision of 
Performance Subgrants for implementation of Subprojects.
 
Part B
:
Institutionalization of Accountability
Strengthening of the reporting and monitoring system to enhance accountability  
between UPs and 
the Recipient’s national level agencies and departments, inter alia, 
through: (i) the revision and modification of reporting format to include a single quarterly 
report on the Subgrants; (ii) carrying out audits of selected Eligible UPs; (iii) training and 
orientation of UP Chairmen and members, staff and relevant community members and 
Upazila officials in the new reporting requirements; and (iv) the strengthening of the 
monitoring, inspection and evaluation system at LGD, including the installation of a 
management information system and provision of technical assistance in the development 
of software, data entry and analysis.   
 
Part C
:
Local Governance Capacity Development
1. 
Provision of information support and core training to UPs and functionally 
related agencies in the area of Subproject implementation.   
 
2. 
Provision of technical advisory services and equipment to: (i) develop 
information, education and communication (IEC) strategy and IEC implementation, 
including equipment, training and workshops, and preparation of appropriate posters, 
leaflets, radio spots and videos for dissemination; and (ii) disseminate basic information 
to UPs, communities and civil society on the size and conditions of access to Subgrants. 
 
3. 
Provision of technical advisory services and logistical assistance to design and 
implement a cross-UP peer review process, through which selected UP members shall 
review and assess the performance of neighboring UPs, including: (i) identification of the 
Page  7
-
-
6
regional/thematic service providers; (ii) implementation of the peer learning process and 
evaluation of the peer learning activities; (iii) study tours; and (iv) provision of 
performance rewards for high performers.  
 
4. 
Provision of technical advisory services and logistical assistance to strengthen the 
capacity of LGD, NILG and the C&AG in the overall coordination, implementation, 
monitoring and evaluation of the Project, including their backstopping functions in 
assessing UP performance, reviewing and controlling the transfer system, monitoring and 
developing the capacity of officials at UP and Upazila levels, and providing quality 
assurance on the audit of the UPs, financial management, procurement, project 
management, and specialized technical assistance.  
 
5. 
Carrying out of training and workshops on: (i) training modules preparation;  
(ii) training of trainers; and (iii) survey-evaluation of the capacity building service 
providers. 
 
6. 
Provision of Subgrants to carry out the activities described in paragraphs 1 
through 5 above.  
 
Part D
:
Policy Evaluation and Development Strengthening
1. 
Carrying out of detailed analyses, inter alia, on the evaluation of Subprojects and 
other decentralization efforts, and on enhancement of LGD capacity in policy analysis.  
 
2. 
Carrying out of a workshop for the final evaluation of the Project
’s impact on 
development. 
 
Part E
:
Social Protection Pilot
1. 
Carrying out of a pilot program of conditional provision of Subgrants for safety 
nets to selected households identified on the basis of transparent criteria, and financing of 
labor intensive works to create employment opportunities for the poor people. 
 
2. 
Provision of technical advisory services and logistical assistance to the UPs in the 
implementation and monitoring of the pilot, including the carrying out of a baseline 
survey and impact assessment and training of UP officials. 
Page  8
-
-
7
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Project Execution 
 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. General 
Coordination
1. 
For the purpose of providing inter-institutional coordination to the Project, the 
Recipient shall constitute and maintain the PSC, to be chaired by the Secretary of LGD. 
The PSC shall, inter alia, include representatives  of LGD, C&AG, NILG, Economic 
Relations Division, Finance Division, Planning Commission, Implementation Monitoring 
and Evaluation Division, and other relevant ministries and agencies of the Recipient, and 
development partners, and shall be responsible for overseeing execution, supervising and 
monitoring the Project in line with the implementation schedule, providing quality 
control in the preparation of the annual work programs and budgets, and facilitating day-
to-day decisions on the implementation of the Project.  
 
B. Project 
Implementation
2. 
The LGD, through the Director General of Monitoring, Inspection and 
Evaluation
 Wing
,
shall be responsible for Project management, coordination and 
performance. To that end, it shall,  inter alia: (i) monitor and ensure timely 
implementation of  the Project; (ii) prepare the annual work program and budget for the 
Project; (iii) operate the accounts, prepare withdrawal applications for disbursement and 
forward them to the Association, and arrange for annual audits; (iv) monitor and evaluate  
the progress of the Project; and (v) prepare quarterly financial monitoring reports, 
including information on financial execution and activity progress, and procurement  for 
the current quarter and cumulative for the life of  the Project. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall cause NILG to coordinate all capacity building and IEC 
activities under the Project, for which purpose, it shall, through LGD, by no later than 
forty five (45) days after the Effective Date, enter into an annually renewable work 
program agreement with NILG, satisfactory to the Association.  
 
4. 
Without limitation upon the specific provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project Implementation Manual and the 
UP Operational Manual, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, shall not 
amend or waive any provisions thereof if, in the opinion of the Association, such 
amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the implementation of the 
Project. 
 
Page  9
-
-
8
C.  
Environment and Social Safeguards
5. 
The Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Environment and 
Social Management Framework (ESMF). 
 
6. 
The Recipient shall cause Eligible UPs: 
 
(a) 
to ensure that the measures recommended in the 
ESMF
 are incorporated 
in the Legal Instrument documentation;  
 
(b) 
prior to commencing the implementation of any Subproject and when 
required under the Environmental and Social Management Framework, carry out an 
environmental and social screening in accordance with the ESMF checklist, and in a form 
satisfactory to the Association; 
 
(c) 
in the event that an environmental and social screening of a Subproject 
determines that such a Subproject, if carried out, would have a potential for negative 
environmental and social impact, not approve such a Subproject until an appropriate 
action has been discussed and agreed upon by the Recipient and the Association to 
mitigate such potential negative impact; and 
 
(d) 
thereafter cause the relevant UP to carry out such agreed action and 
mitigation measures referred to in sub-paragraph (c) above. 
 
D.  Terms and Conditions for Financing of Subprojects Under Part A of the Project
7. 
Without limitation to the requirements set forth in the provisions of paragraph 4 
of this Schedule, any Subproject under the Project shall: 
 
(a) 
be initiated by an Eligible UP and identified as an infrastructure 
investment activity (capital, non-capital, management and maintenance expenditures), 
acceptable to the Association, and consistent with the Local Government (Union 
Parishads) Ordinance; 
 
(b) 
 be appraised and carried out in accordance with the procedures and 
conditions set forth in the Project Implementation Manual and the UP Operational 
Manual; 
 
(c) 
be economically and technically viable in accordance with the standards 
specified in the Project Implementation Manual and the UP Operational Manual;  
 
(d) 
be in compliance with the standards set forth in the applicable laws and 
regulations of the Recipient relating to health, safety and environmental management, 
including the ESMF;  
 
Page  10
-
-
9
(e) 
exclude activities of a military or paramilitary nature or the purchase of 
items in the following SITC groups or subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups 
under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient; 
 
Group
Description of Items
112 
 
 
    
 
Alcoholic beverages 
 
121 
 
 
    
 
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco refuse 
 
122 
 
 
    
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not 
 
containing tobacco substitutes) 
 
525 
 
 
    
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
 
667 
 
 
   
 
Pearls, precious and semi-precious stones, 
 
unworked or worked 
 
718 
 
 
   
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof, fuel 
 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728.43   
 
    
 
Tobacco processing machinery 
 
897 
 
 
    
 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum group metals 
 
(except watches and watch cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ wares (including set 
 
gems) 
 
971 
 
 
 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold ores and 
 
concentrates) 
 
(f) 
exclude ineligible Subprojects identified in the ESMF, the negative list 
included in the Project Implementation Manual and the UP Operational Manual, and 
salaries and allowance of councilors and staff; and 
 
(g) 
exclude Subprojects that will involve any land acquisition, involuntary 
land contribution and involuntary resettlement of local population. 
 
8. 
To be eligible for receiving a Subgrant to carry out a Subproject under Part A of 
the Project an Eligible UP shall satisfy the eligibility criteria specified in the Project 
Implementation Manual and the UP Operational Manual. 
 
Page  11
-
-
10
E.  
Legal Instrument
9. 
For the purposes of Part A of the Project, the Recipient, through LGD shall make 
arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, to describe the relationship with each UP, 
whereby the Recipient shall agree to provide to such UP a grant, on terms and conditions 
set forth in this paragraph 9, including details of disbursement schedules and procurement 
procedures, the amount of the UP
’s counterpart contribution, details of any further 
safeguards as may be needed for the management of the environment, and the following 
additional terms and Conditions: 
 
(a) 
require the UP to carry out any Subproject with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, managerial and 
environmental standards and practices, and maintain adequate records;  
 
(b) 
obtain all such information as the Association or the Recipient shall 
reasonably request relating to the implementation of the Subproject, and the performance 
of the UP thereunder; and  
 
(c) 
suspend or terminate the right of a UP to the use of the proceeds of the 
Credit upon failure by such UP to perform its obligations under the Legal Instrument. 
   
10. 
Proceeds of the Credit allocated under Category (1) in the table set forth under 
paragraph 1 of Section IV of this Schedule, shall be disbursed in four (4) yearly 
installments, provided that the Recipient has furnished to the Association: 
 
(a) 
for the first year of the Project:
(i) 
initial cashflow forecasts  for FY 2007/2008 for Subgrants based 
on the results of the annual audit assessment, which includes the 
allocations by UP, as published in the budget schedule;  
 
(ii) 
the Legal Instrument referred to in paragraph 9 of this Schedule; 
and 
 
(iii) 
a copy of an agreement, in form satisfactory to the Association, 
between the LGD and a commercial bank, through which funds 
shall be channeled to UPs. 
 
Page  12
-
-
11
(b) 
for the second year of the Project
:
(i) 
a financial performance assessment report with respect to 
expenditures for Subgrants, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association, carried out by LGD in the preceding Fiscal 
Year; 
 
(ii) 
a schedule indicating the funds released by the Recipient to the 
UPs through Subgrants during the previous Fiscal Year, and 
amounts to be released in the following Fiscal Year, including 
the date of each release, and an initial cashflow forecasts  for FY 
2008/2009 for Subgrants based on the results of the annual 
assessment; 
 
(iii) 
certification indicating that there have been no: (A) significant 
reallocations, deviations; or (B) suspension of Financing in the 
first year, as compared to the indicative planning figures for the 
UPs; or providing clarifications and reasons for deviations, if 
any, that are consistent with the Project Implementation Manual 
and the UP Operational Manual;  
 
(iv) 
the Legal Instrument referred to in paragraph 9 of this Schedule 
in respect of any Eligible UP participating for the first time; and  
 
(v) 
a copy of an agreement, in form satisfactory to the Association, 
between the LGD and a commercial bank, through which funds 
shall be channeled to UPs, in respect of any Eligible UPs 
participating for the first time, or Eligible UPs that had 
participated in the earlier years but have switched to a new bank. 
 
(c) 
for the third year of the Project
:
(i) 
a financial performance assessment report with respect to 
expenditures for Subgrants, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association, carried out by LGD in the preceding Fiscal  
Year; 
 
(ii) 
a schedule indicating the funds released by the Recipient to the 
UPs through Subgrants during the previous Fiscal Year, and 
amounts to be released in the following Fiscal Year, including 
the date of each release, and  an initial cashflow forecasts  for FY 
2009/2010 for Subgrants based on the results of the annual 
assessment; 
 
Page  13
-
-
12
(iii) 
certification indicating that there have been no: (A) significant 
reallocations, deviations; or (B) suspension of Financing in the 
second year as compared to the indicative planning figures for 
the UPs,  or providing clarifications and reasons for deviations, if 
any, that are consistent with the Project Implementation Manual 
and the  UP Operational Manual; 
 
(iv) 
the Legal Instrument referred to under paragraph 9 of this 
Schedule in respect of any Eligible UPs participating for the first 
time; and 
 
(v) 
a copy of an agreement, in form satisfactory to the Association, 
between the LGD and a commercial bank, through which funds 
shall be channeled to UPs, in respect of any Eligible UPs 
participating for the first time, or Eligible UPs that had 
participated in the earlier years but have switched to a new bank. 
 
(d) 
for the fourth year of the Project
:
(i) 
a financial performance assessment report with respect to 
expenditures for Subgrants, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association, carried out by LGD in the preceding Fiscal 
Year; 
 
(ii) 
a schedule indicating the funds released by the Recipient to the 
UPs through Subgrants during the previous Fiscal Year, and 
amounts to be released in the following Fiscal Year, including 
the date of each release, and an initial cashflow forecasts  for FY 
2010/2011 for Subgrants based on the results of the annual 
assessment; 
 
(iii) 
certification indicating that there have been no: (A) significant 
reallocations, deviations; or (B) suspension of Financing in the 
second year as compared to the indicative planning figures for 
the UPs, or providing clarifications and reasons for deviations, if 
any, that are consistent with the Project Implementation Manual 
and the UP Operational Manual; 
 
(iv) 
the Legal Instrument referred to under paragraph 9 of this 
Schedule in respect of any Eligible UPs participating for the first 
time; and 
Page  14
-
-
13
(v) 
a copy of an agreement, in form satisfactory to the Association, 
between the LGD and a commercial bank, through which funds 
shall be channeled to UPs, in respect of any Eligible UPs 
participating for the first time, or Eligible UPs that had 
participated in the earlier years but have switched to a new bank. 
 
F:  
Terms and Conditions for the Financing of Subprojects under Parts C and E
11.  
For the purposes of Parts C and E of the Project, the Recipient, through LGD 
shall make necessary arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, to disburse Subgrants 
to the Beneficiaries, on terms and conditions set forth in the Project Implementation 
Manual and the UP Operational Manual. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators agreed with the Association. Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of six calendar months, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than December 31, 2011. 
 
3. 
Without limitation to the provision of  paragraph 1 above, the Recipient shall not 
later than April 30, 2009, carry out jointly with the Association a midterm 
review, which shall cover among other things: (i) the performance by UPs under 
Part A of the Project; (ii) progress in meeting the Project’s objectives;  
(iii) overall Project performance as measured against the performance indicators 
referred to in said paragraph; and (iv)  thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Page  15
-
-
14
2. 
The Recipient shall prepare and furnish to the Association as part of the Project 
Report not later than forty five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, 
interim un-audited financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project, and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing, with the exception of those carried 
out by the UPs, shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of 
this Schedule. 
 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
Al
l
consultants’ services required for the Project, and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing, with the exception of those 
carried out by the UPs, shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set 
forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant Guidelines, and with 
the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
2
below, goods and works, with the exception of those carried out by the UPs, 
shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International 
Competitive Bidding.  
 
2.
 
Procurement of Goods and Works through the
 
Recipient’s Procurement 
Regulations.
 
The following table specifies the methods of procurement to be 
used 
in accordance with the Recipient’s Procurement Regulations. The 
Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may 
be used: 
 
Page  16
-
-
15
Procurement Method
(a)  National Competitive Bidding 
(b) Shopping 
(c) Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs 
2
and 3
 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, to be used in accordance with the
 Consultants’ 
Guidelines for services procured internationally or the Recipient’s Procurement 
Regulations for services procured locally. The Procurement Plan shall specify the 
circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
(a) Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
(b) Fixed Budget Selection 
(c) Least Cost Selection 
(d) Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e) Single Source Selection 
(f) Individual Consultants
 
3. 
Procurement from UN Agencies
.
Services under Part E of the Project may be 
procured from the United Nations agencies in accordance with the provisions of 
3.15 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
D. 
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association:  
(a) each contract for goods or works, estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 
or more, and the first contract for goods regardless of value, and method; (b) each 
contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm, estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more; (c) each contract for services of individual 
consultants, estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; and (d) all 
contracts for consultants’ services procured under single source selection. All 
other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association. 
Page  17
-
-
16
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as the Association 
may specify by notice to the Recipient, to finance Eligible Expenditures as set 
forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit 
(“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Credit to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category 
Amount of the 
 Credit Allocated 
(Expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures 
 to be Financed 
(1) Subgrants for 
Subprojects under Part 
A
of
the Project 
 
59,600,000 100% 
(2) Subgrants for 
Subprojects under Part 
C
of
the Project 
 
1,100,000 100% 
(3)  Subgrants under 
Part E of the Project 
 
960,000 100% 
(4) Operating Costs 
          480,000 
100% 
 
(5) Consultant Services, 
including training, 
workshops and audits, 
and goods 
 
12,730,000 100% 
(6) Unallocated 
 
1,430,000  
TOTAL AMOUNT 
        76,300,000 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
 
Page  18
-
-
17
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; and  
 
(b) 
under Categories (1), (2) and/or (3), unless the Subproject for purposes 
of which withdrawal of Credit proceeds is sought has been prepared in 
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth 
or referred to in the UP Operational Manual. 
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2011. 
Page  19
-
-
18
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(Expressed as a percentage)* 
On each February 1 and August 1: 
 
Commencing August 1, 2016  to and  including  
February 1, 2026 
 
1% 
Commencing August 1, 2026 to and including 
February 1, 2046. 
 
2% 
*The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Credit to be 
repaid, except as the Association may otherwise specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of 
the General Conditions. 
Page  20
-
-
19
APPENDIX 
 
Section I. 
Definitions 
 
1. 
“Beneficiary” means any of the UPs (as hereinafter defined) to whom LGD (as 
hereinafter defined) has made or proposes to make a Subgrant (as hereinafter 
defined). 
 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004.    
 
4. 
“C&AG” means the Recipient’s office of the Comptroller and Auditor General. 
 
5. 
“Eligible UP” means a UP (as hereinafter defined), which is deemed to be 
eligible on the basis of the eligibility criteria referred to in the UP Operational 
Manual (as hereinafter defined), for accessing a Subgrant (as hereinafter 
defined). 
 
6. 
“Environmental and Social Management Framework Report” or “ESMF” means 
the set of mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures to be carried out 
during the implementation of the Project to mitigate potential adverse 
environmental and social impacts, offset them, reduce them to acceptable levels, 
and/or to enhance positive impacts. 
 
7. 
“Fiscal Year” means the Recipient’s Fiscal Year commencing on July 1 and 
ending on June 30 of the following year. 
 
8. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005. 
 
9. 
“Legal Instrument” means any legal instrument including, inter alia, a 
Memorandum of Understanding, Resolution, Contract, Decree or a similar 
arrangement governing the relation among LGD and UPs, in each case setting 
forth, inter alia,
 
the terms and conditions for: (a) the release of a Subgrant;  
(b) the use of, and the nature of activities and expenditures to be financed with 
the proceeds of, such Subgrant; and (c) the reporting, monitoring and auditing 
requirements relating to the release and use of such Subgrant. 
 
10. 
“Local Government (Union Parishads) Ordinance” means the UP Ordinance of 
1983, as amended, including all other decrees, directives, and guidelines related 
thereto or emanating therefrom. 
 
Page  21
-
-
20
11. 
“
LGD” means the Local Government Division of the Recipient’s Ministry of 
Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives. 
 
12. 
“NILG”   means the Recipient’s National Institute of Local Government which is 
responsible for capacity building, training and research on local government. 
 
13. 
“Operating Costs” means: (a) expenditures incurred by the LGD, NILG, and 
C&AG for the operation and maintenance of facilities, equipment and vehicles 
used for Project implementation (including, without limitation, office rental, 
vehicle rental, fuel, routine repair and maintenance of equipment, vehicles and 
office premises, communication costs, use of internet costs, stationeries and other 
office supplies, and costs of translation, printing, photocopying and advertising); 
(b) transportation costs and subsistence allowances for LGD NILG, and C&AG 
staff in travel status for Project implementation; and (c) salaries and allowances 
of incremental staff assigned to LGD NILG, and C&AG for Project 
implementation but excluding salaries of the Recipient’s civil servants. 
 
14. 
“Performance Grants” means grants to be provided under Part A.2 of the Project 
to finance the costs of Subprojects and designed to reward well-performing UPs. 
 
15. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
 
16. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated May 3, 2006, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
 
17. 
“Procurement Regulations” means the Recipient’s Public Procurement 
Regulations dated October 1, 2003. 
 
18. 
“Program” means the program described in the Recipient’s Letter of Local 
Government Sector Policy dated 16 May 2006, furnished to the Association on 
17 May 2006, designed to improve fiscal decentralization, the control and 
management of public expenditure, and to strengthen the fiscal and institutional 
capacity of its local governments to provide improved basic public services.  
 
19. 
“Project Implementation Manual” means the Project Implementation Manual 
issued by the Recipient in May 2006, for the purpose of carrying out the Project, 
containing, inter alia, work programs, training programs, implementation time-
table, key performance indicators, financial, procurement and safeguards 
compliance methods and procedures, and UP audit strategy, to be used in the 
implementation of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time, in 
consultation with, and with the approval of, the Association, and such term 
includes any schedules to the Project Implementation Manual. 
Page  22
-
-
21
20. 
“PSC” means Project Steering Committee referred to in Section I A.1 of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
 
21. 
“SITC” means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC. 
Rev. 3 (1986)) and such other future revisions as adopted by the Borrower and 
agreed by the Association. 
 
22. 
“Subgrant” means any of the grants to be provided under Parts A, C and E of the 
Project to finance the costs of Subprojects. 
 
23. 
“Subproject” means a set of activities or schemes to be carried out by a 
Beneficiary with the proceeds of a Subgrant under Parts A, C and E of the 
Project. 
 
24. 
“Taka” or “Tk” mean Bangladeshi Taka, the currency of the Recipient.  
 
25. 
“UP” means Union Parishad, 
the elected local government body,
 
established under the “Local Government (Union Parishads) Ordinance  and 
provided for by the Constitution of Bangladesh, and which, 
inter alia, is responsible, within its territorial 
jurisdiction, for the: (a) coordination of public service 
delivery and its providers; (b) maintenance of public order 
and conflict resolution and mediation; and (c) preparation 
and implementation of plans relating to public services and 
economic development.  
 
26. 
“UP Operational Manual” means the Operational Manual issued by the Recipient 
for the purpose of carrying out the Project, containing, inter alia, procedures, 
terms and conditions, and eligibility criteria for Subprojects, to be used in the 
implementation of Parts A, C and E of the Project, as the same may be amended 
from time to time, in consultation with, and with the approval of, the Association, 
and such term includes any schedules to the UP Operational Manual. 
 
27. 
“Upazila”
 means a sub-district, an administrative unit in the territory of the 
Recipient. 
 
