I                           CO피PO劾帆D coPY
CREDIT Nm工BER 6林2 BA
DEVELOPb伍NT CREDIT AG끄EEMENT
(LOver Bl그I&IIla Paddyland Developㅠlent PrO」ect)
&betveen
)       THE socIALIsT REPuBLIc oF THE {JKIoN ○F& B{J脈
and
IKTERNATI○NAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 21, 1976
l


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 211, 1976, between THE SOCIALIST REPUB-
LIC OF THE UNION OF' BURMA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called. the As-
sociation).


﻿-2-
APTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The narties to this Agreement accert all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Develonment
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Develonment Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the resnective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Unit" means the project unit referred to in
Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(b) "PIC" means the project imnlementation committee re-
ferred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement;
(c) "TC-l" means the Borrower's Trade Cornoration No. 1;
and
(d) "Project Area" means the eleven islands located in the
southern nart of 'the Irrawaddy delta, namely Shwelaung, Zinbaung,
Letpanbin, Kyet-Pha-Hmwe-Zaung, Myogon, Daw Nyein, Dedalu, Bantbwezu
Betut, Alegy-in, and Dauntgyi.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to thirty million dollars ($30,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the nrovisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the Droceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be nrocured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.014. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall ,ay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one ner cent (3'h
of 1%) per annum on the princi-al amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.


﻿-4-
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall renay the princina. amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments nayable on each June 15
and December 15 commencing December 15, 1986, and ending June 15,
2026, each installment to and including the installment payable
on June 15, 1996 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purnoses of Section 4.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appronriate
agricultural, administrative, financial and engineering practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, ser-
vices and other resources required for the purnose.
Section 3.02. Ir order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than
October 31, 1976, employ consultants whose qualifications, exper-
ience and terms and conditions of emrloyment shall be acceptable
to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall establish and maintain a
project implementation committee and a project unit headed by a
project director anpointed in consultation with the Association,
both with such functions as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association, to direct and supervise the imnlementation
of the Project. PIC shall include reoresentatives of the Borrower's
Irrigation Department, Settlement and Land Records Denartment,
Survey Department, Central Land Committee, Working Peonle's Settle-
ment Department, Agricultural Cornoration, Agricultural Mechani-
zation Department, Planning and Statistics Department of the Min-
istry of Agriculture and Forests, Myanma Agricultural Bank, Coop-
erative Department, Ministry of Planning and Finance, and TC-1 and
shall be chaired by the Denuty Minister of the Ministry of Agricul-
ture and Forests. The Project Unit shall include senior technical


﻿officers seconded part-time from the Borrower's Irrigation Depart-
ment, Settlement and Land Records Department, Survey Department,
Central Land C-mittee, Working People's Settlement Department,
Agricultural Corporation and Agricultural Mechanization )epartment.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any in-
demnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Bor-
rower to replace or retair such goods.
(b) ExceDt as the Association shall otherwise aarpe, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, th' plans, snecifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited reoresen-
tatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included


﻿-7-
in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably reauest concerning the Project,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, within a reasonable period after such acquisition,
evidence acceptable to the Association that such land and rights
in respect of land are available for purPoses related to the Proj-
ect.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, in the allotment of land
in the Project Area, ensure that farmers displaced by the con-
struction of drains and embankments in the Project Area shall
have first priority, local landless families and local families
with insufficient land second priority, and families of retired
servicemen who have narticinated in the land clearing in the
Project Area by force account third priority.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall appoint to the five town-
ships in the Project Area about 134 village extension managers,
22 village tract extension managers, 5 townshin extension mana-
gers, 5 township extension deputy managers, 6 subject matter
specialists and one project extension director and shall ensure
p


﻿-8-
that such officials work full-time on activities directly related
to agricultural extension work in such townships.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause (a) the towns ip pro-
tection squad of its Agricultural Corporation to stock, on the
basis of estimates made annually by its extension service, suffi-
cient pesticides in the Project Area, and (b) its Agricultural
Corporation, through PIC, to prepare a plan to charge farmers the
full costs of pesticides and furnish, within two years of the Effec-
tive Date, such plan to the Association.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall cause its Agricultural Mec-
hanization Department, (i) in providing tractor and maintenance
services to farmers in the Project Area, to charge such rates as
would cover the cost of operation and maintenance and depreciation
of the machinery and workshops, and (ii) to furnish to the Asso-
ciation through PIC, not later than six months from the Effective
Date, a report on proposed charges and on the basis of such charges.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall supply sufficient quanti-
ties of fuel and oil as are required for operating construction,
maintenance and farm equipment in the Project Area.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall provide long-term and medium-
term credit to the farmers in the Project Area, for the purchase
of tractors, power tillers, implements, pumps and spare parts to
be provided under the Project.


﻿- 9 -
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall cause the Myanma Agricul-
tural Bank to establish a special account for the long-term and
medium-term credit to be provided to farmer groups in the Project
Area for the purchase of tractors, power tillers, implements, pumps
and spare parts provided under the Project and to utilize repay-
ments into such account made by farmer groups for the purpose of
agricultural development.
Section 3.14. The Borrower shall cause the project director
referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement to prepare an annual
comprehensive schedule for construction and agricultural implemen-
tation activities and the respective provisional budget estimates
required for the next fiscal year and cause these to be furnished
to the Association not later than December 31 of each year.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the de-
partments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause separate accounts in
respect of each component of the Project to be maintained by its
respective implementing departments and agencies and shall cause
PIC to collate such accounts and to: (i) have such accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and ex-
penses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, .n
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceDtable to the Association; (ii) fur-
nish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than four months after the end of each such year, cop-
ies of the summary of such unaudited accounts, and not later than
nine months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of such financial statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information con-
cerning such accounts and financial statements and the audit
thereof as the Association shall fron time to time reasonably
request.


﻿- 11 -
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall sunnly an adequate amount of
fertilizer for the cultivation of all rice varieties and all crops
in the Project Area at rates to be recommended each year by the
Borrower's agricultural extension service.
Section 4.0. The Borrower shall periodically review and
revise, if necessary, its price for the procurement of paddy and
shall keep the Association informed of such reviews and revisions.
Section 4.05. The Borrower undertakes:
(a) to ensure that farmers in the Project Area are left with
adequate financial incentives to make the investments necessary to
increase production, taking into account the Borrower's paddy pro-
curement quota and prices;
(b) in order to make farmers benefitting from the Project
aware that they are paying for the recovery of costs of the Proj-
ect, to indicate as percentages of the total quota assessed for
each farmer under the compulsory paddy procurement scheme (i)
the payment to be attributed to operation and maintenance, (ii)
the annual payment attributable to capital cost recovery and
(iii) the price for the regular sale to TC-1;
(c) to appropriate adequate funds in its annual budget to
enable its irrigation Department to cover the costs for appropriate
operation and maintenance required for the Project.


﻿- 12 -
(d) at least annually to review with the Association the
amounts designated as required for the cost of oneration and main-
tenance and for the recovery of capital costs; and
(e) if the compulsory paddy procurement system were to be
modified or abolished, to maintain arrangements established in
consultation with the Association for the adequate recovery of costs.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall cause its Agricultural
Corporation to provide adequate funds from its budget for proper
operation and maintenance of the fertilizer go-downs constructed
under the Project.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely that, PIC and the Project Unit have been es-
tablished.
Section 5.02. The date September 20, 1976 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.03 through 4.06 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall termi-
nate or on a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister for Planning and Finance or the
Deputy Minister for Planning and Finance of the Borrower is desig-
nated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Sec-
tion 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister for Planning and Finance
Ministers' Offices Post Office
Rangoon
Burma
Cable address:
FINANCE
Rangoon
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE UNION OF BURMA
By /s/ U Tin Lat
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amount of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                 7,900,000         50%
(2) Equipment, spare           17,300,000
parts and materials
(a) directly im-                             100% of foreign
ported                                  expenditures
(b) locally manu-                            100% of local
factured and                            expenditures
procured under                          (ex-factory
international                           cost)
competitive
bidding
(c) other procured                           70%
locally
(3) Overseas training             200,000         100% of foreign
expenditures
(4) Consultants' ser-             800,000         100% of foreign
vice                                          expenditures
(5) Unallocated                 3,800,000
TOTAL      30,000,000


﻿- 17 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, maiufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in re-
spect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 18 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) realloca-
te to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to an-
other Category and which in the opinion of the Association are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that fur-
ther withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expen-
ditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, can-
cel -2uch amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the construction of flood control
and drainage facilities, survey, allotment and reclamation of
abandoned and cultivable waste land in the Project Area, pro-
curement of various equipment, strengthening of extension and
other agricultural services, and studies for planning future
projects, and includes:
A.   Civil Works
(i) Construction and rehabilitation of about 410 miles
of earth embankments and about 770 miles of drains.
(ii) Construction of about 90 gated pipe drainage culverts,
200 drainage channel crossings, and 10 drainage channel
regulators.
(iii) Survey, reclamation and parcelling of about 65,000 acres
of abandoned and waste land.
(iv) Construction of offices, staff quarters, stores, godowns,
and workshops.
B.   Provision of Equipment and Tools
(i) Provision of civil works construction and maintenance
equipment.


﻿- 20 -
(ii) Provision of tractors, disc plows, disc harrows,
rotary cultivators, power tillers, trailers, chain
saws, assorted hand tools, and workshop equipment
and tools.
(iii) Provision of hydrological network equipment,
laboratory apparatus, extension, training and
office equipment.
C.   Overseas Training
Overseas training of local technical officers.
D.   Studies for Planning Future Projects
(i) Conducting delta-wide hydrological investigations
for planning future projects.
(ii) Preparation of a feasibility study for a paddy
storage and handling project.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1982.


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provid,.ed in Part B hereof, contracts for the pur-
chase of equipment, spare parts and materials shall be procured
in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Equipment, spare parts and materials costing the equivalent
of not more than $20,000 each and not exceeding in the aggregate
the equivalent of $200,000 shall be purchased in accordance with
the normal procedures of the Borrower, after quotations from at
least three suppliers have been solicited and compared.
2.   Prior to the procurement of the equipment referred to in Sec-
tion 3.12 of this Agreement the Borrower and the Association shall
agree on (i) the terms and conditions of the credit referred to in
such Section, (ii) the procedures for applications for, approval
of, supervision of and collection of the loans, and (iii) the roles
to be played by the Mqanma Agricultural Bank, TC-1, Agricultural
Corporation, Agricultural Mechanization Department and cooperatives
in the credit scheme referred to in such Section.


﻿- 22 -
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and sim-
ilar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expen-
ditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in the Socialist RIepublic of the Union of
Burma may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Socialist ReDublic of the Union of Burma if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction


﻿- 23 -
of the Borrower and the Association that the manu-
facturing cost of such goods includes a value added
in the Socialist Reublic of the Union of Burna
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the Socialist Renublic of the Union of Burma.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other imnort
taxes on goods to be imnorted and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supnlied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comnarison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from groun C, all groun C bids
shall be further compared with the lovest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imnorted
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purnose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exemnt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.


﻿If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Procurement Without Contracting
Civil works shall be carried out by force account by the
Borrower's Irrigation Department.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment, snare parts
and materials estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.


﻿-  2 r- -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed renort on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract,
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding oaragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promntly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed conies o such contract.
together with the analysis of the resnective bids, recormmendation-


﻿- 26 -
for award and such other information as the Association shall rea-
sonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.


