             Document of
          The World Bank




                                       Report No: 25573

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
             (FSLT-71260)

                ON A

                LOAN

IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 303.04 MILLION

                  TO

    THE UNITED MEXICAN STATES

                FOR A

       Tax Reform Adjustment Loan




               10/8/2003

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

              (Exchange Rate Effective 10/8/03)

                  Currency Unit = Peso
                    11.33 Pesos = US$ 1
                         US$ 1 = 11.33 Pesos

                        FISCAL YEAR
                  January 1 -   December 31

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

     BANRURAL               Banco Nacional de Crédito Rural
     CAS                    Country Assistance Strategy
     CEM                    Country Economic Memorandum
     GDP                    Gross Domestic Product
     ICR                    Implementation Completition Report
     SAT                    Sistema de Administración Tributaria
     SHCP                   Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
     TAIDL                  Tax Administration Institutional Development Loan
     TRAL                   Tax Reform Adjustment Loan

                 Vice President:    David de Ferranti
             Country Director:      Isabel M. Guerrero
               Sector Director:     Ernesto May
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Steven B. Webb

                                           MEXICO
                              MX Tax Reform Adjustment Loan


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                  9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               11
9. Partner Comments                                                              12
10. Additional Information                                                       13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             33
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             35
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                36
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            37
Annex 8 Tax Administration Institutional Development Loan Components             38

Project ID: P074750                                                      Project Name: MX Tax Reform Adjustment Loan
Team Leader: Steven Benjamin Webb                                        TL Unit: LCSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: October 23, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: MX Tax Reform Adjustment Loan                            L/C/TF Number: FSLT-71260
   Country/Department: MEXICO                                                             Region: Latin America and
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (85%); General industry and
                            trade sector (6%); General education sector (3%); General finance
                            sector (3%); Health (3%)
                  Theme: Tax policy and administration (P); Public expenditure, financial
                            management and procurement (S); Debt management and fiscal
                            substainability (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    11/26/2001                                        Effective: 12/03/2002
   Appraisal:    05/03/2002                                            MTR:
    Approval:    06/18/2002                                         Closing: 01/10/2003

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          United Mexican States/Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              David de Ferranti
Country Director:               Isabel M. Guerrero                             Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:                 Mauricio Carrizosa                             Mauricio Carrizosa
Team Leader at ICR:             Steven B. Webb                                 Steven B. Webb
ICR Primary Author:             Christian Yves Gonzalez; Steven
                                B. Webb


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

Introduction
To continue the modernization of its economy and reduction of poverty, the Mexican Government
recognizes that it needs to invest more in human resource development and public economic infrastructure,
to complement investment in the private sector. Without overburdening or crowding out the private sector,
which must remain the main engine of growth, the public sector needs to increase its resources and reduce
its dependence on the oil sector (World Bank 2000). To meet these objectives, since 2001 Mexico has
engaged in a program of fiscal reform whose efforts are balancing six criteria for success:

 i. Increasing tax revenue. This is needed both to finance the Government's programs for poverty
     reduction and economic development and to keep its finances stable.
ii. Improving efficiency of the private sector, by reducing the distortions in tax incentives for resource
     allocation.
iii. Improving equity of the public sector. This would come in three ways from the tax reform -assuring
     that it puts no excessive burden on the poor, making the burden of taxes more equal among people with
     the same level of income, and channeling the increased revenue into poverty reduction programs.
iv. Making taxes simpler to administer.
 v. Making the federalism system more balanced and incentive compatible.
vi. Being politically feasible.

No reform can achieve the maximum in all of these dimensions, for they compete to some extent, but a
good reform needs to make at least some improvements in all of them and substantial improvements in
several. The tax reforms that took place in 2002 made important progress in these dimensions, especially in
improving the efficiency of the private sector, improving equity of the public sector, and making taxes
simpler to administer. Consequently, the Mexican Government requested that the Bank complemented its
analytical and technical support with financial support, in the form of a US$303.04 million Tax Reform
Adjustment Loan.

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The first stage of the Government's fiscal reform program focuses on the corporate and personal income
taxes. Mexico needs to strengthen its tax system to assure macroeconomic stability, which is essential for
growth and poverty reduction. While most of the fiscal benefit of these measures will come in the medium
term, as reduced tax distortions contribute to higher sustainable growth, in the short term the resources
provided by the loan will help the Government to assure fiscal and macroeconomic stability and avoid
fiscal contraction. In the long term, higher growth rates and the eventual growth of fiscal resources will
contribute to debt reduction, and in the short run the loan will help avoid a fiscal contraction. Raising more
resources from a stronger tax system is essential for expanding the Government program of social sector
services and infrastructure investment. Finally, by simplifying the tax policy to administer, the policy
reforms will contribute to the Government's programs for Reform of the State and reduction of corruption.

The project achieved the following key reforms to the Mexican tax system. In the area of corporate income
taxes, the new law:

 i. Modifies the special cash-flow regime for calculating income for the agriculture and road transport
     sectors, by widening significantly the tax base in these sectors.
ii. Simplifies the inflation adjustment regime, just using the annual price index to calculate the real change



                                                      - 2 -

     in monetary assets and liabilities.
iii. Eliminates the reduced tax rate for retained earnings, thus unifying the corporate and maximum
     personal tax rates at 35 percent, and reduces the rate gradually to 32 percent by 2005.
iv. Limits the corporate deductions for payment of fringe benefits to non-union workers.
 v. Phases out the reduced tax rate for the publishing industry, bringing the rate there up to the standard
     rate by 2006.

In the area of personal income taxes, the new law:

 i. Aggregates all the taxable income of an individual and taxes it at the corresponding progressive rate.
ii. Simplifies the structure of rates, reducing the number to five by 2005.
iii. Reduces the government subsidy (crédito al salario) for workers in the formal sector and provides
     incentives for firms to continue paying it.
iv. Simplifies the tax regime for individuals with entrepreneurial activity.

The reforms on the corporate and personal income taxes comprise two of the total five areas of the overall
fiscal reform program (the entire fiscal reform program is shown below in section 3.5).

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
ONE TRANCHE: $303,040,000 (w/ $3,040,000 retained as a front-end fee) .

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry is assessed as Satisfactory. The objectives were clear and realistic - a consequence of
outstanding government ownership and extensive and high-quality Bank analytical work. The TRAL was
envisioned in Mexico: A Comprehensive Development Agenda for the New Era and in Mexico Country
Economic Memorandum: Challenges and Prospects for Tax Reform (provided as a green cover to the
government in April, 2001). Also, the TRAL is relevant to four of the five CAS objectives: consolidating
macroeconomic gains, human capital development, building an efficient, accountable and transparent
government, and accelerating growth through enhanced competiveness. The Mexican Government in their
Programa Nacional de Financiamiento del Desarrollo 2002-2006 states that one of its key priorities to
achieve its economic goals is a fiscal reform that strengthens the tax revenues. In the Letter of Development
Policy, the Government described Mexico's Fiscal Reform program (for a detailed description of this
program see section 10 of the ICR), which has seven areas of reform; three involve taxation -Tax Policy,
Tax Administration, Subnational Finances- and the four others are important for improving the use of
fiscal resources -Fiscal Discipline and Transparency, Budget Reform, Public Spending Policy, and Energy
Pricing Policy. This project supports the first phase of the Tax Policy area of this program.

While the TRAL involved certain risks, as noted in the President's Report, these were quite reasonable. The
first is that the income tax reforms could be reversed legislatively; this however, represents a very small
risk because the fiscal package was approved by a coalition of two of the three major political parties in
Mexico and the positions of the other major political party were similar to that which was approved. The
greatest risk is that collections and enforcement would remain weak, or would weaken after an initial
improvement. Then the legal reforms would not have their desired effects in practice. To minimize this risk,



                                                      - 3 -

the Government requested technical assistance in tax administration from the Bank, which has been
provided through the Tax Administration Institutional Development Loan (TAIDL, US$52 million),
approved at the same time as the TRAL. The Secretary of Finance personally meets on regular basis with
his staff and the Bank supervision team to monitor the progress of this project.

The project was prepared quickly. The discussions of the Fiscal Reform began in 1999 while the Bank was
preparing the policy notes for the incoming Fox administration. The technical note on Tax Reform was
discussed with members of both the previous and the current administration. The Bank prepared another
study entitled Mexico: Country Economic Memorandum: Challenges and Prospects for Tax Reform in
2000, which was shared as a green cover publication with the current administration in spring 2001. The
most important reforms suggested in the CEM were submitted to Congress in 2001. By the end of the year,
the fiscal reform was approved, although it did not include all of the reforms in the initial proposal. The
discussions of the TRAL per se began in the summer of 2001, while the government proposal was being
discussed in Congress. The Mexican Government decided to wait for the TRAL until it had secured
congressional approval, for it would not commit itself to such a project without this approval. The original
project which was described in the initiating memorandum of November, 2001, envisioned a loan of
US$600 million and support for five reform areas:

1. Value Added Tax. The reform was expected to:

 i. Expand the base by including processed food and some medications.
ii. Oblige smaller businesses to pay the VAT, but with the option of paying a tax at a lower rate on gross
     sales.

2. Corporate Income Tax. The reform was expected to:

 i. Phase out the special regimes (cash-flow and reduced rates) for the agriculture, mining, trucking,
     editing and publishing sectors.
ii. Allow simplified tax calculations and reporting (cash flow) for medium-sized owner operated firms.
iii. Allow a tax at a lower rate on gross revenues for small owner-operated firms.
iv. Raise the standard rate to 35 % and eliminate the 5% surcharge on dividends.
 v. Make the legally required profit-sharing with workers fully deductible from taxable corporate income.

3. Personal Income Tax. The reform was expected to:

 i. Expand the base to a more complete coverage of employee compensation.
ii. Expand the zero category upward to the equivalent of 4 minimum wages.
iii. Deliver the low-wage subsidy directly to workers separately from the regular pay from their employer.
iv. Consolidate the income of individuals from all sources in order to calculate their tax liability.
 v. Introduce taxation of interest on government bonds and of capital gains from stock sales.

4. Excise Taxes. The reform was expected to:

 i. Raise the rates on some tobacco items and change the distilled alcoholic beverages scheme from a fixed
     rate to an add-valorem scheme, at equivalent percent rates.
ii. Add an environmental component to the tax on new cars.




                                                    - 4 -

5. Federalism. The reform was expected to:

 i. Devolve to the states a 2% tax on final sales on the same base as the federal VAT, with that VAT rate
     dropping from 15% to 13% on final sales and by reducing federal transfers.
ii. Allow the states to collect five percent on excise taxes, piggy-backed on federal taxes.
iii. Allow states to charge up to 2 percent on the gross revenue of owner-operated enterprises that are in
     the small regime payer under the income tax.
iv. Allow states to put a 5% surcharge on the federal income tax on professionals and owner-operated
     firms, both in the general regime and the middle-sized firm regime.

The reforms to the VAT were going to bring most additional resources in the short run. However, they were
the ones that faced the greatest opposition in Congress because expanding the base to include processed
food and medicines would increase the burden as share of income more for the poorer households. The
Government tried to address equity concerns by proposing the creation of a new program called
CONTIGO. However, it was not clear how the Government will distribute the resources to the population,
and Congress decided not to approved the VAT reforms.

The approved reforms to the Corporate and Personal Income tax (areas 2 and 3, above) were the most
important and were consistent with the ones in the initiating memorandum and the CEM. Their objective
was to reduce the distortions and horizontal inequities in the tax code. These were the tax reforms formally
supported by the TRAL.

Congress approved some of the reforms to the excise taxes, although, these were not included as part of the
TRAL. The reforms raised the rates on some tobacco items and bottled drinks. At the time of finalizing the
TRAL, many of the soft drink producers were pressing to remove the reform. Therefore, the Bank and the
Government decided not to include them in the TRAL.

On Federalism, the Revenue Law for 2002 gave states the right to tax consumption at the point of final
sales to consumers and to tax the income of individual entrepreneurs with medium and low levels of
revenue. The annual revenue law is only for one year, so the Bank and the Mexican Government decided
not to include them as part of the TRAL. In December 2002 an amendment to the regular tax code did give
the states authority to tax gross income of enterprises that reported under the small taxpayers regime.

The Revenue Law for 2002 created a new tax for luxury goods and services. But, it was also not
incorporated into the TRAL because it was not a permanent law.

In some structural adjustment loans, the submission of a law that incorporates the reforms is a satisfactory
condition for approval and tranche disbursement. In this manner the TRAL could have been submitted for
Board approval in its original form for a larger amount, probably US$600 million, but the Bank and the
Government decided to wait until the reforms were approved by Congress. Based upon the reforms that
were approved, it was decided to lower the amount of the loan.

Project Design
A one tranche adjustment loan was the appropriate instrument to stimulate the policy reforms envisioned by
the TRAL, even though consideration was given to programmatic adjustment loan for the whole fiscal
reform program. A one tranche adjustment loan was chosen over a programmatic adjustment loan because
of the uncertainty about whether and when Congress would approve subsequent tax policy reforms.

It should be noted that the Bank depended on Government projections of the effects of the fiscal reforms, as


                                                     - 5 -

no alternative sources of primary data were available. While the Bank believed that the Government data
might have been overly optimistic, and adjusted its expectations accordingly, in retrospect these
adjustments turned out to be insufficient.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Outcome is assessed as Satisfactory, with all relevant objectives achieved, and no significant shortcomings.
Viewed as whole, a major project accomplishment was the passage of legislation that will greatly reduce
distortions, complexities, and horizontal inequities in the tax system.

The conditions of the project were completely fulfilled: Annex 1 contains a list of project conditions,
performance indicators, and actions taken. The following sections present a full description of the detailed
achievements of the TRAL.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Detailed achievements are organized by the main objectives to which they contributed:

l In the area of corporate income taxes, the new law:


 i. Modifies the special cash-flow regime for calculating income for the agriculture and road transport
     sectors, by widening significantly the tax base in these sectors.
ii. Simplifies the inflation adjustment regime, just using the annual price index to calculate real change in
     monetary assets and liabilities.
iii. Eliminates the reduced tax rate for retained earnings, thus unifying the corporate and maximum
     personal tax rates at 35 percent, and reduces the rate gradually to 32 percent by 2005.
iv. Limits the corporate deductions for payment of fringe benefits to non-union workers.
 v. Phases out the reduced tax rate for the publishing industry, bringing the rate there up to the standard
     rate by 2006.

l In the area of personal income taxes, the new law:


 i. Aggregates all the taxable income of an individual and taxes it at the corresponding progressive rate.
ii. Simplifies the structure of rates, reducing the number to five by 2005.
iii. Reduces the Government subsidy (crédito al salario) for workers in the formal sector and provides
     incentives for firms to continue paying it.
iv. Simplifies the tax regime for individuals with entrepreneurial activity.

The corporate and personal income tax are regulated by the Ley del Impuesto sobre la Renta (Income Tax
Law). The new income tax law was enacted in December 2001 incorporating all of the reforms described
above, and its implementation started in 2002. SHCP disseminated the new reforms through the internet,
radio and television, by making presentations and workshops, and by publishing brochures, books and
articles in several magazines. The most important outcome of the TRAL was the reduction of distortions on
the tax system ( annex 3 shows the benefits of it).

Poverty Impact--Available analytical work shows that Mexico's periodic financial crises have had a
devastating impact on the poor. Most notably, the 1994/95 crisis fully reversed the 10 percentage point
improvement in the poverty headcount that had been achieved since 1984. The project helps assure
macroeconomic sustainability, and increases resources for programs that reduce poverty and does not



                                                      - 6 -

increase the share of taxes paid by the poor. Therefore, overall the project contributes to poverty reduction.
However, quantitative estimates of poverty reduction cannot be made until the next Encuesta Nacional de
Gasto e Ingreso de los Hogares en México (the survey employed to perform poverty and equity analysis),
which is going to be made in 2004, and two points in time are necessary for such analysis.

Macroeconomic framework- In 2002, Mexico's economic policy was managed with discipline and
responsibility, helping to preserve a stable environment characterized by low inflation and interest rates in a
context of uncertainty and volatility in the external markets. But the Government could not achieve the
targets specified in Criterios Generales de Política Económica for 2002, mostly because of the weak
economic activity in the last two quarters of 2002. Real GDP growth was only 0.9 percent in 2002
compared to 1.7 percent that was projected. Inflation continued a downward trend, with year-end inflation
at 5.7 percent in 2002 but it was higher than its target (4.5 percent). The fiscal deficit increased to 1.2
percent of GDP (compared with a target of 0.65 percent of GDP), reflecting, inter alia, one-time transfers
by the federal government to the development banks in connection with the liquidation of BANRURAL,
partially financed by transforming unclaimed pension-provisions into contingent liabilities. The
international current account balance was stable at around -2.4 percent of GDP, and the real effective
exchange rate against the US dollar depreciated during 2002 in response to routine market forces.

             Table 1. Selected Macroeconomic Indicators
  year                      1994          1995  1996    1997      1998   1999   2000       2001    2002
  Annual Real GDP            4.4          -6.2   5.2     6.8       5.0    3.6    6.6        -0.3    0.9
  % change
  Annual (CPI)               6.9          35.0   34.4   20.6      15.9   16.6    9.5        6.4     4.9
  inflation ave., %
  FDI, (bil. USD)            15           9.5    9.9     14       11.9   12.5   14.7        24.7
  Budget balance, as         0.4          0.7    -0.1   -0.01     -0.7   -1.1   -1.1        -0.7    -1.2
  % of GDP
  Tax revenues, as           11.3         9.3    8.9     9.8      10.5   11.4   10.6        11.3   11.9
  % of GDP (i)
  Current Account            -6.9         -0.5   -0.7   -1.9      -4.0   -3.0   -3.0        -3.1    -2.4
  as % of GDP
  Unemployment               3.7          6.2    5.5     3.7       3.2    2.5    2.2        2.4     2.9
  rate in urban areas
  Exchange rate,             3.9          7.7    7.9     8.1       9.9    9.6    9.5        9.3     9.8
  year average,
  MxP/ US$
  i) It includes oil and non-oil tax revenues.



             Source: SHCP.


As a consequence of the weak economic activity, the liquidation of BANRURAL and optimistic original
fiscal estimates, the TRAL's short-run targets could not be achieved. The TRAL envisioned an overall
fiscal deficit of no more than 0.65 percent of GDP in 2002, but the actual deficit increased to 1.2 percent of
GDP. However, if we exclude the one time change associated with the liquidation of BANRURAL, the
overall public sector deficit was lower than the deficit projected. Also, the TRAL was expected to increase
programmable spending for education, health, social safety nets, and investment in roads and electricity by
                                  1


at least 0.8 percentage points of GDP in 2002, compared to that of 2001. As shown in Table 2,
expenditures on designated areas did not meet the levels contemplated in the TRAL. In large measure, this
shortfall occurred because of the budgetary pressures created by the weak economic activity and the
liquidation of BANRURAL. It should be noted that the Government's budget is very rigid. The ability of
the Mexican Government to reprogram budgetary funds from one category to another is extremely limited,
with current (non-investment) expenditures in most cases mandated by law. The income tax measures at the
focus of this operation were projected to yield an additional 0.9 percent of GDP in 2002. According to the



                                                             - 7 -

Quarterly Report on Public Finances and Public Debt for the fourth quarter of 2002 published by
SHCP, income tax revenues increased by about 0.12 percent of GDP (Annex 3 explains with more detail
about the targets and the outcomes achieved in this project), less than projected because of the economic
slowdown, among other things.

            Table 2. Programmable Expenditures associated with the TRAL.
                                                      MxP million           As percent of GDP
                                                    2001          2002p       2001      2002p     Diff.
    Programmable budget expenditure in:
      Education (Educación)                      251,839.6     272,350.5    4.32%       4.43%        0.11%
      Health (Salud)                             110,441.0     109,145.6    1.89%       1.77%       -0.12%
      Social safety nets                         80,478.5       89,754.1    1.38%       1.46%        0.08%

    Programmable budget expenditure for physical investment:
      Energetic Sector                            49,208.3       56,318.8   0.84%       0.92%        0.07%
        Electricity                               31,389.0       32,697.1   0.54%       0.53%       -0.01%
        Hydrocarabon                              17,819.3       23,621.7   0.31%       0.38%        0.08%
      Roads (Communications and transports)        9,928.3       12,917.9   0.17%       0.21%        0.04%

    Total                                                                   8.61%       8.78%        0.18%
            Source: SHCP.



Although the TRAL's short-run fiscal targets did not reach their objective, the main outcome of the project
was to reduce the distortions in the tax system. Annex 3 shows the benefits of this outcome. The revenue
results were originally, and are still, expected to be realized mainly in the medium term.

1
 Programmable Expenditures are spending for which the government has flexibility to decide the program, e.g.
neither debt service nor legally obligated revenue-sharing transfers.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
It was not possible to calculate the net present value or economic rate of return.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
It was not possible to calculate the financial rate of return.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional Development Impact (IDI) is assessed as Substantial. The improvements in the efficiency of
the tax system will improve the country's ability to make use of its productive and financial resources. As
noted earlier, the tax regime under the new legislation will reduce the distortions complexities, and
inequities of the previous system. The TRAL also continued and intensified the dialogue between the
Mexican Government and the Bank on tax administration issues, many of which are being addressed in the
TAIDL (See Annex 8).

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
During 2002 Mexico could not achieve several of the fiscal targets described in the Criterios Generales de
Política Económica del 2002, mostly because the expected economic recovery did not occur. There were
several exogenous factors that affected the economic recovery: i) uncertainty on the economic recovery of
the United States, ii) uncertainty about the possible war in the Middle East, iii) high volatility in the bond


                                                        - 8 -

market as a consequence of accounting irregularities in some major U.S. corporations, iv) economic crisis
in other Latin American countries, and v) the recession suffered throughout 2001. Therefore, it was
difficult to achieve some of the short -run fiscal targets of the TRAL.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
As noted earlier, Mexico maintained fiscal discipline during the TRAL, and revenue collection and
enforcement was being strengthened by the Tax Administration Institutional Development Loan, in which
the Secretary of Finance meets on regular basis with his staff and with Bank representatives on the
development of this project. Also, social sector and infrastructure expenditures and the overall fiscal deficit
did not reach their targets because the Government financed the liquidation of BANRURAL by reallocating
resources and by incurring debt.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
None.

5.4 Costs and financing:
There were no cost changes.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is considered as Likely. The Government which took office in December 2000 is very
strongly committed to a program of Fiscal Reform. The overall program, described in the Letter of
Development Policy, has seven main areas; three involve taxation -Tax Policy, Tax Administration, and
Subnational Finances -- and the four others are important for improving the use of fiscal resources -Fiscal
Discipline and Transparency, Budgetary Reform, Energy Pricing Policy, and Federal Spending Policy. The
description of the overall program can be seen in section 10 of the ICR. The TRAL supports the first phase
in the Tax Policy Area. Also as noted above, progress continues on streamlining tax administration under
the Tax Administration Institutional Development Loan.

The fiscal package was approved by the coalition of congressional members of two of the three major
political parties in Mexico. The position of the other major political party is also similar to that which was
approved, and therefore there is little risk that the new provisions will be reversed.

The Criterios Generales de Política Económica para la Iniciativa de Ley de Ingresos and the Proyecto de
Egresos de la Federación Correspondientes para el Año 2003 (Economic Policy Guidelines for 2003)
state that during 2003 the administration will work on strengthening indirect taxation through broadened
coverage and reduced exemptions, and strengthening direct taxation by reducing exemptions even further.
Also, there is very little risk that the tax reforms would be reversed legislatively, because it was approved
with strong consensus and a coalition by two of the three major parties in Mexico. Therefore, sustainability
is assessed as likely.

Also, as noted in the next section, the Mexican Government has requested from the Bank additional
analytic work to extend the reforms implemented thus far.




                                                       - 9 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The reforms implemented by the TRAL created a momentum to improve the tax administration. The
Mexican Government requested technical assistance in tax administration from the Bank, which has been
provided through the Tax Administration Institutional Development Loan. This US$52 million operation
supports a comprehensive reform of the Tax Administration Service (Servicio de Administración
Tributaria, SAT), encompassing organizational and management strengthening in conjunction with
operational capacity building. It introduces the concept of taxpayer life-cycle process, to integrate all
phases of SAT's relationship with the taxpayer in a service-oriented manner. It would expand the taxpayer
base, strengthen audit and enforcement, and improve taxpayer access to improved SAT services.

The TAIDL aims to achieve its objectives by strengthening accountability within SAT, mostly through the
introduction of measurable organizational and individual performance indicators, relative to newly
determined baselines. It strengthens its external service vision, introduces an internal service approach,
changes its focus from the functional approach to a business-processes vision, and upgrades management
to provide better integration and synergies among functional units.

The Government requested a study on Fiscal Federalism. This paper identifies possible strategies for
revising the fiscal pact, in light of the interests at all levels, including those of the citizens. Among these
strategies it revisits the idea of devolving to the states a 2% tax on final sales on the same base as the
federal VAT, with that VAT rate dropping from 15% to 13% on final sales, which was considered in the
original project. It is possible that this study could lead to a future operation.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance overall is considered to be Satisfactory, and performance in lending is also assessed as
Satisfactory. The fiscal reform program, of which the TRAL is a component, was initiated by the
Government, which had and continues to have a strong commitment to its success. While initial discussions
between the executive branch and Congress of a fiscal reform took place in the late 1990s, it was in
1999-2000 that the Government and Bank staff began to outline what would be a comprehensive fiscal
reform agenda. The Bank team brought in individuals knowledgeable on foreign experience in tax policy
and administration and federalism. As a result, the Bank prepared the study entitled Mexico Country
Economic Memorandum: Challenges and Prospects for Tax Reform, which was shared in draft as a green
cover report with the authorities in spring 2001. The most important reforms suggested in this study were
submitted to Congress in 2001. By the end of the year, the fiscal reform was approved, although, as noted
earlier it did not include all of the reforms in the TRAL's initial proposal. The discussions of the TRAL
began in the fall of 2001, while the Government proposal was being discussed in Congress. The Mexican
Government postponed the TRAL until congressional approval was secured, because the Government
would not commit itself to such a project without this approval.

As mentioned in the quality at entry section, the TRAL addressed two out of five reform areas of the initial
proposal, which were among the most important ones identified in the CEM. The original project, which
was described in the initiating memorandum, envisioned a loan of US$600 million and supported five
reform areas. Based upon the reforms that were approved, fully in two areas and partially in others, it was
decided to reduce the amount of the loan.

As mentioned earlier, the choice of lending instrument was appropriate, and effective project design and its
rapid execution and dissemination contributed strongly to the progress of the Government's program.



                                                         - 10 -

7.2 Supervision:
Supervision is assessed as Satisfactory. The substantial conditions were fulfilled before presenting the
project to the Board. Therefore, there was only one supervision mission which was held at the same time as
one of the Tax Administration Institutional Development Loan supervision missions, and its purpose was to
examine the dissemination strategy. The tranche release came in December 2002, after the Government
implemented some new procedures for financial management of loan processes.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
As described above, the Bank's performance overall was Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Overall borrower performance is considered Satisfactory. As noted earlier, the Borrower and the Bank staff
started to outline a comprehensive fiscal reform agenda in 1999-2000, which was refined throughout 2001.
The Borrower participated fully in analytic work supportive of recommended reforms, with the first
component represented by the TRAL. Borrower commitment was excellent; as the design was worked out,
the Government's technical and practical contribution to the project was substantial, and the project's team
was excellent.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government technical and managerial support for the project was fully satisfactory. Implementation and
dissemination of the reforms was enthusiastic, and officials worked hard at overcoming obstacles.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance of the implementing agency, SHCP, was excellent. Its staff designed an impressive
dissemination strategy of the tax reform, which consisted of publishing and distributing more than
2,000,000 books and brochures in more than 35 institutions throughout the country, in having more than
1,200 presentations and workshops, and by publishing the information through a web site, which included a
chat room to discuss fiscal issues.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall borrower performance was Satisfactory due to (a) the Government's strong commitment to reform
objectives; and (b) an excellent performance of its implementing agency.

8. Lessons Learned

l In operations where approval of reforms is uncertain, it is preferable to wait until they are
    approved and then make the approved measures part of conditionality. In some of the structural
    adjustment loans, the submission of a law that incorporates the reforms is a satisfactory condition for
    approval of it or for tranche disbursement. The TRAL could have been submitted for Board approval
    in its original form, but the Bank and the Mexican Government decided to wait until the reforms were
    approved by Congress. Based upon the reforms that were approved, it was decided to lower the amount
    of the loan. However, if the actions prior to the Board presentation and first tranche disbursement had
    been only the submission of the laws, with a second tranche after the approval of these reforms, the
    project would have been less successful because not all the reforms in the five areas of the initial
    proposal were approved. Therefore, in operations where the approval of reforms is risky, it is better to
    wait until they are approved and have them as a loan conditionality.
l Fiscal data estimates need to be treated with caution. Mexican fiscal estimates -the only sources for




                                                     - 11 -

    most data- have a tendency to be optimistic, so for future World Bank operations these data needs to be
    treated with caution and analysis based on them should be adjusted.
l Congress needs to be involved right from the beginning in any reform program that requires its
    approval. In Mexico, the executive sent the fiscal reform package to Congress with minimal prior
    discussion. As a result, consideration of the reform took more than 7 months, and finally the initial
    reform proposal submitted to Congress was changed substantially. Therefore, before the submission of
    any reform to Congress, the reforms should be discussed with the different political fractions to build a
    consensus and facilitate approval.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
   SHCP comments:

        "The work carried out as part of the Tax Reform Adjustment Loan 2002, which was granted to the
        Mexican Government, enabled the implementation of a series of modifications in the fiscal area,
        mainly to the income tax, in order to strengthen the tributary system. Such changes were oriented
        to correct problems that reduced the revenue potential as well as the tax administration's capacity
        to detect and eliminate fiscal evasion conducts, amongst them are the following: i) the modification
        of the special cash-flow regime, through which the income tax is paid regardless of whether the
        individual or the corporation in the primary or road transport sector withdraws or not the financial
        resources from the enterprise; ii) a more simple inflation adjustment regime; iii) the unification of
        the corporate and maximum personal tax rates at 35 percent, and the gradual reduction of this rate
        to 32 percent by 2005; iv) a cash flow regime for individuals with entrepreneurial activities; v) a
        reduction in the number of brackets in the personal rates, to five by 2005; and vi) the globalization
        of the personal income through the mandatory accumulation of dividends, real interests, etc..

        "The revenue results derived from most of the enhancements that were incorporated, will be more
        clearly perceived in the medium term. Likewise, the eventual growth of fiscal revenues will surely
        help to strengthen even more the Mexican tax system.

        "Undoubtedly, this measures will need to be complemented in the future by reforms to the direct
        and indirect taxes. At the same time, the permanent revision and redesign of the Mexican tributary
        system will continue to be a priority. Nevertheless, as always, the technical aid that the World
        Bank has traditionally provided to Mexico will keep on being a key asset in the success of any
        reform implemented.

        "On the other hand, the Tax Reform Adjustment Loan 2002 has yielded satisfactory results in all
        of its objectives. However, given that most of the targets focused primarily on the income taxes,
        Mexico still needs to work in broadening the VAT base. Because of this, the next challenge will
        consist on working with a new Congress and continue with the efforts to make possible the VAT
        reform that has been planned."

(b) Cofinanciers:
None.


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None.




                                                     - 12 -

10. Additional Information

The Mexican Government described the country's fiscal reform program in the letter of development policy.
The TRAL supports the first component of the program, and the Tax Administration Institutional
Development Loan supports the its second component. The following table summarizes the reforms taken
prior to Board presentation and planned for the future.

                                  Mexico's Fiscal Reform Program
Program Area       Actions prior to Board Presentation              Planned Future Agenda
Tax Policy         Corporate income tax: reduced sectoral           Strengthen indirect taxation,
                   distortions, simplified the rules for the        through broadened coverage and
                   inflation adjustment to valuation of nominal     reduced exemptions.
                   assets and liabilities, gave an investment
                   incentive for areas outside the largest cities
                   and for firms using eco-friendly technology,
                   limited deductions for payment of fringe
                   benefits, unified the corporate tax rate and
                   gradually reduced it.
                   Personal income tax: included more asset
                   income as taxable, aggregated all taxable in
                   come of an individual, reduced the number of
                   tax bracket, ended the government subsidy for
                   workers' salaries, simplified the regimes for
                   small tax payers.

                   All of these actions are supported by the
                   TRAL.
Policies outside
the area
supported by the
proposed
operation:
Tax                Launched Tax Administration Institutional        Implement the reforms supported
Administration     Development Project (supported with a $52 m.     by the Tax Administration
                   loan): improving taxpayer service through        Institutional Development Project.
                   training, customer communication, and            These are expected to yield
                   electronic means; improving the quality of       additional revenue, reduce
                   human and physical resources in SAT and          corruption, and make the tax
                   organizing them with an Integrated Resource      system fairer in its application and
                   Management System; improving the quality,        appearance.
                   organization and accessibility of databases;
                   organizing better the taxpayer registry,
                   collection, auditing and enforcement processes;
                   improving strategic planning and the
                   coordination between the various management
                   units of SAT.
Subnational        Eliminated discretionary transfers by the       Strengthen subnational taxation
Finances           Federal Government to states.                   capacity, including devolving to
                   Eliminated effective federal guaranteed for     states on a permanent basis the taxes


                                                    - 13 -

                  subnational debt and implemented                on final sales and on income of small
                  financial-sector regulations, so that           taxpayers.
                  creditworthiness would have important effects Improve allocation of federal
                  on accessibility and cost of loans.             transfers to states and municipalities
                  Made transparency of subnational finances a     for revenue sharing and for social
                  condition for cost-effective borrowing by       sector spending.
                  states and municipalities.
                  (Decentralization Adjustment Loan, $600m,
                  approved December 1999, supported these
                  reforms.)
                  The Revenue Law for 2002 gave to states the
                  power in that year to levy a tax of up to 3
                  percent on final sales and a tax up to 2 percent
                  on the gross income of individuals with small
                  entrepreneurial activity.
Fiscal Discipline Followed budget implementation practices that    Codify conservative fiscal
and Transparency make expenditure adjust for any revenue           practices into a permanent law.
                  shortfalls during the year (preventing any
                  unforeseen expansion of the deficit) and use
                  any positive revenue windfalls to reduce the
                  deficit, build reserves, and finance
                  infrastructure investment.
                  Increased the detail and regularity of its
                  published fiscal accounts and financial
                  balances. This was codified in the Programa
                  Nacional de Financiamiento del Desarrollo
                  (PRONAFIDE) that was issued in May, 2001,
                  prior to Board approval, although after the loan
                  document was finalized.
Budgetary Reform                                                   Improve rules for the timing of the
                                                                   budget process, for the eventuality
                                                                   that the approval of the budget is
                                                                   delayed beyond the start of the
                                                                   year, and for adjusting the budget
                                                                   during the year.
Energy Policy    Reduced electricity subsidy in February 2002      Rationalize pricing and tax and
                 and consequently increased tariffs for households incentive structure for public
                 with more than minimal consumption levels.        entities in electricity and
                                                                   petroleum sectors;
                                                                   Expand options for private-sector
                                                                   participation.
Public Spending   Approved a budget to sustain spending for        Increase the progressivity of the
                  education, health, social safety nets and        overall public sector by increasing
                  investment in economic infrastructure (roads     the amount, efficiency and equity
                  and electricity).                                of public spending:
                  Expanded the Oportunidades program               Strengthen anti-poverty programs,
                  (previously known as Progresa) to include a      especially in urban areas.
                  pilot program for an improved social safety net  Make the allocation of resources



                                                   - 14 -

 for the urban poor, which the government     for education and health sectors
 intends to expand. (A major loan from the    more equitable per capita and
 IDB, approved in December 2001 supports      improve local accountability.
 this.)                                       Expand spending for both
Introduced a regional anti-poverty program (  investment and maintenance for
Contigo) that integrates exiting programs,    highway and road infrastructure.
customizes them for local needs and lays the
basis for subsequent expansion.




                                 - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                    1
                Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
Condition No. 1 - The approved budget for       None of the indicators in the first column   The 2002 approved budget of which SHCP
2002 has an overall fiscal deficit of no more   were changed.                                provided a copy to the Bank had an overall
than 0.65 percent of GDP.                                                                    deficit of no more than 0.65 percent of GDP.

Condition No. 2 - The approved budget for                                                    The 2002 approved budget met these
2002 increases programmable spending for                                                     conditions. Changing fiscal pressures during
education, health, social safety nets, and                                                   the year, however, caused social spending in
investments in roads and electricity by at                                                   executed budget to fall short of the initial
least 0.8 percentage points of GDP,                                                          targets.
compared to that of 2001.

Condition No. 3 - The new Income Tax Lax:       The fiscal benefit of these measures will    CONDITION WAS FULLY MET. Congress
i) Eliminates the special cash-flow regime for come in the medium term as the reduced tax approved a new income tax law that met all of
calculating income for the agriculture and      distortions contribute to higher sustainable the conditions, and a copy of it to the Bank
road transports sectors.                        growth of the private sector. And, the       was provided by SHCP.
ii) Simplifies the inflation adjustment regime, eventual growth of fiscal resources will
just using the annual price index to calculate contribute to debt reduction.                 Annex 3 shows some simulations on how
real change in monetary assets and liabilities.                                              successful the project has been in reducing
iii) Eliminates the reduced tax rate for                                                     the distortions of the tax system.
retained earnings, thus unifying the corporate
and maximum personal tax rates at 35                                                         According to SHCP, income tax revenues
percent, and reduces the rate gradually to 32                                                have increase 0.12 percent of GDP, while it
percent by 2005.                                                                             was projected to increase 0.9 percent
iv) Limits the corporatate deductions for                                                    of GDP.
payment of fringe benefits to non-union
workers.
v)Phases out the reduced tax rate for the
publishing industry, bringing the rate there up
to the standard rate by 2006.
vi) Aggregates all the taxable income of an
individual and taxes it at the corresponding
progressive rate.
vii) Simplifies the structure of rates, reducing
the number to five by 2005.
viii) Reduces the government subsidy
(crédito al salario) for workers in the formal
sector and provides incentives for firms to
continue paying it.
ix) Simplifies the tax regime for individuals
with entrepreneurial activity.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                    1
                Indicator/Matrix                            Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate




1 End of project




                                                                   - 16 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                     Component                            US$ million   US$ million
First tranche                                              303.04         303.04              100


Total Baseline Cost                                        303.04         303.04
                        Total Project Costs                303.04         303.04
                  Total Financing Required                 303.04         303.04


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                          0.00              0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)




                                                - 17 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
        Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   2. Goods                                 0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
       Total                                0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
First Tranche                  303.04        0.00         0.00       303.04        0.00       0.00       100.0     0.0       0.0




                                                           - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The expected benefits of the operation are more growth due to reduction of distortions in the tax system,
enhanced macroeconomic stability, more equity in the personal income tax code, and more tax resources to
finance social programs. The reforms supported by the loan were expected to bring an additional 0.9
percent of GDP in 2002. However, according to the Quarterly Report on Public Finances and Public Debt
for the fourth quarter of 2002 published by SHCP, income tax revenue increased only about 0.12 percent
of GDP, below projections because growth was also below projections. Also, social sector and
infrastructure expenditure did not reach its target, it only increased 0.18 percent of GDP, whereas it was
projected to increase 0.8 percent of GDP.


Revenue did not reach its target mainly as a consequence of slow economic activity during 2002 and some
additional fiscal benefits in the income tax code. Economic activity in the last quarter of 2001 and
throughout 2002 was smaller than the one considered in the Criterios Generales de Política Económica
para el 2002, having a negative effect on personal income tax withholdings. Also, throughout 2001 many
firms paid their estimated tax obligations, based on the profits registered in 2000, a year in which the
economic activity grew at a 6.9 percent in real terms. But when they submitted their 2001 tax forms, the
firms adjusted their tax obligations according to the actual profits in 2001, a year in which the economic
activity grew at a 0.3 percent growth in real terms. As a result, many firms requested a tax credit during
2002. Also, revenues were affected by some problems in the new law as well as in its implementation.
Congress incorporated the following fiscal benefits in the income tax law:

l An exemption of 20 minimum wages for each shareholder in the cash-flow regime. The problem with
    this exemption is that the law did not limit the number of shareholders, therefore, every shareholder
    could be deducted from the income tax. In December 2002, SHCP fixed this problem by limiting a
    maximum deduction of 200 minimum wages for each firm. (The original law modified the two sectoral
    cash-flow regimes so that retained earnings were no longer exempt.)

l The elimination of the 5 percent withholding of the income tax on dividends. The problem is that
    taxpayers now can evade this tax.

l An income tax credit of 25 percent of the excise taxes paid for diesel fuel and of 50 percent of the tolls
    on roads paid by the transport sector.

l An income tax credit for land used for agriculture activities.

l An increase of the fiscal subsidy, because the new law now excludes from the subsidy calculation the
    payments to IMSS, INFONAVIT and ISSSTE.

l An income tax exemption of two minimum wages for authors' rights.

l An income tax exemption for public workers' gratifications. The previous law allowed only an income
    tax exemption on gratifications that were given on a monthly basis; with the new law it was expanded
    to the gratifications that were received in different periods of time.


Although the program did not reach the TRAL's short-run fiscal targets, the main outcome of the project
was to reduce the distortions in the tax system. The following note estimates the reduction of distortions. It
was written originally as a background paper for the TRAL and the gray cover of the CEM, and they
updated with the actual policy outcomes.




                                                      - 19 -

                  Efficiency Effects from Reforms to the Mexican Corporate Income Tax



1.       Economic neutrality, that is, the minimization of economic distortions in the allocation of economic
resources, is generally accepted as a fundamental criterion in the evaluation of tax systems. In the case of
the corporate income tax, excess tax burdens arise because not all types of investments are treated equally.
Often, the tax treatment of investments differs by type of economic sector, by type of asset, or by the
source of financing funds. These differential tax treatments lead enterprises to invest too much on those
economic sectors or types of assets that receive privileged treatment and too little elsewhere. The overall
result is an inefficient allocation of resources in the economy, which leads to lower national product and,
over time, to lower rates of economic growth.

2.       A different, but also important, consideration is whether the corporate income tax offers a
competitive tax environment to foreign direct investment. Foreign investors generally have several choices
of countries where to invest. Although there are many determinants of foreign direct investment, other
things equal, the tax treatment of foreign capital has been consistently found to be a significant factor in the
investment decisions of multinational corporations. Foreign direct investment, of course, is important
because it contributes to capital accumulation, the import of know-how and new technologies, which lead
to increase in productivity and economic growth.

3.       The reform of the corporate income tax and the taxation of capital in general should strive to: (a)
increase the efficiency of the tax system by minimizing distortions and providing for a more level playing
field, and (b) to maintain a favorable environment for foreign direct investment. The goal of this annex is
to research the extent to which the package of reforms to the corporate income tax enhances the economic
neutrality of Mexico's tax system and keeps Mexico competitive vis-à-vis foreign investors.

4.       A salient feature of Mexico's previous corporate income tax was the important role played by the
special treatment of particular sectors and sources of incomes, such as the special treatment received by the
agriculture and transport sectors. The case for the elimination of these special treatments is based not only
on the distortions in the allocation of resources or excess tax burdens created, but also on increased
administration complexity and opportunities for tax evasion thus created, These arise form the
opportunities to misuse the 50 percent tax reductions for the agricultural, livestock, fisheries and forestry
sectors. Similarly, the cash flow system for agriculture and trucking is much more generous than the
general regime, creating opportunities and incentives for evasion, especially in the trucking industry. and on
the costs imposed on taxpayers as a whole. The revenues lost due to these special treatments need to be
made up with higher taxes in other activities or sectors in the economy. These additional taxes in turn can
be the source of additional distortions in the allocation of economic resources and add to horizontal and
vertical inequities in the distribution of tax burdens.

5.       In order to compare the efficiency losses induced by the corporate income tax and the tax treatment
of financial incomes obtained by investors (domestic and foreign), this annex estimates marginal effective
tax rates (METRs) under the previous tax regime and the new one. The METR approach looks at the
impact of taxes on marginal or incremental decisions by businesses. The METRs estimate is the level of
tax arising for a firm when it decides to invest one more unit of capital. The difference between the gross
(before taxes) rate of return and the net (after taxes) rate of return is the tax wedge. The METR is
expressed in percent terms as the ratio of the tax wedge to the gross (before taxes) rate of return. When the
METRs are positive, they reflect that investment activities are discouraged, and the more so the higher the



                                                       - 20 -

rate. Negative METRs are also possible. In this case, the economic activity in question is being
encouraged through a subsidy. Taxes on capital income, more importantly the CIT, can affect not only the
level of investment but also its composition. Differences in METRs, therefore, lead to distortions in the
allocation of resources, and as pointed out above, they reduce potential output and ultimately slow down
economic growth.

6.       More concretely, the marginal effective tax rate (METR) analysis provided in this annex has two
focuses. First, we ask the question of whether the changes in the corporate income tax and the tax
treatment of capital reduce the cross-sector tax distortions that existed under the previous tax system. For
this purpose, a METR comparison between the previous tax structure and the new one is presented.
Second, we examine Mexico's tax competitiveness vis-à-vis four other Latin American countries in
attracting foreign investment, mainly those from the US. The international comparison builds on Bird and
Chen 2000. The four other Latin American countries include Argentina, Brazil, Chile and Peru.

7.       For the analysis focusing on the domestic cross-sector tax distortion, METR simulations are
conducted for a broad range of industries including agriculture, manufacturing, construction, transportation
and storage, communication, public utility, wholesale trade, retail trade and the other services sector. The
simulations also reveal the impact of elimination of preferential treatments for primary sectors and changes
in taxing small- to medium-sized owner-operated firms. Under the Mexican tax regime, firms are taxed
differently according to the nature of business, the size and the location of the firm.

8.       For the analysis focusing on the cross-border tax competitiveness, the METR simulations cover
only the manufacturing and service sectors, because these are the main destination of foreign direct
investment. Assuming that multinational firms in these sectors are generally large and located in major
industrial areas, these simulations do not include any special tax treatment for small to medium taxpayers
or any tax provisions for underdeveloped regions.

9.       Because debt-financed investments and equity-financed investments are treated differently in the
tax laws, generally the METRs results are sensitive to the assumptions made about the financial structure
of investments. The financing structure for all simulations, unless otherwise noted, will be assumed to be a
combination of 40 percent debt and 60 percent equity.

I. A comparison of marginal effective tax rates on domestic capital investment under the previous
and the new tax regimes

10.      The changes in the taxation of capital income focus on improving both the efficiency and simplicity
of Mexico's tax system. The most important reforms, which are incorporated into our METRs
calculations, include the following:

·        The 5-percentage point deferral (for profit distribution) in corporate income tax collection is
eliminated.
·        The withholding tax on dividends and the gross-up taxing scheme are eliminated.
·        The preferential cash-flow tax regime for primary sectors (mainly agriculture and ground
transportation) are eliminated.
·        The mandatory sharing of total profits with employees at a minimum of 10 percent, which is not
deductible under the previous system, will be deductible for CIT purposes (This reform was proposed in
2001 and enacted, but would take effect in 2002 only if GDP growth would exceed 3 percent. This
provision affects more the overall level of METRs, rather than their variability across sectors).
·        The progressive scheme of presumptive tax applied to small owner-operated taxpayers will be


                                                     - 21 -

simplified to a single rate of 1%. In the meantime, the maximum revenue for defining small taxpayers will
be reduced to 1 million pesos of annual gross income.
·         A new category of corporate taxpayers would be identified as medium owner-operated taxpayer,
with up to 4 million pesos of annual gross income. The cash-flow regime previously applied to the primary
sector would be applied to this category of taxpayers.
·         The states will be given new authority in taxing small to medium owner-operated taxpayers. More
specifically, the state governments will be allowed to levy a surtax of up to 5 percent on the CIT payable
by the medium owner-operated taxpayers.
·         Finally, there are two major changes in personal income taxes (PIT) on financial investment that
would affect our estimate of integrated METR on capital investment. First, the 24 percent withholding tax
on interest income, which acts as a final tax under the previous system, will become a true withholding part
of a global PIT, where interest income is added to all other types of income to compute the taxpayer's final
liability. Thus, under the new regime, interest income will be taxed as regular income and subject to the
progressive PIT rate structure (3% to 35%). Second, under the previous system, gains from selling
publicly traded stocks are exempted. In the new scheme, this exemption will be eliminated. For our METR
simulation, a 35 percent PIT rate will be used for capital gains and for the interest income under the new
tax system. This estimate is based on the assumption that most but not all of the financial investments are
made by high-income people.

11.       Our METR simulations for domestic capital investment start with the general corporate METR.
The goal is to illustrate the impact of changes at the firm's level (Tables A1, A2A and A2B). Then we
present a simulation for integrated METR that combines taxes on capital at both firm level and personal
level (Tables A3A and A3B).

1.        A general comparison by industry: the previous vs. the new tax structures

12.       The computed general corporate METRs on domestic capital investment are presented in Table
A1. These computations exclude the small to medium owner-operated firms. The simulations for the
previous tax structure take into account the cash-flow tax regime for the primary sectors, mainly
agriculture, and for the ground transportation sector. In contrast, the simulations for the new tax regime
eliminate the cash-flow provision for these sectors and the 50 percent reduction in the CIT rate for
publishing. Furthermore, as mentioned above, with the elimination of the CIT deferral for dividends
distribution, corporate taxpayers have to pay the standard CIT rate of 35 percent regardless of their
decision on the distribution of profits. In contrast, under the previous system, the actual CIT rate might be
well below 35 percent as long as there was no full distribution. Assuming that the average rate for profit
distribution is 40%, a 32% (=30%+5% x 40%) CIT rate is used in our simulation for the previous system.
Of course, the actual CIT rate may differ across taxpayers depending on the distribution portion.
However, due to the disallowance for the mandatory employee profit sharing (which we assumed to be at
the minimum 10 percent), the effective CIT rate on taxable income net of profit shared with employees
could have been higher than 35 percent in the previous regime. Therefore, the CIT rate used for simulating
the previous system is slightly higher (35.6 percent) Refer to footnote 4. By applying 32% CIT on the
taxable income net of the 10% profit shared with the employees, which is not deductible for tax purpose
under the previous regime, the effective CIT rate is 35.6% (=32%/(1-10%)). than that used for the new
system (35 percent).

13.       Three important conclusions are derived form the results in Table A1.

·         First, the METRs are generally lower under the new tax system than under the previous system.
The only exceptions are for the agricultural and transportation industries. The general result is mainly due


                                                      - 22 -

to the new deduction allowance for the mandatory employee profit sharing. But notice that the reduction in
the METRs is not significant for most industries. This is because the elimination of the CIT deferral for
dividends distribution is partly offset by the impact of allowance for profit shared by employees.

·        Under the new tax regime, the METR is somewhat higher for agriculture and significantly higher
for the transportation industry, compared to the previous regime. This is mainly a result of elimination of
cash-flow regime for both industries. It is also noteworthy that METR for the transportation industry
under the previous system is negative, which implies a tax subsidy for this industry. This is mainly
because depreciable assets such as buildings, machinery and equipment (e.g. motor vehicles) account for
almost 90 percent of the total capital invested in the transportation industry. Under the cash-flow regime,
depreciable assets can be fully written off before calculating any income tax, which, combined with other
tax allowance (e.g. interest deduction), may entail a total write off for the transportation industry well
above 100 percent of income generated from capital investment for a long period.

·        Third, the most important result is that the inter-sector tax distortion, as measured by the
inter-sector METR dispersion, will be significantly reduced under the new tax structure. This is the result
of the elimination of preferential treatment for particulars sectors ( the cash-flow regime favoring on lye the
primary sectors, such as agriculture, and the ground-transport sector).

14.      In summary, the METRs are generally lower under the new tax system than under the previous
system, and the dispersion of METRs is also smaller under the new system. Therefore, the changes in the
tax laws seem to be successful in reducing distortions and therefore in increasing efficiency in the allocation
of resources and the prospects for growth in the Mexican economy.

         2. A more detailed comparison across industries by type of assets

15.      The computations for the METRs by economic sector can hide significant differences in the tax
treatment of different types of assets within each sector. Tables A2A and A2B provides corporate METR
simulation by industry and by asset type. These two tables are simply the extension of Table A1 with
detailed breakdown. There are also three major conclusions arising from tables A2A and A2B.

·        First, on average, machinery is the lowest taxed asset, followed by buildings, while land is the
highest taxed asset, followed by inventory. This is mainly because the tax law entitles enterprises to a
general tax depreciation allowance for machinery that surpasses its economic depreciation rate. In
contrast, land, as a non-depreciable asset, incurs financing cost indefinitely and is subject to both property
transfer tax and property tax. It should be also noted that, the tax adjustment for inflation may benefit
investment in depreciable assets more than investment on non-depreciable ones. There are two offsetting
effects. First, due to the inflation adjustment, only real interest cost rather than nominal interest cost is
deductible for the income tax purpose. This makes the interest deduction less generous, which may affect
non-depreciable assets more than depreciable assets. Second, the ability to recognize the inflationary
impact on the value of depreciable assets implies a more generous tax depreciation allowance than that
without the inflation adjustment. Overall, the investment in depreciable assets may gain more tax benefits
than investment in non-depreciable assets.

·        Second, while METRs for non-depreciable assets (inventory and land) are the same across
industries, METRs for depreciable assets (buildings and machinery) vary significantly across industries.
This is because the only non-tax cost for non-depreciable assets is the financing cost, and the tax wedge
between the before- and the after-tax financing cost of capital is the same across industries. For
depreciable assets, there is an additional non-tax cost, i.e. economic depreciation cost. This economic


                                                      - 23 -

depreciation cost (and the tax depreciation allowance) varies by industry. As a result, the tax wedge
between the before- and the after-tax cost of capital for depreciable assets varies by industry.

·       Third, METRs for all types of assets would be generally lower in the new system compared to the
previous one. The exceptions are the agricultural and transportation industries. This observation is
consistent with the conclusions reached from Table A1, where entire industries, without a breakdown by
type of asset, are compared.

15.     In summary, although the differential treatment of different types of assets within industries will
remain under the new tax system, the METRs for all types of assets would be generally lower in the new
system compared to the previous one. This, combined with the elimination of the cash-flow regime
favoring the primary sectors, should also help reduce distortions in investment decisions and improve
efficiency in the allocation of resources.




        3. The impact of financing structure

16.     Debt-financed and equity financed investments are not treated the same by the tax laws. The
impacts of varying financing structure on METRs are illustrated in Tables A3A and A3B. The METRs in
these two tables integrate taxes on capital payable at both the corporate and the personal level. As
mentioned above, the tax deductibility of borrowing costs may benefit firms with higher levels of
borrowing. However, this imbalance in the tax treatment of debt and equity financing may be alleviated by
properly taxing interest income at the personal level. As Table A3A shows, under the previous tax system,
the gap in METR between pure debt financing (at 100 percent debt) and pure equity financing (at 100
percent equity) is about 12 percentage points (19 percent versus 31 percent). In contrast, as shown in
Table A3B, the existing imbalance in taxing debt financing and equity financing will be largely eliminated
under the new tax system. This is mainly because interest income under the previous tax system is taxed at
24 percent, which is much lower than the PIT rate (up to 40 percent) applicable to high-income taxpayers.
Under the new tax system, the interest income will be taxed as regular income and subject to a much higher
PIT rate (up to 40%) for high-income taxpayers.

17.     In summary, the distortions in investment decisions under the previous tax regime associated with
the different tax treatment of interest and equity income are largely eliminated under the new tax regime.
This again should contribute significantly to improving efficiency in the allocation of resources and
investment decisions by investors, leading to better prospects for growth in the Mexican economy.



II. Marginal effective tax rates on foreign capital investment. Will Mexico remain internationally
competitive?

18.     An important question on the tax reform is how it would affect Mexico's competitiveness to attract
foreign direct investment, in particular from the USA. To examine this question we simulate METRs for
foreign capital investment in Mexico and four other Latin American countries, including Argentina, Brazil,
Chile and Peru. Each of these countries, of course, has its different tax system. Table A4 provides a
summarized comparison in statutory tax provisions in the five countries (including Mexico) that may affect
foreign capital investment. It should be noticed that the information provided in the table has incorporated
the tax changes in Mexico as well as planned changes in Chile and Peru. For example, Chile started
lowering its import duty since 1999 by 1 percentage point per year. As a result, its import duty will be


                                                      - 24 -

lowered to 6% in 2003 from 11% in 1998. In the case of Peru, the CIT is 30% A lower rate of 20% is
applicable to profits reinvested in domestic productive activities. and will be lowered to 20% in 2002.

19.      As Table A4 shows, Mexico's CIT rate is the same as that in Argentina and higher than the rate of
the rest of the countries in the sample. However, Mexico does not impose any gross receipts tax, as is the
case in Argentina and Brazil. Furthermore, Mexico is more generous in the tax allowance for building
depreciation than Argentina and Brazil. Mexico also appears to have the lowest property tax rate
compared to other countries. In addition, Mexico, along with Argentina, exempts new capital goods from
import duty. Finally, with NAFTA, Mexico has no import duty on any production input imported from the
US and Canada. Actually, the liberalization of tariffs started in 1994 and will not be completed until 2009.
There are some items which will never be fully liberalized. It is interesting to note that Chile has the
lowest CIT rate among the sample countries and is the only country that does not impose any tax on
property transfers. However, Chile is also the only country that collects withholding tax on dividends
distributed to US residents. Another noteworthy is Peru's on-going reforms. As mentioned, the CIT rate in
Peru will be lowered to 20 percent in 2002 and hence become the second lowest among the five countries.
The most burdensome tax system appears to be in Argentina and Brazil, which is featured by the relatively
high CIT rate, the rather high gross-receipts tax, the least generous tax depreciation allowance, and the
relatively high property taxes.

20.      Due to the lack of data, we are forced to make several assumptions for our cross-country METR
calculations. First, except for Chile where property tax is levied by the central government at a standard
rate, the maximum property tax rate shown in Table A4 is used for our calculation. In the case of Brazil,
there is no estimate available for maximum or average property tax rate; an arbitrary rate of 1.5% is used
for our calculations. Second, import duty often varies across commodities; there is no estimate of precise
rate for any countries. Therefore, a 50% of the upper end rate shown in Table A4 is used for all countries
but Brazil. The rate is applied to machinery and equipment as well as inventory assuming that only half of
capital and materials (inventory) inputs for carrying out any business are imported. In the case of Brazil,
again an arbitrary rate of 5.5% is used for our calculation.

21.      Tables A5A and A5B provide our estimates of marginal effective tax rate for foreign capital
investment made by US multinationals in manufacturing and services sectors, respectively. To break up
the impact of different taxes and to eliminate possible errors caused by the assumptions made above, the
figures presented in these two tables are divided into three panels. Panel A includes all the major taxes
summarized in Table A4. Panel B excludes property taxes, for which there is no precise estimate except
that for Chile. Panel C excludes both property tax and import duty for all countries so to focus on the
impact of corporate income tax system on foreign capital investment. As a reference, the US domestic
METR has been added to the table. It should be noted that there is never an estimate for the average
property tax in US since it is a local tax that varies by location. Therefore, the US domestic METR is not
available for Panel A. We also assume that there is no import duty on any imported inputs for production
in the US. As a result, the US METR is the same in Panel B and C.

22.      As Tables A5A and A5B show, when all the taxes are included (Panel A), Mexico appears to
provide the most tax advantageous environment to US investors. This is mainly a combination of its
relatively generous CIT regime (i.e. more generous depreciation allowance and no gross-receipts tax)
compared to Argentina and Brazil, plus the lowest property tax among all the countries in the sample, plus
the zero import duty within NAFTA.

23.      By excluding property tax (Panel B), METRs on buildings and land drop more significantly in all
the other four countries by comparison to Mexico. This is because the property tax in Mexico appears to


                                                      - 25 -

be the lowest among all countries. As a result, the aggregated METR in Mexico would rise to the second
from the bottom among the five countries. It is noteworthy that the impact of excluding property taxes is
more significant for the service sector than for the manufacturing sector. This is because buildings and
land, to which the property tax is applicable, account for a much bigger share of the capital invested in the
service sector than in the manufacturing sector (79 percent versus 26 percent).

24.      By excluding both property tax and import duty (Panel C), the competitiveness of Chile and Peru is
significantly enhanced. This is mainly the result from their rather low CIT rate. It is also noteworthy that
the reduction in aggregate METRs would be more significant in the manufacturing sector than that in the
service sector. This is because the import duty affects mainly investment in machinery and inventory,
which account for a higher share of capital in the manufacturing than in the service sector (74 percent
versus 21 percent).




III. Conclusion

25.      In summary, the changes in Mexican tax system will significantly reduce the inter-sector tax
distortion for domestic firms. The existing imbalance between taxing debt financing and equity financing
will also be largely eliminated.

26.      For foreign investors, particularly multinational firms from the US, the new tax changes in Mexico
do not seem to weaken its tax competitiveness vis-à-vis four other major Latin America countries.




                                                     - 26 -

                                       Table A1
        Effective Corporate Tax Rate on the Domestic Capital Investment
                 For General Tax Regime, the previous vs. the new
                       With 40% debt and 60% equity financing
                                                                    Difference
                                Previous             New           (In % points)
Agriculture*                        8.8              10.4              1.6
Manufacturing                      20.1              18.0              -2.1
Construction                       22.8              21.0              -1.8
Transportation*                    -8.9              13.2              22.0
Communications                     16.7              15.1              -1.7
Public Utility                     19.7              17.8              -1.9
Wholesale Trade                    21.9              19.8              -2.1
Retail Trade                       22.9              20.8              -2.1
Other Services                     22.4              20.8              -1.7
Inter-sector dispersion             5.5              2.4               -3.1
* Entitled to the cash-flow tax within the previous tax structure.
 Entitled to the 50% of CIT rate within both the previous and the new tax structures.




                                               - 27 -

                                        Table A2A
                   METR Simulation by Industry and by Asset Type
       On domestic capital investment under the previous general tax regime
                         With 40% debt and 60% equity financing


                          Buildings     Machinery      Inventory   Land Aggregate
Agriculture*                 6.6            -9.0           10.4    19.6        8.8
Manufacturing                19.8          16.7            22.8    30.0       20.1
Construction                 24.0           -3.4           22.8    30.0       22.8
Transportation*              -2.1          -19.7           22.8    30.0        -8.9
Communications               20.0           3.6            22.8    30.0       16.7
Public Utility               17.9          21.0            22.8    30.0       19.7
Wholesale Trade              18.9          17.6            22.8    30.0       21.9
Retail Trade                 19.5          23.8            22.8    30.0       22.9
Other Services               18.9          25.8            22.8    30.0       22.4
Simple Average               15.9           8.5            21.5    28.9       16.3




                                        Table A2B
                   METR Simulation by Industry and by Asset Type
         On domestic capital investment under the new general tax regime
                         With 40% debt and 60% equity financing


                          Buildings     Machinery      Inventory   Land Aggregate
Agriculture                  16.2           -4.8           9.3     19.3       10.4
Manufacturing                18.3          14.2            20.6    19.3       18.0
Construction                 22.7           -6.0           20.6    19.3       21.0
Transportation               17.2          10.4            20.6    19.3       13.2
Communications               11.2           1.0            20.6    19.3       15.1
Public Utility               16.3          18.7            20.6    19.3       17.8
Wholesale Trade              17.3          15.2            20.6    19.3       19.8
Retail Trade                 18.0          21.6            20.6    19.3       20.8
Other Services               17.3          23.6            20.6    19.3       20.8
Simple Average               18.0          10.4            19.4    19.3       17.4


* Entitled to the cash-flow tax within the previous tax structure.
 Entitled to the 50% of CIT rate within both the previous and the new tax structures.




                                               - 28 -

                                      Table A3A
          Estimate of Integrated METR for Various Financing Structure
On domestic capital investment under the previous general tax regime


                         100% debt      40% equity      60% equity    100% equity
Agriculture*                 22.6           20.8             19.8          17.9
Manufacturing                21.4           27.2             29.8          34.5
Construction                 24.2           29.7             32.2          36.6
Transportation*              -7.0            0.8             4.3           10.6
Communications               18.3           24.2             26.8          31.6
Public Utility               21.1           26.8             29.4          34.1
Wholesale Trade              23.1           28.8             31.3          35.9
Retail Trade                 24.1           29.7             32.2          36.7
Other Services               23.9           29.4             31.8          36.3
Simple average               19.1           24.2             26.4          30.5


                                      Table A3B
          Estimate of Integrated METR for Various Financing Structure
        On domestic capital investment under the new general tax regime
                         100% debt      40% equity      60% equity    100% equity
Agriculture                  40.5           34.2             30.6          21.9
Manufacturing                38.0           37.0             36.4          35.3
Construction                 40.3           39.3             38.8          37.7
Transportation               34.3           33.2             32.7          31.5
Communications               35.7           34.7             34.1          33.0
Public Utility               37.8           36.8             36.3          35.2
Wholesale Trade              39.3           38.3             37.8          36.7
Retail Trade                 40.1           39.1             38.6          37.5
Other Services               40.0           39.1             38.6          37.5
Simple average               38.5           36.8             36.0          34.0


* Entitled to the cash-flow tax within the previous tax structure.
 Entitled to the 50% of CIT rate within both the previous and the new tax structures.




                                               - 29 -

                                                  Table A4
                                        Business Tax Provisions
           Applicable to Large Firms in Manufacturing and Service Industries


                               Argentina           Brazil      Chile                    Mexico1             Peru

1. Capital Taxes

Corporate income tax                   35               34             15                     35       20 (2002)

  Gross-receipts tax                  1-5             2.65          None                   None             None

  Assets-based tax2                   1.0           None        0.25 - 0.5                   1.8            None

 Thin capitalization rule            Yes            None            None                   None             None

 Tax depreciation rate3

     Buildings                    2.0 SL           4.0 SL          7.5 SL                 5.0 SL     3.0/10.0 SL4

     Machinery                     10 SL           10 SL         15.2 SL                  10 SL          10.0 SL

  Inventory accounting5             LIFO          FIFO/A            FIFO    Immediate write-off          FIFO/A

 Years/ loss carry-over6            5 (F)      Infinite(R)     Infinite(R)                10 (F)            4 (F)

Withholding tax on dividends

    Applicable to US                  0.0              0.0            20.0                   0.0              0.0

Property-based taxes

   Property tax                 Max. 1.5             Vary           1.425            Up to 0.647        Up to 1.0

   Property transfer tax              1.5                2          None                     3.3              3.0

2. Import duty

 On new capital goods            Exempt          Up to 55        6 (2003)                Exempt      12 (general)

On other business inputs           0 - 15        Up to 55        6 (2003)            0 (NAFTA)       12 (general)

3. Inflation Adjustment               No              Yes             Yes                   Yes              Yes


Notes to the Table:
    1.   With new tax changes incorporated. See the text for details.
    2.   All are levied as minimum tax that can be used as tax credit for income tax payable.
    3.   SL = straight-line method, which means the depreciation allowance is claimed based on the
         acquisition cost of the capital. A different method is the declining-balance method, which means
         the depreciation allowance is claimed based on the balance of un-depreciated value of capital.
    4.   The higher depreciation allowance is applicable for buildings used for tourist business.
    5.   FIFO = First-in-first-out, LIFO = Last-in-first-out, and A = Average cost. It should be noticed that
         when there is required adjustment for inflation, there is no significant difference in tax impact
         between choosing one or the other method.
    6. Following the number of years for loss carry over, the letter in brackets indicates the following: F
         = forward, B = backward, and R = certain restriction applies to the value of loss to be written off.
         Refer to the text for details.




                                                         - 30 -

                                   Table A5A
          Effective Corporate Tax Rate on U.S Capital Investment (%)
                              MANUFACTURING


A. Including property tax
                  Argentina     Brazil     Chile*    Mexico    Peru**       U.S.
Buildings             42.4       38.7       31.2      21.8       27.6       NA
Machinery             17.8       37.3       19.4      14.2       27.6       NA
Inventory             34.1       27.1       17.3      21.8       16.5       NA
Land                  45.0       41.5       35.5      31.0       28.3       NA
Aggregate             31.6       34.5       22.3      19.3       24.0       NA



B. Excluding property tax
                  Argentina     Brazil     Chile*    Mexico    Peru**       U.S.
Buildings             24.8       18.3        7.1       9.7       10.4       21.8
Machinery             17.8       37.3       19.4      14.2       27.6       23.5
Inventory             34.1       27.1       17.3      21.8       16.5       22.1
Land                  29.1       23.1       14.8      21.8       11.5       17.0
Aggregate             26.2       29.6       15.9      16.3       19.8       22.5



C. Excluding both property tax and import duty
                  Argentina     Brazil      Chile    Mexico PERU**         U.S.
Buildings             24.8       18.3        7.1       9.7       10.4       21.8
Machinery             17.8       23.0        7.9      14.2       6.8        23.5
Inventory             29.1       23.1       14.8      21.8       11.5       22.1
Land                  29.1       23.1       14.8      21.8       11.5       17.0
Aggregate             24.1       22.0       10.5      16.3       9.5        22.5

* For year 2003 when the import duty will be reduced from the current 8% to 6%.
** For year 2002 when the CIT rate will be reduced from the current 30% to 20%.




                                             - 31 -

                                        Table A5B
            Effective Corporate Tax Rate on Foreign Capital Investment (%)
                                       SERVICES


A. Including property tax
                   Argentina    Brazil      Chile*    Mexico       Peru**      U.S.
Buildings             46.3       40.3        31.8       19.1        28.7        NA
Machinery             38.2       54.3        28.8       35.6        41.6        NA
Inventory             34.1       27.1        17.3       21.8        16.5        NA
Land                  45.0       41.5        35.5       31.0        28.3        NA
Aggregate             44.2       41.6        31.0       24.0        29.5        NA



B. Excluding property tax
                   Argentina    Brazil      Chile*    Mexico       Peru**      U.S.
Buildings             31.3       21.2         8.3       6.0         12.1       20.1
Machinery             38.2       54.3        28.8       35.6        41.6       34.5
Inventory             34.1       27.1        17.3       21.8        16.5       22.1
Land                  29.1       23.1        14.8       21.8        11.5       17.0
Aggregate             32.1       28.2        13.3       15.3        17.3       21.8



C. Excluding both property tax and import duty
                   Argentina    Brazil      Chile     Mexico       Peru**      U.S.
Buildings             31.3       21.2         8.3       6.0         12.1       20.1
Machinery             38.2       42.6        15.2       35.6        20.5       34.5
Inventory             29.1       23.1        14.8       21.8        11.5       22.1
Land                  29.1       23.1        14.8       21.8        11.5       17.0
Aggregate             31.6       25.0        11.0       15.3        13.0       21.8

* For year 2003 when the import duty will be reduced from the current 8% to 6%.
** For year 2002 when the CIT rate will be reduced from the current 30% to 20%.




                                             - 32 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year   Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              October 9, 2001            3    Country Director, Sector Leader,
                                              Mission Leader
              October 17, 2001           2    Mission Leader, Country
                                              Economist
              October                    6    Mission Leader, Country
              29-November 1,                  Economist, Research Analyst,
              2001                            Federalism Specialist, Public
                                              Finance Specialists (2)
              December 10-14,            5    Mission Leader, Country
              2001                            Economist, Research Analyst,
                                              Public Finance Specialist, Tax
                                              Administration Specialists (2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              February 10-22,            8    Mission Leader, Tax
              2002                            Administration Specialists
                                              (7), Country Officer,
                                              Auditing Specialist (joint
                                              mission with TAIDL)
              May 13, 2002             18     Task Manager, Lawyers (3, by
                                              audio connection), Country
                                              Economist, Research Analyst,
                                              Public Finance Specialist (by
                                              audio connection), Procurement
                                              Specialists (2), Team Assistant,
                                              Government Officials (9) (joint
                                              mission with TAIDL)

 Supervision
              July 1- 5, 2002            4    Mission Leaders (2), Tax              S               S
                                              Administration Specialists
                                              (2) (joint mission with
                                              TAIDL)


 ICR
              March 16-20,               1     ICR Specialist
              2003




                                               - 33 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                         No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                           0.2                          0.87
  Supervision                                   4.28                         34.68
  ICR                                           2.18                           19.8
  Total                                                                      55.35
Staff, travel, and consultant expenses included.




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Giugale, Marcelo, Olivier Lafourcade and Vinh H. Nguyen, ed., (2001), Mexico: A Comprehensive
Development Agenda for the New Era. World Bank, Washington , DC

World Bank, (2002), Mexico Country Economic Memorandum: Challenges and Prospects for Tax
Reform, Report 22527-ME, Washington DC




                                                - 37 -

Additional Annex 8. Tax Administration Institutional Development Loan Components

The project has seven components:

        a. eSAT and taxpayer services, to strengthen SAT's on-going efforts to provide better
taxpayer service and increase the transparency of SAT. The project will further simplify taxpayers'
filing of returns by employing more advanced electronic means, including all web-based activities
under SAT's e-business strategy.
        b. Management of human, financial and physical resources, to help SAT establish an Integrated
Resource Management System for planning and managing its manpower, financial and physical
resources: assessing SAT's staff, documenting the results in a Human Resource Management
System, upgrading training, and introducing performance management systems.
        c. Information hub, to improve the communication, sharing and management of information
within SAT. A Chief Information Officer will take charge of policy, coordination, quality assurance
and security of information, and will implement a series of databases that will be optimized for
access and security and will automatically receive data from the operational databases in the various
areas.
        d. Technology services, to develop an ICT strategy aligned with SAT's business strategy, to
provide technical assistance for the development and implementation of an Internal Service Policy
for ICT services, and to upgrade equipment to improve performance.
        e. Compliance process,   to improve SAT's units for Collections and Large Taxpayers, to
develop a management information system and a Standard Notification System (with performance
indicators and a control system). The component would also finance increased coverage of the
Taxpayer Registry and the creation of the single taxpayer account.
        f.    Compliance control and enforcement,   to integrate into a "Compliance Control and
Enforcement" process all the elements of SAT's enforcement, auditing, legal and other functions
directed at problems of evasion and non-payment.
        g. Planning and Quality Control,    to provide training, seminars and technical assistance on
planning and performance indicators to senior and middle managers in order to carry forward the
strategic planning exercise and to improve it as a means to achieve the necessary, but previously
missing, coordination among administrative units.




                                                  - 38 -

- 39 -

