Document of
The World Bank
FOFR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P7537-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED
TAX IREFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$303.04 MILLION
TO THE
tUNITED MEXICAN STATES
May 20, 2002
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Colombia Mexico and Venezuela Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Peso
9.4675 pesos = US$1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Banco de Mexico        Central Bank
CAS                    Country Assistance Strategy
CEM                    Country Economic Memorandum
CIT                    Corporate Income Tax
ConTigo                With You
Credito al Salario     Government Subsidy for Salaries
GDP                    Gross Domestic Product
GEF                    Global Environmental Facility
IDB                    Inter-American Development Bank
IMF                    International Monetary Fund
INEGI                  Instituto Nacional de Estadistica, Geografica e Informatica (National Statistics
Institute)
NAFIN                  Nacional Financiera (National Financing Agency)
OECD                   Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
Oportunidades          Opportunities
PEMEX                  Petr6leos Mexicanos (State-Run Petroleum Company)
PIDIREGAS              Proyectos de Impacto Diferido en el Registro del Gasto
(Government Subsidy for Private Investment with Public Benefits)
PIT                    Personal Income Tax
PROGRESA               Programa de Educaci6n, Salud y Alimentaci6n
PRONAFIDE              Programa Nacional de Financiamiento del Desarrollo (Education, Health and
Food Program)
PSBR                   Public Sector Borrowing Requirement
SAL                    Structural Adjustment Loan
SAT                    Sistema de Administraci6n Tributaria (Tax Administration Service)
SHCP                   Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico,
(Finance and Public Credit Secretariat)
TRAL                   Tax Reform Adjustment Loan
VAT                    Value Added Tax
Vice President:        David de Ferranti
Country Director:      Olivier Lafourcade
PREM Director:         Ernesto May
Sector Leader:         Marcelo Giugale
Task Team Leader:      Steven Webb



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROPOSED TAX REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan and Program Summary
Borrower:                United Mexican States
Implementing Agency      Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico, (SHCP)
(Finance and Public Credit Secretariat)
Amount:                  US$ 303.04 million
Terms:                   Fixed-spread variable interest rate loan in US dollars, with
a single repayment of principal in 10 years.
Commitment Fee:          0.85% per annum during the first four years and 0.75% per
annum thereafter on undisbursed loan amounts, beginning
to accrue sixty days after the loan agreement is signed.
Front-end fee:            1% of the loan amount, to be financed under the loan.
Objectives:              The proposed loan will support the first stage of the
Government's fiscal reform program; the first stage focuses
on the corporate and personal income taxes. Mexico needs
to strengthen its tax system to sustain macroeconomic
stability, which is essential, though not sufficient for
growth and poverty reduction. Since most of the fiscal
benefit of these measures will come in the medium term as
the reduced tax distortions contribute to higher sustainable
growth of private sector, the financing of the loan will help
the Government assure fiscal sustainability and thus
macroeconomic stability in the meantime. The eventual
growth of fiscal resources will contribute to debt reduction,
and in the short run the loan will help avoid a fiscal
contraction, which would be counterproductive in the
present environment.  Raising more resources from  a
stronger tax system is essential for expanding the
Government program of social sector services and
infrastructure investment. Finally, by simplifying the tax
policy to administer, the policy reforms will contribute to
the Government's programs for Reform of the State and
reduction of corruption.
Description:             The proposed operation will support key reforms to the
Mexican tax system. In the area of corporate income taxes,
the new law i) eliminates the special cash-flow regime for
calculating income for the agriculture and road transport
sectors; ii) simplifies the inflation adjustment regime, just
using the annual price index to calculate real change in
This document has a restrictecl distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



monetary assets and liabilities; iii) eliminates the reduced
tax rate for retained earnings, thus unifying the corporate
and maximum personal tax rates at 35 percent, and reduces
the rate gradually to 32 percent by 2005; iv) limits the
corporate deductions for payment of fringe benefits to non-
union workers; and v) phases out the reduced tax rate for
the publishing industry, bringing the rate there up to the
standard rate by 2006. In the area of personal income
taxes, the new law i) aggregates all the taxable income of
an individual and taxes it at the corresponding progressive
rate; ii) simplifies the structure of rates, reducing the
number to five by 2005; iii) reduces the government
subsidy (credito al salario) for workers in the formal sector
and provides incentives for firms to continue paying it; and
iv) simplifies the tax regime for individuals with
entrepreneurial activity.
Benefits and Risks:     The expected benefits of the operation are more growth due
to reduction of distortions in the tax system, enhanced
macroeconomic stability, more equity in the personal
income tax code, and more tax resources to finance social
programs. The reforms supported by the loan are expected
to bring an additional 0.9 percent of GDP, compared with
tax revenues of about 11.4 percent of GDP previously. The
risks of the operation itself are mainly the implementation
of the reformed tax system, which a simultaneous technical
assistance project (US$ 82 million total size, with US$52
million of Bank lending) aims to strengthen over the next
four years.
Implementing the subsequent phases of the Government's
overall fiscal reform, in the tax area and other areas, faces
risks despite the strong commitment of the executive. Key
parts of the agenda require changes in the law and even the
Constitution, which will require approval of the Congress
and sometimes even the states. This, in tum, requires a
political consensus that is harder to obtain now in a more
competitive political environment. There is also a general
macroeconomic risk of appreciation of the real exchange
rate, which recent fiscal tightening tries to combat and
would counteract even more with stronger taxation.
Poverty Category:       Not Applicable.
Estimated Disbursement  July 2002
Project ID Number:      P074750



Table Of Contents
I.   INTRODUCTION AND RATIONALE                 ....................................................... 1
II.  THE FISCAL POLICY CHALLENGES IN MEXICO ..........................................2
a) Recent Economic Developments               ......................................................2
b) Tax Policy .....................................................3
c) Tax administration .......................................................5
d) Subnational Finances .......................................................5
e) Fiscal Discipline andi Transparency         ......................................................6
f) Budgetary Reform ......................................................7
g) Energy Pricing Policy .....................................................7
h) Spending Policy .......................................................7
III. THE GOVERNMENT'S FISCAL REFORM                   PROGRAM       .................... ................8
a) Macroeconomic Policy and Economic Prospects ..................................................8
b) The Fiscal Reform Agenda ......................................................      10
c) The Program's Outoomes                 .................................................. 15
IV. THE PROPOSED TAX REFORM                ADJUSTMENT LOAN (TRAL) .................. 17
a) Objective ......................................................                     17
b) Content ......................................................                       17
d) Poverty Impact ....................................................... 19
e) Loan Amounts, Coniditions, and Arrangements .              .................................................. 19
V. BANK STRATEGY ......................................................                   20
a) The CAS and The Proposed TRAL ...................................................... 20
b) Complementarity With Other Operations by the World Bank                   .    .      21
c) Complementarity With Operations by Other Institutions . .          ................................... 21
VII. RECOMMENDATION ......................................................                21
ANNEX 1 LETrER OF Dl,VELOPMENT POLICY .......................................................  22
ANNEX 2 FIsCAL POLICY REFORMS ...................             .................................... 34
ANNEX 3 STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS ....................................................... 36
ANNEX 4 STATEMENT OF IFC's HELD AND DISBURSED PORTFOLIO ............                .............. 37
ANNEX 5 MEXICO AT A GLANCE                    ....................................................... 39
This report was prepared under the guidance of Marcelo Giugale (Sector Leader). The project preparation
team comprised Milka Casanegra, Duanjie Chen, Thomas Courchen, Joost Draaisma, Christian Gonzalez,
Pilar Gonzalez, Jorge Martinez-Vazquez, Reynaldo Pastor, Mariangeles Sabella, Luis Alvaro Sanchez,
Erica Soler, and Steven Webb (Task Manager). Patricia Chacon Holt and Elizabeth Toxtle supported the
team. Peer reviewers were Micliael Engelschalk and Richard Bird.






- I -
MEXICO
PROPOSED TAX REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN (TRAL)
DRAFT PRESIDENT'S REPORT
I.    INTRODUCTION AND RATIONALE
1.    To continue the modernization of its economy and reduction of poverty, the Mexican
Govermment, which took office in December 2000, is engaged in a program of Fiscal Reform.
The overall program, described in the Letter of Development Policy, has seven main areas; three
involve taxation-Tax Policy, 'Fax Administration, and Subnational Finances-and the four
others are important for improving the use of fiscal resources-Fiscal Discipline and
Transparency, Budgetary Refonn, Energy Pricing Policy, and Federal Spending Policy. The
proposed loan supports the first phase of reform in the Tax Policy area. In some other areas the
Bank has already provided lending support (Subnational Finances, with the Decentralization
Adjustment Loan, approved December 1999) or prepared projects to do so (Tax Administration
Institutional Development, proposed loan in FY02). The government recognizes that it needs to
invest more in human resource (levelopment and public economic infrastructure, to complement
investment in the private sector. Without overburdening or crowding out the private sector,
which must remain the main engine of growth, the public sector needs to increase its resources
and reduce its dependence on the oil sector.' To meet these objectives, Mexico's fiscal reform
efforts are balancing six criteria for success:
i.  Increasing tax ievenue. This is needed both to finance the Government's
programs for poverty reduction and economic development and to keep its
finances stable.
ii. Improving efficiency of the private sector, by reducing the distortions in tax
incentives for resource allocation.
iii. Improving equity of the public sector. This would come in three ways from the
tax reform-assuring that it puts no excessive burden on the poor, making the
burden of taxes more equal among people with the same level of income, and
channeling the increased revenue into poverty reduction programs.
iv.  Making taxes sinmpler to administer.
v.   Making the federalism system more balanced and incentive compatible.
vi.  Being politically feasible.
2.    No reform can achieve the maximum in all of these dimensions, for they compete to
some extent, but a good reform needs to make at least some improvements in all of them and
substantial improvements in several. The tax reforms that take effect in 2002 make important
progress in these dimensions, and consequently the Government has requested that the Bank
complement its analytical and technical support with financial support, in the form a US$303.04
million Tax Reform Adjustment Loan, as proposed in this document. The document also
1. World Bank 2001, Mexico: Couniry Economic Memorandum: Challenges and Prospectsfor Tax Reform; World
Bank 2000, Mexico: Fiscal Sustainability.



explains the government's wider program of tax reforms and other fiscal reforms, which form
the context of this operation.
3.    The experience in Mexico, especially in the 1990s, shows that macroeconomic
sustainability and stability are essential, although not sufficient, conditions for reducing poverty
and continuing growth. The analytic involvement and financial support of the Bank contribute
to the quality and credibility of the reforms and thus helps protect the growth and poverty-
reduction process. The rationale for adjustment lending in this situation is also that the beneficial
revenue effects of the 2002 reforms described below will come mainly in the medium term, and
in the meantime the financial assistance from the Bank will the reduce the government's
borrowing costs and thus help it meet its targets for fiscal adjustment.
II. THE FISCAL POLICY CHALLENGES IN MEXICO
a) Recent Economic Developments
4.    After an extended period of strong expansion, economic activity in Mexico experienced a
sharp slowdown during 2001 as the downturn in the global economy, and in particular in the
U.S. economy, spread across emerging markets. Growth of Mexican manufactured exports, nine
tenths of which go to the United States, plummeted from an average annual growth rate of 20
percent to minus 3 percent last year. Such a pronounced drop in external demand and the related
slump in manufacturing investment led to a contraction of real GDP growth during 2001, down
to -0.3 percent, in contrast to the 5.6 percent average annual growth rate observed over the
preceding five-year period.
5.    Even during the contraction, the economy proved resilient in many ways-thanks in large
part to sound macroeconomic management. Whereas during the rapid economic expansion of
2000 there was a relatively expansionary fiscal stance and a tight monetary policy, the new
authorities during 2001 targeted a lower budget deficit (0.65 percent of GDP), and implemented
budget rules automatically cutting expenditures when revenues turn out lower than budgeted.
Monetary policy was eased, although cautiously, in the face of strong capital inflows, weakening
of domestic demand, and lower inflation expectations. Cautious monetary management, the
appreciation of the currency (due to the strength of capital inflows), and the slowdown in growth,
all combined to keep inflation in check-the 2001 year-end inflation rate fell to 4.4 percent, well
below the initial target of 6.5 percent. The exchange rate has remained stable, in the same range
where it has been for the past 3 years.
6.    The external accounts remained manageable. The balance of payments' current account
deficit stayed practically unchanged from the previous year (at 2.8 percent of GDP), as lower
manufacturing export revenues and lower oil prices were largely offset by a similar reduction in
imported intermediate inputs and capital goods. Mexico has continued to enjoy favorable access
to external financing and steady investment flows. This simultaneously allowed for the bulk of
the current account's deficit to be financed through foreign direct investment, an accumulation of
international reserves, a strengthening of the peso, a reduction in private investors' perception of
country risk as measured by sovereign bond spreads, and a significant reduction of domestic
interest rates. As of March 2002, Mexico's sovereign bonds have investment-grade rating by all
three major international rating agencies, making it possible for a broad range of foreign
institutional investors to buy Mexican bonds. The economy thus seems well positioned for a



- 3 -
strong recovery upon the rebound of economic activity in the United States, expected in the
second half of 2002.
b) Tax Policy
7.    Since the late 1970s, Mexico has carried out a number of reforms aimed at establishing
an adequate and effective tax system. Many of the instruments of modem tax policy are in place,
including income and value-added taxation at the national level and property taxation at the local
level. Income taxes are integrated between the corporate and personal levels, with indexation for
the effect of inflation on net asset values. A corporate asset tax backs up the corporate income
tax and is creditable against it. A value-added tax replaced scattered and often competing sales
taxes.
8.    Nevertheless, the reforms up to 2001 have not yet borne the expected fruit:
* Increased resources for growth and poverty reduction through provision of adequate social
services and economic infrastructure;
* Reduced distortions in the tax environment for private sector growth; and
* Improved accountability of the public sector to the taxpaying citizens.
9.    Over the last ten years. it has become clear that Mexico needs greater non-oil tax
revenues, sustainable in the long term, in order to provide for more public expenditure in areas
such as poverty alleviation, health, education, and infrastructure, as well as to pay for the recent
social security reform and banking sector support. Regular tax revenue, net of petroleum and
social security revenue, is only about 11.4 percent of GDP, which is the lowest in the OECD and
lower even than most Latin Amnerican countries. The oil-revenues will probably at best stay
constant in real terms, so growth in the Mexican economy and its requirements for public
services will need an increasing share of financing to come from non-oil taxes. Mexicans are not
paying enough taxes to cover the public expenditure that they want because of problems in the
tax system itself, which are the focus of the part of the program supported by this loan. The
failure of tax policy and administration to collect enough resources to pay for the public services
people want goes back to an endemic problem-that that people do not perceive that the taxes
are fair in practice. Tax policies and how they are administered have let some people and
businesses pay much less tax than others with the same levels of income. Thus a central
objective of the tax reform is to make it more fair.
10.   Corporate income tax. The income tax is the most important source of revenue, and the
corporate income tax (CIT) is the most important part, bringing in over 2.5 percent of GDP in the
late 1990s, including the tax on the self-employed. Prior to the reforms at the very end of 2001,
the standard regime of the C0T applied a rate of 35 percent to corporate income (profit),
including net real capital gains, adjusting for inflation in a complex way, which thwarted the
sophisticated objectives of the law and made compliance and enforcement more costly. On
retained earnings firms paid a reduced rate of 30 percent, with the remaining 5 percent deferred
until the earnings were paid out. The corporate tax is integrated with the personal income tax, so
that, at least in principle, individuals pay tax only on profits that have not been previously taxed
at the corporate level, and they pay at the same rate whether profits are received via capital gains
or distributed dividends. The unification of the personal and corporate income tax in Mexico is
an important strength of the system-eliminating double taxation-which will show more



-4-
clearly when other defects of the system are eliminated. Since 1989 an asset (net worth) tax of
1.8 percent was introduced to deter evasion and complement the CIT, against which it is
creditable. The measure is effective as a minimum tax, except when tax administrators accept
the asset tax as a full substitute for the CIT properly due. It was excessively complex in its
original form, however, due to a system of monthly adjustments for inflation.
11.   Prior to 2002, there were two partly overlapping exceptional (and preferential) regimes to
the standard CIT. First, businesses in agriculture, agro-industry and trucking could choose a
cash-flow accounting system, by which they paid tax only on the money taken out of the firms
and not on the retained earnings. Second, the agriculture and publishing sectors enjoyed a
special rate regime of half the standard rates. There is no economic justification for these
sectoral preferences, and they created a lot of distortions, especially the manipulation of transfer
prices and cross-sectoral mergers to reduce tax liabilities with the cash-flow regime. The special
regimes also made enforcement more difficult.
12.   Personal income tax. The personal income tax (PIT) is the most progressive part of
Mexico's tax system. There is no double taxation of dividends, for shareholders can take as a
credit the tax paid by corporations they own, including via stock ownership. Despite these good
basic principles underlying the tax, the proliferation of exemptions, different tax rates on
different kinds of income, the low-salary subsidy (credito al salario), and uneven administration
made the PIT unequal horizontally and inefficient for raising revenue. Prior to the reforms
taking effect starting in 2002, revenues from the PIT declined as a share of GDP over the past
two decades, because various concessions, such as limits on taxation of fringe benefits, narrowed
the tax base and made the PIT generally too complex. A special regime for individuals with
entrepreneurial activity, with annual gross income below I million pesos, taxed their gross
income at graduated rates ranging from 0.25 to 2.0 percent. This simplified compliance and
enforcement for individual entrepreneurs with limited administrative capacity, but the graduated
rates made enforcement difficult. The PIT has been progressive because the regular (positive)
PIT starts at a low rate of 3 percent and moves up to 40 percent. The brackets were indexed
twice annually for inflation. In the formal sector the PIT provided subsidies for the wages of
workers in the formal sector (with the largest rate of subsidy going to those with the lowest
wages) and for those whose fringe benefits were low or absent. On income from agriculture,
fisheries, and book editing, the rates were one half of the regular rates (consistent with the CIT).
Persons with exclusively agricultural incomes below 20 times the local minimum wage paid no
PIT. These multiple regimes made the PIT inefficient for raising revenue, hard to administer,
and unequal across households with similar incomes but different employment situations and
sources of income.
13.   Value-added tax. The value-added tax (VAT), with a standard rate of 15 percent, has
been the second largest revenue source for the Government after the income tax (corporate and
individual). The standard rate applies to about 55 percent of total consumption. Individuals (with
entrepreneurial activity) with annual sales up to MxP 1 million have the option to be exempt.
There is zero rating for food, medication, and books. Private schooling is exempt.2 The rate for
2. Exempt operations do not collect and pay VAT on what they sell, but they do pay VAT on taxable inputs and get
no rebate for this. So their consumers effectively pay the VAT only on value added in stages prior to the
exempted one. This makes sense in some cases, for instance, with micro retail operations, where collection
would be prohibitively difficult. With zero-rated items, on the other hand, the final consumer does not pay any



- 5 -
taxable items is only 10 percent in the border areas, with the aim to enhance competitiveness,
and the border zone has a broad definition, including all the territory of the states of Baja
California, Baja California Sur, and Quintana Roo. The exceptions to the standard rate and poor
enforcement seriously undermine the revenue generation of the VAT, for it yields only about
what would be expected from at rate of 5 percent on all consumption.
14.   Excise taxes. Prior to 2002 the Federal Government collected excise tax on gasoline,
tobacco, and alcoholic beverages. The gasoline tax remains the most important and has grown
on average, but with wide flucltuations (inversely with other kinds of fiscal revenues from the oil
sector). Revenue from excises other than gasoline has roughly doubled over the last two
decades, exceeding two percent of GDP by the end of the 1 990s. The revenue potential of these
taxes invites using them more, especially because some excise items, such as gasoline and
tobacco, have negative externalities. This inclination needs to be tempered with a recognition
that the revenue elasticity of these taxes will eventually decline due to evasion or reduced sales
in response to the tax.
c) Tax administration
15.   Tax administration has been the weakest link between the often sophisticated objectives
of Mexican tax policy and thle actual tax revenue collected. For instance, a study in 1996
indicated that the evasion of the VAT in Mexico was about 60 percent. While the VAT is
perhaps the most serious area of evasion, the income taxes also fall far short of their potential;
total revenues (PIT and CIT) are only 7 percent of corporate profits and less than 5 percent of
total wages, salaries and profiis. Five fundamental problems have hindered tax administration:
a) the tax code has been too complex; b) filing and payment, even by those willing to pay, are
too difficult; c) evasion has been too easy-rarely discovered and even more rarely punished; d)
the application of the code by those who administer it has been inconsistent across taxpayers and
across time; and e) the system has collected insufficient information and failed to use it well.
The reforms supported by the proposed TRAL address the first issue, complexity of the code.
The Tax Administration Service has started programs to address some of the other issues, with
the establishment of a large taw-payer unit and a client-service unit, computerized cross-checking
of data to determine the needs for audits, and the initiation of unified accounts. While these
programs are just beginning lo bring in additional revenue, the Secretary of Finance and the
Subsecretary of Revenue have given high priority to further improving tax administration and
enforcement, and intensified general effort in 2001 brought in an additional 0.6 percent of GDP.
Much remains to be done, as discussed below in Section III b.
d) Subnational Finances
16.   The part of Mexico's liscal reform program dealing with subnational finances has three
main subparts: taxes and revenue sharing, spending and earmarked transfers, and borrowing and
debt control.
17.   Concerning taxes, subnational govermments in Mexico collect very little revenue either as
a share of GDP (about 1 percent) or as a share of their own expenditures (about 10 percent).
This imbalance is inconsistenl with the reality that has emerged in the past ten years: political
VAT even indirectly, because the seller does not collect VAT and gets a rebate of the VAT on any taxed inputs.
This is a more significant tax benefit than an exemption.



-6 -
and constitutional autonomy of the states, opposition control of the federal congress (and of
many state congresses), major spending responsibilities in the hands of states, and substantial
subnational autonomy to borrow. Redressing that fiscal imbalance is more than a technical tax
matter, as it will make the states more accountable to their populace for the public services that
they now provide and more able to raise extra resources to finance investments and pay for other
improvements in their services. If devolving taxes to the states reduces the revenue collected by
the central government, then the revenue sharing formulas may need to be adjusted accordingly.
18.   In the 1990s the states were given major responsibilities for social spending-basic and
secondary education and health care for the uninsured population-along with earmarked
transfers to pay these costs. The largest fiscal problem with this arrangement is the great
inequality of resources per capita going to the states to cover the cost of these programs-with
the most generous per-capita allocation being almost three and a half times the smallest. This
happened because the initial allocation of transfers was set to cover the cost of the stock of
federal education employees (teachers, etc) being transferred to the states in the early 1990s, and
subsequent allocations were mostly percentage increases on the original base. The original
allocation of federal, employees differed widely because some states had already developed their
own social programs to meet part of the need, and the federal transfers took little account of the
cost of these state employees. There is also a major management problem the decentralized
social sectors in that the states did not get adequate authority to manage the programs, especially
in education, for the federal government and unions have remained largely in control. This
problem is especially severe in the economically less developed states, where the private sector
is weak.
19.   Until recently, the subnational governments faced minimal incentives to improve the
efficiency of their spending of to raise more resources, because they frequently could get
discretionary transfers from the federal government or could get loans on easy terms even if they
lacked credit worthiness. To improve the incentives for fiscal prudence at the state level and to
prevent subnational fiscal problems from disrupting the national macroeconomic framework, the
federal government in 1999-2000 revised its rules to give the states harder budget constraints.
They ended the practice of discretionary transfers from the federal executive.
20.   For controlling subnational borrowing and debt, the federal government instituted new
rules in 2000 that ended the previous implicit federal guarantee on state and municipal
borrowing. The new rules required banks to treat the debt as potentially risky and to hold higher
levels of capital for the debt of subnational entities that did not have good credit ratings from
major rating agencies. The World Bank supported these reforms with the Decentralization
Adjustment Loan, approved in December 1999, and they have helped improve the whole
atmosphere for subnational finances, although the appropriate responses in the areas of tax and
spending policy are still pending.
e) Fiscal Discipline and Transparency
21.   Like all industrializing countries, especially those whose public finances depend heavily
on mineral export revenues, Mexico has the problem that its public sector income fluctuates
substantially and unpredictably within the budget year and within the execution time of many
projects. Faced with such exogenous shocks, something must adjust-taxes, spending, or the
deficit and borrowing-each has certain disadvantages.  Changing taxes for short term
adjustment would have long-term costs in destabilizing incentives for the private sector, whose



- 7 -
confidence is needed to sustain growth. Even when legal tax rates did not change, Mexico often
changed their effect by making short-term enforcement and collection efforts to raise more
revenue in times of fiscal emergencies, but then relaxed the effort when the crisis passed.
Adjustment in spending is appropriate as long as the program is relatively flexible; investment is
often cut or deferred, but this is more difficult with the wage bill. Borrowing would be an
attractive means to smooth the finances, except that there are often credit constraints in truly bad
times and temptations in good times to overuse credit. So the challenge was to develop fiscal
control rules that provide adequate discipline, but also allow a reasonable degree of flexibility.
f) Budgetary Reform
22.   In recent years, as the Mexican government has increased its fiscal discipline and
transparency and as a more politically competitive Congress has taken an more active policy
role, the budget as approved has become a more definitive document for public finances. For
the same reasons of greater political competition, the process of determining the budget has
become more time consuming and less predictable. Both of these trends are fundamentally
favorable for the country. The implementation of the federal and subnational budgets has
suffered, however, because the schedule and institutional details of budgeting remain the same
as before. Federal agencies and the subnational governments, which depend heavily on transfers
from the center, do not know until January how much money they will have for the year, and
cannot predict what they will have for future years. Thus, Mexico needs to revise its budgetary
procedures, in order to strengthen fiscal responsibility, reduce uncertainty, and improve
transparency in the process of discussing and voting on the budget.
g) Energy Pricing Policy
23.   The Mexican federal government has a monopoly in the main energy sectors-petroleum
and electricity-which makes pricing and taxation in the energy sector critical for the fiscal
reform program. About a fourth of public revenue comes from various taxes and fees on export
and domestic sales of petroleunm. The structure of fees and taxes is inefficient in several ways-
discouraging potentially valuable exploitation, raising less revenue than they could, and not
adequately encouraging conser/ation in consumption. There is a need to revise fundamentally
the taxation of consumption, of extraction, and of the profits of PEMEX, the state oil company.
The subsidies implicit in the pricing of electricity also drain public finances, and investment of
the state enterprises for electricity and petroleum takes up about half of the government's total
investment budget. Therefore, there is a need to put the energy sectors on a more commercial
and autonomous basis, to make more efficient use of oil and gas resources, and overall to move
toward a more transparent environment for the sector in dimensions such as taxation,
competition, regulation, and auditing.
h) Spending Policy
24.   The main objective of taxes in Mexico is to raise revenue to pay for spending programs,
especially those that promote economic development and poverty reduction. Carrying out this
objective in a way that is transparent to the population is essential to make tax and fiscal reform
politically tenable in a democracy like Mexico. In the 1990s Mexico made important reforms to
programs for poverty reduction. Social spending for basic education and health was increased



-8-
and decentralized to the states. There have been problems with the inequity of resources per
capita available for these programs, with large and fast growing states not getting enough, and
with the states' lack of authority and capacity to manage the programs. Spending for social
safety nets was increased and moved toward a targeted context that gave incentives for poor
families to make use of the education and health services available, particularly through a
program known formerly as PROGRESA and now as Oportunidades (Opportunities).
PROGRESA reached many rural areas in the previous decade, but not all, and did not address
urban poverty. In the areas of economic infrastructure, investment in the electricity sector
continued to be exclusively in the public sector and lagged seriously behind demand. Investment
in roads increased, especially in private toll roads with public guarantees, but this mode of
financing was not properly executed and usually required public bailouts. Thus, these programs
need both additional resources in the aggregate and institutional improvements.
III. THE GOVERNM[ENT'S FISCAL REFORM PROGRAM
25.   The Mexican Government is well aware of the remaining weaknesses in its fiscal
situation and seeks to improve it in the six areas discussed above. The first phase is focusing on
tax policy and tax administration. Part of this program, mainly reform of the income tax law,
was enacted in December 2001, with implementation starting in 2002. Other parts of the
program, including strengthening indirect taxes and devolving taxes to the states, as well as
reforms to pricing and taxation in the energy sector, the Government intends to complete as the
necessary political consensus emerges.
a) Macroeconomic Policy and Economic Prospects
26.   Fiscal discipline is a key priority for the administration. As part of that discipline, the
government proceeded with the publication of a broadened measure of the federal-level fiscal
deficit, known as the Public Sector Borrowing Requirements (PSBR),3 which is projected at 4
percent of GDP for 2002 (in contrast to the budget deficit target in its traditional definition at
0.65 percent of GDP). The shift of the attention to the PBSR was part of the motivation behind
new tax legislation enacted in December 2001 that is expected to increase tax revenue by 1.05
percent of GDP in 2002. This additional income has been allocated to offset the low oil prices
(projected at the time of the budget), and to finance priority social expenditures.  The
Government plans for further fiscal consolidation, to be reflected in a reduction of the public
sector borrowing requirement in the medium term. Mexico has no active IMF program and no
outstanding obligations to the IMF.
27.   Over the next few years, the Mexican economy is expected to recover from its current,
shallow recession toward the economy's medium term potential annual rate of growth of about
4-5 percent. Even though the recovery of demand for Mexican manufactured exports will
initially be the driver of the economic expansion, the strong rebound expected as of the second
half of 2002 is projected to be broad-based, i.e., a simultaneous and balanced growth of
consumption, investment and export demand. According to Bank estimates, this growth pattern
3. The PSBR of the federal level includes some quasi-fiscal operations that are not or are only partially included
under the traditional fiscal deficit measure, such as the total interest cost of liabilities related to bank and debtor
support programs, the deferred cost of investment projects (PIDIREGAS) in the energy sector, the net financial
intermediation by development banks, and the inflation component of indexed bonds. The PSBR excludes non-
recurrent revenues from privatization and unrealized capital gains.



-9 -
is expected to lead to an increase in the country's balance of payments' current account deficit
from the current 2.8 percent of GDP to about 4 percent of GDP by 2004 and stabilizing at that
level thereafter. Foreign direct investrnent flows will continue to finance the bulk of the
country's external deficit. Further fiscal consolidation is projected to take place not only to make
progress in attaining fiscal sustainability but also as a key instrument in aggregate demand
management and price stability (Table 1).
Table 1: Mexico Macroeconomic Indicators
Indicator                      Actual        Estimated  Projected
1999    2000        2001      2002
Gross Domestic Product (% growth)               3.6     6.6        -0.3        1.7
Consumption                                 4.4     7.5         2.8        1.2
Investment                                  7.7     11.4       -5.9       4.6
Exports                                    12.4     16.4       -5.1       2.4
Imports                                    14.1     21.5       -2.9        1.0
Balance of Payments
Current Account (US$ billion)             -14.0    -17.8      -17.7      -21.1
Current Account (as % of GDP)              -2.9    -3.1        -2.9       -3.4
Foreign Direct Investment (US$ billion)    12.5     14.2      24.7*       13.0
Fiscal Balance (as % of GDP)
Traditional definition                     -1.1     -1.1       -0.7       -0.7
Broadened PSBR                             -6.3    -3.7        -3.8       -4.0
Inflation (0% year-end)                        12.3      9.0        4.4       4.5
*Includes Banamex-Citibank transaction.
Sources: Informes sobre la Situaci6n Econ6mica; las Finanzas Publicasy la Deuda Publica (Reports on the
Economic Situation, Public Finances and Public Debt), Fourth Quarter 2001, SHCP; 2002 approved budget
published in the Diario Oficial de la iFederaci6n (Official Gazette of the Federation), January 1, 2002; Programa
Economico 2002 (Economic Program 2002), SHCP; Banco de Mexico; INEGI.
28.    The government is concerned to keep Mexico's economy competitive in the world
market, while recognizing that as it develops the comparative advantage will shift out of some
sectors and into others. The inilation rate, although declining, has exceeded the movement of the
exchange rate over the past fiw years, leading to some real appreciation. The fiscal policy
program aims to reduce this riisk in both the short term and long term, by emphasizing fiscal
restraint and thus reducing the need for tight monetary policy. In the short term, such a policy
mix reduces the demand for loans and reduces interest rates, which has happened, and thus
reduces the attraction for hot mrLoney-short-term deposits that could exit quickly and precipitate
a crisis. In the longer term, the sustainability of the exchange rate depends on whether the capital
that comes into Mexico finanoes investments that enhance the capacity to export goods and
services.  Beyond setting the appropriate macroeconomic enviromnent, the government's
policies aim to increase Mexico's competitive export capacity by reducing distortions, such as in
the tax regime, and investing in appropriate economic infrastructure and human capital. The
continued inflow of longer term and equity capital to Mexico indicates that financial markets
also consider the risk from oveivaluation to be manageable
29.    Additional progress on ithe country's structural reform agenda is needed in order to attain
the projected level of growth amd raise the country's medium term economic growth potential
further, without the creation of undue fiscal or external finance imbalances. The proposed
operation assists the Government in implementing the fiscal reform part of that agenda and
provides the public sector with resources to meet part of its external finance requirements. The



- 10-
operation would thereby also indirectly facilitate the access of the private sector to domestic and
foreign credit to finance the investments needed for growth and for adjustment to the structure of
incentives modified by the tax reform.
30.   The foreign private sector is expected to remain the main source of external financing for
Mexico. By 2001, three quarters of the country's total financing requirements was being served
by either private investment flows or private non-guaranteed debt. Maintaining adequate access
to longer-term financing as provided by the IBRD and other international financial organizations
will thus be an essential element in improving the maturity structure of Mexico's external debt
and in reassuring private investors of the viability of its external accounts. Notably, all three
major international credit rating agencies have upgraded Mexico sovereign risk rating to
investment grade.
b) The Fiscal Reform Agenda
31.   The first phase of the Fiscal Reform Program focuses on tax policy and administration.
Raising more tax revenue cannot come from any major increases in the standard rates, for they
are already in line with the major international comparators, and Mexico does not want to lose
out to international competition for skilled labor, capital, or retail sales or see transfer pricing
used to attribute expenses to Mexico and transfer income to other countries. Key reforms would
broaden the tax base by eliminating exemptions and special regimes, so that revenue increases
because more payers and transactions are subject to the same rates and enforcement is easier.
32.   Corporate income tax. The most important reforms to the corporate income tax that
took effect in 2002 make it more uniform across sectors, thus reducing distortions and evasion.
The reforms are in line with the recommendations of the CEM. As a group they are expected to
increase revenue by only about half a percent of GDP in the short run; some measures will
reduce revenue and others will bring more. The medium-term revenue effects will be stronger
because the reform reduces economic distortions and facilitates administration. The reform
includes the trucking and agriculture sectors in a general system for calculating income, ending
the special cash-flow regimes that favored them so heavily and required them to pay the income
tax only if financial resources were withdrawn from the company. From now on, taxes in those
sectors will be payable on income minus expenditures and deductions, which do not include
financial investments and only include the present value of the straight-line depreciation of fixed
investment. The 50 percent reduction in tax rate for publishing is being phased out over four
years; the lower rate for agriculture remains. With these and the other changes, the inter-sector
dispersion of marginal effective tax rates is reduced from 5.5 to 2.4 percent. The elimination of
the negative effective marginal rate for trucking is especially important, since it was such a
strong incentive for tax evasion through various tricks of corporate organization and pricing.
The fiscal regime that will now apply to trucking and agriculture has clearer standard-
depreciation and expensing rules, which will facilitate compliance by firms and enforcement by
the Government. The reform expands the standard rate of 35 percent to all profits, eliminating
the special rate of 30 percent for reinvested profits.
33.   Part of the rationale (the good part) for the special cash-flow regime for agriculture and
trucking was the difficulty that small operators have in documenting all their business costs. To



- 11 -
address this concern, the reforms allow simplified tax calculations and reporting in several ways.
The trucking and agriculture may report on a simplified cash basis, but the deduction for
investment is only the present value of future capital depreciation, not the whole value that they
had in the cash-flow regime. There is a new simplified regime, without sectoral discrimination
for individuals with entrepreneurial activities under 4 million pesos gross annual revenue,
allowing them to pay tax on a cash-basis definition of income. For individual entrepreneurs
whose income is lower (under 1.5 million pesos gross revenue) and who sell only to the general
public, the reform modified the Small Taxpayer Regime, so that it allows payment of a flat-rate
presumptive tax to the federal government-i percent on gross revenue-which is simpler than
the graduated rates previously charged. The reforms are designed to reduce the differences in
effective tax rates and thus to deter taxpayers from inappropriately shifting from the general
system to the simplified cash-basis regime. Also, requiring that the payments for purchases from
firms belonging to the simplified regime will be deducted only after the payment is made (in
accord with the cash-basis regime) maintains the fiscal symmetry and improves the timing of the
revenue impact for the govermnent. The expected gains in revenue and efficiency from better
compliance and enforcement, dlue to simplicity, was felt to outweigh the losses from the lower
legal rate. Making this happen will depend on actual improvements in the Servicio de
Administraci6n Tributaria (SA'r), the institution in charge of collecting federal taxes.
34.   The one percent federal rate on gross income of individuals with entrepreneurial activities
is a lower rate on average ithan the progressive rates previously charged by the federal
government, but the revenue law (Ley de Ingresos) for 2002 gives the state governments the right
to put a tax of up to 5 percent on the net income of all individuals with entrepreneurial and
professional activities whose revenue does not exceed 4 million pesos. For individuals who
contribute in the Small Taxpayer Regime, the states could charge a rate up to 2 percent on gross
income. The federal government has collected very little from these groups of potential
taxpayers, and the authorities believe that bringing in the state governments, who know this
populace better, will improve enforcement and collections. If this happens, it would be a
creative and important way to strengthen the states' fiscal authority, although first the federal
government needs to put into permanent law the option for states to introduce the these taxes.
35.   Personal income tax. The main reforms to the personal income tax, taking effect
starting in 2002, will charge more similar rates to people with similar incomes and will
consolidate the taxable income of individuals from all sources. Consolidation addresses the
previous problem that persons receiving total incomes that should be taxed at a high rate could
receive income from various sources, some of which were taxed at lower rates. Tax on real-
interest income will continue to be withheld, and credited against the tax owed on consolidated
income when real-interest income exceeds 100,000 pesos annually. This reform largely
eliminates the previous distortion of the effective tax rate on equity versus debt financing of
corporate investment. The reforms introduce taxation of real interest earned on government
bonds and of capital gains from some stock sales.4  The reforms reduce the number of tax
brackets from ten to five by 2005 (starting with eight rates in 2002 and dropping one rate bracket
each year during the transition) and make the top rates consistent with the corporate tax,
including the decline of the top rate from 35 to 32 percent by 2005. The reforms reduce the
4. Capital gains taxes wil be levied on stock market transactions involving companies that have less than 35
percent of their stock traded on dhe Mexican exchange and that have been public for less that 5 years. This
intends to deter evasion through schemes involving artificial trading in closely held stocks.



- 12 -
Government subsidy (credito al salario) for workers in the formal sector, and add a tax incentive
for firms to continue paying the subsidy themselves, in the form of a penalty tax if they stop, in
order to protect the workers. As noted above, the low-income wages in the long run will be
determined by productivity (labor demand) and the wage levels in the informal sector (supply).
36.   Value-added tax. The Government submitted to Congress in 2001 a package of
proposed new tax laws, which included fundamental reforms to the value-added tax. Most
importantly the proposal called for widening the base of the tax to include most foods and
medicines, as well as published materials and private schooling. This would have brought in a
major increase of tax revenue. Analysis by the Bank as well as the Government shows that most
of the additional revenue from this measure would come from upper income households.
Therefore, if the benefit of federal public expenditure is more equal per capita, as in basic
education and health, the overall impact of such a measure would be substantially progressive.
The proposal also called for sharply reducing the geographic areas eligible for the reduced border
rate of 10 percent. These measures would both reduce the complexity of the law, facilitating
enforcement and compliance.
37.   Excise and luxury taxes. The new Law for Special Taxes Goods and Services raised the
rates on cigarettes, to raise revenue and further discourage a socially undesirable activity. The
tax on soft drinks using fructose, a protectionist measure for the domestic cane-sugar industry,
was passed by Congress but has been temporarily suspended. The income law of 2002 also put a
luxury tax of five percent on top of the regular 15 percent VAT on luxury goods and services,
such as restaurants, luxury foods (smoked salmon, caviar, eels, etc), expensive automotives and
accessories, sport boats, and recreational services (golf, horseback riding, polo, etc.). While
these areas of consumption are riot socially undesirable, putting an extra tax on them is a
progressive way to raise the increased revenue that the Government needs to continue paying for
its programs, most of which are in the social sectors and thus are pro-poor. This temporary
measure does, however, complicate the rate structure of taxes on consumption, and the
Government aims to replace it in future years with alternate way of indirect taxation.
38.   Tax administration.  The Government recognizes the need to strengthen tax
administration, in particular as its fiscal goals include an additional 0.57 percent of GDP for
2002. Important steps already taken include: the creation in 1997 of SAT as an autonomous
entity with potential for internal flexibility and competitive salaries; introduction of strategic
planning; initial rationalization and training of staff; introduction of more transparent personnel
selection methods; improved taxpayer services and physical infrastructure; establishment of a
special unit for large taxpayers; simplified tax return and payment processes; and mechanisms to
identify non-filing registered taxpayers. The Bank, with a proposed Tax Administration
Institutional Development Loan of US$52 million, is supporting the Government in
strengthening and implementing the administrative strengthening program of the SAT (total
project size is US$82 million). Bank staff have consulted with the IME during the development
of this project.
39.   The project has seven components:
a. eSA T and taxpayer services. This component aims at strengthening SAT's on-going
efforts to provide better taxpayer service and increase the transparency of SAT. The project will
further simplify taxpayers' filing of returns employing more advanced electronic means,
including all web-based activities under SAT's e-business strategy. It will carry out surveys of



- 13 -
taxpayers and other stakeholders, create permanent focus groups, and establish service standards
to increase SAT's efficiency and transparency.
b. Management of human, financial and physical resources. This component will help
SAT establish a better framework for planning and managing its manpower, financial and
physical resources: assessing SAT's staff, documenting the results in a Human Resource
Management System, upgrading training, and introducing performance management policies and
systems. These efforts will be brought together to form SAT's Integrated Resource Management
System.
c. Information hub. This component aims to improve the communication, sharing and
management of information within SAT. A Chief Information Officer will take charge of policy,
coordination, quality assurance and security of information, and will implement a series of
databases that will be optimized for access and security and will automatically receive data from
the operational databases in the various areas. The information hub therefore consists of a
collection of databases used for information access ("read only"), configured for multiple queries
and retrievals of information, with sophisticated security measures and firewalls, thus leaving the
operational databases insulated and optimized for updating rather than access.
d. Technology services. The component would finance consulting assistance to develop
an information and communicat:ions technology strategy aligned with SAT's business strategy
and goals, technical assistance for the development and implementation of an Internal Service
Policy for information and communications technology services, and upgrade equipment to
improve performance.
e. Compliance process. The component would focus on the complete Compliance
Process, financing activities to inprove SAT's units for Collections and Large Taxpayers, and
elements of its Legal and Customs units. In addition, a management information system would
be developed, performance indicators defined, baselines measured, and the Standard Notification
System defined (with performance indicators and a control system). The component would
finance the increase the coverage of the Taxpayer Registry and the creation of the single
taxpayer account.
f. Compliance control and enforcement. The component would finance the integration
elements of SAT's enforcement, auditing, legal and other functions directed at problems of
evasion, non-payment etc. into a "Compliance Control and
Enforcement" process.
g. Planning and Qualit Control. SAT senior management last year carried out its first
Strategic Planning Exercise (for 2001). This component will provide training, seminars and
technical assistance on planning and performance indicators to senior and middle managers in
order to carry the strategic planring exercise forward and to improve it as a means to achieve the
necessary, but previously missinig, coordination among administrative units.
40.   Fiscal Federalism. During 2001 the Federal Government, the Congress, and the states
explored several options for substantial devolution of taxes to the states. The proposal receiving
the most attention was a devoluition of a tax on final sales, with a corresponding reduction of the
federal VAT at that final stage. Such a measure would substantially augment states' own
revenue, often doubling it or raore, and would create a framework and precedent for further
devolution in the future. This proposal was originally linked with the expansion of the VAT
base and was shelved with it, to be considered later. Nevertheless, the annual income law for
2002 gave states the option to impose a tax of up to 3 percent on final sales (with no



- 14-
corresponding reduction of the federal VAT) and a surtax on the gross income of individuals
with entrepreneurial activity in the small-taxpayer regime, mentioned earlier. These would need
to be put into permanent laws before the states could use them, but even the temporary measures
set important precedents and gave more concrete form to the expectations that such devolutions
will be made workable in the near future. In a parallel development on the administrative side,
SAT has increased its coordination with states in the tax-auditing process and plans further steps
in this area, which both sides will need in order to reap the expected benefits from devolving
taxes.
41.   Fiscal Discipline and Transparency. To keep a stable incentive framework for the
private sector, which is main engine of growth in the economy, Mexico changes tax policy
rarely and mainly on the basis of longer term considerations, not as a short term management
tool. In the area of borrowing, Mexico sets an annual deficit target, which is consistent with its
medium term target of reducing the overall public sector borrowing requirement. To maintain
fiscal discipline and a stable macroeconomic framework, the Government now keeps the deficit
during the year within the limit specified in the budget approved by Congress, and therefore
spending must adjust to offset any negative shock to revenue. To assure the achievement of its
medium-term deficit-reduction targets, positive revenue shocks-windfalls-are partly used to
reduce the deficit, with the rest going to increase the Petroleum Revenue Stabilization Fund and
to fund infrastructure investment. The 2002 annual revenue law called for this procedure, which
was started in practice in 2001, and the Government plans to codify it into permanent law. The
Government has also increased the detail and regularity of it published fiscal accounts and
financial balances.
42.   Budgetary Reform. The package of Fiscal Reform (including the Tax Reforms) that the
Government sent to Congress in April 2001 included a proposal for Budgetary Reform (Reforma
Presupuestaria), aimed to improve transparency in the process of discussing and voting on the
budget and to strengthen fiscal responsibility and reduce uncertainty on the part of those
executing the spending programs. It called for more time for Congress to consider the budget
and clear rules for the eventualities that the budget was not passed before January 1 or that the
budget needed to be modified during the year. Congress has not approved the budgetary reform
yet, but it remains on the policy agenda.
43.   Energy Pricing Policy. In the area of energy policy, the Government recognizes the
challenges for both petroleum and electricity. In terms of concrete actions, they took the
political salient step in February 2002 of reducing the subsidy for residential electricity, by about
12 percent overall. To protect the standard of living of low-income persons, they increased the
tariffs only for the 5.5 million households with more than the minimum standard amount of
electricity consumption. For these households, the average bills will increase by almost US$ 100
for the year. Obviously, much remains to be done, and pressure from the private sector for
improved service, and fiscal pressure for more revenue, will help make the necessary actions
politically feasible.
44.   Spending Policy. Even as it faces pressure for fiscal constraint, the Government is
striving to protect spending for its social sector programs, particularly in the areas of education
and social protection. These are an important justification for the effort to collect extra fiscal
revenue through the tax policy measures supported in this proposed project and through the
program to improve tax administration. As the urban areas were relatively neglected in the
programs of the 1990s, like Progresa, the new programs like Oportunidades (the new name for



- 15 -
the expanded Progresa) and 'ConTigo (with you) aim to reach the urban population and to
increase the transparency of rules for access in both urban and rural areas. Pilot programs to
combat extreme urban poverty work through a broad range of actions in the areas of basic
education, health and nutrition.  Much-needed extra resources are also programmed for
investments in electricity generation and road expansion, although some of the resources for that
are expected through better cost recovery.
c) The Program's Outcomes
45.   We can evaluate the expected outcome of the Government's program along five of the six
target dimensions, with the dimension of political feasibility being left to the judgment of the
authorities.
46.   Revenue collection. The fiscal reform program will enhance revenue collection mainly
through the tax policy and tax administration components. The tax policy reforms in the first
phase, supported by this operation, will raise more revenue overall, although some effects cannot
be readily estimated quantitatively, some revenue effects are negative (their main benefits are
efficiency or simplicity), and some will only come after several years. The combination of all
the tax measures starting in 2002'are forecast in the budget to raise an additional 1.05 percent of
GDP in the first year. The income-tax measures at the focus of this operation are expected to
raise additional revenue of about 0.9 percent GDP in 2002, with further additional effects in
subsequent years. About two-thirds of this would come from the corporate tax measures-
unifying the rate at 35 percent (0.4 percent of GDP) and eliminating the previous regime for
agriculture and trucking (0.17 percent of GDP). From the personal income tax, implementing
the substitute tax to neutralize the salary credit for low-wage workers would bring in additional
revenue of about 0.35 percent of GDP. The changes to the excise taxes would increase revenues
by about a fourth of a percent of GDP, while revenue will decline net by about a fourth of a
percent due to some other changes, such as removing the social security and housing fund
contributions from calculating the pre-subsidy wages of the low-income workers in the formal
sector. The unification of personal taxable income from all sources will not bring in new
revenue until people file their unified returns starting in 2003. The extra income from phasing
out the income-tax preference for publishing will only come gradually, while the phased
elimination of the three top rates for the income tax starting in 2003 will initially have a negative
effect, but then should have a positive effect as they simulate economic growth and facilitate
administration.  Of course, ihe actual amount of collections depends on the growth of the
economy (partly influenced by external shocks) and the effectiveness of tax administration
efforts.
47.   Efficiency. The proposed reform will improve the incentives for efficient resource
allocation in the economy. The most obvious tax policy distortion for production allocation has
been the special corporate income tax regimes, including cash-flow accounting, for agriculture
and trucking, and lower rates for publishing. These will be ended, making the effective tax rates
on investment more equal across sectors and more equal for different forms of financing, as
shown in Annex 1. The tax-exemption for compensation provided in the form of fringe benefits
has been another serious distortion that the 2001 reforms will reduce. A large distortion in
practice has been evasion, corruption and uneven enforcement, which the Government will



- 16-
reduce with its tax administration institutional development project, with support for the
proposed Technical Assistance Loan that accompanies this adjustment operation.
48.   Equity. The proposed reform will have its most important equity impact by reducing the
disparity of the tax burden on persons with similar income levels. For the personal income tax,
all income will be accumulated for a individual and then taxed at the appropriate rate for his
income level, in contrast to the present system of taxing different income streams separately and
often at different marginal rates. Interest from government bonds and stock-market capital gains
would be included in this accumulated income for the first time. The revised laws will tax owner
operators of small businesses more effectively, putting more nearly the same burden on them as
on their salary-earning neighbors.
49.   The tax reform will also help to increase the progressiveness of the public sector-its
redistribution of resources toward the poorer persons in society. Mexico has developed an
impressive array of spending programs for reducing poverty through developing human
resources and alleviating some of the most severe incidences of poverty, especially in rural
areas.5 Public spending in Mexico is progressive on average-benefiting the poor more than the
rich as a percent of their income. International evidence indicates that the best way to increase
progressiveness of the public sector as a whole is to increase public spending for social programs
with broad coverage. The Mexican tax system is progressive overall and the policy reforms and
complementary improvements to administration will collect most of the additional revenue from
the upper income groups. Raising revenue in this way and spending it progressively will
increase the overall progressiveness of Mexico's public sector.
50.   Administrative simplicity. The tax reform policy package will simplify administration
in four main ways: phasing out the special sectoral regimes for the corporate income tax,
simplifying the inflation adjustments in the corporate income tax, allowing individual with
medium-sized entrepreneurial activity to use cash-basis accounting for their income tax, and
allowing individuals with small entrepreneurial activities to pay a single flat rate on gross
revenue for income tax, indexing the personal income tax brackets for inflation only twice a year
(instead of monthly), and reducing the number of personal income tax brackets from ten to five
by 2005.
51.   Federal consistency. The effective devolution of new tax bases to the states has not yet
been realized, although the temporary measures increase the likelihood of more progress in the
future. For now the main assistance of the federal government to subnational taxation is through
tax administration. This started in 2001 with improvements in the agreements for auditing by the
states. It will continue in the context of the subnational components of the Government's
program for institutional development of the tax administration, which would be supported by
the proposed Tax Administration Technical Assistance Loan.
5. World Bank 1999. Mexico Poverty Assessment.



- 17 -
IV. THE PROPOSED TAX REFORM ADJUSTMENT LOAN (TRAL)
a) Objective
52.   The proposed loan will support the first stage of the Government's wider program of
fiscal reform described above and in the Letter of Development Policy. Since most of the fiscal
benefit of these measures will come in the medium term as the reduced tax distortions contribute
to higher sustainable growth of private sector, the financing of the loan will help the Government
assure fiscal sustainability an(d thus macroeconomic stability in the meantime. The eventual
growth of fiscal resources will contribute to debt reduction, and in the short run the loan will help
avoid a fiscal contraction, which would be counterproductive in the present environment.
Raising more resources from a stronger tax system is essential for expanding the Government
program of social sector services and infrastructure investment. Finally, by simplifying the tax
policy to administer, the policy reforms will contribute to the Government's program of reform
of the state and reduction of corruption.
b) Content
53.   The operation will be based on the Government's matrix of fiscal reforms, as presented in
Table 2. These include the tax reforms described above, and also targets for fiscal balances and
social spending, which indicale how the tax reforms will contribute to improving the overall
fiscal situation of the country and to sustaining key government programs for investment and
poverty reduction. This loan will be disbursed in a single tranche, as the policy actions have all
been completed, and the Government may seek adjustment lending support or technical
assistance as it continues with the other aspects of its fiscal reform program.



-18-
Table 2. Mexico-Tax Reform Adjustment Loan (TRAL)
MATRIX OF POLICY COMMITMENTS FOR TRANCHE RELEASE
Policy area                        Actions prior to Board presentation
Macroeconomic        1. The approved budget for 2002 has an overall fiscal deficit of no more than 0.65
framework               percent of GDP.
Social  sector  and 2. The approved budget for 2002 increases programmable spending for education,
inf.structure spending  health, social safety nets, and investment in roads and electricity by at least 0.8
infiastructure spending  percentage points of GDP, compared to that of 2001.
Corporate income taxes 3. The new Income Tax Law
i) eliminates the special cash-flow regime for calculating taxable income in the
agriculture and road transport sectors;
ii) simplifies the inflation adjustment regime, just using the annual price index to
calculate the adjustment in the monetary liability and assets;
iii) introduces the immnediate deduction (net present value of the future capital
depreciation) for investments done outside the metropolitan areas of Monterrey,
Guadalajara and Mexico City and for fimns anywhere whose production processes:
(a) are labor intensive, (b) use clean technologies with respect to the emission of
pollutants, and (c) do not require a significant use of water;
iv) limits up the deduction of the cost of fringe benefits for non-union employees to
the lesser of one minimum wage or 10 percent of taxable income;
v) eliminates the reduced tax rate for reinvested earnings, thus unifying the
corporate and personal tax rates at 35 percent, and reduces both rates gradually to
32 percent by 2005;
vi) phases out the 50% reduction in the tax rate for the publishing industry,
bringing the rate there up to the standard rate by 2006.
Personal income taxes  4. The new Income Tax Law
i) expands the taxable income of physical persons (individuals) to include, real
interest on government and corporate bonds, dividends, and capital gains on stock
investments;
ii) aggregates all the taxable income of an individual and taxes it at the
corresponding progressive rate;
iii) reduces the number of tax rate brackets and harmonizes the top rate with the
corporate rate;
iv) reduces the government subsidy for workers in the formal sector and provides
an incentive for firms to continue paying;
v) simplifies the regime for individuals with entrepreneurial activities, so that:
(a) those with less than MxP 1.5 million in annual gross revenue that only sell
non-imported products to the general public may pay a one percent presumptive tax
on gross revenue (Small Taxpayer Regime);
(b) the other individuals with entrepreneurial activity whose annual gross revenue
is no more than MxP 4 million may calculate their taxable income on a cash flow
basis and deduct their investments until the payment has been done; and
(c) the individuals who render professional services or have entrepreneurial
activity with more than MxP 4 million in gross revenue may also calculate their
taxable income on a cash basis and will deduct their investments by the method of
either straight-line depreciation or immediate deduction of the net present value of
straight-line depreciation.



- 19 -
c) Risks
54.   In the taxation area, there is little risk that the income tax reforms would be reversed
legislatively. There is some iisk that the Government will not be able to complete its initial
objective of comprehensive fiscal reform, including broadening the base of the VAT. Even with
the existing VAT, however, the income tax reforms have their full value in improving efficiency,
equity, and simplicity. The greatest risk is that collections and enforcement would remain weak,
or would weaken after an initial improvement. Then the reforms to the law would not have their
desired effects in practice. To minimize this risk, the Government has requested technical
assistance in tax administration from the Bank, which is being provided through the proposed
Tax Administration Institutional Development Loan (US$52 million, with a total project size of
US$82 million).
55.   There is also a macroeconomic environment risk that the nominal exchange rate could
depreciate suddenly after several years of stability. As discussed in the Macroeconomic section
above, the government is doing all it can to reduce this risk by following a combination of fiscal
and monetary policies that reduce the fiscal deficit, the rate of inflation, and the nominal and real
interest rates. The policies supported by this loan, to enhance revenue and reduce tax distortions,
will help reduce the risk.
d) Poverty Impact.
56.   Evidence over the past iwo decades in Mexico shows that avoiding macroeconomic crises
and recession is the best way ito protect the poor, that education improves their earning power,
and that the Government's major anti-poverty programs help alleviate its effects. As explained
above in the Results section, tie package of reforms to be supported by the proposed loan will
help assure macroeconomic sustainability, will raise more resources for programns that reduce
poverty, and will not increase the share of taxes paid by the poor. Thus, overall the program will
contribute to poverty reduction in Mexico.
e) Loan Amounts, Conditions, and Arrangements.
57.   The proposed US$303.04 million TRAL in the form of a single currency, US dollar loan
will be made to the United Mexican States. Disbursements under the proposed TRAL will be
made to an account ("Deposit Account") of the Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico
established at Banco de Mexico for this purpose. The loan will have a bullet repayment of
principal after ten years, and an interest rate for fixed-spread variable-rate US dollar single
currency loans with an expected disbursement period of one year. The operation will close June
30, 2003.
58.   Disbursement and Procurement. Loan disbursement will be made under simplified
disbursement procedures. Proceeds will be disbursed against satisfactory implementation of the
adjustment program, including compliance with stipulated effectiveness conditions. In
accordance with the Operational Directive on the Simplification of Disbursement Rules under
Structural Adjustment and Sec:toral Adjustment Loans (February 8, 1996), disbursements will
not be linked to specific purchases and, hence, there will be no procurement requirements. The
standard prohibition remains against using proceeds to cover expenses incurred in the borrower's



-20 -
currency, and the loan proceeds can be kept as the country's foreign reserves or used to finance
imports other than the standard excluded expenditures. Once the loan becomes effective, the
Borrower will open and maintain a corresponding Deposit Account in dollars at the Banco de
Mexico (ihe central bank). When the Bank is satisfied that the Borrower has fulfilled the
conditions for the tranche release, which is expected when the loan becomes effective, the
Borrower will submit a simplified withdrawal application against which the Bank will disburse
the corresponding loan proceeds into the Deposit Account for the Borrower's use. If, after
deposit in this account, the proceeds of the loan are used for ineligible purposes as defined in the
Loan Agreement, the Bank will require the Borrower to either: (a) return that amount to the
account for use for eligible purposes; or (b) refund the amount directly to the Bank (in which
case the Bank will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the loan).
59.   Auditing. Upon the Bank's request, the Borrower will have the Deposit Account audited
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with standard Bank
requirements. Copies of any audit will be submitted to the Bank no later than four months after
the date of the Bank's request for such an audit.
60.   Loan Management and Monitoring. Loan administration will be the responsibility of a
loan manager employed by the Nacional Financiera (NAFIN). The loan manager will be
responsible for preparing the withdrawal application, maintaining the Deposit Account and
arranging for its timely audit (if requested by the Bank), and monitoring overall loan
implementation. The loan manager, appointed by NAFIN, will also be responsible for
coordinating the preparation of the Borrower's contributions to the Implementation Completion
Report and for writing those sections relating to loan administration.
61.   Environmental Assessment Requirements. In accordance with the Bank's Operational
Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.00, Annex A), the proposed operation has been
placed in Category "U" and will not require an environmental assessment. The Bank maintains
with Mexico an active policy dialogue and program in the environment area. As indicated in the
2002 CAS, the Government has a five-year environment action plan, involving both institutional
reforms for decentralization and better enforcement and policy reforms, such as user charges,
environmental taxes, and improved pricing for water and electricity. The Bank's program
supports several aspects of the plan, including with an Environmental Support SAL (FY02 or
FY03) and investment projects with GEF and in the areas of water, forestry, and air quality. The
tax policy reforms supported in the operation include an investment incentive for
environmentally friendly production processes.
V. BANK STRATEGY
a) The CAS and The Proposed TRAL
62.   The TRAL will contribute to delivering World Bank support for four of the five
objectives that drive the 2002 CAS (scheduled for discussion by the Board of Executive
Directors on May 16, 2002).  Consolidating macroeconomic gains and human capital
development are the most prominent. The President, the Secretary of Finance, and many others
have identified the reform of taxes as critical to the overall fiscal reform program-making the
fiscal situation sustainable, while assuring the needed and promised fiscal resources for
strengthening the Government's various programs in human capital development. By improving
the tax system, including reduction of corruption with the strengthening of tax administration,



-21 -
the loan and its proposed companion loan for institutional development will contribute to the
objective of building an efficient, accountable and transparent government. The reduction in the
distortions of incentives in the corporate tax regime will contribute to the objective of
accelerating growth through enhanced competitiveness.
63.   While there is more to do on the fiscal reform agenda, this operation will provide support
for the achievements thus far and encourage the completion of the other steps. The operation
was envisaged in the 1999 CAS, the 2001 CAS Update, and the 2002 CAS, and its amount lies
within previously projected exposure limits and adjustment lending envelopes.
b) Complementarity With Other Operations by the World Bank.
64.   The proposed TRAL relates most closely with the proposed Tax Administration
Institutional Development Loan, as noted earlier. The simplification and rationalization of the
tax regime will complemeni the Government's anti-corruption efforts, to be supported by the
Anti-Corruption Technical Assistance project now being prepared. By improving revenue
generation, it will complement all the other projects in the Bank's portfolio.
c) Complementarity With Operations by Other Institutions.
65.   The IMF has long taken an interest in tax reform in Mexico and supported the tax
proposals of the Government in 2001. The parts of the tax reform actually achieved and the
program to strengthen tax administration figure prominently and positively in the Fund's
consideration of Mexico for a Contingent Line of Credit. The IDB program does not include any
projects related to tax reforn, but the Bank and IDB staff coordinate in our related work on
subnational finances.
VH. RECOMMENDATION
66.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank, and I recommend that ihe Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Shengman Zhang
Washington, D.C.
May 20, 2002






- 22 -
Is                       SUBSECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
SECRETARtA          ANNEX 1: Letter of Development Policy
cE
.4r2NDA Y CREDITO PUMIC
Mexico, D. F., 14 de mayo de 2002.
SR. JAMES D. WOLFENSOHN
Presidente
Banco Mundial
Washington DC, 20433
USA
Estimado Sr. Wolfensohn:
Por medio de la presente, me dirijo a usted para hacer de su conocimiento la intenci6n de
la presente Administraci6n de avanzar en el programa de fortalecimiento del sistema
tributario nacional. En tal virtud, el Gobierno de Mexico solicita apoyo del Banco Mundial a
traves de los prestamos Tatx Reforrm Adjustment Loan y Tax Administration Institutional
Development Project, con el objeto de poder solventar los programas puestos en marcha
recientemente en nuestro pa is.
Para resaltar la importancia que representa para Mexico continuar con la agenda en
materia tributaria, a continuaci6n se presenta un breve resumen de lo mas destacado de la
evoluci6n de la economia mexicana; lo mas relevante de las reformas tributarias aprobadas
recientemente por el H. Congreso de la Uni6n, y los temas principales en materia tributaria
en los que el Gobierno de MIexico planea enfocar sus esfuerzos en el mediano plazo.
I.    Evoluci6n macroecon6mica
En los ultimos atos, la economia mexicana se ha recuperado favorablemente de la crisis
enfrentada a mediados de la decada pasada, y avanza con paso firme hacia la integraci6n
con sus principales socios comerciales y la economia mundial. Mexico ha recuperado la
estabilidad de precios gracias a la disciplina fiscal adoptada por las autoridades y al prudente
manejo de la politica monetaria por parte del Banco Central. A pesar de los vaivenes del ciclo
econ6mico, las cuentas internas y externas se han mantenido en orden en todo momento,
fortaleciendo asi la confianz.a de los agentes econ6micos dentro y fuera del pais. Esto ha
permitido crear un entorno de estabilidad que ha favorecido la inversi6n, tanto nacional como
extranjera.
La evoluci6n de las variaibles macroecon6micas refleja el fortalecimiento de las bases de
la economia nacional. En el periodo 1996-2000, el PIB registr6 una tasa de crecimiento real
anual promedio de 5.6 por ciento, proceso que se interrumpi6 temporalmente en 2001 en
sintonia con la desaceleracieon de la economia mundial.



- 23 -
4DOS~                  SUBSECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
102-B3-
SECRETARLA
DE
KAc28EA Y UIEDO PtJBtCO
-2-
La prudencia en elr manejo de la politich mohetaria y ra disciplina fiscal hah coadyuvado -a
disminuir considerablemerite la inflaci6n. Durante 2001, por ejemplo, el Indide' Nacionat de
Precios al Consumidor (INPC) alcanz6 la menor tasa de'crecimiento desde su creaci6n en
1968, registrando,un aumentoa.de 4.4 por ciento anual, menor incluso que la meta oficial de
6.5 por cientb. Las tasas de interes nationales tambien han registrado una clara tendencia a
la baja, alcanzando niveles minimos hist6ricos en abril de 2002. Ademas, el tipo de cambio
muestra fortaleza y estabilidad.
Las cuentas con el exterior han evolucionado de manera ordenada. El deficit de la cuenta
corriente de la balanza de pagos se ha mantenido en niveles congruentes con la
disponibilidad de ahorro externo de largo plazo.
Lo anterior ha sido posible gracias a la disciplina en el manejo de la politica fiscal. Las
autoridades han reaccionado oportunamente ante los vaivenes del ciclo econ6mico y los
cambios abruptos en el precio internacional del petr6leo, manejo que ha permitido alcanzar
las metas fiscales anunciadas en los uiltimos anios. En este proceso, el deficit publico ha
disminuido de 1.3 por ciento del PIB en 1998 a 0.7 por ciento en 2001.
En materia de deuda publica el gobierno ha instrumentado una politica proactiva que le
ha permitido aprovechar distintas oportunidades para prepagar algunas emisiones, hecho
que se ha traducido en ahorros a futuro y mejoras en el perfil de vencimientos.
Los retos que la economia mexicana tendra que enfrentar en el corto y mediano plazos
son mantener la disciplina en el manejo de la politica econ6mica para garantizar una
recuperaci6n ordenada y sostenible, asi como avanzar en la agenda de reformas
estructurales que permitan modernizar el marco regulatorio y mejorar la productividad y
competitividad del aparato productivo.
II.   Reforna Fiscal
Desde su inicio en diciembre de 2000, la actual Administraci6n ha considerado la reforma
fiscal como una alta prioridad. La creciente necesidad de recursos para cubrir
satisfactoramente las responsabilidades del Estado, requiere de un aumento en las fuentes
permanentes de ingresos publicos, por lo que ha sido necesario implementar acciones en las
siguientes tres areas:



- 24 -
laiam                   SUBSECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
102-13-
SECtTARIA
DE
1ACEJOA Y CREDITO PUWCO
-3-
* Politica Tributaria.- Reducir distorsiones y aumentar las fuentes permanentes de
.recaudaci6n, avanzar en un esquema tributario mas equitatiyo, simplificar y mejorar el
cumplimiento fiscal, hacer el esquema fiscal mas competitivo y cerrar los espacios
para la evasi6n y elusi6n fiscales.
* Administraci6n Tributaria.- Diseniar e implementar programas para aumentar la
eficiencia en la recauclaci6n y el cumplimiento fiscal, disminuir la corrupci6n y facilitar
el cumplimiento de las obligaciones con el fisco, ampliar los mecanismos y la
cobertura de la asistencia fiscal al contribuyente y fortalecer las facultades de la
administraci6n tributariia para combatir la evasi6n fiscal.
* Federalismo Fiscal.- Aumentar las potestades tributarias de los gobiernos estatales y
municipales en forma congruente con la Federaci6n.
Gracias al esfuerzo conjunto del Ejecutivo y del H. Congreso por trabajar
constructivamente y buscar consensos entre sus representantes, el 31 de diciembre de 2001
se aprobaron importantes cambios en materia de legislaci6n tributaria. A continuaci6n se
presentan algunos de los avainces logrados.
Politica Tributana. Uno cde los objetivos de la reforma es aumentar la recaudaci6n sin
introducir distorsiones. En es;te sentido, la reforma busca incrementar la captaci6n tributaria,
expandiendo la base gravaible a traves de la eliminaci6n de exenciones y regimenes
especiales.
La reforma fiscal aprobacla contiene avances significativos, especialmente en matena del
impuesto sobre la renta. Esta reforma elimina el regimen especial a los sectores agricola, de
autotransporte y editorial; uriifica la tasa de gravamen para las utilidades de las empresas,
independientemente de si se reparten o no; reduce gradualmente las tasas de gravamen,
tanto para las empresas como para personas fisicas, durante los siguientes 3 alios; reduce el
numero de rangos de tasas para personas fisicas; propone la acumulaci6n total de ingresos
gravables para personas fisica, incluyendo los intereses de bonos gubernamentales o
corporativos, dividendos y utilidades bursatiles; elimina el costo del cr6dito al salario hasta en
3% de la n6mina de las e!mpresas; y simplifica el calculo del ajuste inflacionario y el
cumplimiento fiscal de pequeflas y medianas empresas. Asimismo, la reforma incluye
cambios a las tasas de los impuestos especiales al tabaco y a las bebidas alcoh6licas, e
introduce nuevos gravamenes a los refrescos endulzados con fructuosa y a las
telecomunicaciones. El impacto de estas reformas en los ingresos publicos comenz6 desde
su entrada en vigor en enero de 2002, y se espera que crezca en el mediano plazo conforme
los contribuyentes asimilen por completo las mejoras regulatorias.



- 25 -
S     f el               SUBSECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
102-B3-
SEcCEAMA
BE
*iAOEMA Y CRECITO PU8UCO
4-
En relacion con la agenda de politica tributaria, en el mediano plazo se pretende
continuar con el imptLso de dar mas peso a los inmuestos indirectos sobre IQs directos, a
efecto de seguir expandiendo la base gravable, minimizar las distorsiones y reducir la
evasi6n y elusi6n fiscales, asi como seguir fortaleciendo las finanzas de los gobiern6s
estatales y municipales.
Administraci6n Tributaria. La mejora de la administraci6n tributana tambien forma parte
de los objetivos de ia reforma fiscal. En este sentido, se han instrumentado una serie de
medidas para mejorar la eficacia y eficiencia de la administraci6n tributaria, que a la fecha,
han arrojado resultados favorables. Entre otras medidas, destacan las siguientes: mejorar la
coordinaci6n entre las unidades administrativas del Servicio de Administraci6n Tributaria
(SAT); mejorar los proceso de auditoria; reducir la corrupci6n; mejorar la captura, calidad y
seguridad de la infornacion dentro de la organizaci6n; intensificar la capacitaci6n del
personal; mejorar la atenci6n y el servicio al contribuyente, y modernizar los programas y el
equipo informatico. El Gobierno de M6xico planea continuar con esas tendencias de mejoras
en el mediano plazo. El antes mencionado Tax Administration Institutional Development
Project sera una contribuci6n importante en ese esfuerzo.
Federalismo Fiscal. En materia de federalismo, la reforma aprobada reconoce la
necesidad de incrementar las potestades tributarias de los estados y municipios, toda vez
que son estos quienes, en buena medida, ejercen el gasto publico. En este sentido, la
reforma otorga a los estados nuevas potestades, para que previa autorizaci6n de sus
respectivos Congresos Estatales, fortalezcan sus ingresos propios. En particular, la Ley de
Ingresos 2002 faculta a los estados para establecer una tasa adicional maxima a las ventas
finales de bienes y servicios y para gravar en base neta a las personas fisicas con
actividades empresariales y profesionales con ingresos de hasta 4 mdp, con una tasa de
hasta 5%, y de 2% sobre base bruta cuando los ingresos por actividades empresariales no
rebasen los 1.5 mdp. Se debe mencionar que los ingresos adicionales que recauden los
estados por estos conceptos no se comparten con el Gobierno Federal. En adelante, el
Gobierno Federal continuara con el esfuerzo para mejorar la coordinaci6n fiscal entre los
gobiernos locales y la Federaci6n (SAT) y mantendra el apoyo para que los gobiernos locales
fortalezcan sus fuentes de ingresos propias, y asi consoliden la estabilidad en sus finanzas
locales.
III.  Otras Medidas
Una de las priordades de la presente Administraci6n es fortalecer las finanzas
publicas. En este sentido, 'el gobiemo ha instrumentado una serie de medidas, adicionales a
la reforma tributaria aprobada recientemente por el H. Congreso, orientadas a garantizar la
sostenibilidad de la postura fiscal. Entre otras, destacan las siguientes:



- Z6 -
S                        SUBSECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
102-B3-
SECRETARIA
DE
eAA Y CREDWO PUCO
-5-
e Disciplina y Transparericia Fiscal.- Con el objeto de preservar la estabilidad y
certidumbre en el entomo macroecon6mico, el gobierno ha mantenido la disciplina
fiscal. En este sentido, y para garantizar el cumplimiento de las metas fiscales
aprobadas por el H. Congreso, se han incluido en el Presupuesto de Egresos de la
Federacion una serie de ajustadores automaticos. En particular, el Presupuesto'de
Egresos para 2002 dispone que en caso de que los ingresos sean menores de lo
estimado es necesario ajustar el gasto presupuestario. Por el contrario, si los ingresos
obtenidos son mayores de lo previsto, los recursos adicionales deben destinarse, en
iguales proporciones, al Fondo de Estabilizaci6n de los Ingresos Petroleros (FEIP), a
mejorar el balance del sector publico y al impulso de programas de infraestructura.
Asimismo, el gobierno continuja con el esfuerzo de mejorar la transparencia fiscal,
publicando peri6dicamente los principales resultados fiscales y de deuda publica, asi
como indicadores fiscales ampliados que revelan fehacientemente las necesidades de
financiamiento del sector publico (RFSP). Gracias al cumplimiento de metas fiscales y
a la transparencia fiscal, entre otros logros, es que Mexico ha obtenido recientemente
el grado de inversi6n por las principales corredurias internacionales.
* Reforma Presupuestaria.- Como parte de la iniciativa de reforma para la Nueva
Hacienda Publica enviada al H. Congreso en 2001, el Ejecutivo envi6 una propuesta
de reforma presupuestaria, que tiene por objeto reducir la incertidumbre de los
procesos de discusi6n y aprobaci6n del presupuesto, asi como facilitar la ejecuci6n de
proyectos de inversi6n multianuales.
* Politica de Gasto Publico.- Es un compromiso del Gobierno de Mexico continuar con
el esfuerzo por atender las necesidades de salud, educaci6n, seguridad social e
infraestructura basica d,a todos los grupos de la poblaci6n, y en especial, de los mas
necesitados. Para ello, se han instrumentado una serie de programas sociales
-incluyendo Contigo y Oportunidades- que tienen por objeto combatir la pobreza,
especialmente en zonas urbanas. Sin embargo, debido a las crecientes necesidades
en materia social, es imiperativo continuar impulsando medidas que permitan fortalecer
los ingresos permanerites del Estado y asi poder asignar mayores recursos al
combate a la pobreza.
* Politica de Precios Energeticos.- Reconociendo la importancia del sector energetico
en las finanzas publicas, y con el objeto de promover la conservaci6n, en febrero de
2002 el gobierno. anunci6 la reducci6n del subsidio a las tarifas electricas
residenciales. Esta politica se tradujo en un incremento en las tarifas para aquellos
hogares con consumos mayores al minimo, a efecto de proteger el ingreso de las
familias con menores recursos.



MAY-15-202 16:22  DE:                   -27-               p:912e25222 3      P:7
el 141"VO&                  SUBSECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
102-B- 131
OE
-6-
. Reforma Presupuestarla.- Como parte de Is iniciativa de refomna pare la Nueva
Hacienda Publica enviada al H. Congreso en 2001, el Ejecutivo envi6 una propuesta
de reforma presupuestaria, que tiene por objeto reducir Is incertidumbre de los
procesos de discusi6n y aprobaci6n del presupuesto, ass como facilitar la ejecuci6n de
proyectos de lnversi6n multianuales.
* Politica de Gasto Publico.- Es un compromiso del Goblemo de Mexico continuar con
el esfuerzo por atender las necesidades de salud, educaci6n, seguridad social e
infraestruetura b6sios de todos los grupos de la poblaci6n, y on especial, do los mas
nec.esitadns. ParA ello, se han Instrumentado una eerie de programas sooiales
rncluyendo Contigo y Opoifwaidad.e que tionen por objeto combotir la pobrazo,
*.poc1i=lmntO en aeon:c urbanoo. Sin mprnbargo, dobido a loa creclonto. nocaoidOdca
en materia soci;al, es impaTrtfvo continuar imnpulsando modidas quo pormilen forialecer
los tngresos permanentes del Estado y asi poder asignar mayores recursos al
combate a la pobreza.
* Pnlftic.sA dA PrRninr FnArOgticos.. Reconoclendo Is Importancia del sector ener96too
en las finanzas publicas, y con el objeto de promover la conservaci6n, en febrero de
2002 el gobiemo anuncl6 Ia reducci6n del subsidio a las tarifas electricas
residenciales. Esta polltica se tradujo en un incremento en las taifas para aquellos
hogares con consumos mayores al minimo, a efecto de proteger el ingreso de las
famillas con menores recursos.
IV. Apoyo del Banco Mundlal
Si bien la reforma fiscal aprobada representa avances importantes on todas las treas
trlbutarias, se reconoce que aun queda mucho por hacer, especlalmente en materia de
priminictrneiAn trehm.tifan  Poro olto, ol Cobiorno Jo MWxoo oolio; el Pteenoo Mundial dc au
epoyo a trav6de .dl Tax Reform Adjuotment Loan. De to miama manero, so proterdide otJwnnual
con.las mejoras en materia de administraci6n tributaria, prooeso para el cual Mbxico solicita
apoyo t6cnico y financiero del Banco Mundial a travOs del Tax Administration Institutional
Development Pt4ect.



-28 -
001M                      SUBSECRETARIA DE HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
102-1- 131
-7-
Consciente de la Importancia de mantener una posture fiscal sana y sostenible, el Banco
Mundlal ha mostrado un especial inter66 en el tema de Reforme Fiscal. En virtud de lo
anterior, el Goblemo de Mdxco solicita al Banco Mundial de su apoyo t6cnico y financiero
para la consolidaci6n de! los programas antes mencionados. considerados por las
autoridedes nacionales de suma Importancia para continuar con el Programa de Reforma
Fiscal durante los priximos cuatro aflos.
A t e n t a m e n t e.
SUFRAGIO EFECTIVO, NO REELECCION.
El Subsecretarlo,
DR. AGUSTIN G   LLERMO         NS CARSTENS
C.c.p. Direcci6n General deo Cr6dito PCiblico. Presente.



-29 -
SECRETARIAT OF FINANCE AND PUBLIC CREDIT
Mexico City
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
World Bank
Washington DC, 20433
USA
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn,
I would like to bring to your attention the intention of the present administration
to move ahead with the program of strengthening the national system of taxation. For the
sake of this, the Government of Mexico requests the support of the World Bank by means
of the Tax Reform Adjustment Loan and the Tax Administration Institutional
Development Loan, with the objective to facilitate the programs recently put in motion in
our country.
To emphasize the importance for Mexico of continuing with the agenda of
taxation matters, a brief summary is presented of the highlights in the evolution of the
Mexican economy, the most relevant aspects of the tax reforms recently approved by the
Federal Congress, and the main themes in the tax area on which the Government of
Mexico plans to focus its energies in the medium term.
I. Macroeconomic Situation
In recent years, the Mexican economy has recovered favorably from the crisis
faced in the middle of the previous decade and is advancing with firm steps toward
integration with its main commercial and economic partners in the world. Mexico has
recovered price stability, thanks to the fiscal discipline adopted by the authorities and to
the prudent management of monetary policy on the part of the Central Bank. Despite the
fluctuations of the economic cycle, the internal and external accounts have been
maintained in order at all times, thus strengthening the confidence of economic agents
within and outside the country. This has made it possible to create a framework of
stability that has favored investment by domestic and foreign firms.
The evolution of macroeconomic variables reflects the strengthening of the
national economy. In the period 1996-2000, the gross domestic product recorded an
average annual growth rate of 5.6 percent, a process that was interrupted temporarily in
2001 along with the deceleration of the world economy.
The prudent management of monetary policy and fiscal discipline have been
helping to reduce inflation considerably. During 2001, for example, the national index of
consumer prices reached is lowest rate of increase since the time it was created in 1968,
registering an increase of 4.4 percent annually, lower than the official target of 6.5



-30 -
percent for the year. The domestic interest rates also registered a clear downward trend,
reaching historic lows in April 2002. Furthermore, the exchange rate is showing strength
and stability.
The external, accounts have evolved in an orderly manner. The deficit of the
current account of the balarnce of payments has been maintained at levels congruent with
the availability of long-term foreign savings.
The above has been possible thanks to the discipline in the management of fiscal
policy. The authorities helve reacted opportunely in the face of the fluctuations of the
economic cycle and the abrupt changes in the international price of petroleum-
management that made it possible to achieve the fiscal goals announced in recent years.
In this process, the public budget deficit has declined from 1.3 percent of GDP in 1998 to
0.7 percent in 2001.
In matters of public debt the government.has used a proactive policy that has
permitted it to utilize cert:ain opportunities to repay some debt, which translated into
future savings and improvements in the maturity profile.
The challenges tha1 the Mexican economy will face in the short and medium termn
are to maintain discipline in economic policy management in order to guarantee an
orderly and sustainable recovery, as well as to advance with the agenda of structural
reforms that will modernize the regulatory framework and improve the productivity and
competitiveness of the production system.
II. Fiscal Reform.
From its beginning in December 2000, the present administration in Mexico has
accorded high priority to fiscal reform. The growing necessity for resources to cover
satisfactorily the responsibilities of the State require an expansion of the permanent
sources of public revenues, for which it has been necessary to implement actions in the
three following areas:
*  Tax Policy- To reduce distortions and increase the permanent sources of tax
revenue, to advance a more equitable tax scheme, to simplify and improve the tax
compliance, to make the tax system more competitive, and to close the gaps for
tax evasion and avoidance.
.  Tax Administration- To design and implement programs to increase the
efficiency in tax collection and compliance, to reduce corruption and facilitate the
compliance of obligations to the Treasury, to expand the mechanisms and the
coverage of the assistance to taxpayers, and to strengthen the powers of the tax
administration to combat tax evasion.
* Subnational Finances- To increase the tax bases of the state and municipal
governments in a form that is consistent with the Federal System.



-31 -
Thanks to the combined effort of the Executive and the Congress to work
constructively and seek consensus among their representatives, important changes were
approved on December 31, 2001, in the tax legislation. The following are some of the
advances that were achieved.
Tax Policy. One of the objectives of the refortn is to increase collections without
introducing distortions. In this sense, the reform seeks to increase the tax receipts,
expanding the taxable base through the elimination of exemptions and special regimes.
The tax reforms that were approved contain significant advances, especially in the
area of income taxes. This reform eliminates the special regimes for the agriculture,
trucking, and publishing sectors; unifies the tax rate for corporate earnings, independently
from whether they are distributed or not; reduces gradually the tax rate for corporations
and individuals over the next 3 years; reduces the number of personal income tax
brackets; sets forth the combination of all personal income into one taxable sum,
including government and commercial bond interest, stock profits, and dividends;
eliminates the cost to the government of salary subsidies up to 3 percent of the payroll of
firms; and simplifies the calculation of the inflation adjustment and the tax compliance of
small and medium enterprises. Also, the reform includes changes in the rates of excise
taxes on tobacco and alcoholic beverages and introduces new taxes on beverages
sweetened with fructose and on telecommunications. The impact of these changes on
public revenue started when they carne into effect in January 2002, and it is expected that
it will grow in the medium term as the taxpayers assimilate completely the regulatory
improvements.
With relation to the agenda of tax policy reform, in the medium term, the drive will
be continued to put more emphasis on indirect taxes relative to direct taxes, with the
object to continue expanding the taxable base, to minimize the distortions and to reduce
tax evasion and avoidance, as well as to continue strengthening the finances of the state
and municipal governments.
Tax Administration. The improvement of tax administration is also part of the
objectives of the fiscal reform. In this sense, a series of measures have been orchestrated
to improve the efficacy and efficiency of tax administration, which to date have indicated
favorable results. Among other measures, the following stand out: to improve the
coordination between the administrative units of the Tax Administration Service (SAT);
to improve the process of auditing; to reduce corruption; to improve the capture, quality,
and security of information within the organization; to intensify the training of personnel;
improve the attention and service to the taxpayers; and to modernize the informatics
programs and equipment. The Government of Mexico plans to continue with these
improvements in the medium term. The previously mentioned Tax Administration
Institutional Development Project will make an important contribution to that effort.
Fiscal Federalism. Concerning federalism, the reform that was approved recognizes
the necessity to increase the tax bases of the states and municipalities, since they are the
ones that to a great extent carry out the spending of the public sector. In this sense, the



-32 -
reform grants to the states new tax bases, m order to strengthen their own revenues, for
which their respective state congresses would provide the authorization. In particular, the
2002 Revenue Law empowered the states to establish an additional tax, up to a certain
maximum, on the final sales of goods and services. And it empowered states to tax the
income of individuals with entrepreneurial activity, at a rate up to 5 percent on the net
income of those with annual revenue up to 4 million pesos and at a rate up to 2 percent on
the gross income of those with annual revenue not exceeding 1.5 million pesos. It should
be mentioned that the additional revenues that the states collect with these measures are
not shared with the Federad Government. In the future, the Federal Government will
continue the efforts to improve the coordination of tax enforcement between the local
governments and the Federation (SAT) and will maintain the assistance for local
governments to strengthen their sources of own income, and thus to consolidate the
stability of their local finances.
III. Other Measures
.One of the priorities of the present administration is to strengthen public finances. In
this sense, the government has orchestrated a series of measures, in addition to the tax
reform recently approved by Congress, oriented to guarantee the sustainability of the
fiscal stance. Among otheis, the following stand out:
Fiscal Discipline and Transparency. With the objective to preserve the stability and
certainty in the macroeconomic framework, the government has maintained fiscal
discipline. In this sense, and in order to guarantee the compliance with the fiscal targets
approved by Congress, a series of automatic adjustment procedures have been included in
the Expenditure Budget. H[n particular, the 2002 Expenditure Budget provides that it is
necessary to adjust the budgeted expenditure in the event that revenues are less than
estimated. On the other hand, if the revenues are greater than forecast, then the additional
revenues need to be destined, in equal proportions, to the Stabilization Fund for
Petroleum Revenues, to improve the public sector balance, and to support infrastructure
investment programs. Likewise, the government is continuing with the effort to improve
fiscal transparency, publishing at regular periods the principal fiscal outcomes and the
public debt, and also expanded fiscal indicators that reveal reliably the public sector
borrowing requirement (PSBR). Thanks to the achievement of its fiscal targets and to the
fiscal transparency, among other things, Mexico has recently obtained investment-grade
credit ratings from the principal international rating agencies.
Budget Reform. As part of the reform initiative for the New Public Finances,
submitted to Congress in 2001, the executive sent a proposal for budgeting reform, that
has as its objective to reduce the uncertainty in the process of discussing and approving
the budget, as well as to facilitate the execution of multi-year investment projects.
Public Spending Policy. It is a commitment of the Government of Mexico to continue
the effort to attend to the needs of health, education, social security and basic
infrastructure of all groups of the population, and especially those most in need. For that,
a series of social programs has been instrumented, including Contigo and Oportunidades,



-33 -
that have the objective to combat poverty, especially in urban areas. Nonetheless, due to
the growing social needs, it is imperative to continue promoting measures that strengthen
the permanent revenues of the State, to be able to assign more resources to combat
poverty.
Energy Pricing Policy. Recognizing the importance of the energy sector for public
finances, and with the objective to promote conservation, the government announced in
February 2002 the reduction in the subsidy for residential electricity tariffs. This policy
translated into an increase in tariffs for the households with more than minimum power
consumption, for the purpose of protecting the income of families with less resources.
IV.    World Bank Support
Even though the fiscal reform that was approved represents important advances in
all the taxation areas, it is recognized that there is much remaining to be done, especially
in the area of tax administration. For that, the Government of Mexico is asking the
World Bank for its help through the Tax Reform Adjustment Loan. In the same way, it is
the intention to continue with improvements in the area of tax administration, a process
for which Mexico is asking technical assistance and financing from the World Bank
through the Tax Administration Institutional Development Project.
Conscious of the importance of maintaining a healthy and sustainable fiscal
stance, the World Bank has shown special interest in the theme of fiscal reform. By
virtue of the above, the Government of Mexico is asking the technical and financial
support of the World Bank for the consolidation of the programs mentioned above, and
considered by the country authorities as being of highest importance, in order to continue
the Program of Fiscal Reform during the next four years.
Sincerely.
Effective suffrage, no reeleccion.
The Undersecretary,
Dr. Agustin Guillermo Carstens Carstens
Cc: General Directorate of Public Credit



- 34 -
ANNEX 2: Fiscal Policy Reforms
Fiscal Policy reforms talken prior to Board Presentation and planned for the future
Program Area    Actions prior to Board Presentation     Planned Future Agenda
Tax Policy      Corporate income tax: reduced sectoral  Strengthen indirect taxation,
distortions, simplified the rules for the  through broadened coverage and
inflation adjustment to valuation of nominal  reduced exemptions.
assets and liabilities, gave an investment
incentive for area outside the largest cities and
for firms using eco-friendly technology,
limited deductions for payment of fringe
benefits, unified the corporate tax rate and
gradually reduced it.
Personal inccme tax: included more assets
income as tax:able, aggregated all taxable in
come of an individual, reduced the number of
tax bracket, ended the government subsidy for
workers' salaries, simplified the regimes for
small tax payers.
Policies outside the area supported by the proposed operation:
Tax             Launched Tax Administration Institutional  Implement the reforms supported
Administration  Development Project (to be supported with a  by the Tax Administration
proposed $52. m. loan of the same name):  Institutional Development
improving taxpayer service through training,  Project. These are expected to
customer communication, and electronic  yield additional revenue, reduce
means; imprciving the quality of human and  corruption, and make the tax
physical resources in SAT and organizing  system fairer in its application
them with an Integrated Resource        and appearance.
Management System; improving the quality,
organization and accessibility of databases;
organizing better the taxpayer registry,
collection, auditing and enforcement
processes; improving strategic planning and
the coordination between the various
management units of SAT.
Subnational     Eliminated discretionary transfers by the  Strengthen subnational taxation
Finances        Federal Government to states.           capacity, including devolving to
Eliminated effective federal guaranteed for  states on a permanent basis the
subnational debt and implemented financial-  taxes on final sales and on income
sector regulalions, so that creditworthiness  of small taxpayers.
would have important effects on accessibility  Improve allocation of federal
and cost of loans.                      transfers to states and
Made transparency of subnational finances a  municipalities for revenue sharing
condition for cost-effective borrowing by  and for social sector spending.
states and municipalities.
(Decentralization Adjustment Loan, $600m,
approved December 1999, supported these
reforms.)
The Revenue Law for 2002 gave to states the



- 35 -
power in that year to levy a tax of up to 3
percent on final sales and a tax up to 2 percent
on the gross income of individuals with small
entrepreneurial activity.
Fiscal Discipline  Followed budget implementation practices  Codify conservative fiscal
and            that make expenditure adjust for any revenue  practices into a permanent law.
Transparency    shortfalls during the year (preventing any
unforeseen expansion of the deficit) and use
any positive revenue windfalls to reduce the
deficit, build reserves, and finance
infrastructure investment.
Increased the detail and regularity of it
published fiscal accounts and financial
balances
Budgetary                                              Improve rules for the timing of
Reform                                                 the budget process, for the
eventuality that the approval of
the budget is delayed beyond the
start of the year, and for adjusting
the budget during the year.
Energy Policy   Reduced of electricity subsidy in February  Rationalize pricing and tax and
2002 and consequently increased tariffs for  incentive structure for public
households with more than minimal      entities in electricity and
consumption levels.                    petroleum sectors;
Expand options for private-sector
_______ ______ ______ _______ ______ ____ .  articipation.
Public Spending  Sustained spending for education, health,  Increase the progressivity of the
social safety nets and investment in economic  overall public sector by
infrastructure (roads and electricity).  increasing the amount, efficiency
Expanded the Oportunidades program     and equity of public spending:
(previously known as Progresa) to include a  Strengthen anti-poverty
pilot program for an improved social safety  programs, especially in urban
net for the urban poor, which the goverrnent  areas.
intends to expand. (A major loan from the  Make the allocation of resources
IDB, approved in December 2001 supports  for education and health sectors
this.)                                 more equitable per capita and
Introduced a regional anti-poverty program  improve local accountability.
(ConTigo) that integrates exiting programs,  Expand spending for both
customizes them for local needs and lays the  investment and maintenance for
basis for subsequent expansion.        highway and road infrastructure.



-36 -
ANNEXK 3: Statement of Loans and Credits
02-May-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions                          disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                    IBRD        IDA                GEF     Cancel.   Undisb      Orig   Frm Revd
P057531       2002 MX 3asic Ed Oev Phase II                      300.00     0.00                0.00      0 00    300 00      0 00      0 00
P060577       2002 MX Southeast ReWI Develcpment LIL              5.00      0 00                0 00      0 00      5 00      0 08      0 00
P065988       2002 GEF MX-Consolidation of Protected reas         000       0 00               1610       0 00      0 01      0 00      0 00
P064887       2001 DISASTER MANAGEMENT [ERL)                     404 05     0 00                0o00      00 0    395 74     58 36      0 00
P063463       2001 METHANE CAPTURE & USE AT A LNDFILL             0 00      0 00                6 27      0 00      6 35      1 94      0 29
P060908       2001 GEFMX-MESOAMERICANCORRtCOR                     000       000                t4,84      C00      1385       307       000
P065779       2001 FEOERALHIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT           218.00      000                 000       000     20393      -14.07     000
P066321       2001 MX. III BASIC HEALTH CARE PROJIECT           350.00      0.00                0.00      0 00    350 00      0 00      0 00
P066674       2001 GEF MX-lndigenous&Comnmunity ioliversity      0 00      0 00                750       0 00      684       2.22      0 00
P071323       2001 aankRestructuv.ngFaci1ltylI                  50506       0.00                000       0 00    35001       o0t       000
P057530       2000 RURAL OEV MARG ARII (APLQ                     55.00      0 00                000       0 00     38 92      3 25      0 00
P060718       2000 ALTERNATIVE ENERGY                             0.00      000                 8 90      000       698       692       000
P066938       2000 MX GENDER (LIL)                                3 07      0.00                0 00      0 00      3 07      163       0 00
P048505       1999 AGRICULTURAL PRODUCT                          44445      000                 000       00O     13994      5019      -2705
P007610       1999 FOVI RESTRUCTURING                            505.50     000                 000       000     31200     31200       000
P007711       1998 MX RURAL DEV MARGAREA (APL                    4700      0.00                000       000      2907      2275       000
P007720       1998 MX HEALTHSYSTEMREFORM-SAL                     70000      000                 000       000     15000      15000     5000
P044531       1998 KNOWLEDGE&INNOV.                              300.00     000                 000       000     19537      7871       000
P055061       19g9  MX HEALTH SYSTEM REFORM TA                    25 00       00                0 00       00       1 31       1 31     0 00
P049895       1998 MX. HIGHER ED FINANCING                       18020      000                 0.00      000     14019      7592       000
P007700       1997 COMMUNITYFORESTRY                              1500      000                 000       000       607       559       000
P007713       1996 WATER RESOURCESMANA                           18650      000                 000       000     11729      10196     4417
P007689       1996 MX BASICHEALTH II                            31000       000                 000       000      2383      2383      2383
P034490       1995 MX: TECHNICAL EDUC/TRAINING                   26500      000                 000      6969      4807      11775     8772
P007710       1994 N BORDER IENVIRONM                            368.00     0.00                000     31336      2203     33540      6200
P007648       1993 MXMEDIUMCITIESTRANSP                          20000      000                 0 00     6550      4093      10643     8343
Total.    5386.83      0.00             53.86      448.55    290681    144528     32439



-37 -
ANNEX4: Statement of IFC's Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                     Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic  Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic
1988/91/92/93/95  Apasco                       10.80    0.00    0.00  43.20   10.80    0.00    0.00   43.20
1998               Ayvi                         8.57    0.00    0.00   0.00    8.57    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990/92/96         BANAMEX                     75.71    0.00    0.00   5.49   75.71    0.00    0.00    5.49
0                  BBVA-Bancomer               86.47    0.00    0.00    0.00  86.47    0.00     0.00   0.00
1995/99            Baring MexFnd                0.00    2.73    0.00   0.00    0.00    1.90    0.00    0.00
1998               CIMA Mexico                  0.00    4.80    0.00   0.00    0.00    4.80    0.00    0.00
1998               CIMA Puebla                  7.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    3.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994               CTAPV                        2.88    0.00    1.69   0.00    2.88    0.00     1.69   0.00
0                  Chiapas-Propalma             0.00    0.82    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.82     0.00   0.00
1997               Comercializadora             2.41    0.00    1.72    4.38   2.41    0.00     1.72   4.38
2001               Compartamos                  1.00    0.66    0.00    0.00   1.00    0.66     0.00   0.00
1999              Corsa                        11.14    3.00    0.00   0.00   11.14    3.00    0.00    0.00
2001               Ecomex                       5.00    0.00    1.50    0.00   3.00    0.00     1.50   0.00
2000               Educacion                    6.50    0.00    0.00    0.00   4.90    0.00     0.00   0.00
1997               Fondo Chiapas                0.00    4.18    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.54    0.00    0.00
1998               Forja Monterrey             12.07    3.00    0.00   12.07  12.07    3.00     0.00  12.07
1991/96            GIBSA                       18.93    0.00   10.00   63.67   18.93   0.00    10.00  63.67
1993               GIDESA                       2.50    0.00    0.00    0.00   2.50    0.00     0.00   0.00
1996/00            GIRSA                       45.00    0.00    0.00   60.00  45.00    0.00     0.00   60.00
1993               GOTM                         0.49    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.49    0.00     0.00    0.00
1997/98            Gen. Hipotecaria             0.00    1.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.20    0.00    0.00
0                  Grupo BBVA                   0.00    2.67    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.67    0.00    0.00
1998               Grupo Calidra               10.00    6.00    0.00    7.50   10.00   6.00     0.00    7.50
Grupo FEMSA                  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1989               Grupo Minsa                 12.00   10.00    0.00   18.00   12.00   10.00    0.00   18.00
1997               Grupo Posadas               25.00    0.00   10.00    0.00   25.00   0.00    10.00    0.00
1992/93/95/96/99   Grupo Sanfandila             8.09    0.00    0.00    3.61    6.76   0.00     0.00    2.95
1998               Heller Financial             0.00    0.32    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.32     0.00    0.00
1994/96/98/00      Hospital ABC                30.00    0.00    0.00   14.00    1.76   0.00     0.00    1.24
2000              ITR                          14.00    0.00    0.00    4.00   14.00    0.00    0.00    4.00
2000               Innopack                     0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00
2000              Interceramic                  5.00    0.00    4.00    0.00    5.00   0.00     4.00    0.00
1994              InverCap                      0.00    0.07    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.06     0.00   0.00
2000/01            Merida III                  29.59    0.00    0.00   72.15   29.59    0.00    0.00   72.15
1998               Mexplus Puertos              0.00    1.41    0.00    0.00   0.00    1.41     0.00   0.00
1995/99            NEMAK                        0.00    0.00    1.51    0.00    0.00   0.00     1.51   0.00
1996/99/00/01      Pan American                 0.00    9.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    9.00     0.00   0.00
2000               Rio Bravo                   50.00    0.00    0.00   59.50   50.00   0.00     0.00   59.50
2000               Saltillo S.A.               35.00    0.00    0.00   43.00   35.00   0.00     0.00   43.00
2000               Servicios                   10.50    1.90    0.00   10.00   10.50   1.90     0.00   10.00
2000               Su Casita                    0.00   10.62    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.62    0.00    0.00
2001               Sudamcrica                   0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00
1999              TMA                           2.58    0.00    2.60    8.95   2.58    0.00     2.60   8.95
1997              Toluca Toll Road              4.83    0.00    0.00    0.00   4.83    0.00     0.(0   0.00
1992
Total Portfolio:      533.06  117.68   33.02   429.52  496.39  102.67   33.02  416.10



-38 -
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                         Loan    Equity    Quasi    Partic
1999               BANAMEX LRF 11                 50.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
2001               BBVA-Bancomer CL              100.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
1998               Cima Hermosillo                 7.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
2002               Coppel                         30.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
2001               Ecomex                          3.50      0.00     0.00     0.00
2000               Educacion                       3.20      0.00     0.00     0.00
2001               GFNorte-CL                     50.00      0.00     0.00    100.00
2001               Greenmanor                      7.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
2001               La Colorada                     4.30      6.00     0.00     18.30
2001               PanAme-La Coloza                0.00      0.00     1.20     0.00
2002               Puertas Finas                  13.00      0.00     0.00     0.00
2001               Su Casita                       0.00      2.40     0.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:      268.00     8.40      1.20   118.30



-39 -
ANNEX 5:
Mexico at a glance
Latin   Upar-
POVERTY and SOCiAL                                           America    middle-
Mexico    & Carib.  Income      Development diamond'
2000
Populabon, mid-year (millions)                         98.0      516       647                  Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, USS)                    5,080     3,680     4,620
GNI (Atlas method, USS billions)                      497.0     1,895     2,986
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Populabon (%)                                           1.5       1.6       1.3
Labor force (%)                                         2.5       2.3       2.0     GNI                             Gross
per    I          I   2        primary
Most recent esUmate (latest year available, 199440)                                 capita           .-         enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total populabon)                 74         75        76
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        72         70        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                29         30       28
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               8          9         ..  I      Access to improved water source
Access to an improved waler source (% of population)    86         85        87
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                     9         12        1M0
Grossprimaryenrollment (%of'school-agepopulation)      114        113       107              MaKio
Male                                                 116          .       106              Upper-middle-income group
Female                                               113         *-      105
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990       1999     2000
Economc ratiosr
GDP (US$ billions)                          223.5     262.7     479.4     579.9
Gross domestic investment/GDP                27.2      23.1      23.5      23.1                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP             10.7     18.6      30.9      31.1
Gross domestc savings/GDP                     24.9     22.0      21.9      21.3
Gross national savings/GDP                    22.4     20.3      20.5      20.1 
Current account balance/GDP                   -4.7     -2.8      -3.0      -3-1   i Domestic                     Ivsmn
Interest payments/GDP                          2.0      2.2       2.1       2.0                                  Investment
Total debt/GDP                                25.7     39.8      35.0      28.4    |   i
Total debt service/exports                    45.4     20.9      25.8      34.0
Present value of debt/GDP                                        33.9      26.1
Present value of debt/exports                                   102.6      77.8
|         ~~~Indebtedness
19804t0  199040      1999      2000    200244
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  1.1      3.1       3.8       6.9       3.3               Mexico
GDP per capita                      -1.0       1.4      2.3       5.4       1'9               Upper-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        7.0      14.6     12.4      16.0       4.9   1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990       1999      2000     Growth of invtment and GDP (%)
(X of GDP7
Agriculture                                    9.0      7.8       4.7       4.2
Industry                                     33.6      28.4      28.8      27.9     20
Manufactunng                                22.3     20.8       21.1      20.4     o
Services                                     57.4      63.7      66.5      67.8     20   :       S   9S      9     9    00
Private consumption                          65.1      69.6      67.1      67.5   i4J0
General govemment consumption                 10.0      8.4      10.9      11.0                      GOI      *GOP
Imports of goods and services                 13.0     19.7      32.4      32.8   1
1980490  199040       1999      2000      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agnculture                                     0.8      1.8       2.0       2.1     40
Industry                                       1.1      3.8       4.2       6.6     30'
Manufacturing                                1.5      4.4        4.2       7.1    20
Services                                       1.4      2.9       3.7       7.4     10
01
Pnvate consumpton                              1.4      2.4       4.3       9.5    .10           9S    97    98   9     00
General govemment consumption                 2.4       1 8       3.9       3.5    .20
Gross domestc investment                      -3.3      4.6       4.1       8.8                 -aExports        Imports
Imports of goods and services                  1.0     12.3      13.8      21.4
Note. 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
^ The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. if data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



-40 -
Mexico
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980    1990      1999     2000     Inflation (%)
Domestik prices
(% change)                                                                    40
Consumer prices                             ..     26.7      16.6     9.5     N
Implicit GDP deflator                     33.4     28.1     14.9     10.9    2so
Government finance                                                            10
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                           0       ,
Current revenue                           27.4     25.3     20.9     21.8            ss    90   97    s8   n9     00
Current budget balance                     4.1      0.9      1.5      2.0               -GDP deftltor    CPI
Overall surplus/deficil                    -3.6    -2.6     -1.1     -1.1
TRADE
(US$ millions)                            i       1980 1   1999     2000     Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                      16,284  40,711  136.391  166,455     2ooor0o
Oil                                    10,441  10,104     9,928   16,383
Agriculture                             1,528   2.162     3,926    4,217    '50.000
Manufactures                            3,802  27,828   122,085  145,334                             .
Total imports (cif)                      19,342  41,593   141,975  174,458 
Consumer goods                          2,448   5,099    12,175   16,691
Intermediate goods                     11,720  29,705   109,270  133,637
Capital goods                           5,174   6,790    20.530   24,130        o
Export price index (1995=100)              134      99        98      106            9   95 9s    97   90  99   00
imporn price index (1995=100)               67      90        99      102                 Exiports    U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                  201      110       99      103
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                            1980    1990      1999     2000     Current account balance to GDP I(%)
Exports of qoods and services           22,600   48,732   148,083  180,167    0..
Imports of goods and services           27,430   51,535  155.465  190.494                                 9 w  wL 
Resource balance                         -4,830  -2,803   -7,382   -10,326   -z
Nei income                               -6,438  -8,626   -13.306  -14,747                           _
Net current transfers                      833    3,978    6,313    6,994       ..
Current account balance                 .10,434  -7,451   -14,375  -18,079    -8
Financing items (net)                    11,453  10,999    14,969  20,901
Changes in net reserves                  -1,019  -3,548     -594    -2,822    .-s
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)   3,052    9,909   31.829   33,595
Conversion rate (DEC. local/IJSS)       2.00E-2     2.8      9.6      9.5
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980    1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstandinq and disbursed    57,378  104,442   167,626  154,687
IBRD                                   2,063   11,030   11,027   11,444                       A 11 444
IDA                                        0       0         0        0G 22.744                      D 4 63
Total debt service                       10,958  11.311    39,760   63,038                                 E 4.494
IBRD                                     255    1,552    2,155    2,220
IDA                                        0       0         0        0
Composition of net resource flows
Otlicial qrants                           14      54
Official creditors                       795    4.168    -1,708    -525
Private creditors                       -524    -582     13,181   -5.059
Foreiqn direct investment              2.156    2.549    11.915   13,286
Portfolio equitv                           0     563      3.901     478                      F 111 142
World Bank proqram
Commitments                              625    2.562     1.671    1.130    A - IBR0                  E B.rileral
Disbursemenis                            422    3.326      844     1,647    8 -IDA   D - Other mulltlaleral  F Prwate
Principal repayments                      89     801      1,323    1.330    C *IMF                    G Sho,1n-em-
Net flows                                333    2.525     -479      318   1                          _
Interest pavments                        166     751       832      890
Neltransfers                             167    1.774   -1.311     -573
Development Economics                                                                                       9.10.2001






MAP SECTION






IBRD 235a7
90_
0  (s< <\'h   ,_ '\                                                          ~~~~~~~M E X I C O 
o  Pri,cipl itis or tow-n
Dinided h~ighway,
R                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Selected trin rods
Railroads
Ri-er
J                          A_       R                                    F j  ,,c _  -  *- Snn
r                                                                         stwo Mi.husl  z   -/  t C  G  V  /  f   O  f   e  xnnt l dr
00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                           1,',t- i-   6  .d
A C _  ( OAjr>>k<\ A     Gi , (  fAi Mexic
c. rAWAV                                                              .     S           \           R    _          J
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
knk Group ihe denominotions ow d and the boondor: sh                                         o foe M    c 
SAN IUIS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TJMNu~I~u
20                                                                                                         I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~  uuott,.20.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d.M,
tir V.  (            pi,. ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~  ~ ~  anpeIt~ 
I                                                                                                                                         FEBRUARr I  'A   .rr
20-~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~llc P.". .Veroctu~20
C011414,                                                      PECHE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TSSC  iloer.,  J
BELIZE
KILOMtETERt 0  Igo  200  300  A?D  ae                                   cploOAAA..TetaGcne
MILES 0    tO0     200     300
Sc,,kG,ccp  m.d.  ,r/cutuc.cc.dcdttr.uucccicrnc.flc.ccN."tAL
"h .cpuu,c, ."E p,c  hwrracscp  ~t.dc~                                                                         aalu                  HONDURAS
FEBRUARY 1992



MAP SECTION






IMAGING
Report No.: P       7537  ME
Type:     PR



