Report No. PID11085
Project Name                     Mexico-Tax Reform Adjustment Loan
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Public Financial Management
Project                          MXPE74750
Borrower(s)                      BANOBRAS
Implementing Agency              SecretarUa de Hacienda y Credito
Publico SHCP)
Address: Palacio del Gobierno, DF
Contact Person: Andres Conesa
Labastida
Environment Category             C (Not Required)
Date PID Prepared                March 18, 2002
Project Appraisal Date           April 29, 2002
Project Board Date               May 16, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
To modernize its economy and to reduce poverty, Mexico needs
to invest more in human resource development and public economic
infrastructure, which will complement private enterprise
investment in the productive sectors. To do this, the public
sector needs to increase its revenue, for which a
rationalization of its domestic tax system is essential. The
traditional sources of revenue - natural resource extraction and
trade tariffs - will be declining a shares of GDP, so domestic
revenue collections need to increase.
The failure of tax policy and administration to collect
enough resources to pay for the public services people want goes
back to an endemic problem-that that people do not perceive that
the taxes are fair in practice. Tax policies and how they are
administered have let some people and businesses pay much less
tax than others with the same levels of income. Thus a central
objective of the tax reform is to make it more fair.
2. Objectives
The project development objectives are to support the recent
reforms of the tax laws, especially the corporate and personal
income tax. The proposed loan will support the first stage of
the Government's tax reform package, which focused on income
taxes. Since most of the fiscal benefit of these measures will
come in the medium term as the reduced tax distortions
contribute to higher sustainable growth of private sector, the
financing of the loan will help the Government assure fiscal
sustainability and thus macroeconomic stability in the meantime.



The eventual growth of fiscal resources will contribute to debt
reduction, and in the short run the loan will help avoid a
fiscal contraction, which would be counterproductive in the
present environment. Raising more resources from a stronger tax
system is essential for expanding the Government program of
social sector services and infrastructure investment. Finally,
by simplifying the tax policy to administer, the policy reforms
will contribute to the Government's program of reform of the
state and reduction of corruption.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The TRAL will contribute to delivering World Bank support
for four of the five objectives in the Mexico CAS.
Consolidating macroeconomic gains and human capital development
are the most prominent. The President, the Secretary of
Finance, and many others have identified the reform of taxes as
critical making the fiscal situation sustainable, while assuring
the needed and promised fiscal resources for strengthening the
Government's various programs in human capital development. By
improving the tax system, including reduction of corruption with
the strengthening of tax administration, the project and its
proposed companion TAL will contribute to the objective of
building an efficient, accountable and transparent government.
The reduction in the distortions of incentives in the corporate
tax regime will contribute to the objective of accelerating
growth through enhanced competitiveness.
4. Description
The project will support key reforms to the Mexican tax
system. In the area of corporate income taxes, the new law i)
eliminates the special cash-flow regime for calculating income
for the agriculture and road transport sectors; ii) simplifies
the inflation adjustment regime, just using the annual price
index to calculate real capital gains; iii) simplifies the
regime for small and mid-sized firms. Firms with less than MxP
1 million in gross revenue now may pay a one percent presumptive
tax on gross revenue. Firms with MxP 1 to 4 million in gross
revenue may calculate their taxable income on a cash flow basis;
iv) eliminates the reduced tax rate for retained earnings, thus
unifying the corporate and personal tax rates at 35 percent, and
reduces the rate gradually to 32 percent by 2005; v) allows
firms to deduct from taxable income the mandatory sharing of ten
percent of profits to workers; and vi) phases out the reduced
tax rate for the publishing industry, bringing the rate there up
to the standard rate by 2005. In the area of personal income
taxes, the new law i) expands the taxable income of physical
persons (individuals ) to include overtime and bonuses for those
earning more than the minimum wage, interest on government
bonds, and capital gains on stock investments; ii) aggregates
all the taxable income of an individual and taxes it at the
corresponding progressive rate; iii) simplifies the structure
of rates, reducing the number to five, and harmonizes the top
rate with the corporate rate; and iv) ends the subsidy for low
-2 -



wages in the formal sector, and provides incentives for firms to
continue paying it in the transition.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
IBRD                        300
Total Project Cost           300
6. Implementation
The project will be implemented by the SHCP, with BANOBRAS
serving as the financial agent for the Loan.
7. Sustainability
There is little risk that the income tax reforms would be
reversed legislatively. There is some risk that collections and
enforcement would remain weak, or would weaken after an initial
improvement. Then the reforms to the law would not have their
desired effects in practice. To minimize this risk, the
Government has requested technical assistance in tax
administration from the Bank.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Two important lessons for fiscal reform operations are that
they work best when based on substantive economic and sector
work and that the conditionality should be kept focused. Thus,
the Bank preceded this operation with a sector report on Mexico:
Fiscal Sustainability (2000) and a CEM on Tax Reform (2001).
The conditionality has also stayed focused on the fiscal
balance, sustaining social sector spending during the
transition, and the key reforms to the income tax law.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)      N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues:      The proposed project is expected to have no
environmental impact.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Steven Benjamin Webb
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 473 8680
Fax: 522-2119
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
-3-



The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
April 5, 2002.
-4-



