FILE        COPY                         Documentof                  GIRCULATID4G COPY
The World Bank TO BE RETURNED TO REPORTS DESK
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
P-1812
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
REPUBLICS OF TOGO, IVORY COAST AND GHANA
AND TO THE
CIMENTS DE L'AFRIQUE DE L'OUEST (CIMAO)
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
REPUBLICS OF TOGO, IVORY COAST AND GHANA
FOR A
REGIONAL CLINKER PROJECT
June 14, 1976
This document bas a restrietedl distributon and mnsy be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =      CFA franc (CFAF)
US$1             -     CFAF 225
CFAF 1,000       -     US$4.444
CFAF 100         -     US$0.444
CFAF 10          -     US$0.044
FF 1             -     CFAF 50
CFAF 1           -     FF 0.02
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB      -     African Development Bank (Abidjan)
APCM      -     Associated Portland Cement Manufacturers Ltd.
(London)
BADEA     -     Banque Arabe de Developpement Economique en
Afrique (Khartoum)
BCEAO     -     Banque Centrale des Etats d'Afrique de lOuest
BOAD      -     Banque Ouest Africaine de De'veloppement
CCCE      -     Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(Paris)
CEAO      -     Communaute Economique d'Afrique de l'Ouest
CEB       -     Communaute Electrique du Benin (Lome)
CEET      -     Compagnie Energie Electrique du Togo (Lome)
CFT       -     Chemins de Fer Togolais (Lome)
CIDA      -     Canadian International Development Agency
(Ottawa)
CIMAO     -     Ciments de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (Lome)
CTMB      -     Compagnie Togolaise des Mines du Benin
EDF       -     European Development Fund (Brussels)
ECOWAS    -     Economic Community for West African States
EEC       -     European Economic Community
EIB       -     European Investment Bank (Luxemburg)
KfW       -     Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (Frankfurt)
MPWM      -     Ministry of Public Works and Mines, Togo
ORIGNY    -     Origny Desvroise (Paris)
PAL       -     Port Autonome de Lome", Togo
PEG       -     Prospective Engineering Gestion (Switzerland)
UDEAO     -     Union Douaniere et Economique d'Afrique de l'Ouest
UMOA      -     Union Monetaire Ouest Africaine
tpy       -     Ton Per Year



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON PROPOSED LOANS TO THE
REPUBLICS OF TOGD, IVORY COAST AND GHANA AND ON A LOAN TO
CIMENTS DE L'AFRIQUE DE L'OUEST (CIMAO) WITH THE GUARANTEE:
OF THE REPUBLICS OF TOGO, IVORY COAST AND GHANA
FOR A REGIONAL CLINKER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following Report and Recommendation on four proposed
loans for the equivalent of US$60 million to help finance a regional clinker
project.  $3.5 million would be lent to each of the Republics of Togo, Ivory
Coast and Ghana for a total of $10.5 million. $49.5 million would be lent
directly to Ciments de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (CIMAO) with the joint and several
guarantee of the Republics of Togo, Ivory Coast and Ghana. All loans would
have a term of 15 years including a 5-year grace period with interest at 8.85
percent per annum. The governments would make available the proceeds of their
Bank loans to CIMAO as equity and charge a guarantee fee of 1.15 percent per
annum on the direct loaa to CIMAO bringing the total cost of the loan to CIMAO
to 10 percent per annum.
2.        The project would also be financed by the African Development Bank
(AfDB), the Banque Arabe pour le Developpement en Afrique (BADEA), the Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE), the Canadian International Develop-
ment Agency (CIDA), the European Development Fund (EDF), the European
Investment Bank (EIB), ;nd the German Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (KfW). In
addition CIMAO would obitain export credit commitments from various supplier
countries. The terms and conditions of these loans are given in Annex III.
PART I - THE ECONOMY OF THE REGION
3.        The most recent economic reports on the three countries are respec-
tively: "Current Economic Situation and Prospects of Togo" (458a-TO) issued
on December 30, 1974; "Current Situation and Prospects of the Ivory Coast"
(296-IVC) dated April 11., 1974; and "Fiscal and Balance of Payments Aspects
of Ghana's Development" (638a-GH) dated May 19, 1975. A basic economic
mission visited Togo in March/April 1976. Its main findings are incorporated
below. A basic economic: report is being prepared for the Ivory Coast and is
scheduled for discussiorL with the Government this summer.   A special economic
report on export promotion and financial intermediation in Ghana is being pre-
pared. Annex I contains Togo's basic country data.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



2
4.        Togo is a small country of 57,000 km   with a population of about 2
million people. The economy is based mainly on agriculture which accounts
for 30 percent of GDP and employs 80 percent of the country's active popula-
tion, on a large phosphate mining operation which started operation in 1963
and has made an important contribution to public revenues and foreign
exchange earnings, and on transit trade with neighboring countries. The
Government has tended to follow market-oriented domestic economic policies
and to favor participation in regional economic groupings. Agricultural
production consists mainly of cocoa and coffee, the two main export crops,
and millet, sorghum, groundnuts and cassava, which provide the basic diet of
the population. Togo's annual average growth of GNP per capita from 1960-73
was more than 4 percent. Its 1975 per capita GNP is tentatively estimated at
$250. The sustained growth of l'ogo's economy in the sixties was essentially
due to a vigorous expansion of external commerce which, in turn, was spurred
on by favorable market conditions for cocoa and coffee and steadily rising
phosphate production. In the early 1970's, economic growth slowed down.
Adverse weather conditions affected agricultural production, particularly
during the years 1971-73, border trade declined considerably, and market
conditions worsened for Togo's main exports. In 1974, however, there was
a marked improvement of Togo's financial and economic position. The 1974
trade balance showed a sizeable surplus for the first time since 1969 due to
substantially higher world market prices for the country's principal export
commodities, especially phosphate. Average export prices and volumes fell in
late 1975 and early 1976, and phosphate sales particularly dropped due to
slackening world demand. Foreign exchange reserves, which rose to a record
high of seven months of import requirements during 1974, decreased to the
equivalent of about six weeks of imports by the end of 1975. Togo's market-
oriented economy has historically shown the capacity to adjust rapidly to
swings in agriculture and trade, but the magnitude of the fluctuations in
phosphate earnings was unprecedented. The Togolese Government, which gen-
erally follows prudent financial policies and was able to generate substantial
public savings during periods of high export growth, is now taking steps to
restrain expenditures. Moreover, it is considering further adjustments, if
necessary, through use of short-term credit and financing facilities to which
recourse is generally unconditional from BCEAO, 1/ the IMF, and the European
Community's Stabex arrangement.
5.        The downswing in world demand for phosphate should not detract
from Togo's favorable longer-term development outlook, with prospects for
GDP growth during the next decade of about 6 percent per year and further
improvement in income distribution and employment. The Government's devel-
opment strategy is designed to diversify the economy and exploit natural
resources, to rehabilitate and expand food and cash crop production, to
1/   Banque Centrale des Etats d'Afrique de l'Ouest.



- 3 -
improve the economy's infrastructure, and to promote international regional
cooperation. The longer-term development policy gives emphasis to income
distribution and employment, including education reform, rural development
programs, promotion of small- and medium-sized enterprises and the search for
more labor-intensive techniques. The Government's total public investment
program over the next five years, including CIMAO, is tentatively estimated
to be about $740 million (in current terms) of which approximately $200
million (i.e. about 30 percent) would be financed by domestic resources. Such
a financing pattern will require continued efforts by the Togolese Government
to mobilize increasing amounts of public savings. The financing required for
the CIMAO project is equivalent to about 40 percent of public capital expendi-
tures. Obviously Togo alone could not have secured the entire financing for
such a project and guarantees from stronger economies were essential.
6.        As in the past, foreign assistance to Togo is likely to be provided
on predominantly soft terms. More recently, however, the share of suppliers'
credits and commercial. borrowing has increased. The debt service ratio, which
averaged about 6 percent during 1971-75, is projected to go up in the near
future due to increased borrowing and temporarily less buoyant export growth.
Assuming a moderate anmount of foreign borrowing on conventional terms in the
next few years, the average debt service ratio may reach 14 percent by the
early eighties. Given Togo's good longer-term economic prospects, this trend
should be manageable and permit the Government to sustain a limited amount of
conventional borrowing including a moderate amount from the Bank. But the
bulk of foreign aid should continue to be on concessionary terms given the
country's low per capita income, growing need for foreign funding of priority
projects and considerable exposure to fluctuating world market conditions.
While IDA's share of external debt is currently about 15 percent, the Bank
Group's share of foreign debt is expected to increase to about 24 percent by
the end of the decade. The Bank Group's share of the country's overall debt
service would rise from presently less than 1 percent to around 2 percent by
1980.
Ivory Coast
7.        The economic situation and prospects of Ghana and Ivory Coast are
described in some deta:il in the President's Reports No. P-1868GH and P-1706IVC
respectively.  Below are summarized     the aspects related to future overall
growth, the balance of payments and public finance which are most relevant to
the CIMAO project. In Ivory Coast 1/ the historical real rate of economic
growth has been one of the highest in Africa, about 7.5 percent per yeat,
resulting in a GNP per capita of $380 in 1973. This is expected to slow down
to between 6 and 7 percent during the next decade as the investment costs
in agriculture and industry increase. The already high level of domestic
resource mobilization and prudent debt management will impose limits on the
financing of the develcpment program. Government policies continue to em-
phasize the diversification of production in agriculture and other sectors
1/   6.7 million inhabitants in 1975.



- 4 -
of the economy. Substantial investments are being made in export products
like cocoa, coffee, palm oil, copra and rubber and in import substituting
products like rice, sugar, and cotton to manufacture textiles locally. In
industry the Government is shifting its policy from predominantly import
substitution to export-oriented activities including the processing of local
raw materials. At the same time pricing, taxation and public investment are
being used to improve the regional distribution of income and to slow down
the drift of the population to urban centers.
8.        The structural changes underway will take time to become fully
effective. They imply the continuation of a sizeable investment effort
including $650 million public capital expenditures per annum, with continued
reliance on external sources of finance. Domestic public savings are likely
to cover a smaller part of capital outlays than they did in the past, even
assuming continued good fiscal performance. The mobilization of additional
domestic private funds is likely to remain difficult and the Government is
not expected to finance more than 35 percent of its investment program over
the next 5 years (about $250 million) compared to 50 percent in the past.
The balance of about $400 million per annum will have to be financed from
foreign sources. Based on the reasonable assumption that 50 percent of this
borrowing would be on concessionary terms, Ivory Coast's debt service ratio
would increase from 8.8 percent in 1974 to around 15 percent in the 1980's.
This level is considered to be manageable. Assuming a sizeable increase of
Bank lending over the next five years, the Bank's share of total debt would
increase from 10 percent in 1974 to 18 percent in 1980; the Bank's share of
the country's overall debt service would increase from the presently low 3.2
percent to 9 percent in 1980.
Ghana
9.        With a population in excess of 9 million, a high level of education,
considerable agricultural, mineral and hydroelectric potential and a per
capita GNP of $300, Ghana has a relatively solid foundation on which to base
development. The last few years have been a period of reorganization and
consolidation rather than aggressive development policies. During the next
few years the achievement of real growth will depend largely on the success
of the Government's present efforts to increase agriculture production, to
achieve self-sufficiency in basic food products and provide inputs for agri-
cultural processing industries. The Government's target is a 5-6 percent
growth rate over the next decade. However, medium-term projections indicate
that the constraints on Ghana's capacity to import which have hampered.devel-
opment in the past, will remain severe. With cocoa, the main pillar of the
economy, expanding only slowly and the pace of diversification constrained
by the shortage of foreign exchange, there will be a need for a substantial
net inflow of external aid. The Government's medium-term program is cur-
rently under preparation; a recent Bank mission found its main orientation
essentially sound. A realistic program for public investment would require
external financing on the order of $100 million annually. If this inflow were
to materialize the current external debt service ratio, which is presently



under 5 percent as a result of the 1974 agreement on debt rescheduling, would
not rise above this Level before the end of the decade. It is expected
that the Bank Group's share of Ghana's total external debt which is currently
about 12 percent, woiuld rise to about 15 percent over the next several years;
the Bank Group's proportion of Ghana's external debt service payments would
be then around 20 percent. In these circumstances, Ghana should be considered
creditworthy for additional Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TOGO
10.       To date, the Bank Group has extended four IDA credits to Togo
amounting to a total of US$27.9 million. Two of these were for road projects:
the first for highway maintenance and the second for highway construction.
The third credit was for an agricultural project to help rehabilitate the
planting and maintenance of 4,400 ha of cocoa and 4,000 ha of coffee in the
Plateaux region. All three projects have proceeded satisfactorily although,
due to inflation, the scope of the road construction project had to be reduced,
and part of it postponed until the proposed third highway project. The fourth
credit, which was recently approved by the Executive Directors, will finance a
rural development project in Togo's densely populated coastal region. Annex
II contains a summary statement of IDA credits to Togo as of April 30, 1976 as
well as notes on the execution of the projects.
11.       Most of the Bank Group's planned activities concern agriculture or
rural development-oriented transportation programs. A third highway project
concentrating on road construction in the south was appraised recently. The
future program will include a cotton development project in the north, a
follow-up of the ongoing cocoa-coffee project, and a fourth highway project
concentrating on the construction and maintenance of secondary roads. The
proposed CIMAO project is something of an exception in this program, both by
its size and regional nature. But the concept of regional cooperation at the
project level developed under CIMAO may well have an important: demonstration
effect throughout West Africa.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Industrial Sector and Intercountry Relations
12.       The industrial sector of Togo consists of one predominant activity,
the mining and processing of phosphate ore (present capacity of more than
2.5 million tons) and a nucleus of some 40 medium-scale industrial plants,
including both import-substitution and export-oriented activities for the
processing of domestic agricultural products. The mining sector contributes
18 percent of GDP and two-thirds of exports and employs 5,400 persons. Some



- 6 -
manufacturing enterprises have been commercially successful, but most have
received substantial tax exemptions and the development of others has been
hampered by the smallness of the local market and shortages of local sup-
plies. Government programs for the future aim at developing other mineral
resources, including CIMAO's limestone deposit at Tabligbo under the pro-
posed project, the expansion of phosphate mining capacity, establishment of
a fertilizer factory, the strengthening of existing medium-scale industries,
and promotion of small-scale enterprises. In addition, an oil refinery of
one million-ton capacity is now being built. New institutions have been
established to help mobilize resources for Togolese investments in industry
and to provide technical assistance to small-scale enterprises.
13.       Since 1960, industry has grown rapidly both in Ghana (13 percent
per annum) and the Ivory Coast (15 percent per annum), contributing in 1974
6 percent of GDP in Ghana and 12 percent in the Ivory Coast. Industrial
employment has almost doubled, reaching 56,000 in Ghana, or about 14 percent
of all salaried employees in the modern sector, and 42,000 in the Ivory Coast
or 13 percent of modern sector employment. However, the structure of the
sector is different in the two countries; while Ivorian manufacturing consists
almost equally of import-substitution and export-oriented industries process-
ing agricultural products, import substitution industries remain largely
predominant in Ghana. In the Ivory Coast, manufacturing has been a factor of
growth of production and exports, whilst in Ghana the dependence of manufactur-
ing on imported semi-finished products and consequent low domestic value added
contributed to the balance of payments difficulties experienced in the 1960's.
14.       International economic cooperation, including the lowering of
trade barriers, will help these countries to develop their domestic indus-
try. In Togo's case, larger markets must be found if any sizeable develop-
ment of national resources is to take place. Ghana and the Ivory Coast,
both of which have a larger industrial base, should also become important
beneficiaries of broader regional integration. This is particularly true
for Ghana where there is unused capacity in the short run, and to the ex-
tent that integration can ensure greater access to stable sources of raw
materials and semi-finished goods at reasonable cost.
15.       There are many precedents for economic cooperation in West Africa
especially in monetary and commercial relations between French-speaking
countries. The West African Monetary Union (UMOA), 1/ which was initially
established with the support of France in 1962, comprises six former members
of the French West African Community and a common central bank which issues a
single currency freely circulating among the member countries and convertible
into French francs. This monetary arrangement has greatly facilitated the
movement of goods, services and capital among member countries and has been a
1/   Union Monetaire Ouest Africaine.



major incentive for foreign investment in the area. With respect to inter-
regional trade, the West African Economic Community (CEAO), 1/ which has
replaced the West African Economic and Customs Union (UDEAO), 2/ provides
for the progressive eLimination of quantitative restrictions on the circu-
lation of goods and aopears to have contributed substantially to the devel-
opment of trade among member countries, in particular the industrial exports
of Senegal and the Ivory Coast. In 1974, the Ivory Coast's sales to the CEAO
countries amounted to about 22 percent of its industrial exports.
16.       The recent creation of the West African Development Bank (BOAD) 3/
within the framework of the UMOA and the establishment of the Economic Com-
munity of West African States (ECOWAS), in May 1975, reflect the strong polit-
ical will to foster integration. ECOWAS constitutes a new development in
cooperation between English- and French-speaking countries; it is the first
formal union between i:he two communities and represents a considerable achieve-
ment,taking into account the difficulties encountered in the early 1970's in
engendering closer cooperation between countries with fundamentally different
administrative, monetary and economic systems. The association of English-
and French-speaking countries within the EEC 4/ has also contributed to the
development of cooperation among these countries in West Africa. ECOWAS is
in large part a result: of these trends in international relations. While
progress can be expect:ed at the policy level in the broad context of ECOWAS
(grouping 15 countries) the best hope for effective cooperative action
between English- and Flrench-speaking Africa lies probably at the level of
specific projects, a view repeatedly expressed by West African Leaders.
17.       This is borrLe out by the evident political determination of the
three countries to participate in CIMAO. The three governments have agreed
to take equal shares in the company's equity and to guarantee jointly and
severally all loans made to CIMAO. They have also signed a Treaty which
creates a common market for the clinker produced by CIMAO, and which pro-
vides, in particular: for the free circulation of the personnel required
by the company between the three states; free movement of funds to or from
CIMAO between the three countries; total exemption from import and export
duties for CIMAO clinker in the three countries; a uniform base price for
CIMAO clinker delivered to any port of unloading in the three countries;
firm commitments by the three governments that priority be given to the pur-
chase of CIMAO clinker with limits accordingly placed on imports of clinker
and cement from other sources; and coordination between the three govern-
ments in the creation of new clinker or cement plants. They have also
agreed to allow CIMAO to coordinate the import of clinker into the region.
1/   Communaute Economique d'Afrique de l'Ouest.
2/   Union Douaniere et Economique d'Afrique de l'Ouest.
3/   Banque Ouest Africaine de Developpement.
4/   European Economic Community.



-8-
The Clinker and Cement Sector
18.       Clinker is an intermediate commodity between limestone and cement.
Limestone and clay are crushed and dryed in a kiln to be transformed into
clinker which is then ground with gypsum and pozzolana to make cement.
Clinker represents an important part of the value of cement. Clinker and
cement are both low-value commodities with high handling and transport costs.
Therefore, cement production facilities are usually established as close as
possible to the source of raw materials. By the same token, international
trade in clinker and cement constitutes only about 5 percent of total world
production. Clinker is easier to trade over long distances than cement,
because of handling characteristics and since climatic conditions can cause
cement to harden. Typically, clinker grinding plants are found either at
the source of raw material, the limestone quarry, or at the entrance port, as
is the case in the three CIMAO countries. There are five grinding plants in
the Togo/Ivory Coast/Ghana region - two in the Ivory Coast with a total
capacity of 1,000,000 tpy, two in Ghana with a total capacity of 800,000 tpy
and one in Togo with a capacity of 130,000 tpy to be doubled in 1976. All
plants, with the exception of one of the Ivorian plants, are jointly owned by
government and private foreign investors - French companies in the Ivory Coast
and Togo and a Norwegian company in Ghana. These grinding plants are well
managed and produce good quality cement at reasonable prices. Three of the
grinding plants (two Ivorian and one Ghanaian) hold a minority participation
in CIMAO.
19.       World production and consumption of cement products is steadily
increasing. Average consumption per capita has tripled since 1950, reach-
ing 172 kg in 1974. The average consumption for West Africa is much less,
amounting to only 54 kg, although the rate of increase per annum is higher
than that of the world average. Consumption of cement in the Ghana/Ivory
Coast/Togo region has grown by an average annual rate of about 6 percent per
annum, from 660,000 tons in 1960 to 1.5 million tons in 1975. Based on a
projected overall growth of 5-6 percent of GNP, on elasticity ratios between
growth of GNP and the consumption of cement, and also on an extrapolation of
previous consumption data, clinker consumption in the region is estimated to
reach about 2.0 to 2.3 million tons in the early 1980s, raising the regional
consumption per capita to about 110 kg. The proposed CIMAO plant would pro-
duce 1.2 million tons of clinker per year at full production in the early
1980s and thus would provide a major portion of the clinker needs of the
three countries, reducing the volume of imports to around 800,000 tons per
annum. This gap would be further reduced or eliminated if, as expected, the
production capacity of the CIMA() plant is expanded by 50 percent under a
second phase project in the 1980s.
20.       CIMAO constitutes a pragmatic solution to the problem of exploit-
ing a high-quality extensive limestone deposit which demands minimum levels
of investment, and production far in excess of Togo's needs, to make it
economically viable. The project could not have been undertaken by the
Togolese Government if its annual off-take had not been assured in advance.



- 9 -
Because the required investment substantially exceeds the financial capacity
of Togo alone, the Togolese authorities approached neighboring countries -
first the Ivory Coasit and later Ghana. These countries in turn saw an oppor-
tunity to reduce their dependence on the vagaries of the world market and to
be assured of a reguLar supply of clinker at stable prices.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
21.       The proposed project which is described briefly below is summar-
ized in Annex III and described in detail in the report entitled "CIMAO
Regional Clinker Project", No. 1071A, dated June 14, 1976, which is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
History
22.       CIMAO was established in 1968 by the governments of the Ivory Coast
and Togo and a French building material company (Lambert Freres) to produce
clinker from a limestone deposit in Togo (the Aveta deposit), which subse-
quently proved unsuitable. Four years later the company explored a higher
quality and more abundant deposit located about 65 kilometers northeast of
Lome (the Mono deposit) with reserves expected to last about 90 years of ex-
ploitation at the initial production capacity of 1.2 million tons of clinker.
CIMAO chose a French firm, Origny-Desvroise (ORIGNY), to provide technical
and management services. At the same time ORIGNY agreed to take a minority
shareholding in CIMAO. In 1975, CIMAO selected a British firm, Associated
Portland Cement Manufacturers (APCM), to prepare a feasibility study and to
provide engineering and supervision services.
23.       In April 1975, Ghana joined CIMAO as an equal partner with the
other two governments, and a Treaty formally establishing the regional
cement complex was signed in December 1975.
24.        Since the discovery of the Mono deposit in 1972, the Bank has
played an important promotional role in the preparation of the project by
helping to shape its content and taking the lead in the organization of
the financing. The appraisal process extended over the years 1975 and 1976
and included several rnissions to Western Africa and Europe to coordinate
with the three governments and the co-financiers.     Negotiations were held
in Washington from April 28 to May 3, and in Accra (Ghana) on May 12 and 13.
The delegation team in Washington was led by Colonel George Minyila, then
Commissioner for Industry of Ghana and First Vice President of the Board of
CIMAO, and in Accra by Minister Paul Gui Dibo, Minister of Mines for the Ivory
Coast and President of the Board of CIMAO. Minister Ayite-Gachin Mivedor,
Minister of Public Works and Mines of Togo and Second Vice President of the
Board of CIMAO and Mr. K. Katamna, General Director of CIMAO, attended both
meetings, together with other representatives of the three Governments
and CIMAO.



- 10 -
Description
25.       The main purpose of the project would be to supply high quality
clinker from the Mono deposit for the cement grinding plants located in
Ghana, Togo and the Ivory Coast. The project would have two main parts.
The industrial component which would consist of one dry processing plant
using proven technology, well adapted to the three countries considering
the lack of experience in cement production. The plant would have an annual
capacity of 1.2 million tons and would be constructed at Tabligbo, at the
site of the deposits. The second component would comprise the supporting
infrastructure required for the industrial complex. In particular it would
consist of a power link, a township for some of the plant employees, a rail-
way line connecting the plant with the central line, associated rolling
stock, and a rail/port terminal adjacent to the port of Lome, with handling
and storage facilities.
26.       The project would include, in addition to the consulting services
mostly provided by APCM and ORIGNY (see para 39 below), training in Togo
and in France of middle-level and senior personnel from the plant.
Costs
27.       Total costs for the project would amount to $284 million, including
$17 million interest during construction. Under the Treaty no duties or
taxes will be imposed on any goods or services provided for the project. For-
eign exchange costs would amount to about $232 million, or about 82 percent
of the total. Total costs of the industrial complex would be $220 million
(including $181 million of foreign exchange). The balance of $64 million
($51 million in foreign exchange) would be for infrastructure. The cost esti-
mates are based on technical studies carried out in the fall of 1975, supple-
mented by discussions with suppliers. Physical contingencies of 10 percent
and price contingencies of 34.2 percent of base costs have been included. The
cost of engineering, technical assistance and training is estimated at $9 mil-
lion: about $3,000 per man-month for APCM services and $3,900 per man-month
for ORIGNY (base costs). The investment cost per ton of annual capacity of
clinker produced is relatively high, amounting to $235. This is essentially
due to the high cost of civil works in West Africa and to the infrastructure
component which would be large enough to serve as a basis for expanding plant
capacity later. The cost of the industrial component alone amounts to $185
per ton of capacity which is in line with similar plants elsewhere.
Financing
28.       Details of the financing plan are given in Annex III, pages 4 and
5. In brief the project would be partly financed by equity participation of
$86 million (equivalent to just over 30 percent of total cost), $79 million of
which would be furnished by the three governments in equal parts, and an addi-
tional $7 million provided equally by ORIGNY and two grinding plants in Ghana



- 11 -
and the Ivory Coast. i1/ The balance of the financing would be provided by
long-term loans ($167 million) and suppliers credits ($31 million).
29.       The governments' commitment to provide 30 percent of total financing
(including private participation) required in the form of equity, was made at
a time when the overall cost of the project was estimated at $50 million less
than indicated. In order to keep the 30 percent capitalization ratio con-
sidered as a minimum f'or such a project, the equity had to be raised from $53
million to $86 million and the governments had to increase their contribution
to $79 million. Since the governments' original contribution appeared to be
the upper limit of whet could be expected from budgetary resources, CCCE, EIB
and the Bank agreed tc lend to the three governments $26 million for them to
raise'their equity contribution to the required level in the form of preferred
shares. As a result, CIMAO has agreed to increase its capital to at least $86
million and the actually paid-in capital will amount to a minimum of $27
million before loan effectiveness. (Section 7.01(d) of the draft Loan Agree-
ment with CIMAO). Equity would be used exclusively to finance t:he industrial
complex and would'be drawn down in accordance with a schedule acceptable to
the Bank (Section 5.09 of the draft Loan Agreement with CIMAO).
30.       All four Bank loans totalling $60 million would be for the industrial
component.   Each government would borrow $3.5 million for the purchase of
preferred shares, and $49.5 million would be loaned to CIMAO with the joint
and several guarantee of the three participating governments. All Bank loans
would be at 8.85 percent over 15 years, including five years of grace. The
loan made to CIMAO would carry a guarantee fee of 1.15 percent payable in
equal parts to the three Governments, bringing the total cost of the Bank loan
to CIMAO to 10 percent. (Section 2.09 of the draft Loan Agreement with
CIMAO).
31.       The remainder of the financing for the industrial component would
be met by loans from AEDB, BADEA, CCCE, EIB, and by suppliers credits, at a
weighted average cost of 7.7 percent over 15 years including 4 years of grace.
Assurances have been obtained that the governments would provide additional
funds on terms acceptable to the Bank in the event of cost overruns for the
industrial complex (Section 2.03(b) of the draft Guarantee Agreements with
Togo, Ivory Coast and Ghana).
32.       The financing for infrastructure would be provided by loans to
the Government of Togo'from AfDB, CIDA, EDF and the KfW, and by funds from the
Government of Togo. The average weighted interest rate for these loans would
be about 1.3 percent for an average of 35 years, including 10 years of grace.
CIDA and KfW are considering applying onlending rates to the implementing
agencies different from the loans to the Government.     Assurances have been
obtained that the Government of Togo would provide additional funds on
1/   The original participation of Lambert Freres referred to in para. 22
above has been absorbed by the three governments.



- 12 -
terms acceptable to the Bank in the event of cost overruns for the infra-
structure (Section 3.03(ii) of the draft Guarantee Agreement with Togo).
33.       Co-financiers have confirmed the terms and conditions of their
loans. The different loans are at various stages of preparation by these
agencies, and one of the two loan agreements 1/ between EIB and CIMAO, has
already been signed. A condition of effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan
would be the effectiveness of the loans of the various co-lenders and the
availability of suppliers credit financing (Section 7.01(c) and (f) of the
draft Loan Agreement with CIMAO).
Procurement
34.       The financing plan would provide for maximum international compe-
tition. Items to be financed by the Bank, either alone or jointly with
EIB, CCCE, or with equity funds, would be bid internationally in accordance
with Bank guidelines. The EDF and KfW contributions for the infrastructure
component, as well as goods financed by AfDB and BADEA, would also be pro-
cured under international competitive bidding, subject to the regulations of
these institutions. CIDA-financed items would be restricted to Canadian firms.
However, the concessional financing from CIDA would more than offset the
penalties imposed by restricted bidding. There is a good probability that
French suppliers would win contracts at least equal to CCCE's tied contribu-
tion (US$20 million); if not, specific allocation to French suppliers would
have to be made. A preference of 15 percent or the appropriate import duty,
whichever is lower, would be granted to suppliers of Ghana, Ivory Coast
and Togo of Bank-financed equipment, for the purpose of bid evaluation only.
But it is not expected that any supplier in the three countries would be
qualified to provide the required equipment. Civil works would be bid inter-
nationally. The three countries have several (10 to 15) local contractors,
mostly with European affiliations, who are experienced in large civil works
in Western Africa, and who could carry out the works satisfactorily. Items
partially (i.e. about 70-75 percent) to be financed by export credits, would
also be bid internationally. Two large items (mechanical and electrical
packages) are particularly suitable for export credits. Suppliers qualified
to bid for these packages are well known, reasonably dispersed geographically,
and might pool export credits from several countries where they have produc-
tion subsidiaries. Major cement equipment manufacturers from different coun-
tries have indicated that they could provide suitable export credits. Tender
documents specify that financial costs would be taken into account in bid
evaluation and stipulate the discount rate to be used for bid evaluation.
For the industrial complex the notice of intention to invite bids was issued
in November/December and has drawn substantial response. Prequalification
of bidders for the large and time-critical mechanical package has been made.
Tender documents for this package were issued early April 1976 and the order
is expected to be placed in October. Other packages would follow according
to the project PERT Schedule.
1/ Loan of US$7 million from funds made available under the Yaounde Conven-
tion.



- 13 -
Disbursement
35.       Specific packages for the industrial component have been identified
to match the funds of AfDB and BADEA, which would require paralLel financing.
Packages partly covered by suppliers credits would be jointly financed by
equity. Bank funds would jointly finance with CCCE, EIB and equity all remain-
ing packages including civil works and services. On this basis 60 percent of
the Bank funds would be used for civil works, 20 percent for equipment and the
remainder for engineering and interest during construction. The Bank funds
would finance 70 percent of the civil works and equipment and staff training
and 100 percent of foreign expenditures of consultants services. Although
for disbursement purposes some of these packages would include local cost,
total foreign financing is less than total foreign exchange cost of the proj-
ect. The Bank loan to CIMAO would cover interest during construction, esti-
mated to amount to US$5.5 million. The portion lent to the governments
would not do so. The loans to the three Governments would be disbursed before
the loan to CIMAO (paragraph 5 of Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement with
CIMAO).
Financial Situation
36.       On the assumption that CIMAO's prices would be kept in line with
the CIF prices of imported clinker estimated at $33-35/ton in 1975 prices,
the project's financial rate of return is estimated at 8.1 percent, varying
by plus or minus about 1.4 percentage points under various assumptions as
to revenues and operating costs. The financial projections show a deficit
during the first two years of operation of the plant, turning into a surplus
in 1981 and increasing progressively thereafter, which would permit payment
of dividends by the fourth or fifth year of operation. There are several
reasons for the low overall financial return and the initially rather tight
financial situation: the project would have to support a relatively large
infrastructure componernt; the recent sharp increase in the cost of clinker
plants is not yet fully reflected in world market prices and thus in the price
projections, and finally, CIMAO would initially carry an unusually high
debt burden. While under normal commercial conditions, such a situation could
present serious problems, the close identity in this project between the
owners of CIMAO and the buyers of the company's product has made it possible
to design a set of financial covenants which can be expected to safeguard the
company's financial viability and allow further expansion of capacity reason-
ably quickly. The governments are committed to limit CIMAO's indebtedness,
and to prevent CIMAO from paying dividends for two years after start up and
thereafter to subordinate the payment of dividends to the maintenance of a
satisfactory current ratio (Sections 5.04(a)(ii) and 5.08(b) respectively of
the draft Loan Agreement with CIMAO). In addition, the governments can adjust
prices (see para 37 below). A 50 percent expansion of the clinker plant in
the early 1980s would increase the financial rate of return by about 1.5 per-
centage points. The rate of return on equity is expected to increase from
6 percent in 1981 to 15 percent in 1985, remaining above 20 percent thereafter.



- 14 -
Pricing
37.       Under the Treaty the three governments agreed to establish a Price
Committee (Art. 25) on which each of the countries will be represented, and
which will determine a base price for CIMAO clinker that will be the same at
the ports of entry in Ivory Coast, Ghana and the existing grinding plant in
Togo. This base price will cover costs of clinker production, debt service
and a fair return on the capital invested (Art. 26 of the Treaty). Further-
more, the governments have confirmed that this price would include provision
for adequate reinvestment for maintenance and replacement purposes (Section
5.11 of the draft Loan Agreement with CIMAO).
Marketing
38.       Under the Treaty the three governments have committed themselves
to absorb the total production of CIMAO. They have further agreed that Togo's
clinker needs would be fully met by CIMAO to the extent that such consumption
does not exceed one-third of CIMAO's production, while Ghana and Ivory Coast
would share the remainder in agreed proportions. CIMAO would in addition
coordinate the procurement of imported clinker. The signature of an annex to
the Treaty regarding the off-take of CIMAO's production and CIMAO's functions
in coordinating clinker imports would be a condition of effectiveness of the
Bank loan (Section 7.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement with CIMAO). CIMAO has
also agreed to establish a market research unit which would prepare demand
projections and form the basis for monitoring CIMAO's production and the
imports of clinker (Section 4.01(b)(ii) of the draft Loan Agreement with
CIMAO).
Project Implementation
39.       CIMAO, which would be responsible for the execution of the indus-
trial component of the project, presently has a nucleus of only five profes-
sional staff and is in the process of strengthening its management team.
An expatriate plant manager is expected to join CIMAO this fall and a large
training program (see para 42) is starting now. Agreement has been reached
that CIMAO would consult with the Bank before making appointments to senior
management positions (Section 4.01 (b)(i) of the draft Loan Agreement with
CIMAO). According to the statutes, CIMAO is governed by a Board of Directors
comprising at least 11 members, a Management Committee and a Managing Director.
These three management entities have clearly defined roles. ORIGNY would
provide the technical and management assistance during project preparation,
help run the plant during the first year of operation and provide technical
assistance during the next four years. ORIGNY would also prepare and execute
the training program. APCM, which prepared the feasibility study, would be
responsible for the design of the clinker plant and the rail/ port terminal,
and for assisting CIMAO in the procurement of equipment and services and
supervising construction. CIMAO has agreed not to modify or terminate the
contracts with APCM and ORIGNY without the prior approval of the Bank and to
continue to employ management assistance up to four years after plant com-
missioning (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement with CIMAO).



- 15 -
40.       For the infrastructure components, project implementation would
be the responsibility of the Togolese Government, notably the Ministry of
Public Works and Mines (MPWM) which would own the facilities. The railway
link would be operated by the Chemin de Fer Togolais (CFT); power would be
supplied by the Communaute Electrique du Benin (CEB) and the Compagnie
d'Energie Electrique du Togo (CEET); the port/rail terminal, and the town-
ship would be operated and maintained by CIMAO. Signature of contracts be-
tween CIMAO and MPWM regarding the timely construction and execution of the
infrastructure components and between CIMAO and the various infrastructure
entities regarding major principles of operations, would be a condition of
effectiveness of the Bank loan (Section 7.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement
with CIMAO). Detailed contracts on the use by CIMAO of the infrastructure
facilities, as well as on fuel supply to CIMAO and maritime transport would
have to be entered into before the end of 1977 (Section 4.07 of the draft
Loan Agreement with CIMAO). In addition, Togo has assured CIMAO's supply
of electricity throughout the life of the project (Section 3.04 of the draft
Guarantee Agreement with Togo).
41.       A UNDP-finanieed project coordinator, presently attached to CIMAO and
to be progressively reLieved of his responsibilities in CIMAO with the arrival
of the plant manager (para. 39),, will take over the responsibility of ensuring
the timely completion of the infrastructure elements and their appropriate
dovetailing with the industrial component (Section 3.03(iii) of the draft
Guarantee Agreement wit.h Togo). The Government of Togo has given assurances
that CFT's operational capability would be reinforced through additional
technical assistance, and the Port's technical assistance would be kept at an
adequate level (Section 3.03(iv) and (v) respectively of the draEt Guarantee
Agreement with Togo).
Training
42.       ORIGNY is responsible for preparing and executing the recruiting
and training program for the industrial complex. The plan is to train
80 people in France; Et first group of 35 is presently being recruited. The
remainder of the staff would be trained in Togo. CIMAO has agreed to carry
out the training program in accordance with a time schedule acceptable to the
Bank (Section 3.06 of t:he draft Loan Agreement with CIMAO).
Benefits and Risks
43.       The economic rate of return of the project is 10.2 percent, based on
a regional CIF price for clinker of $33/ton in 1975 constant prices during the
first three years of operation. From then on this price is assumed to increase
(also in 1975 terms) by 1 percent per annum since new plants with high capital
cost will come on stream and push the price of clinker up. Investment costs
have been adjusted to take into account that about 16 percent of the project's
total investment would be financed by tied resources which would not otherwise
have been available. Semi-skilled and unskilled labor has been shadow-priced



- 16 -
by an average 50 percent. Sensitivity tests show that, while the rate of
return is not very sensitive to changes in capital cost, it would be affected
by possible variations in production and transport costs and by changes in the
reference price of imported clinker. In no case would the rate of return fall
below a level of 6 percent, and this level would result from an unlikely com-
bination of events. Foreign exchange shadow-priced by 20 percent would result
in a 0.5 percentage point increase of the rate of return. An expansion of the
plant by 50 percent in the 1980s would increase the rate of return by at least
1.5 percent.
44.       The main objective of the proposed project is import substitu-
tion. The present dependence of the three countries on imports is risky;
any disruption in world market production would inevitably result in supply
shortages and considerable price increases. The payback period for the total
foreign exchange cost of the project is estimated at about 7 years from start
up.  The project would generate direct employment for 2,500 to 3,000 persons
during construction and for about 600 during operations. The indirect impact
on downstream industries would not be very significant although, in the long
run, CIMAO and other large industrial plants could give a decisive push to
the development of small maintenance and repair industries. Net foreign
exchange earnings (in 1975 terms) are estimated at about $13 million in 1980
(in 1975 terms) increasing gradually to $25 million per year.
45.       There are inevitably many risks inherent in an undertaking of
this size and complexity, especially one dependent upon a high level of
cooperation not hitherto experienced between the three governments at the
project level. Special care would be taken by the governments and CIMAO,
in cooperation with the Bank and other co-lenders, to ensure that the po-
tential benefits of the project are not jeopardized. For example, consid-
erable importance would be attached to the training of CIMAO staff to en-
sure that the company will have the capacity to operate efficiently.
Similar emphasis would be placed on the coordination between CIMAO and
its technical consultants and between CIMAO and the Togolese infrastruc-
ture agencies, especially the CFT whose services generally would have to
be upgraded.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
46.       The draft Loan Agreement between CIMAO and the Bank, the draft
Guarantee Agreements between the Republics of Togo, Ivory Coast and Ghana
and the Bank, the draft Loan Agreements between the three Republics and the
Bank, the report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4 (ifi) of the Articles of Agreement,and the text of a draft Reso--
lution approving the proposed Loans are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.



- 17 -
47.       Features of the Loan and Guarantee Agreementsof special interest are
described in Part IV of this report. The following conditions of effectiveness
are included in the Loan Agreement with CIMAO:
(a)  the effectiveness of the Bank's loan agreements
with the three governments (Section 7.01(a) of
the draft Loan Agreement with CIMAO);
(b) the effectiveness of the financing agreements with
the respective co-lenders (Section 7.01(c) of the
Loan Agreement with CIMAO) (para. 33);
(c) commitments of suppliers credits of not less than
US$31 million (Section 7.01(f) of the Loan Agree-
ment with CIMAO) (para. 33);
(d) a subscribed capital of at least $86 million and
a paid-in capital of at least $27 million (Sec-
tion 7.01(d) of the draft Loan Agreement with
CIMAO) (para. 29);
(e)  the signature of an annex to the Treaty regarding
the off-take of CIMAO's production and CIMAO's
coordinating function of clinker imports (Sec-
tion 7.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement with
CIMAO) (para. 38);
(f) the signing of the contracts between CIMAO and the
Togolese Ministry of Public Works and Mines regard-
ing the construction of the infrastructure components,
and between CIMAO and the respective infrastructure
agencies regarding the major principles of operations
of these facilities (Section 7.01(b) of the Loan
Agreement with CIMAO) (para. 40); and
(g) the assurance of the acquisition of all land, franchises,
or other rights as may be required for carrying out
the industrial complex and the infrastructure component
(Section 7.01(e) of the draft Loan Agreement with CIMAO).
48.        I am satisfied that the proposed loans would comply with the,Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 18 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
49.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loans.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 14, 1976



ANNEIX 
Page 1 of 4 oages
TABLE 3A
TOG0O                    SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)----------------                                            ---------
---------------                         ~~~~~TOGO                                 REFERENCE COUNRIES (1970)
TOTAL          57.0                                           MOST RECENT
4GRIC.           t. 960                                 1970O    ESTIMATE            MADAGASCAR       GHANA           IVORY COASY*
GNP PER CAPITA    (USS)                         7.          160          180.10 0                          20.0          3-20.0;
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MOOD-YR.    OILLION)               1.5          2.0          2. 1                  7.6          S. 6         5 -4
POPULATION DENSITYT
PER SQUARE KM.                             25. 0        36. 0         360. 0               1 3.0        3 6. 0       1 6. 0
PER SO. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND              50.9         51. 0         50.6                 4)9.7        4)9.8        4 6. 0
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAND              31.0         26.6          23.3                 21j.2        24).k        23.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE C/HO)               12.
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT eIRTH (YRS)             33.5         38.5         41.0                  0O.9     ~    i5          4~1:6
GAOSS AEPPODUCTION RATE                      .            3.3          3.3                  3.2          5.2           3.1
POPULATION GROWTH IAATE (1)
TOTAL                                       2.8          2. 7          2 .7                 2.6          Z. 6         34a
UR8AN                                       7.0          6.0           9. 0                 5 .A         5.0           7    D
URBAN POPULATION (Z OF TOTAL)                  1. 0       1 3. 0       15 .0                 1 3. 1      2 9. 0        28. 0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 TEARS                             Al. 0        45. 0         45.6 /a              46. 1        4 6. 9       4 2. 4
15 tO 64 YEARS                             A 9.O 0       2.0          51.8   a             50.2         4 9. 5       5 4. 9
65 TEARS AND OVER                           4. 0          3. 0         2.6 Ia               3.7          3. 6         2. 7
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                           1. 0         0. 9         0.9 /a.               1. 0         1. 0         0.8a
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIOI i.iLa                            1. 3/a                  I. 1.Lb                 1. 4         O. 9 .L
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE. THOU)                  ...                                             .         10. 9
USERS (Z OF MARRIED WOMEN)                    ..                         ..                              2.0
E4PLOf RENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANO)                630.0 /.     7 20. 0          ..3800.0                      3 3 00. 0    2600.0
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (Z)                   .         7 8. 0                            a 3.0        5 4. 0       78.3
UNEMPLOYED (I OF LABOR FORCE)                    .....                                                      5.0/Al       9.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Z OF PRIRATEI INCOME REC'D BY-
HIGHEST    St OF HOUSEHOLDS                  .                          ..
HIGHEST 291 OF HOUSEHOLDS                     .                         ...
LOWEST    20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                   .                          ...
LOWEST    430  OF HOUSEHOLDS                  ...                                             .
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
Z OWNED 8Y TOP 101 OF OWNERS                    .                          ..
Z OWNED BY S4ALLEST 101 OWNERS                  .                          ..
HEALTH AND HUTRITIONi
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                  34000.0/0    28140.0      23240.0               11390.0/c    1295C.D/     12140.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON              5 200.0 AZ:   ZOO. 0      210O0. 0              31?60.0      10O70.t      2480.1  L.d
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED                 Se804c~~d     82 C.0       68.                  400           6.          68.q     d
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF-
CALOaTIES (Z OF REQUIREMENTS)              89.0         9 4. 0      101. 0                104.0        986. 0       108.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                    BS. 0        51.0         56 .0                 53.0a        4 6.0        6 0.0
-OF WHICH ANIM4AL AND PULSE                           I 9. oLs.      .                  17.0          10. oLs      18.0 Ie
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES I-A4....                                                             33.OLA.
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                             44. 0        76.0         83.08.0                            58 0 .       76. 0
SECONDARY SCOL2. OL/                                     8.190&i.Li                                      90L.        o.L
TEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                   13.0         13.0         13.0                  13.0         13.0         13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(Z OF SECONDARY)                           10 .09       10.0          9.0                   9.00        23.0          7.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (Z)                       10.D0...                                        39.0         25.0        20.0
HOUS IN G
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)                      .             ..
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (Z)                               ...                                             .
ACCESS TO ELECIIAICIIY
(% 07 ALL DWELLINGS)                         ...                         .5.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (0)                           .                           ..
CONSUMPTI ON
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)                 4. 0        22. 0        2 4. 0               8 0.0 a      78.0          17T.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)                  2.OLh        4.0          5.0                  6.0          4.0          11.0
ELECTRICITY (RWH/YR PER CAP)                    .          33.0         56.o /               36 .0       3 38. 0      1 20. 0
NEWSPRINT (NC/YR PEA CAP)                       .           0. 1k         ..                   .04         0. 4          0.2
--   -  - - - -  - -  - -  - - -  - -  - - -  - - -  - -  - - -  - -  - - -  -  -  - -  - - -  - - -  - -  - - -  - -  - - -  - -
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



Page 2 Of 4 poses
NOTrES
Unless otherwise ooted, date for 1960 refer to soy year betweeo 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Most Rorent Estimoate between
1971- and 1973.
-e Ivory Coas t has been selented as .oebje-tlv- country becausee of its geogrsphiC prootroity sod its more edveeced etege of econmic development.
TOGO                  1960     /a  Ratio of population under 15 end 65 and over to total labor force.       lb  Enoludiog apprentices end uneuployed;     Ic   1962,
____            -     ~~~~~Td  Govrnment hospital esteblishments only;   /e  12-18 year. of ago;    If Teanher trainiog at oecond level is inelodod
__with general edun..rion;    Li  Prior to 1965,- /b    1964.
1970    /s   Ratio of populstion under 11 end 65 end over to total labor forne,      /b  Government hospital establishments.      /n  1964-
__  _ 1966;    /d  12-18 years of age,    /o   1965.
1M6T RECENT ESTIM(ATE:     /a  1975,   /b  12-18 yeers of age,     /r  1974.
MADAGASCAR            1970     /a  1966;    /b  Ratio of populotico under 15 end 65 end ove    to totel Iohbr force;    /0   Imoluding  .Ssiateot  edloel officers,
___________     -     ~~7-  12-18 years. of age.
GHANA                 1970     /   Regiaterad only;    /b  Registered, sot a11 prantiniog is the noantr~y;     /n  1966-68;    /d  6-15 end 16-21 years or   fa
respenti,vly.
CVORS COAST           1970    /aDea to bmmigration , the Arsuth rate is higher then thg rate of saturel inorease,         lb  1965-70,    /c  Ratio of PoPolati-n
under 15 and 65 end over to total labor force,      /d  iovoooist only,     /n   1964-66,   If  12-18 y_ear  of eg..
hA, lone 7, 1976
DEPFIITIONSL _Op 1T1AL IN.DICATORS
Land As-n (thool in2                                                              PFosaton     per qnorsiu  poeron - Population divided by number of practicing
Total -Total surface area comprieing land ~ara sna inilarnd satsr.                    ae en    foa.a gr5aotn fs-so, 'trainod"- Or "cortifiod" otis-no, acid
esin. - Most roo...t eatimato of agrinultural area used toemporar-ily or             auxiliary persosnel with trainin.g or enperience.
permanently for corsp, pastures, marerbt & krit-hem gardene or to lie            Population per hosoital bed - Population divided by nomber of hospital boeds
fallow,                                                                            available iei publin and private general and epeoxeliced hospital and
rahabilitatios Centers; excludes nursing boron and establishmonts for
GNP por capita (00$) - GNP per napits estimates at market prices, nalcu-             custodial and prevontive care.
latod by name conversion method os World Hank Atlan (1972-74s basis).            Per lapi5a_sUply If Oaols,of re uiromento            - Computed from energy
notesodf            ipIfei6i    a   ion Country por capita per doy;
Ponpulatn-n  ad vital statletion                                                     available suppliea comprise domestic produntiom, imports loon experts,
Poplton    (i-r.elloj-a            of July firtst   if not available,               and Changes in stonk; not suPplies oxolude aenial fond, seds, quaint-
average of two end-year estimateo.                                                 ties used in food preossoing acd losons Is dintr-butinn; requirments
were etsotimtd by F40 bused on Phyniologioal needs for normal activity
Populati,on.densitly - p or square Iso - Mid-year population pei' square kiln-       and health considering envir-onmental tenperoture, body weights, ago and
moo c(0   bcaroa )f tota  ura.xn distributionns of population, acid allowinig 10%                                                 '-r wsate at house-
Population dens.ity - per noose los of ogrin. land - Co-putoi as above for           hold level.
agricult,oral land saly.                                                         Per Capita  suoply ofooeiegam           n  day) - Prote-i cont-nt of por
cPita net supply of foo    pe  day; met supply of food is defined as
Vital statistics                                                                     above; requirements for all coutntries esetablished by USODA iconou.n
Crude birth ra-te per thousand - Annual live births per thssueand of aid-            Resear-ch Services Provide for a mioniun allowance of 60 grams of total
year Ppeplation; las-Year arith    tisto awerages ending in 1960 ans 1970,         protein per day, arid 20 grams of anmotal and pulse Protein, of hichto
aid five-Year averags ending in 1975 for moat recent sestimate.                    10 grams should be animal protein,; these stacidosrde ar   lower than those
Crade death rate Per thowmand - Anneal deathe Per thousand of mid-year               of 75 grams or total protein and 23 gram     of anma proteti~ as an
population; lan-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and. 1970 ad               overage for the world, proponed by PA0 ii; tin Third Wolod hood Surve y.
five-year asorage ending in, 1975 for moat resent estimate.                      Por capRita protein  suPply fron  anma   and pulse - Ps-stein supply of food
2sf ant mortality rait e  C/hu     nna    etsofifnsune             o    er   f       drvdfrom animals and pulses in grams per day.
age per thousand livebaths                                                             r:ate  /thou)   so. 1-4 - Annual deaths per thousand in age group
life  exetn      y at brt   (r)-Average number of years of life romaining          'lTIFjOfiytWEbIId       inl this age group; soggested as an indicator of
at bith ; oselly fIve-year averageS enidirg ini 1960, 1970 and 1975 for             aln-trition.
developing countries.
Gross reproduction rate - Average naner of live daughtero a woman will             Education
near,in her normal reProductive Period if nhc experiences Present age-           adusted   enrolletrto          rnsy     col-        Imoieto     l   gsa
seiIC fertility rates; usually five-year avorgse ending in 1960,                pecnae      fpiar       o   l-ege posation; Includes children aged
1970 and 1975 for developing countries.                                            6-11 yearn hut adjunted for different lengths of pronry education;
Popelation  growth rate (%) - total - Coepnund annoal growth rates of aid-           for countries with uneruCdusatiun, enoletany --oed 100%
year population for 1950-6O, 1960-70, and 1970 to most resent year.                Sione 3ois pupils are helow or above the official school age.
Population growth rote (9) - urban - Coepated like growth r-ate of total           Adjusted  enrollment ratio  - secondar   enTho-ol - Computed as above;
Population; different definitions of urban areas may affect, Compare-              secondary education requires at7ieast    fou years of approved Primary
bility of data among countrieS.                                                    instruction; provides general, vomational or teacher trainin.g
Urbemoopulati.n~% of total) - Ratito of urban to total populotios;                   instroctiosn for pupils of 12 to 17 years of age; norrespondence
d eret dfiniion  oiurban areas nay affent comp)arability of data            courses are generaily excluded.
among cowtries.                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~Years of schooling prsdad  (first and socond levels) - Total years of
AgIstu      3Olipec    j - Children (0-1k years), workIng-ago (15-64 years),         schooling; atsoeary level vocational instruction may he par-
j re N/    T5-yaa1'  and over) an percentages of mid-ye-o pupulatis.             te      rnmltl         cldd
Age   pndeayraio -,Ratio of population undeir 15 and 65 and over to              Vo   inlerllment,,(9 of secondary) - Vocational institutions include
'iZ0o   atshrohrugh 6k.                                                          technical, inutril     or other progirams which operate independently or
icomnwic dependency ratils - Rtatio of population undedr 15 and 65 and over          as departmnsmt of secondary inetitution..
to the labor force in age grsup of 15-64 years.                                  Adult literay rate       -Literate adults (able to read and wr~ite) as
Pamily  planning  - acceptors  Cumulative., thou) - Cumulative somber of              erntg      ofoaladult poPulation aged 15 years and over.
acceptors of birth-control devinee wrTe-r auxfpices of national family
plannin   program  stonce inception.Hos
Pamoily planning  - uarer  ( of married woman) - Percentages of married             erosPrroom        average  - Average mumber of persons per room in
sweme  of Child-bearing age (15-i4k yeZars)who see blrth-c-trol devices            OcuidConventiona       dwellings in urban areas; dwrellings exclude
to all nas-ried women is seine age group.                                          non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.
&2L2  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~   ~    ~   ~   ~   ~  ~~~~cuied            dweligswthout pIped water       (9 - Occupied conventional
Osployment                                                      dwellings In ~~~~~~Co  eRurba  ad rura  areas without inside or outeide piped
Total labor force   (thousand) - Economicully active persons3, innluding            water faoflities as percnotage Of all occupied dswellings.
asmed forces and anemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.;           Access to electricity   (9 of all  dwelings   - Conventional dwell-ings with
defination   in various countries are not comparable.                             electricity in Ilning quarters as Percent Of total dwelings in urban
Labor force in__Agi2ulture    (f   Agricultural labor forne (in farming,             and rural areas.
forostry,   hnting and fish ag) an percentage of total labor force.             Rural dwellingsB connetd     to electricity  (9) - Computed as above fsr
lj lop,g  4j,p,,shflaborfrce)~ - UnemPloyed are usually defined as persons        rural dwellings   ay
VO able eand willing to take a job, out of a job on a given day,
remained out of aL job, and seeking work for a specified minimum period        5c0   tp5is
not exceeding One weds; may not he comparable batwenel ountries doe to          faioeelre         (per thou PeP) - All types of receivers for radio broad-
d1fforent definiltions Of unemployed and source of data, e.g., omploy-            catst to general public Per thousand of Population;     xcnledes unlicensed
mont office statistics, sample surveys, sompolsory unomploymnot insurance,        receivers in countries and in ye-ar dhes registration of radio      etls -s
in effect; data for recent years may not he Comparable since most
Income distribution - Percentage of private income (bath in cash and kind)          countries abolished licensing.
reevd by rcet5,rcet2%                ors     0,adpoetkgo                     Passenger oarS (per thou pop) - Passenger cars comprise motor Cars seat-
households,                                                                       ing less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hear~ses and military
vehicles.
RDJistribution  of lan   wsoi       ocnae and        ndoedb        sihot            %5fO%{9y~9cgp                - Annual Consumption of industrial, som-
I0%anid poorest 1%of land owners,                                                           pblic and privaet electricity in kilowatt hours per capita;
generally based on Production data, without allowance for losses in
Health and Nutrition                                                                grids but allowing for imports end exports of elJectricity.
oe r    sicton - Population divided by somber of practicing            New!rit     kgvrpr cap) - Per caPita annual cmnsunption is kilograms
phscans qualified iron ai medical school at unriversity level.ro                              domestic Production plus net imports of unwaprint.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of i pages
7000
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975                                     ANNUAL RATE OF GROWrXH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln.       ,                      1966 -70           1970-73
GNP at Market Prices          548.4      100.0                        6.7              2.2
Gross Domestic Investment    114. 8       20.2                        4.0             11.0
Gross National Saving          70.8       12.5
Current Account Balance      -44.0         7.7
Exports of Goods, NFS         134.6       23.7                        6.6            -1.8
Imports of Goods, NFS        190.6        33.5                        7.5              7.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975
Value Added                  Labor Force-                 V. A. Per Worker
U     Mln.-                    Thds     -       -             US $
Agriculture                  168.2        29.0               550      77.5                 306        37.5
Industry                     174.5        30.1
Services                     236.9        40.9             ) 160      22.5              ) 2571       315.1
Unallocated
Total/Average
579.6      lQO.0                710    im                               100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Oeneral Government                           Central Government
ACFAF Mln.)     _ % of GDP                   (CFAF Mln.)        % of GD-P
12971 /5     1971 /7   -   = 1967               =9 Si    1-974/75   -1966- 72
Current Receipts                  24.6         18.9        12.6                  23.6      18.2          12.2
Current Expenditure              -9.7         _'.          10.4                  18.8      14.5          10.0
Current Surplus                    4.9          3.7         2.2                  4.8        3.7           2.2
Capital Expenditures               6.6          5.1         2.3                   6.5        5.0          2.3
External Assistance (net)
Nov.
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                1966         197         1971        1972       1973        1971     1975
(Billion CFAFoutstanding end period)T
Money and Quasi Money                    5.9         12.7         14.1        13.9        15.9       29.2    28.6
Bank credit to Public Sector            -2.0         -4.7         -3.6       -2.3        -1.9        -2.h     1.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector            3.7          8.4          9.4        10.2       13.3        16.3    22.1
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP       11.1         17.3         17.8        16.2        17.3       23.4
General Price Index (1963 - 100) I/    103.5        112.5        119.6       128.8       133.5      150.7   176.3
Annual percentage changes ins          ..           2.1          6.3         7.7         3.6       12.9
Bank credit to Public Sector            13.6        124.0        -23.0      -37.8       -18.3        34.1
Bank credit to Private Sector           17.1         23.0         12.7        8.0        30.9        21.9
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
/ Preliminary.
/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
African Consumer Price Index.
E/ 1966-70 average annual growth rate.
5/ Jan.-Sept. 1975.
not &vaLlable
not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 4 ofli pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FWWB
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                 MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 19 72?4 )
1973     1974     1975                                               US $Mln     %
(Millions US $)
Exports of Goods, NFS           92      212       137             Phosphate                           63.7   63.6
Imports of Goods, NFS          118      134       184             Cocoa Beans                         17;    17.7
Resource Gap (deficit = -)      2X                T               Coffee                               8.9    8.9
All other commodities                9.8    9.8
Interest Payments (net)          3        4                         Total                            100.1  100.0
Workers' Remittances           - 5      - 2
Other Factor Payments (net)    -11      - 4        40
Net Transfers27                 32        39
Balance on Current Account     - 7       115
Direct Foreign Investment        2      -21                       EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1975
Net MLT Borrowing                5         3
Disbursements                (10)     (12)                                                               uS $ min
Amortization                 ( 5)     (   9)                     P
Subtotal                      7      -lo      -17                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed            58
Capital Grants Z/                                                   Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)            - 2      - 5                         Total outstanding & Disbursed
Other items n.e.i              - 6      - 8                                                  1/
Increase in Reserves (+)       -           i      -27             DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1975
Gross Reserves (end year)       47       109       57.7 31
Net Reserves   (end year)       28        87       25.5 /           Public Debt. incl. guaranteed            6.6
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Fuel and Related Materials                                          Total outstanding & Disbursed
Imports                       5       11       13
of wrhich: Petroleum
Exports                       _        -
of which: Petroleum                                   IBRD/IDA LENDING. Apr. 30, 1976   (Million US $):
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                     IBRD        IDA
The CFAF floats against all other currencies.                   Outstanding & Disbursed               -         7.8
The following rates have been used (1 US$ equals CFAF):         Undisbursed                                    10.6
1975  -  223                                               Outstanding inc. Undisbursed                   15
1974  -  24o
1973  -  230
1972  -  256
1971  -  278
1970  -  278
1969  -  258
3   Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and non-factor services.
3   Capital Grants are included under transfer.
31 End November 1975.
pl  Preliminary estimates.                                                                  Jua 10,1976



ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TOGO
A.   Statement of IDA Credits (as of April 30, 1976)
Amount
Credit                                                  (in US$ million)
Number    Year   Borrower                              Credit   Undisbursed
131     1968     Togo    Road Maintenance              3.7        0.3
450     1973     Togo    Road Reconstruction           8.7        5.0
503     1975     Togo    Cocoa/Coffee Development      6.0        5.3
Total                      18.4       10.6
of which has been
repaid                     -          -
Total now outstanding      18.4
Total now held by IDA      18.4
Total undisbursed          10.6
B.   Projects in Execution
Credit No. 131   Highwar Maintenance Project; US$3.7 Million Credit of
October 10, 1968; New Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Execution of this project is completed and was generalLy satis-
factory.
Credit No. 450 Second Highway Project; US$8.7 Million Credit of
December 28, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1977
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. However, due to infla-
tion, the scope of the road construction project had to be reduced; the
construction of the Agou-Nuajta road, one of the three roads to be constructed
under the project,was ctropped. This road will be included under the third
highway project recently appraised.
Credit No. 503   Cocoa/Coffee Development Project;-US$6 Million Credit of
August 6, 1974, Closing gate: December 31, 1980.
This project provides for the rehabititation of the planting and
maintenance of 4,000 ha of cocoa and 4,400 ha of coffee in the Plateaux
Region. The project is proceeding well; the planting program has started
one year ahead and could be completed in five years instead of six. Project
costs are under control in spite of price increases.



ANNEX III
Page 1
TOGO/IVORY COAST/GHANA
CIMAO
REGIONAL CLINKER PROJECT
Loans ancd Project Summary
Borrowers:       (a)  Republics of Togo, Ivory Coast and Ghana
each for US$3.5 million
(b) Ciments de l'Afrique de l'Ouest (CIMAO) for
US$49.5 million
Guarantors:      The loan to CIMAO is to be jointly and severally guaranteed
by the Republics of Togo, Ivory Coast and Ghana.
Total Amount:    $60 million.
Interest Rate:   8.85 percent.  The loan to CIMAO would in addition carry
a guarantee fee of 1.15 percent payable to the three
governments in equal parts.
Term:           15 years, including 5 years of grace.
Co-lenders:     Multilateral.
The European Investment Bank (EIB); the European Development
Fund (EDF); the African Development Bank (AfDB); the Banque
Arabe pour le Developpement en Afrique (BADEA).
Bilateral
The French Caisse Centrale et de Cooperation Economique
(CCCE); the Federal Republic of Germany through the
Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (KfW); the Canadian
International Development Agency (CIDA).
Project
Description: The proposed project includes two complementary components:
(a) an industrial complex comprising a dry clinker plant
of an annual capacity of 1.2 million tons to be built
at Tabligbo, about 65 km northeast of Lome; it would



ANNEX III
P'age 2
comprise the quarry, two clinker production lines,
storage and rail facilities.
(b)  related infrastructure comprising:
- a railway line of about 80 km to connect the
plant with the port of Lome, and railroad
equipment;
- a rail/port terminal within the port of Lome;
- a power link and sub-station connecting the
plant to the existing network; and
- a township.
Estimated
Cost:         Total financing requirement is estimated at about: $284
million (net of taxes):
Local  Foreign   Total      %
----(US$ million)----
(a) CIMAO Industrial Complex       38.6      181.4  220.0   77.5
- Building and civil works      21.5      43.1   64.6    22.7
- Equipment and spares           4.3     101.7  106.0    37.3
- Engineering, technical
assistance and training     1.8       10.4   12.2    4.3
- Pre-operating expenses        9.6       12.2   21.8     7.7
- Interest during
construction                1.4       14.0   15.4    5.5
(b) Infrastructure                 12.8       51.2   64.0   22.5
- Railway                        5.4      25.1   30.5    10.7
- Port terminal                  3.7      19.2   22.9     8.1
- Power link                     0.4       3.1    3.5     1.2
- Township                       3.3       2.4    5.7     2.0
- Interest during
construction                  -        1.4    1.4    0.5
Total                    51.4      232.6  284.0  100.0
Financing
Plan:                   See Annex III page 4
Terms and
Conditions of Co-financing:    See Annex III page 5



ANNEX III
Page 3
Estimated
Disbursements:                            1977   1978   1979    1980   Total
----------(US$ million)----------
Loan to CIMAO            3.3   25.8   17.0    3.4   49.5
Loans to governments    10.5     -       -      -   10.5
Total                 13.8   25.8   17.0    3.4   60.0
Cumulative            13.8   39.6   56.6   60.0
Procurement
Arrangements:      Items to be financed by the Bank, either alone or jointly
with EIB, CCCE or with equity funds, would be bid inter-
nationally in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Consultants:         - APCM would contribute to the project about 1,300 man-
months at an average cost of US$3,000 per man-month.
- ORIGNY would contribute about 400 man-months until
up to and including one year after start up at an
average cost of US$3,900 per man-month. ORIGNY would
also provide technical assistance during 5 years after
start up of the plant against an average remuneration
of $0.30/ton of clinker produced.
Rate of Return:      10.2 percent
Appraisal Report:    No. 1071A



Financing Plan: (US % million)
2/           Joint Financing            PaalelFinancin
A.  INDUSTRIAL PLANT               Lots   TOTAL   Equity    E.C.             IBRD   EIB   CCCE            A fDB     BADEA
- Civil Construction                  59.4     -        -              36.0    16.5   6.9
- rquipment
Raw Mills,Kilns             D     68.7     37.8     30.9             -      -      -               -         -
Crushing Plants            B       3.6      -       -               2.2     1.0   0.4              -         -
Conveyors                  C       6.4      -       -                3.9    1.8   0.7              -         -
Clinker Handling           E       2.1      -       -                1.3    0.6   0.2              -         -
Process Control            F 2     3.0      -       -                1.   8 r      . C  4          -         -
Workshops                  H-1     1.3       -       -               0.8    0.3   0.2              -         -
Miscell.                    -      0.5       -       -               0.3    0.1   0.1              -         -
Laboratory                 G       0.4      -       -                0.2    0.2    -               -         -
Quarry                     A       9.5       -       -                -      -     -               -        9.5
Electrical                 F 1    15.1      5.3     -                 _      -     -              9.8        -
Mobile Cranes               _      0.5       -       -                _      _     _               _        O. 
Total                          111.1     43.1    30.9           10.5     4.8    2.0             9.8      10.0
- Technical Assistance                 2.5      0.4     -               2.1      -     -               -         -
- Engineering Training                 9.7       -      -               5.9     2.7   1.1
- Preoperating Expend.                12.9     12.9     -                -       -     -               _         _
- Working Capital                      9.0      9.0     -                -
- Interest during Construction        15.14     9.9      -              5.5
TOTAL                          220.0     75.3     30.9           60,0    24.0  10.0             9.8      10.0
B.   INFRASTRUCTURE                       TOTAL      TOGO    EDF   KflI AfDB    CIDA
Power Link                             3.5        -      -     -     -      3.5
Township                               5.7       -     5.7     -     -       -
Railway                               30.5        -    14.8    -    2.2    13.5
Terminal                              22.9        -      -  22.9     -       -
Interest during Construction           1.4      1.4     -      -     -       -
TOTAL                           61,.0      1.4  20.5   22.9   2.2    17.0
/   Equity includes US %15.3 million preferred shares from EIB and CCCE Loans.
./ e.C. - Export Credits



ANNEX III
Page 5
Conditions of Loans
Interest      Maturity      Procurement
Amount      Rate         (incl.grace)      Type
(/million)   (per cent)     (years)
(a) Industrial Complex
-Long-term loans to the       25.8
3 Governments for their
participation in CIMAO's
equity
IBRD                        10.5        8.85        15     (5)         ICB
CCCE                         9.q      Market conditions at the time
of drawin7 of the funds.        ICB
EIB                          5.8        2.3   Amortization and grace
period will be adjusted
to the cash situation
of CIMA0
-Long-term Loans to CDIA0    103.3                y
IBRD                        49.M   8.85 + 1.15      15     (5)         TCB
BADEA                        10.0       6.75    3   25     (5)         ICB
AfDB                          9.8   8.5 + 1.5       15     (5)         ICB
CCCE                        10.0        6l5 15             (5)         ICB
EIB 1/                      24.0        7.5         15     (4.5)       ICB
-Export Credits /             30.9    7.5  - 8.5      11     (3,5)   International
competition
(b) Infrastructure
- Long-term Loans             64.0
AfDB                          2.2       8.5         15     (5)         ICB
CIDA 2/                     17.0        0           50    (10)         Tied
EDF                          20.5       1.0         40    (10)         ICB
KfW                         22.9        2.0         30    (10)         ICB
logo                         1.4      Interest during construction.
1/ EIB overall contribution would consist of about     $7.0 million loan at about
9.5 percent under the Yaound6 Convention and about     $17.0 million  loan at
about 6.5 percent under the Lome Convention.
v $13 millidn confirmed;    an additional    $4 million under consideration. CIDA's
contribution is tied to Canadian supplies and would finance infrastructure.
/ Export Credits; expected terms are based on discussions with prospective
equipment suppliers and Government export-credit agencies.
4/ Competition between prequalified suppliers, with export financing taken into
consideration.
5/ Quarantee fee.



TOGO/IVORY COAST/GHANA
CIMAO     REGIONAL CLINKER        PROJECT
* GRINDINGSPANm,,  TONS PER.YA Ai      PROJECT CLINKER PLANT    TONS PER YEAR  ,
TABLIGBO                 l20a
OA-KOAADI .j  I A!3*              LOME CLINKER TERMINAiL 
i! :   li :      |ACCOSOMBO HYDROELECTIC PLANT
I'  -M           ] |'^ ;DI'4;Z, 't :;                                                    2 ' -  
ABIDJArj K ?           -          WMJOR ROADS
14-r-- EXISTING RAILROAD         ~                 r
<_~~~~.                          |                          nPer ateCan  D
-  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    { w a        - .  ~~~~~~~~~~~~ S an san n e
H a p e r                                                                         K I L O z E T E R 5  s   W~~~~e r
-4  GTUa FOFG                             /  /  V      A     b  a ho nBtbnttpdomae  nt E  N
D Man                        ,4                                                                   lia in
n         C~ ~~~Bauafl  Y aTs D rAbkrb                                                  okuo
San-PedroSassaAbnnouourd
mbkr.~~~~~~~aod                                    KILMEER
C  t'  / ~~~~~~~~~~~t  Gt'/NFA~         ~   ~  ~   ~~~~f
San-Pedro           Takoradi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aceroc b h



