기


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREZMENT., dated c\        .2          1976, between INTER
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and CIMENTS DE L'AFRIQUE DE LIOUEST (CIMAO) (here-
inafter called the Borrower), a Socigtfi Anmyne d'Economie Mixte
having its registered office in Lomg, Togo, and being governed
(i) by the Treaty Establishing a Regional Cement Complex in West
Africa entered into by the Republic of Togo (hereinafter called
Togo), the Republic of the Ivory Coast (hereinafter called the
Ivory Coast) and the Republic of Ghana (hereinafter called Ghana)
on December 12, 1975, (such Treaty being hereinafter called the
Treaty), (ii) by the Borrower's Statutes annexed to the Treaty
(hereinafter called the Statutes) and (iii) subsidiarily by the
law of the country of its registered office to the extent not dero-
gated by the Treaty or the Statutes.
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) The Loan will be guaranteed by Togo, the Ivory Coast and
Ghana upon terms and conditions set forth in a Guarantee Agreement
of even date herewith between Togo and the Bank, a Guarantee Agree-
ment of even date herewith between the Ivory Coast and the Bank
and a Guarantee Agreement of even date herewith between Ghana and
the Bank;


﻿-2-
(C) Each of Togo, the Ivory Coast and Ghana has requested
the Bank to provide additional assistance towards the financing of
the Project by assisting it in financing its subscription of addi-
tional shares to be issued by the Bc.rover, and by three separate
loan agreements of even date herewith between Togo and the Bank,
the Ivory Coast and the Bank and Ghana and the Bank (such agree-
ments hereinafter called the Government Loan Agreements) the Bank
is agreeing to provide such additional assistance by making a loan
in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to three million five
hundred thousand dollars ($3,500,000) to Togo (hereinafter called
the Togo Loan), a loan in an aggregate principal amount equivalent
to three million five hundred thousand dollars ($3,500,000) to the
Ivory Coast (hereinafter called the Ivory Coast Loan) and a loan
in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to three million five
hundred thousand dollars ($3,500,000) to Ghana (hereinafter called
the Ghana Loan) (the Togo Loan, the Ivory Coast Loan and the Ghana
Loan hereinafter sometimes collectively called the Government Loans);
(D) Togo, the Ivory Coast, Ghana, the Bank and the Borrower
intend (i) that the proceeds of the Government Loans be withdrawn
and used in the manner, and for the purposes, set forth herein-
after for the withdrawal and use of the Loan provided for in this
Agreement, and (ii) that, to the extent practicable, the proceeds
of the Government Loans be disbursed on account of expenditures
on the Project (A) pro rat& on the basis of a 1:1:1 ratio and
(B) before disbursements of the Loan provided for in this Agree-
ment are made, all as more fully set forth hereinafter and in the
Government Loan Agreements;


﻿(E) (1) The Borrower has entered :Lnto, or proposes to enter
into, the following agreements providing for additional financing
for the Project, namely (i) an agreement (hereinafter called the
First ADB Loan Agreement) with the African Development Bank (here-
inafter called ADB) providing for ADB to make a loan to the Borrower
in the amount of about nine million eight hundred thousand dollars
equivalent ($9,800,000) (hereinafter called the First ADB Loan);
(ii) an agreement (hereinafter called the BADE4 Loan Agreement)
with the Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa (hereinafter
called BADEA) providing for BADEA to make a loan to the Borrower
in the amount of ten million dollars ($10,000,000) (hereinafter
called the BADEA Loan); (iii) an agreement (hereinafter called the
CCCE Loan Agreement) with Caisse Centrale de Coopgration Economique
(hereinafter called CCCE) providing for CCCE to make a loan to the
Borrower in the amount of about ten million dollars equivalent
($10,000,000) (hereinafter called the CCCE Loan); (iv) an agree-
ment (hereinafter called the First EIB Loan Agreement) with the
European Investment Bank (hereinafter called the EIB) dated
March 25, 1976, providing for EIB to make a loan to the Borrower
in the amount of 5,925,000 units of account (as definea in such
agreement) (hereinafter called the First EIB Loan); and (v) an
agreement (hereinafter called the Second EIB Loan Agreement) with
EIB providing for EIB to make a loan to the Borrower in the amount
of about seventeen million dollars equivalent ($17,000,000) (here-
inafter called the Second EIB Loan);
(E).(2)   For the purpose of providing each of Togo, the Ivory
Coast and Ghana with additional assistance towards the financing
of the Project by assisting it in financing its subscription of
additional shares to be issued by the Borrower, (i) EIB is proposing


﻿to enter into one or more agreement with Togo, the Ivory Coast and
Ghana providing for a contribution in an aggregate total amount
of about five million eight hundred thousand dollars equivalent
($5,800,000) (as defined in such agreement) and (ii) CCCE is pro-
posing to enter into one or more agreements with Togo, the Ivory
Coast and Ghana providing for a loan or loans in an aggregate total
amount of about ten million dollars equivalent ($10,000,000);
(F) Togo is undartaking to carry out, or to cause to be car-
ried out, the Infrastructure Project required for the Project and
described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(G) The Borrower has entered into, or proposes to enter into,
the following agreements regarding the carrying out of parts of
the Infrastructure Project as well as regarding the major prin-
ciples governing the use by the Borrower of various infrastructure
services, namely, (i) an agreement with Togo providing for Togo,
through its Ministgre des Travaux Publics et des Mines, to carry
out Parts A, B, C and D.2 of the Infrastructure Project; (ii) an
agreement with CEB setting forth the major principles governing*
the supply of power by CEB to the Borrower, as and when required
for the operations of the facilities included in the Project; (iii)
an agreement with CEET setting forth the major principles govern-
ing the supply of power by CEET to the Borrower, as and when re-
quired for the operation of the rail/port terminal included in
Part D.2 of the Infrastructure Project; (iv) an agreement with
Togo setting forth the major principles of a lease under which
Togo will make available to the Borrower the use of the township
included in Part B of the Infrastructure Project; (v) an agreement
with CFT setting forth the major principles governing the transport,


﻿-5-
by CFT, of the clinker produced by the clinker production plant
included in the Project to the port of Lomg and of the necessary
fuel oil from such port to such plant; and (vi) an agreement with
PAL setting forth the major principles governing the use by the
Borrower of the rail/port terminal included in Part D of the Infra-
structure Project;
(H) Financing of the Infrastructure Project will be provided
inter alia under the following agreements, namely (i) an agreement
(hereinafter called the CIDA Loan Agreement) between the Canadian
International Development Association (hereinafter called CIDA)
and Togo providing for CIDA to make a loan to Togo in the amount
of about seventeen million dollars equivalent ($17,000,000) (here-
inafter called the CIDA Loan) for the purpose of assisting in the
financing of Parts A and C of the Infrastructure Project; (ii) an
agreement (hereinafter called the EDF Loan Agreement) between the
European Development Fund (hereinafter called EDF) and Togo pro-
viding for EDF to make a loan to Togo in the amount of about twenty
million five hundred thousand dollars equivalent ($20,500,000) (here-
inafter called the EDF Loan) for the purpose of assisting in the fi-
nancing of Parts B, C and D.2 of the Infrastructure Project; (iii) an
agreement (hereinafter called the Second ADB Loan Agreement) be-
tween ADB and Togo providing for ADB to make a loan to Togo in the
amount of about two million two hundred thousand dollars equivalent
($2,200,000) (hereinafter called the Second ADB Loan) for the pur-
pose of assisting in the financing of Part C of the Infrastructure
Project; and (iv) an agreement (hereinafter called the KfW Loan
Agreement) between Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau (hereinafter
called KfW) and Togo providing for KfW to make a loan to Togo in
the amount of about twenty-two million nine hundred thousand dollars


﻿-6
equivalent ($22,900,000) (hereinafter called the KfW Loan) for the
purpose of assisting in the financing of Part D.2 of the Infra-
structure Project;
(I) By Ordonnance No. 37, dated December 4, 1975 and signed
by the President of the Republic of Togo (hereinafter called the
Concession), the Borrower was granted a mining concession for the
exploitation of a limestone deposit near Tabligbo; and
(J) By an Annex to the Treaty, Togo, the Ivory Coast and
Ghana propose to agree: (i) that the Borrower's yearly clinker
production shall be distributed among them in such a manner that
(A) Togo will purchase from the Borrover all the clinker required
for its domestic consumption to the extent that such consumption
does not exceed one-third of the Borrower's production, and (B)
the Ivory Coast and Ghana will purchase each 50% of the remainder
of such production (or such percentages adding up to 100% of such
remainder, as the Ivory Coast and Ghana shall from time to time
agree); and (ii) that the Borrower shall coordinate any imports
of clinker into the territories of Togo, the Ivory Coast and Ghana
that may be required in order to satisfy any demand not covered
by the Borrower's production;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-7-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein subject,
however, to the following modifications thereof (said General Con-
ditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a) Paragraph (5) of Section 2.01 is amended to read as
follows:
"5. The term Guarantee Agreement means any agreement
between a member of the Bank and the Bank providing for
the guarantee of the Loan, as such agreement may be anended
from time to time; and such term includes these General
Conditions as thus made applicable, all agreements supple-
mental to the Guarantee Agreement and all schedules to the
Guarantee Agreement."
(b) Paragraph (7) of Section 2.01 is amended to read as
follows:
"7. The term Guarantor means any of Togo, the Ivory
Coast and Ghana, as the case may be."


﻿-8-
(c) Paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section 10.04 are amended to
read as follows:
"(b) The parties to such arbitration shall be the Bank
on the one side and the Borrower and any one or more of Togo,
the Ivory Coast and Ghana, as the case may be, on the other
side.
(c) The Arbitral Tribunal shall consist of three
arbitrators appointed as follows: one arbitrator shall be
appointed by the Bank; a second arbitrator shall be appointed
by any one or more of Togo, the Ivory Coast and Ghana, as
the case may be, and the third arbitrator (hereinafter some-
times called the Umpire) shall be appointed by agreement of
the parties or, if they shall not agree, by the President of
the International Court of Justice or, failing appointment
by him, by the Secretary-General of the United Nations. If
either side shall fail to appoint an arbitrator, such
arbitrator shall be appointed by the Umpire. In case any
arbitrator appointed in accordance with this Section shall
resign, die or become unable to act, a successor arbitrator
shall be appointed in the same manner as herein prescribed
for the appointment of the original arbitrator and such
successor shall have all the powers and duties of such
original arbitrator."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the con-
text otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:


﻿(a) "APCM" means Associated Portland Cement Manufacturers
Ltd.
(b) "APCM Contract" means the engineering contract between
the Borrower and APCM dated May 5, 1975.
(c) "CEB" means La Communautg Electrique du B6nin, an inter-
national public entity established by a treaty between the People's
Republic of Benin and Togo, dated July 27, 1968.
(d) "CEET" means La Compagnie Energie Electrique du Togo.
(e) "CFA Francs" means francs in the currency of Togo and the
Ivory Coast.
(f) "CFT" means Les Chemins de Fer Togolais.
(g) "Origny" means La Soci4t6 Origny-Devroise.
(h) "Origny Contract" means the technical assistance contract
between the Borrower and Origny, dated May 5, 1975.
(i) "PAL" means Le Port Autonome de Lomg.
(3) "Subsidiary" means any corporation, at least a majority
of the outstanding voting stock of which shall be owned, or which
shall be effectively controlled, by the Borrower or by one or more
subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or more
of its subsidiaries.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty-nine mil-
lion five hundred thousand dollars (M9,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in
respect of interest and other charges on the Loan.
(b) On each of the semi-annual interest payment dates speci-
fied in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself
the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and other
charges on the Loan accrued and payable on or before the date set
forth, and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment, as such schedule may be amended from time to time.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.


﻿- 11 -
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and eighty-five hundredths per cent (8.85%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall pay a guarantee fee at the
rate of 1.15% per annum on the amount of the Loan withdrawn from
the Loan Account and outstanding from time to time. Such fee shall
accrue from the respective dates on which amounts shall be so with-
drawn and it shall be paid semi-annually on February 15 and August 15
in each year in equal portions to Togo, the Ivory Coast and Ghana.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, accounting, engineering and industrial
practices.
Section 3.02. In carrying out the Project, the Borrower (i)
shall continue to use the services of APCM and Origny in accordance
with the provisions of, respectively, the APCM Contract and the
Origny Contract, (ii) shall not consent to any modification or
termination of either such contract without the prior approval of
the Bank, (iii) in case of termination of either such contract
for reasons beyond the Borrower's control, and before completion
of the services agreed upon therein, shall promptly employ other
consultants for the completion of such services, provided that
the qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employ-
ment of such other consultants shall be satisfactory to the Bank,
and (iv) unless the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
shall not later than June 30, 1979, employ management assistants
to assist the Borrower in operating the facilities included in the
Project for a period of not less than 4 years after the completion
of the Project (as such completion is defined in Section 5.08 (c)
(iii) hereinafter), provided that the qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment of such management assistants
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 13 -
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan or of the proceeds of
the Government Loans against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in
a currency freely usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan or of the Government Loans to be used exclusively for
the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and construction and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to re-
cord the progress of the Project (including the -ost thereof) and
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and of the Government Loans, and to disclose the use
thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the
provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Bank's
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan and of the Government Loans and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank


﻿all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concern-
ing the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and
of the Government Loans and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, prop-
erty and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records and
documents.
(d) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (b)
above, in carrying out the Project the Borrower shall establish
and maintain a cost control system satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land,
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the construc-
tion and operation of the facilities included in the Project and
shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evi-
dence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in respect
of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrover shall carry out the staff training
included in the Project in accordance with a time schedule accept-
able to the Bank.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall at all times conduct
its operations under qualified and experienced management, and
with the assistance of qualified and experienced personnel in
adequate numbers.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
hereinabove, the Borrower: (i) shall consult with the Bank before
making appointments to any position of its senior management; and
(ii) shall establish and maintain a market research unit for the
purpose of collecting and analyzing all essential data regarding
the clinker and cement market in the territories of Togo, the Ivory
Coast and Ghana.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall at all times manage its
affairs and maintain its financial position in accordance with
sound industrial and financial practices and, in particular, shall
adequately maintain all the equipment and fixed assets relevant
or necessary to the carrying out of the Project or to the operation
of the facilities included therein and promptly make all necessary
renewals and repairs thereof.


﻿- 16 -
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrover
shall take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain and renew all
licenses, consents or other rights as may be necessary or useful
in the conduct of its business and shall not amend its Statutes.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
(i) shall obtain title to all goods financed in whole or in part
with the proceeds of the Loan or of the Government Loans free and
clear of all encumbrances; and (ii) shall not sell, lease, transfer
or otherwise dispose of any of its property and assets except in
the ordinary course of business.
Section 4.0h. The Borrower shall not, without the prior ap-
proval of the Bank, take any action to create any subsidiary.
Section 4.05. The obligations of the Borrower expressed in
Articles IV and V of this Agreement shall be applicable to any
subsidiary of the Borrower as though such obligations were directly
binding on any such subsidiary, and the Borrower shall cause any
such subsidiary to carry out such obligations.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall take all reasonable measures
to ensure that the execution and operation of the Project are car-
ried out with due regard to health, safety, ecological and environ-
mental factors. To that end, the Borrower shall inter alia monitor
pollution levels during operation of the facilities included in
the Project.


﻿- 17 -
Section 4.07. Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree, not later than December 31, 1977, or such later date
as the Bank and the Borrower may agree, the Borrower shall enter
into contracts satisfactory to the Bank with firms acceptable to
the Bank providing for (i) the supply to the Borrower, as and when
required, of the fuel necessary for the operation of the facilities
included in the Project; (ii) the maritime transport, as and when
required, of such portion of the Borrower's clinker production as
is to be exported from Togo; and (iii) the use by the Borrower of
the infrastructure services referred to in Recital (G) to this
Agreement.
Section 4.08. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all
such information as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning
the operation of the facilities included in the Project, the
sale of the products manufactured therein as well as the clinker
and cement markets in the territories of Togo, the Ivory Coast
and Ghana.


﻿- 18 -
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to
the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than
four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of the Borrower and the audit thereof as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
(b) Without limitation on the provisions set forth in para-
graph (a) above, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank as soon as
available, but in any case not later than 45 days after the end
of each calendar quarter, financial statements (as defined in
paragraph (a) above) covering such calendar quarter.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security


﻿- 19 -
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank or
stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on
any of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally
and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to
the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfac-
tory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that
the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to:
(A) any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of bank-
ing transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one
year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. (a) Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, after completion of the Project (as such com-
pletion is defined in Section 5.08 (c) (iii) hereinafter), the
Borrower:
(i) shall take all steps necessary (including, with-
out limitation, an increase of its paid-in share
capital) to ensure that the consolidated debt of
the Borrower and of all its subsidiaries shall


﻿- 20 -
not exceed: (A) 1.8 tiles the consolidated capital
and surplus of the Borrower and all its subsidiaries
during a period of 2 years after such completion,
and (B) 1.5 times such consolidated capital and
surplus thereafter; and
(ii) shall not incur any debt if, after the incurring
of such debt, (A) the consolidated debt of the
Borrower and all its subsidiaries then incurred        0
and outstanding would be greater than 1.5 times
the consolidated capital and surplus of the Bor-
rower and all its subsidiaries, or (B) the con-
solidated net revenue of the Borrower and all its
sVsidiaries for the fiscal year immediately pre-
ceding the date of such incurrence or for a later
twelve-month period ended prior to the date of
such incurrence, whichever period shows the greater
consolidated net revenue, shall be less than 1.2
times the maximum consolidated debt service re-
quirements for any succeeding fiscal year on all
the debt of the Borrower and all its subsidiaries
including the debt to be incurred.
) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "debt" means any debt incurred by the
Borrower or any subsidiary maturing more than one
year after the date on which it is originally in-
curred, including debt assumed or guaranteed by
the Borrower or by a subsidiary;


﻿- 21 -
(ii) wherever reference is made in this Section to the
incurring of debt, such reference shall include
any modification of the terms of payment of such
debt. Debt shall be deemed to be incurred (A) under
a loan contract or agreement on the date and to
the extent it is drawn down pursuant to such loan
contract or agreement and (B) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing
for such guarantee has been entered into;
(iii) the term "consolidated net revenue" means gross
revenues from all sources, excluding any revenues
arising from the transactions between the Borrower
and its subsidiaries, less all operating expenses,
including adequate maintenance, taxes, if any, and
administrative expenses, but before provision for
depreciation and interest and other charges on debt;
(iv) the term "debt service requirements" means the ag-
gregate amount of amortization (including sinking
fund payments, if any), interest and other charges
on debt;
(v) whenever in connection with this Section it shall
be necessary to value in terms of CFA Francs debt
payable in another currency, such valuation shall
be made at the prevailing lawful rate of exchange
at which such other currency is, at the time of
such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of
servicing such debt;


﻿- 22 -
(vi) the term "consolidated debt of the Borrower and all
its subsidiaries" means the total amount of debt
of the Borrower and all its subsidiaries, excluding
any debt owed by the Borrower to any subsidiary
or by any subsidiary to the Borrower or to any
other subsidiary; and
(vii) the term "consolidated capital and surplus of the
Borrower and all its subsidiaries" means the ag-
gregate of the total unimpaired paid-in capital,
surplus and free reserves of the Borrower and of
all its subsidiaries after excluding such items
of capital, surplus and free reserves as shall
represent equity interests of the Borrower in any
such subsidiary or of any such subsidiary in the
Borrower or in any other subsidiary.
Section 5.06. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall take all action required on its part to request
and obtain promptly as needed such funds as each of Togo, the Ivory
Coast and Ghana has undertaken to provide or cause to be provided
under the provisions of the respective agreements referred to in
Recitals (B) and (C) to this Agreement.
Section 5.07. The Borrower shall inform the Bank prior to
undertaking or executing any new project or development other
than the Project or making any investment not related to the Proj-
ect and shall not in any given fiscal year undertake or execute
for its own account or for the account of any third party or parties
any such project, development or investment in excess of $1,000,000
equivalent without the Bank's prior approval.


﻿- 23 -
Section 5.08. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall take all such steps as shall be necessary to
maintain at all times after the completion of the Project a ratio
of current assets to current liabilities of not less than 1.4 to
1.
(b) The Borrower shall not pay any dividend or make any
other distribution whatsoever to its shareholders:
(i) in either of the first two fiscal years after the
completion of the Project; nor
(ii) in any fiscal year thereafter unless, after such
payment or distribution, the current assets of the
Borrower, after deducting the projected replacement
investments for the following year, are at least
1.5 times its current liabilities.
(c) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) "current assets" means cash, securities readily
convertible into cash, accounts receivable realiz-
able within one year and inventory;
(ii) "current liabilities" means liabilities due and
payable, and all other liabilities which will be
due and payable, or could be called for payment,
within one year, including the portion of long-
term debt falling due within one year; and


﻿-214 -
(iii) "completion of the Project" means the completion
of a period of 4 consecutive months during which
both clinker production lines included in the
Project have operated at or about 90% of their
rated capacity.
Section 5.09. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall take all such steps as shall be necessary to en-
sure that the non paid-in portion of the Borrower's subscribed
share capital referred to in Section 7.01 (d) (i) hereinafter
shall be paid-in in accordance with a time schedule to be agreed
between the Bank and the Borrower, it being understood that such
share capital shall be completely .aid-in not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1978.
Section 5.10. Except if the Bank shall otherwise agree, if
the Borrower shall repay in advance of maturity any of its debt
which would have matured more than one year after it is originally
incurred, the Borrower shall repay in advance of maturity a pro-
portionate part of the principal amount of the Loan then outstand-
ing and all the provisions of the General Conditions relating to re-
payment in advance of maturity shall be applicable to any repay-
ment by the Borrower of the Loan in accordance with this Section.
Section 5.11. The Borrower shall set its price for the sale
of clinker in accordance with the provisions of Article 26 of the
Treaty, provided that in the "cost price of clinker produced by
the Company" referred to in paragraph (a) of such Article 26 there
shall be included a provision for all necessary reinvestments for
maintenance and replacement purposes in accordance with appropriate
industrial practices.


﻿- 25 -
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) A default materially and adversely affecting the Bank,
the Borrower, the Project, the Infrastructure Project, or the
operation of the facilities included in the Project or the Infra-
structure Project, shall occur in the performance by any party of
any obligation, covenant or agreement under the Treaty, the Con-
cession or any of the agreements referred to in Recitals (G) and
(J) to this Agreement and in Section 4.07 of this Agreement.
(b) Any provision of the Treaty, the Concession, the Bor-
rover's Statutes, the Origny Contract, the APCM Contract or any
of the agreements referred to in Recitals (E) (1), (E) (2), (G),
(H) and (J) to this Agreement and in Section 4-.7 of this Agree-
ment shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, terminated,
waived or assigned without the prior approval of the Bank and such
event shall materially and adversely affect the Bank, the Borrower,
the Project, the Infrastructure Project, or the operation of the
facilities included in the Project or the Infrastructure Project.
(c) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right: (1) of the Borrower to withdraw
the proceeds of any grant or loan made to the


﻿- 26 -
Borrower for the financing of the Project, or
(2) the right of the respective borrower under
any of the agreements referred to in Recitals
(E) (2) or (H) to this Agreement to withdraw
the proceeds of any grant or loan made to such
borrower for the financing of any part of
the Infrastructure Project, shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole
or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrover, or the respective borrower under
any of the agreements referred to in Recitals (E)
(2) or (H) to this Agreement, establishes to the
satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension,
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower, or of such
respective borrower, to perform any of its obliga-
tions under such agreement, and (B) adequate funds
for the Project or for the Infrastructure Project,
as the case may be, are available to the Borrower,
or to such respective borrower, from other sources
on terms and conditions consistent with the obliga-
tions of the Borrower under this Agreement, or
consistent with the terms and conditions of the


﻿- 27 -
agreement providing for the carrying out of the
respective Part of the Infrastructure Project,
as the case may be.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following events are specified pursuant to para-
graph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Section
6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 28 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) All conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
agreements referred to in Recital (C) to this Agreement, except as
they refer to the effectiveness of this Agreement, shall have been
fulfilled.
(b) All agreements referred to in Recital (G) to this Agree-
ment as well as the Annex to the Treaty referred to in Recital (J)
to this Agreement, all in form and substance satisfactory to the
Bank, shall have been duly executed and authorized or ratified by
all necessary governmental and corporate action and shall be in
full force and effect.
(c) All agreements referred to in Recitals (E) (1), (E) (2)
and (H) to this Agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank, shall have been duly executed and authorized or ratified
by all necessary governmental and corporate action, and any con-
ditions precedent to the effectiveness of, or to the initial dis-
bursement under, such agreements, except as they refer to the
effectiveness of this Agreement, shall have been fulfilled.
(d) (i) The Borrower's subscribed share capital shall
have been increased to an amount not less than CFA Francs


﻿-29 -
19,300,000,000, and (ii) of this amount an amount not less than
CFA Francs 6,000,000,000 shall have been fully paid-in, and (iii)
the Borrower shall have called for the paying-in of the remaining
amount of CFA Francs 13,300,000,000 in accordance with a sched-
ule acceptable to the Bank.
(e) All such action, governmental, corporate or other, shall
have been taken and all such governmental consents shall have
been obtained (i) as may be required to enable the Borrower to
acquire such lands, interests in land and properties, and such
franchises or other rights as may be necessary for the prompt and
proper execution of the Project, and (ii) as may be required to
enable any of the parties in charge of carrying out the Infra-
structure Project, or any part thereof, to acquire such lands,
interests in land and properties, and such franchises or other
rights as may be necessary for the prompt and proper execution
of the Infrastructure Project.
(f) In addition to the Loan, the Government Loans and the
loans referred to in Recital (E) (1) to this Agreement, the Bor-
rower shall have contracted loans to assist in financing the Proj-
ect in an aggregate amount of not less than the equivalent of
$31,000,000, all on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank:


﻿- 30 -
(a) that the governmental, corporate or other actions and
consents referred to in paragraphs (d) and (e) of Section 7.01
have been validly taken or given, as the case may be; and
(b) that (i) the Treaty, (ii) the Annex thereto referred to
in Recital (J) to this Agreement, and (iii) the agreements referred
to in Recital (G) to this Agreement, have been duly authorized
and ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the
respective parties thereto and are legally binding upon such parties
in accordance with their terms.
Section 7.03. The date December 31, 1976 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 31 -
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Ciments de l'Afrique de
l'Ouest (CIMAO)
B.P. 1365
Lom9
Togo
Cable address:                     Telex:
PRESIREP                           PRESIREP 5201
Lom9                               Lom6
ATTENTION:     KATAMNA DIR GAL CIMAO


﻿- 32 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in Lomg, Republic of
Togo, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Regic::!1 V .   r-                  0 ident
CIMENTS DE L'AFRIQUE DE
L'OUEST (CIMAO)
Authorized Representative


﻿- 33 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
and of the Government Loans
1. The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan and of the Government Loans,
the allocation of the mounts of the Loan and of the Government
Loans to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items
so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan and of the
Government
Loans Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment                   8,600,ooo        70%
(2) Civil works                29,400,000        70%
(3) Consultants' ser-           4,70O,000        1005 of foreign
vices                                       expenditures
(4) Staff training              1,800,000        TO%
(5) Interest and other          5,500,000
charges on the Loan
accrued on or before
December 31, 1979
(6) Unallocated               10,000,000
TOTAL      6o,ooo,ooo


﻿- 34 -
2. For the purposes of this Schedule the ter "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of a country other than
any Guarantor and for goods or services supplied from the terri-
tory of any country other than any Guarantor; provided, however,
that if the currency of any Guarantor is also that of another
country from the territory of vhich goods or services are supplied,
expenditures in such currency for such goods or services shall be
deemed to be "foreign expenditures".
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan and
of the Government Loans shall be disbursed on account of payments
for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, any Guarantor on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes lev-
ied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan or of the Government Loans decreases or increases, the
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to
be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   The proceeds of the Government Loans shall be disbursed to
the extent practicable (i) pro rata on the basis of a 1:1:1 ratio,
and (ii) before disbursements of the Loan are made.


﻿- 35 -
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan and
of the Government Loans or the disbursement percentages set forth
in the table in paragraph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably es-
timated that the amount of the Loan and of the Government Loans
then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance the
agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the Bank
may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category,
to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds
of the Loan and of the Government Loans which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that fur-
ther withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expen-
ditures thereunder shall have been made.
T.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the procure-
ment of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the proce-
dures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
)      or of the Government Loans and the Bank may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel
such amount of the Loan or of the Government Loans as, in the Bank's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Loan or of the Government Loans.


﻿- 36 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the industrial component of a regional clinker
manufacturing venture in West Africa which also includes the
Infrastructure Project described in Schedule 3 hereinafter.
The Project consists of the design, construction and com-
missioning of a dry process clinker production plant near Tabligbo
in Togo with a rated capacity to produce 1.2 million metric tons
per year of clinker for the production of ordinary portland cement.
The Project includes the following Parts:
Part A:   Quarry and Clinker Production Plant
1.   Quarry, dump trucks, semi-mobile crushers and con-
veyor belts.
2.   Prehomogenization and storage facilities.
3.   Two identical production lines including each the
following:
(a) Proportioning and raw grinding facilities.
(b) Homogenization and storage facilities.
(c) Kiln plant.


﻿- 37 -
(d) Clinker transport, storage and rail loading
facilities.
4.   General service facilities including, inter alia,
workshops, a laboratory and offices.
Part B:   Management System and Staff Training
1.   Establishing a management system to operate the
facilities included in Part A of the Project, in-
cluding without limitation, an accounting, cost
control, budgeting and financial planning system.
2.   Training of staff to operate the facilities included
in Part A of the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


﻿- 38 -
SCHEDULE 3
Description of the
Infrastructure Project
The Infrastructure Project, which will be carried out by the
Minist4re des Travaux Publics et des Mines of Togo, consists of
the off-site infrastructure facilities required for the Project
and includes the following Parts:
Part A:   Power
The construction (a) of an extension of the substation
(161/63 kV, 2 x 12 MW) to be built for Compagnie Togolaise
des Mines du B4nin near Dagbati, (b) of an about 20 MW
substation at the site of the Borrower's clinker produc-
tion plant included in the Project, and (c) of a 63 kV
power transmission line, about 10 Km long, connecting
such substations.
Part B:   Township
The construction of a township near the clinker produc-
tion plant included in the Project to provide housing
for about 100 employees (including their families) en-
gaged in operating such plant, including social and
recreational facilities.


﻿- 39 -
Part C:   Railroad
The provision of such railroad facilities as will allow,
as and when required, to transport the clinker produced
by the clinker production plant included in the Project
to the port of Lomg and of the necessary fuel oil from
such port to such plant, and for this purpose the carry-
ing out of the following:
0
1.   The construction of a new meter gauge, single
track railway line, about 55 kilometers long, to
connect CFT's central line with the clinker pro-
duction plant included in the Project.
2.   The necessary upgrading and renewal of about 25
kilometers of CFT's existing lines.
3.   The connection of CFT's lines (a) with the rail
terminal facilities at the clinker production plant
included in the Project and (b) with the rail/port
terminal included in Part D.2 of the Infrastruc-
ture Project.
14. The procurement of the necessary motive power and
rolling stock (3 locomotives, 92 clinker wagons
and 12 fuel tank wagons), including spare parts.
5.   The extension of existing workshops.


﻿- 4o -
Part D:   Port
The provision of such port facilities in Loag as will
allow, as and when required, to export any clinker pro-
duced by the clinker production plant included in the
Project that will not be used in Togo, and for this
purpose the carrying out of the following:
1.   The expansion of PAL's port facilities in Lomg,
including the construction of a mineral berth, ex-
pected to be completed by December 31, 1976.
2.   The construction and equipping of a rail/port ter-
minal at the port of Lomg to be used by the Bor-
rover for its clinker exports, such terminal to
have the capacity to handle 1000 metric tons of
clinker per hour and to include the necessary
rail unloading and shiploading facilities, storage
facilities with a capacity to hold 50,000 metric
tons of clinker as well as a substation of about
o.6 MW.


﻿-  41 -
SCHEDULE 4
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
August 15, 1981                                    1,590,000
February 15, 1982                                  1,660,000
August 15, 1982                                    1,735,000
February 15, 1983                                  1,810,000
August 15, 1983                                    1,890,000
February 15, 1984                                  1,975,000
August 15, 1984                                    2,060,000
February 15, 1985                                  2,155,000
August 15, 1985                                    2,250,000
February 15, 1986                                  2,345,000
August 15, 1986                                    2,455,000
February 15, 1987                                  2,56o,ooo
August 15, 1987                                    2,670,000
February 15, 1988                                  2,795,000
August 15, 1988                                    2,915,000
February 15, 1989                                  3,045,000
August 15, 1989                                    3,180,000
February 15, 1990                                  3,320,000
August 15, 1990                                    3,465,000
February 15, 1991                                  3,625,000
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                           1.75%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                            3.55%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                            6.50%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                           7.65%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                            8.85%


﻿ 4 3-
SCHEDULE 5
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, the goods and works
shall be procured under contracts to be awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   With respect to the goods and works referred to in paragraph
1 above:
(a) there shall be one contract for the supply, the erec-
tion and the installation (including such supervision and staff
training as may be required) of the facilities included in Parts
A.3 (a) through (c) of the Project and the clinker transport
facilities included in Part A.3 (d) of the Project;
(b) bidders shall be prequalified as described in paragraph
1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines; and
(c) a two-stage bidding procedure shall apply (i) to the
contract referred to in paragraph 2 (a) above and (ii) to con-
tracts for electrical equipment and civil works for foundations
and super structures. The first stage shall consist of the pre-
sentations by bidders of proposals in two separate, sealed enve-
lopes, one containing the technical proposal, and the other


﻿- 1414
containing the bid price. The Borrower shall open the envelopes
containing the technical proposals at a set date and may thereafter
request all qualified bidders to make appropriate modifications
and changes in the technical proposals and to submit new separate,
sealed envelopes containing changes in, and modifications to,
their original technical proposals and, if desired, supplemental
prices in separate sealed envelopes to reflect the technical modi-
fications and changes. The second stage shall consist of the open-
ing, at a second set date, of the envelopes containing the original
prices and the supplemental prices. Formal bid evaluation shall
be conducted immediately thereafter. The Borrower shall clearly
indicate the two-stage bidding procedure in the text of the invi-
tations to bid and other bidding documents.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for equipment and civil works estimated to cost
the equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract, but in the aggre-
gate not more than a total of the equivalent of $1,000,000, may
be awarded on the basis of bidding following advertising in Togo,
the Ivory Coast and Ghana or on the basis of such other procure-
ment procedures as the Bank and the Borrower shall agree.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be preeured in accordance with
the procedures referred to in Part B above: (i) bidders shall be
required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (Togolese port of entry)


﻿-  45 -
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for goods manu-
factured in Togo; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on
imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on goods supplied
from Togo, shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower
of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be in-
cluded.
2.   Goods manufactured in Togo, the Ivory Coast or Ghana may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
loved in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Togo,
the Ivory Coast or Ghana if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in Togo, the Ivory
Coast or Ghana equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.


﻿(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Togo, the Ivory Coast or Ghana.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied from Togo, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lovest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1.   Review of prequalification: The Borrower shall, before qual-
ification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the procedure
to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said
procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of pre-
qualified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifica-
tions and of the reasons for the exclusion of any aplicant for
prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank
for its caments before the applicants are notified of the Bor-
rower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such additions to,
deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $500,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.


﻿- 48 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rover shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report, by APCM and Origny on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, together with the rec-
ommendations for award of APCM and Origny and such other informa-
tion as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for


﻿award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest. The Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such de-
termination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this          day of        1971.
FOR SECRETARY


