Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MTCR)EI CIHF GOPY
Report, No.: 10850-CH         Type:  (SAR1)
Ti tle:   IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PR(JECT                   Report No. 10350-CH
Author: WITTNDEREG, P
E>-xt. ::3l,18"2   Ioroom: I60(05 Dept., :I,A4AG
STAFF APPRAISAL. REPORT
CHILE
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
OCTOBER 26, 1992
Country Department IV
Agriculture Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This docunnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of 
their offlicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.|



CURRENCY UNIT
Peso (Ch$)
EXCHANGE RATE
(as of June 23, 1992)
US$1.00 = CH$345
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system has been used throughout the report.
ABBREVIATIONS
A list of abbreviations used in the report
is shown in Annex 12.



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
CHILE
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
I.    LOAN AND PROJECT SUMHARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .*.  .  i
II.    TH  SECTOR CONTEXT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
A. Agriculture in the Econinth.omy..                                 1
B. The Irrigation Subsector a . . . . .                              L
III.   DEVELOPMENTAL POTENTIAL AND CONST%AINTS  . . . . . . .......    5
A*   Potential    .  .  .  5  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .   *  *.  5
B.  Irrigation Water Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
C. Investment Policy                                                 6
D. Agricultural Development                                          7
E.  Environmental Constraints  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
IV.    BANK INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED . . . . . . . . . . . . ...   10
A.  Bankwide Lending for Irrigatio-i and Drainage . . . . . . . . . 10
B. Lending to Agriculture in LAC  . . . . . . . . . . 1 1 . . . . LL
C.  Bank Involvement in Chile  . . . 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . * 1L
V.     PROPOSED STRATEGY, DESIGN, AND RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMNET  . . ll
A.  Government Strategy in Irrigation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ll
B.  Rationale for Bank Involvement         . . . . . . . . . .      12
C.  Project Design and Strategy  . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
VY.    THE PROJECT     o   * . . ..... ... .     . . . . .3 . .   . . . 13
A.  Project Objectives . . . . . .  . .   . . . . . . . . 1 . . . 13
B.  Project Components . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
C.  Detailed Project Features      . . . . . . . .    . . . . . . 14
VTI.   PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING  . .. ......    .....    19
A. Costs  .  .... .   @-                                       *0-*@e ....................... Lg
B.  Financing  . . . . . .... ... ..  . ..  . .  * .   . .. . ..  . . * 19
C. Disbursements  . . . . . . . . . .-. .              . . . . . . 19
D.  Procurement  . .    . . . .   .   * .  * * . ..    . . . . .   . . . . .   20
e. Cost Recovery  . . . . . .   * .   * .          . . . . . . .   . 22
F. Environmental Screening  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
G.  Rural Women  . ..... . . . . . . . . . . ........*............  24
VIII.  PROJECT ORGANIZATION   . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ...............  ..... .  25
A.  Project Coordination . . . . . . .  . . .  . .  . . . .   . . . . .   25
B.  Accounts and Audits  .. ....... ...  .  .   ................... . .  26
C.  Monitoring and Evaluation  . . . .   . . .  . . .  . . .  . .. ..   . 26
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Chile
In March 1992, comprising Messrs. Hagerstrom (Mission Leader), Wittenberg,
Tobelem (Bank), Floto (FAO/CP) and Carroll (Consultant). Peer reviewers were
Messrs. Ruivivar and Kramer (LALAG). Messrs. Ping-Cheung Loh, Mark Wilson, and
Peter Wittenberg are the Department Director, Division Chief, and Task Manager,
respectively, for the operation.
iThs document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
IX.   BENEFITS, ECONOMIC ANALYSIS, ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT AND RISKS  . . . 27
A.   Benefits   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  .  .  .  .  .  .    27
B. Economic Analysis  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  ... .   27
C. Environmental ImpRe- . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
D.    Project  Risks    .  .  .  .  .  .  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .  28
X.    SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECONNENDATION . . . . . . 28
ANNEXES:
1.  List of che 100 Poorest Rurul Municipalities in Chile
2.  Criteria for Feasibility Studies Financed by the Government
3.  Institutional Development
4.  Agricultural Development
5.  Regularizing Water Titles
6.  Summary Project Cost Tables
7.  Executive Summary of the Sectoral Environmental Assessment
8.  Key Performance Indicators
9.  Allocation of Loan Proceeds
10.  Loan Disbursement Schedule
11.  List of Documents Available in the Project File
12.  Abbreviations
HAP: IBRD 23006



CHILE
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
X. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic of Chile
Loan Amount:           US$45.0 million equivalen.
Terms:                 Scventeen years, including five years of grace, with
level payments of principal, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.
Proiect Objectives:   The project would aim to improve the operation and
efficiency of existing and future irrigation schemes
and enhance the welfare of small farmers. It would
also improve the allocation and sustainability of
investments and strengthen the capacity of user groups
and small farmers to exploit better irrigated
agriculture.
Proiect Description:  The project would: (a) invest in rehabilitation and
modernization of exiating irrigation schemes and in the
construction of new small and medium-size schemes;
(b) support small farmers in agricultural development
to complement irrigation investment; and (c) regularize
water titles and strengthen the managerial capacity of
user groups.
Benefits:              The main project benefits would include:  (a) expansion
of the irrigated area benefiting mostly small farmers
in marginal rainfed areas; (b) enhanced environment and
efficiency in water allocation resulting from improved
conservation and management of water resources; and
(c) greater water security leading to improved yields,
better quality output and increased investment in
high-value export crops.
Risks:                 The main risks relate to prcject management capacity
and cost recovery. Both the size and complexity of the
proposed project appear to be within the capacity of
the public agencies involved. However, because there
has been no new public investment in irrigation for
about fifteen years their ability to coordinate and
implement such a project remains untested. To minimize
this risk an institutional skills gap analysis was
undertaken and mitigating measures have been developed.
On cost recovery, given the poor results worldwide in
developing effective cost recovery of irrigation
investments and the poor performance in Chile of
recovering loans from other sectors, the commitment of
government to cost recovery is a concern. However, the
overall risk of non-collection would be substantially
mitigated by having the Treasury collect the resources
concomitantly with property taxes, for which the
collection rate is about 99X.



- ii -
Estimated Costs Olt
Local         Foreign        Total
-US$ million ---------
I.   Irrigation Infrastructure
A. Civil Works                54.6           38.9         93.5
B. Institutional Development   1.5            0.8          2.3
II. Agricultural Development
A. Adaptive Research           2.8            0.0          2.8
B. Technology Transfer         1.3            0.4          1.7
C. Extension                   3.6            0.1          3.7
D. Institutional Development   0.5            0.2          0.7
III. Strengthening User Groups
A. Training                    0.9            0.0          0.9
B. Water Rights Titling        1.3            0.0          1.3
Total Baseline Costs b/              66.5           40.4        106.9
Physical Contingencies £/             0.1            0.1          0.2
Price Contingencies                   7.1            4.5         11.6
Total Project Costs                  73.7           45.0        118.7
Financing Plan:
IBRD                                 --             45.0         45.0
Government of Chile                  73.Z7            -          7L3.
Total                             73.7           45.0        118.7
Estimated IBRD Disbursements:
IBRD FY     1993 '   1994      1995      1996      1997      1998      1999
---------------------------  US$ million  ----------------------
Annual       7.0      7.0      10.0       8.0       8.0       3.0       2.0
Cumulative   7.0     14.0      24.0     32.0       40.0      43.0      45.0
Economic Rate of Return: Estimated at no less than 12Z, based on criteria for
selection of individual sub-projects.
MAP: IBRD No. 23006
AI Valun rounded.
ki Inckbn teax   nwunt  to US19.7 nilln.
gI Not ppied to civi works. resch  nd exteneion.
/   Inlnuds initi dpoit In the pcal account of US*2.0 rriion equivalent.



II. THE SECTOR CONTEXT
A. ARriculture in the Economy
2.01        Though Chile is andowed with a great diversity of natural
resources, agriculture was 1 ng regarded as an inconsequential, stagnant
sector. Beginning in the mid-1960s, however, agriculture began to respond to
policy reforms with an extended period of growth, only briefly interrupted by
the turmoil of the early 1970s and macroeconomic imbalances in the early
1980s. Grow-th has accelerated to a rate of 51 2er annum since 1985,
rural-urban migration has been stemmed, and agriculture has become a dynamic
and increasinglv vital sector in the economy. Currently, agriculture,
including forestry and fisheries, generates about 10% of GDP, employs 19X of
the labor force, and accounts for over one-third of the value of merchandise
exnorts.
2.02        Recent growth is attributed largely to sustained liberalization of
the economy, macroeconomic stability, and fiscal stringency leading to a
realistic exchange rate, particularly since 19S5. Trade reforms and
deregulation of factor markets have been complemented by sectoral measures to
diminish the role of government in favor of private sector initiatives. With
a relatively small domestic market, exports have provided most of .hze 5-rth,
led by fresh fruit, forest, and fish products. The value of agriculture and
forest exports relative to net value of production inc eaead from less than 5Z
in 1965 to 20Z in 1982 and over 80% during 1988-90, while the share of total
foreign exchange earnings from agriculture, forestry, and fisheries rose from
81 in 1965 and 61 in 1973 to an average of 351 during 1988-90.
Import-competing crops have also responded to improved incentives and
productivity gains have helped to lower the share of food in total imports
from 201 in 1965 to 4Z in 1988-90.
B. The Irritation Subsector
BackIaround and Development
2.03        About 35Z of the cropped area is dependent on irrigation,
including all fruit orchards, which produced almost US$800 million in foreign
exchange during 1990. The command area totals some 1.8 million ha, with about
1.2 million ha irrigated on a regular basis. Field crops, including cereals,
maize, potatoes, and sugarbeet account for over 40Z of the regularly irrigatnd
area, followed by pastures at 301, fruit trees at around 20Z, and vegetables
ar less than 10Z. The areas with less reliable water supplies are planted
mostly in low-yield cereals and pastures. In the dry North, drip irrigation
is ?,acticed in 131 of the irrigated area by modern commercial farmers who
produce fresh fruit for export. Sprinkler irrigation systems are used in the
southern regions of the country. Together, however, such advanced systems
account for less than 5Z of the total irrigated area, with the remaining
distribution and application systems being almost entirely gravity based.
2.04        The private sector has traditionally dominated irrigation
development in Chile. From colonial times to 1915, private investment was
responsible for developing irrigation capability on about one million
hectares, mostly run-of-river systems with unlined canals providing seasonal



-2-
water. Subsequentlyt private initiative waned as the subdivision of
landholdings increased the complexity of coordinating implementation and
financing. Irrigation investment came to a standstill even for on-farm works
du. .nL .he agrarian reform period of 1965-1973.  In the 1980s, however,
pr. As' on-farm investment began anew in response to general improvements in
economic incentives, greater land security, and e government program to
subsiaize private investment in irrigation. Most of this investment was by
commercial farmers attempting to reach levels of water security and management
required to produce fresh fruit for export. As a result, plantings of new
fruit orchards, largely developed with advanced irrigation methods, increased
from less than 6,000 ha a year in 1985 to over 10,000 ha a year in 1989.
2.05        The public sector, on the other hand, constructed more than 60
major irrigation works benefiting some 600,000 ha over a period of 40 years
ending in 1970. Studies indicate that many of these schemes were not
completed or fully utilized and resulted in low rsturns. Furthermore, less
than 3Z of the costs of such works were recovered from the beneficiaries,
despite laws calling for full cost recovery, with much of this subsidy going
to a relatively small number of large farmers.'/ Subsequently, under the
military regime public investment in irrigation declined drastically, from an
annual average of US$55.4 million in 1965-70 to US$5.0 million in 1981-89 and
US$1.6 million in 1990.  Consequently, no new important irrigation
infrastructure has been developed in the last 15 years. This cecline was
associated with general fiscal stringency and the desire on the part of the
military regime (1973-1990) to promote again the predominant role of the
private sector in irrigation development. To that end, policies were enacted
to transfer ownership and operation and maintenance (O&M) of schemes to the
users, recognize water rights as a transferable private asset, require
up-front financial contributions by beneficiaries of at least half the costs
of public investments, and reimburse partially the costs of private
small-scale investments.
Legal and Institutional Framework
2.06        Water Rights.  The Water Code (Law 1122) specifies that all water
resources are national property, but recognizes the right of individuals and
entities to use them in line with the tenets of the Code. A water right
involves the use and possession of water; it is a private asset that can be
isolated and mortgaged by itself independently of the land. Consequently, the
allocation of water among iterested parties is left to market forces, with
water users free to buy and sell water rights, subject to the Civil Code.
Laws dealing with water contamination also regulate the use of water. These
include Law 3133, enacted in 1916, which calls for the neutralization of
industrial residues and prohibits discharge of any effluent containing harmful
substances into bodies of water used for drinking or irrigation, and, more
recently, Law 3557, enacted in 1981, which established norms for protecting
water for the benefit of agriculture and public health.
/    See for example, Nathaniel Wolilman, The Water Resources of Chile, Resources for the Future Inc, Johns Hopkins Pres,
196s.



-3-
2.07         User Organization.  The Water Code recognizes several levels of
user organizations. The most basic are water communities, vhich consist of
two or more holders of water rights using a common irrigation or drainage
system. Public deeds identify their members, specify their rights and the
bylaws of community operation and management, including administrative and
legal aspects to ensure reasonable distribution of water and operation and
maintenance of common works. All matters of interest are resolved in a
general assembly, which also elects a board. Irrieation associations function
like water communities, b-t have a legal status that enables the members to
take out loans collectively. River authorities are second-tier organizations
of water users of a common natural stream and include individuals, public
entities, irrigation associations, water communities, and other entities.
Establishment of a river authority requires a public deed signed by all
interested parties. Finally, the Confederation of Canal Operators of Chile
(CCC) is a leg-1ty recognized association of water user organizations which
reprasents most sf the national canal system.
2.08        Public Institutions.  The Ministry of Public Works (MOP) has long
been the predominant public institution involved in irrigation. Its
Directorate of Irrigation (DR) is responsible for studies, design, and
supervising construction of public investments and the ope:ation of public
irrigation infrastructure.  The General Dt.-uctorate of Water (DGA), a)Jo in
the MOP, has overall responsibility for wate  development plannirg and the
development and exploitation of natural water resources. It collects
scientific data on water resources, maintains records of water rights, and
adjudicates conflicts among water uw rs. Irrigated areas also benefit from
the activities of public agencies that provide agricultural services. These
include the Institute of Agricultural Research (INIA), which conducts
agricultural and livestock research. Although a public institution, it is
expected to function as a private entity (corporaci6n de derecho Privado) and
currently derives about 33Z of its income from the sale of products and
services. In addition, the Institute for Agricultural Development (INDAP)
provides technical assistance and credit to small producers. INDAP targets
the estimated 252,000 farm families throughout the country with less than 12
BIHV', and currently reaches about 27,000 of them. It is expanding coverage
with the assistance of the Government and the recently approved Bank-financed
Small Farmer Services Project (Ln. 3473-CH) and expects to reach between
65,000 and 80,000 farmers within the next five years.
2.09        In an attempt to respond to longstanding problems in realizing the
full benefits to public investment and in coordinating construction and
complementary activities, the National Irrigation Commission (CNR) was created
in 1975 (Law 1172). Its Council is the main deliberative body for irrigation
policy and is chaired by the Minister of Economy and includes the Ministers of
Finance, Public Works, Agriculture, and Planning. However, there has been no
public investment in irrigation during the last 15 years; consequently, the
main task of CNR's Technical Secretariat (SEICNR) has been the implementation
Basic Inrigated Heotare, equivalent to one hectare of Irrigated land in the fertle Maipo River Valley near Santiago.



-4-
of the Irrigation Development Law 18450 (para 2.11). Additionally, the SE/CNR
has carried out some water resource and agricultural surveys and river basin
studies, and has evaluated some of the investment projects identified in these
studies.
2.10        Public Investment: Law 1123.  Construction of irrigation and
drainage works with public funds is governed by Irrigation Law 1123 of 1981.
It stipulates that final design can only proceed if beneficiaries representing
at least 332 of the land or water rights involved approve of the proposed
project. A project can only be considered for construction if the price of
the land plus the cost of the proposed works is less than or equal to, the
commercial value of similar irrigated land in the same region, unless
authorized by the President of the Republic. For construction, beneficiaries
representing at least 502 of the newly available water rights must accept the
project and commit themselves to reimburse the State under terms and
conditions agreed during negotiations. The State reserves the right to
allocate the uncommitted water by competitive bidding after completion of
construction. Once constructed, the government operates and maintains the
facilities for up to four years. Thereafter, water user organizations assume
full responsibility for undertaking and fully funding O&M. In cases of public
safety, the State retains ownership and operates the works, the costs of which
are fully charged to the water users.
2.11        Private Investment: Law 18450.  In October 1985, the Irrigation
Development Law 18450 (LFR) was promulgated to encourage private investment in
irrigation and drainage works. LFR stipulates that the State may reimburse up
to 752 of private investment in construction and rehabilitation of irrigation
and drainage works and related pumping equipment that increase the irrigated
area, improve water availability in an area of short supply, or reclaim poorly
drained or waterlogged land for agricultural production. The cost of eligible
works cannot exceed UF 12,0001 (approximately US$250,000). Funds are
allocated on a competitive basis by CNR, which offers about US$1 million every
45-60 days. Proposed projects are ranked with priority given to those with
higher beneficiary contributions, lower cost, and larger area benefited. The
subsidy is paid once works have been completed and certified by CNR. After
initial delays, demand has increased substantially. Through six years of
operation total investment under the program has reached US$66 million, and in
the process bidding competition has brought the level of subsidy down from 622
of investment costs in 1987 to 422 in 1991. The LFR is due to expire in
October 1993. Failure to extend LFR would reduce incentives for large farmers
to invest in on-farm works, but most investment by user groups, as well as
on-farm works for small farmers, cou]d be channeled through Law 1123.
UF - Unidad de Fomento (Development UnlQ, an accounting unK that retains Its real value through daily adjustments In
relation to the Shllean Peso.



- 5 -
III. DEVELOPMENTAL POTENTIAL AND CONSTRAINTS
A. Potential
3.01        The principtl technical constraint to 8reater and more intensive
land use for agriculture in Chile is the lack of irrigation; yet less than
one-third of the country's irrigation potential is currently being fully
exploited, including undeveloped areas and those within existing schemes.
Estimates of potentially irrigable lands vary widely. Studies made in the
early 1960s indicated a potential of around 2.5 million ha; however with the
availability of new technology and surveys, sophisticated irrigat4on methods,
and expansion of the irrigation frontier in the south, current estimates are
closer to 3.5 million ha. Works required to develop new sources of irrigation
water vary. In the northern river basins, technical solutions mostly involve
multiannual storage dams. In the Center (Regions IV, V and Metropolitan
Santiago), the Aconcagua valley suffers from water shortages during dry years;
technical solutions would involve a combination of a rational use of ground
and surface water and the construction of storage dams. Farmers in the
Metropolitan area face increasing competition for available water resources
from industry and urban centers. A study of the Maipo River basin would be
required to draw a clear plan for water development, including multipurpose
projects. Farther south, water supply is less critical, but some areas would
benefit from irrigation to develop their full potential. Technical solutions
would be mostly river-diversion structures, but some areas would benefit from
water transfer between basins.
3.02        The most pressifig problem, common to all regions in the country,
is poor management of existirg resources, as reflected by water use
efficiencies. These efficiencies are highest in northern areas where
irrigation is required throughout the year, water is scarce, and modern
irrigating methods are practiced. In contrast, in the Central Valley near the
Santiago basin efficiency has been estimated at 24Z and application -ficiency
less than 601, with losses during non-irrigation hours estimated at .4Z.
While part of the conveyance and distribution losses and most field losses
return to the water source and are used downstream, such losses do increase
risks among end users in any particular scheme, and thereby lower their
productivity. These inefficiencies help to account for the fact that only
1.2 million ha out of the 1.8 million ha of irrigable land under command have
reasonably secure water supply (defined as 852 water security, i.e., on
average, three years out of twenty flows fall below the required quantity).
B. irrigation Water Management
3.03        The poor state of irrigation infrastructure and inadequate
management limit the potential of the subsector by undermining the efficient
use of available water resources. At the farm level, farmers growing
high-value crops for export utilize sophist 'ated and highly efficient on-farm
irrigation methods, but the vast majority i..e traditional surface methods and
overall field efficiency is low. At the scheme level, a number of the
conveyance networks are in need of rehabilitation and improvement due to
earthquake and flood damage and a lack of adequate maintenance, caused in part
by the failure to adjust institutional arrangements and adapt distribution



-6-
networks following the agrarian reform. River diversion structures are mostly
temporary, have to be rebuilt or repaired evary year, and are often adapted to
river flows durilng the irrigation season. Main conveyance canals are not
extensively lined, often run along steep hl'lsides, and need slope protection
to avoid damage during the rainy season. In some areas, key structures were
damaged during the 1985 earthquake and are in danger of collapsing. Secondary
and tertiary canals are usually unlined and the number of control structures
is generally insufficient. Finally, in many areas major changes in land
tenure during 1965-75 were not accompanied by adjustments in water
distribution systems.
3.04        Changes in land tenure also had major effects on the allocation of
water rights and organization of water users. As a result, irrigation systems
that formerly belonged to one large holding and were run by one landlord are
now in the hands of many (up to hundreds) of farmers with no central authority
or management. The number of water user organizations has increased
significantly. There are about 850 water communities and 172 irrigation
associations registered with the DGA. However, those established prior to
1981 are not obligated to register with DGA and according to the ConfeJeration
of Canal Operators, the number of water users' organizations in the country is
actually about 4,000. As many as 2,000 lack the necessary legal instruments
to carry out properly their functions. Moreover, many user organizations,
regardless of their legal status, lack proper managerial capacity to operate
and maintain the irrigation works under their responsibility. These
orge-nizational weaknesses are aggravated by the lack of legally recognized
water rights of a large proportion of mostly small farmers. These physical
and institutional constraints together undermine the imprcved efficiencies
that might be gained from freely transferable water rights.
C. Investment Policy
3.05        While the policies of the military regime resulted in increased
participation by users in operation and maintenance and greater on-farm
investment by commercial farmers, investment, the rehabilitation and
modernization of headworks, and conveyance and distribution systems have been
largely neglected. Consequently, almost a third of the area with irrigation
infrastructure still receives water on an intermittent basis and incentives
for efficient water resource use have been undermined by deteriorating works,
improper and outdated design, and inadequate O&M. The weakness of policy
reforms is due largely to the failure to recognize financial, technical, and
institutional constraints that prevent the private sector from assuming its
role. While large commercial farmers are able to prepare, construct, and
finance their own on-farm works, the ability of small farmers to do so is
limited. Thus, those that needed the assistance the most had difficulty in
applying for tenders and competing with larger, more progressive farmers. For
larger investments--such as bringing new areas under irrigation o,
rehabilitating and modernizing commonly-held headworks and conveyance and
distribution systems--these constraints are exacerbated by organizational
weakness. Moreover, because investments normally take 3-5 years to complete,
and full agricultural development is only reached in 4-8 years for high-value
crops, farmers were largely unable to provide ex ante financing, as required
by the military government.



- 7 -
D. Aericultural Development
3.06        Agriculture in general, but irrigated agriculture in particular,
in Chile is characterized by a dualistic system in which a small, but dynamic,
group of entrepreneurial farmers co-exist alongside small traditional farmers.
While these groups are far from homogeneous, they do have distinct
characteristics and development potential. Commercial farmers apply modern
irrigation and production technologies. These operations includes small
holdings (up to 10 ha) dedicated to high-value crops (e.g., berries, flowers,
early vegetables); export-oriented fruit orchards (40 ha and above); and
medium (over 50 ha) and large holdings (over 200 ha) under intensive crop
(maize, sugarbeet, oilseeds) and livestock production (dairy and confined
fattening operations). Commercial farmers either participate in the INIA
technology transfer program on a fee-paying basis, or hire their own technical
assistance directly from private firms. The large majority of irrigation
farmers, however, belong to the traditional type, who either acquired their
Amall holdings privately or have obtained their farms during the land reform
process. In either case, they have been unable to develop their land into a
covrmercial operation due to lack of technical and financial support, and poor
irrigation infrastructure. With low levels of technology their farming
operations are labor intensive. Production is oriented towards
self-sufficiency in foodstuffs and extensive cropping of cereals. Often they
keep a small area under pasture for their livestock, mainly goats and sheep.
3.07        There has been little generation and transfer of technology to
small farmers using irrigation. Much of the past emolution towards improved
water distribution systems was stimulated by private suppliers of hardware Qrd
installation packages; as water becomes scarcer in the north and around
Santiago, these advanced irrigation systems are likely to spread more widely
among commercial farmers.  For the rest, however, future development would be
linked to rehabilitating and redesigning gravity distribution systems, which
are unlikely to be of interest to private industry. INIA research in
irrigation and drainage, however, was only initiated eight years ago and has
been operating at a low level of intensity, with only 4? of the INIA budget.
Moreover, future development would require technologies appropriate for
farmers of limited capital and skills resources, but only recently has INIA's
research mandate included farmers below 12 BIH. Consequently, lacking
adequate technology to transfer, INDAP support in irrigated areas has been
minimal.
E. Environmental Constraints
Water Oualitv
3.08        Water quality constrains the availability of water resources
suitable for use in crop produc_ion and limits the development of irrigation
in areas where lower river flows would increase the concentration of
contaminants. There are six identifiable sources of water contaminations
natural (chemical and physical), mining (chemical), domestic sewerage
(biological), industrial (chemical), solid waste (chemical and biological),
and agricultural (chemical and biological). The responsibility for oversight
and coordination of policies for the use, development, and conservation of



-8-
water resources is vested in DGA. DGA practices the minimum-flow-requirements
approach to ensuring that water use rights granted are consistent with basic
standards of environmental quality. However, DGA does not have the level of
resources required to ensure that all the controls, authorizations, and
sanctions for i.nfringement are actually carried out by the various municipal
and central government agencies charged with these roles. While the
implementation of standards for drinking water has been quite effective, these
standards are not applied in the case of quality of irrigation water. The DGA
and the municipalities have virtually no resources to monitor quality of
irrigation water in the hundreds of systems scattered over an area of 450,000
kmn2.
3.09        The potential for agricultural contamination in Chile is greatest
in irrigated areas, particularly between Regions I and IV where surface water
dilution is limited, which is the result of the use of potentially
contaminating agro-chemicals. However, the limited information available
suggests that contamination from this source is not significant. Individual
cases of mismanagement could affect local water supplies, but the strict
requirements of importers of Chilean produce acts as a brake on widespread
abuse. While there is potential risk of nitrification of aquifers used for
urban water supply, this is minor compared with the problems created by
domestic sewage. For example, a study of pesticides in the Aconcagua Valley,
ono of the most intensive agricultural areas in the country, found only
insignificant traces of residues in downstream water bodi2s. Due to the steep
courses of most Chilean rivers, aeration reduces nitrification and BODIW
accumulation in surface iPaters. However, the problem could be potentially
significant in the lakes of the Center-South (Regions VII and VIII) where
tourism and commercial fisheries would be at risk. But in this area,
irrigation is likely to remain an insignificant source of contamination.
3.10         In contrast, water contamination from other sources does
negatively affect irrigation agriculture. The most infamous case involves the
lIaipo and Hapocho Rivers, which flow through Santiago and are used for
disposing of that city's untreated sewage. Downstream flows are used for
irrigating about 57,000 ha, of which about 15,000 ha are planted with
vegetables for the Santiago market. Evidence has long suggested that high
levels of typhoid and gastro-intestinal ailments found in Santiago are related
to the consumption of uncooked vegetables from this area.51 This situation
has received greater focus after the appearance of cholera in April 1991. A
variety of corrective measures are being pursued, including chlorinating
canals and prohibiting the growing and sale of certain vegetables. The
problem, however, is symptomatic of a larger conflict between urban and rural
areas of land and water in the Maipo Valley. The Government is initiating
studies aimed at long-term, basin-wide solutions and the project would provide
financing for specific investments identified in this area.
r    SBlochemical oxygen demand; a measure of the organic stength of sewage.
Af    As repouted in Wastow&ter Irrinatlon In Develocina Countries, World Bank Technical Paper No. 51, IBRD, 1986.



-9-
Draina2e and Salinization
3.11        Chile is characterized by slopes and soils that allow natural
evacuation of excess waters, though drainage problems can be found in a few
low-lying areas scattered throughout the country. To date little research has
been done on this issue. However, if irrigation is to expand in the center of
the country (Regions V and VI and the Metropolitan Area) there will be a need
for greater research, focusing on small farmers using gravity irriSation. The
project would support the establishment of a new line of research by INIA in
this area (para 6s.15). In contrast, problems with salinity are more
pervasive. In the far north (Regions I and II) vixtually all irrigated areas
confront salinity problems due to the natural condition of soil and water.
While natural conditions are more favorable in the north (Regions III and IV),
the problem has been aggravated over the past decade in the Copiap6 valley by
the expansion of drip irrigation to about 4,500 ha of table grapes. Most of
this area is irrigated with groundwater and about 302 is seriously affected by
salinity, with another 402 moderately affected. This is an area developed by
the most advanced farmers in the country, however, and they are currently
seeking private high-lsvel expertise. Control has been achieved in some areas
by washing with accelerated drip irrigation, but it is costly.
3.12        A further aspect is the potential threat of saline intrusion in
coastal aquifers. This is most likely to occur in areas where summer storage
for hydroelectricity or consumptive use of water for irrigation reduce flows
in the vicinity of river mouths or estuaries to the point that ground water
recharge is insufficient to prevent an irreversible advance of seawater.
There has been no indication that this process is underway in the north and
center of the country, where such intrusion could cause problems in the
quality of water available to the increasing population at beach resorts and
other coastal towns. Nevertheless, the prospect cannot be ignored in view of
incrrased demands likely of water resources for irrigation and for industrial
and mining production. There is only limited information on the behavioral
characteristics of aquifers (coastal or inland) to provide a basis for
estimating the probability of saline intrusion and design of remedial or
preventive measures. The project would ensure that investments proposed for
such areas would have to address this issue as part of the process of
environmental screening and assessment (para 7.19).
Dearadation of Watersheds
3.13        While not a consequence of irrigation, watershed degradation does
have an impact on irrigated agriculture through its effect on soil
degradation, increased flood damage, siltation of reservoirs and irrigation
canals. In Chile, as in all countries, it is asserted that the process of
erosion and fertility decline is occurring at an accelerated scale because of
overcropping, overgrazing, baring and removal of vegetative cover for fuelwood
and timber. According to Ministry of Agriculture estimates, about 11.6
million hectares (or 152 of the total land in the country) are severely
eroded. However, no detailed assessments are available as to how much of this
damage is in fact attributable to economic activity, as opposed to a
geological process. The country's on-going reforestation program, which



- 10 -
covers some 1.4 million hectares of plantations, occupies part of this area.
Whatever the cause, the negative impact cf degradation on irrigation would
have to be recognized in the formulation of investments to be financed by the
project.
IV. BANK INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED
A. Bankwide Lending for Irrigation and Drainage
4..01       Irrigation and drainage projects account for about one-third of
Bank lending to agriculture; however, there is a growing concern about the
quality of irrigation projects being supported by the Bank. Recurring issues
include the effectiveness of large-scale, public sector, gravity irrigation
systems versus alternative forms of largely private-sector irrigation
development; the frequealcy of projects not being completed, especially under
program or time-slice approaches; the low level of cost recovery; poor
preparation and design of schemes; substandard construction quality; and the
role of major commodity price shifts. Although Bank-supported investments in
irrigation and drainage have been generally beneficial, the overall
operational performance has been poorer than expected and the sustainability
of many investments is uncertain. The physical infrastructure has often
deteriorated leading in some cases to long-term declines in production and low
efficiency in water use. Inadequate O&M funding and institutional and
organizational problems have contributed to this shortfall in performance.
Borrowers often disengaged too early from projects, leaving irrigation and
drainage systems incomplete and land development unfinished, with
complementary services inadequate or seriously delayed.6' In addition, some
Bank-financed projects suffer from: underestimated costs frequently due to
lack of sufficiently advanced engineering design at appraisal; cost overruns
due to delays in completing engineering designs, preparing tender documents,
and evaluating bids; slower-than-estimated civil works construction and
equipment delivery times; and lower-than-estimated water use efficiencies.'/
4.02        Finally, the cost-recovery record in Bank-financed irrigation
projects has not been good. In most cases, no capital costs were recovered
and in two-thirds of the projects reviewed the covenant requiring that cost
recovery fully satisfy O&M funding had not been met, with the proportion of
O&M costs recovered generally reaching only a range of 152 to 45Z. The three
main reasons for non-compliance have been unreliable water supply due to poor
O&M, the often heavy burden of direct and indirect taxes already imposed by
governments on the farming sector, and lack of government commitment to
recover costs.-
§/    Evaluation Results for 1989, Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
yI    Annual Review of Evaluation Resuls for 1989 - Agriculture and Rural Development. OED.
World Bank Lending CondItionalIty: A Review of Cost Recovery In Irrigation Projects, OED, OPS No. 6283, June 1, 1986.



- 11 -
B. Lending to Agriculture in LAC
4.03        From recent experience of lending to agriculture in the Latin
America and the Caribbean Region, several factors have been identified as
contributing to poor project performance: lack of a supportive policy
environment; inadequate counterpart funding; weak implementing institutions in
the sector; overly complex design; and technical shortcomings in preparing and
appraising projects. The institutional weaknesses suggest that the size and
complexity should be largely determined by the demonstrated implementing and
funding capacity, and commitment of the agencies involved. For irrigation
projects specifically the failure to involve adequately proposed beneficiaries
in project design and implementation is also seen as a major cause of
unsatisfactory performance. The result is overly-optimistic assumptions about
production and productivity increases from planned investments.
C. Bank Involvement in Chile
4.04        The current lending portfolio in Chile, which includes 15 projects
and US$1.3 billion in commitments, is dominated by infrastructure-oriented
projects followed by lines of credit. The Chilean experience highlights the
direct, positive relationship between sound macroeconomic performance and
sector-specific development efforts. This sustained, solid performance, also
attributable to a generally strong institutional framework and a skilled civil
service, has been maintained during the recent political transition.
4.05        The Bank has made nine agricultural loans to Chile in the past
four decades, totalling some US$260 million, eight of which were primarily
credit operations. During the 1970s these loans focused on modernizing and
expanding agricultural infrastructure with the objective of increasing food
production; more recently lending has been for specific programs in support of
small farmers and poverty alleviation. From the two loans that have been
evaluated by OED, the most directly relevant lesson is the need for
flexibility in project design to be responsive to shifting economic
circumstances and policies. The most recent loan in the sector, the Small
Farmer Services Project (Ln. 3473-CH) was approved by the Board on
May 21, 1992.
V. PROPOSED STRATEGY. DESIGN. AND RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMERT
A. Government Strateav in Irrigation
5.01        The Government has decided to increase investment in the
irrigation subsector in order to sustain agricultural and export growth,
increase the productive capacity of small farmers in poor rural areas, and
protect significant existing investments in irrigation infrastructure. Toward
this end, the Government has taken several actions to initiate the
construction of several new large-scale irrigation schemes as well as new
small-scale schemes to benefit small farmers.



12 -
5.02        Under the program for new large-scale schemes, the Government is
completing the Pencahue Canal, originally financed by the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB), which will incorporate 12,400 ha of newly irrigated
land by 1994 at an estimated cost of US$30.5 million. It is also preparing to
initiate construction of a dam on the Huasco River to improve the irrigation
of some 11,400 ha planted mostly in table grapes and incorporate another 1,200
ha of land, estimated to cost US$38 million. Further, it is preparing for
external financing a larger-scale work, Canal Laja Diguillin, which would
improve irrigation for 14,000 ha and incorporate an additional 49,300 ha by
1997 at a cost of US$143.0 million. Interest in the latter has been expressed
by the Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan (OECP). The policy of the
government for recovering the cost of these l1rge-scale investments includes:
(a) investment cost repayable over 25 years with a 4 year grace period:
(b) indexation of costs using the wholesale price of wheat in Santiago, with a
61 annual rate of interest; (c) for projects with a financial internal rate of
return (FRR) lower than 15%, subsidies equivalent to the amount required to
reduce costs in order to achieve a 151 FRR.
5.03        To promote the construction of new small-scale schemes benefiting
small farmers, the Government is attempting to enhance small farmer
participation in the LFR. To this end, an agreement has been signed by INDAP
and FOSIS (the Government-run Social Solidarity Investment Fund financed by
bilateral donors) to finance feasibility studies and investments made by user
organizations with at least two-thirds membership by small farmers. Subsidies
are channelled directly through the LFR without using the competitive system
for allocating funds. The INDAP-FOSIS program effectively subsidizes 85Z of
investment costst 751 from LFR and an additional 10% grant from FOSIS.
Moreover, FOSIS also provides grants to cover the cost of required feasibility
studies, which usually represent an additional 10% of investment cost.
5.04        For rehabilitation and modernization and new small and
medium-sized schemes not covered by the two above-mentioned programs,
potential demand for investment by user groups is estimated to have reached
US$500 million. The Government has requested Bank assistance in formulating
and financing a programmatic approach for responding to this demand. The
intent is to address constraints on public and private institutions,
efficiency, equity, environmental and public savings considerations in the
selection and financing of potential investments, as well as the desire to
support agricultural development for small farmers.
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement
5.05        The proposed project is consistent with the Bank lending strategy
in Chile and the desire of the Government to: (a) ease bottlenecks to private
investment and export expansion; (b) alleviate poverty in rural areas;
(c) promote environmentally-sound investments; and (d) improve the
institutional capacity of the public sector. It is also consistent with the
1990 World Bank Agricultural Sector Review, which emphasized the need for the
public sector to play a more catalytic role in promoting private sector
participation in rehabilitation and modernization and selected expansion of
the irrigated area. Bank involvement would facilitate strengthening of the
role and capabilities of the private sector, improve the allocation of public



- 13 -
investment, and provide support for improved natural resource management and
environmental impact assessment in the subsector. Finally, Bank financing
would allow for greater flexibility in setting terms for cost recovery.
C. Project Design and Strategy
5.06        The strategy for promoting improved irrigation management and
development and the design of the proposed project incorporate lessons learned
from projects in Chile and the LAC region as well as to the more general
lessons from wider Bank lending in irrigation. These relate particularly to
the need to improve the operational performance and the sustainability of
irrigation projects. The proposed project would be the first Bank-financed
irrigation investment in Chile. It is designed to support beneficiary
participation in irrigation development as a means of avoiding many of the
pitfalls associated with large-scale public irrigation schemes. The
Confederation of Canal Operators (CCC) has been consulted in project design
and played an active role in project preparation, as have local water user
organizations. During implementation, farmer approval would be required for
proposed investments as well as for the proposed institutional strengthening
programs of their user organizations.
5.07        Purther, to ensure that investments do not actually subsidize and
promote inadequate O&M practiced by private users, agreements would be made
with beneficiaries specifying standards for O&M and remedies for
non-compliance. There is little or no discriminatory taxation of agriculture,
and O&M is largely in the hands of user groups. However, government
commitment would be required to set overall parameters for cost recovery and
implement a creditable system for collection.
5.08        Finally, the project has been designed to include components for
agricultural development and institutional development of water user
associations to avoid neglecting these complementary activities. To ensure
the completion of on-farm works, private investments would be supported
through the LFR, which has proven to be an effective instrument. Extension
services would be provided by INDAP under a successful ongoing public program
targeted to small farmers and supported by increaced public investment in
irrigation research.
VI. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Obiectives
6.01        The Irrigation Development Project (Programa de Obras de Riego y
Drenaje Medianas y Menores - PROMM) would aim to improve the operation and
efficiency of existing irrigation schemes aad the futur' development of the
subsector by: (i) strengthening the capabilities of u6er groups and small
farmers; (ii) improving the allocation and sustainability of investment in
irrigation; and (iii) enhancing the welfare of small farmers, particularly in
poor areas.



- 14 -
B. Proiect Components
6.02        PROMM would include: (a) investment in rehabilitation and
modernization of existing irrigation schemes and in the construction of new
small and medium-size schemes; (b) technical support to small farmers for
agricultural development to complement irrigation investment; and (c) support
for regularizing water titles and strengthening the technical and
administrative capacity of user groups.
C. Detailed Prolect Features
Irrieation Infrastructure (USS106.8 million. 90S of total cost)
6.03        Under this component, PRONM would finance on-farm works,
rehabilitation and modernization of existing schemes and the construction of
new small and medium-size irrigation schemes under the provisions of both Law
1123 and Law 18450 (paras. 2.10-2.11). Also included would be required
engineering studies, design and construction supervision, environmental impact
assessments, and institutional strengthening of the Irrigation Department of
MOP and the Executive Secretariat of the CNR, the agencies responsible for
implementing the component.
6.04        Civil Works.  Investments under Law 1123 would include:
(a) routine rehabilitation projects to carry out deferred maintenance and
repairs of main structures to avoid further deterioration, improve water
distribution and eliminate losses; typical works would include improvement or
repair of (i) headworks such as diversion structures, or seasonal storage
facilities; (ii) main water conveyance structures, predominantly siphons,
tunnels and aqueducts, (iii) control and water distribution structures in the
secondary and tertiary networks, and (iv) farm outlets; (b) emergency
rehabilitation including repairs of main structures on the verge of collapse,
where interruption of the water supply would result in the loss of production;
works would include repairs of major structures in the main conveyance system,
mostly rehabilitation of tunnels, siphons and aqueducts; and (c) new small and
medium-scale works involving the construction of headworks, and conveyance,
distribution and drainage networks.
6.05        To be eligible for financing under Law 1123, investments would
have to have at least a 122 economic rate of return (ERR) based on MIDEPLAN
methodology (para 9.02), be screened for potential environmental impacts, and,
as required, have environmental impact assessments (EIA) (para 7.19). The
allocation of investment resources among eligible sub-projects would be based
on a system that includes both efficiency and equity considerations. Cohorts
would be ranked by the net benefit-investment retio derived from the net
benefit stream used for estimating the internal rate of return. To enhance
the achievement of equity objectives, up to 30Z of total investment funds
could be used to finance eligible sub-projects targeted to the 100 poorest
rural municipalities (Annex 1), regardless of their ranking and as long as
they meet the minimum economic and environmental standards.



- 15 -
6.06        Public investment in irrigation worldwida is full of "white
elephants" that appeared viable on paper but failed largely in implementation
because there was little or no participation of beneficiaries in project
design, implementation and financing. Without such beneficiary participation,
particularly on the financing side, economic assumptions regarding expected
benefits from proposed investments do not have to meet the test of the market.
Cost recovery that relies solely on indirect recovery by taxing expected
incremental benefits also suffers from this weakness, because the farmer bears
little risk if a costly investment fails to achieve its objectives. To avoid
this, PROMM would require both direct and indirect cost recovery measures that
would fully recover the capital costs of the investments to be financed
(paras 7.14-7.18).
6.07        This component would also finance engineering studies and designs.
Construction supervision and environmental impact assessments required for
investments would be identified during implementation. Furthermore, it would
help finance feasibility studies to be undertaken during implementation, with
resources allocated to potential investments based on a points system that
would inter alia favor socially-oriented investments with beneficiary support
(Annex 2). Access to such funds would require the written approval of at
least one-third of the intended beneficiaries.
6.08        Investments under the ongoing Irrigation Development Law 18450
(para 2.11) would be financed for those areas benefiting from public
investments under PROMM to ensure that the production potential of these
projects is fully realized. Actual works would vary widely depending on the
needs of farmers and the conditions of their on-farm infrastructure; but in
principle, works include construction or repairs of on-farm canal structures,
construction of wells and their respective pumping equipment, and on-farm
sprinkler or drip irrigation systems. PRONM, however, would not finance
investments under the INDAP-FOSIS subsidized irrigation program for
small-farmers (para 5.03).
6.09        Institutional Develoment.  An institutional capacity analysis was
carried out as part of project preparation to determine the ability to
implement the proposed program (Annex 3). As a result, institutional capacity
gaps have been identified against program tasks. In the case of MOP, while it
has not constructed any new public irrigation works in about 15 years, it has
experience in implementing large infrastructure works in other sectors. In
addition, SE/CNR has been successfully implementing the LFR since 1986. Thus,
the implementing capacity for the proposed program is by and large in place.
The major gaps found are limited to a lack of coordinating experience at the
inter-institutional level--the inter-institutional distribution of functional
responsibilities--and the need for more resources due to the increased
activities proposed!'. For DR/MOP this would require: the modernization of
managerial and communications systems with basic hardware, such as a system of
20 personal computers to link the divisions of the DR and 10 regional offices;
field and video equipment for communicating with regional offices and
V/    This increau has been stimated at 40% In MOP/DR; 10% in CNR; 5% in INiA; 3% In INDAP; and the creation of a new
coordination unit In MAO for Irrigation-related actiities.



- 16 -
beneficiaries; and a plotter for upgrading engineering and design actiiities.
To facilitate field travel, a fleet of three small pickup trucks would be
financed. Some 10 consultant months of technical expertise would be available
for assisting in design and construction. Inputs for the SE/CNR would include
about 180 months of local consultants for studies and processing of LFR
tenders under the PROMM.
6.10        Pilot Studv.  Finally, a study on cost recovery mechanisms for
irrigation projects would be carried out in order to review the current system
and to explore alternatives that would make greater use of financial and water
rights markets, as well as legislation governing private concessions for
infrastructure. Subject to Bank approval, pilot investments using promising
alternatives could be financed under the project. This study would be
initiated no later than June 1993 by the DR and the Ministry of Finance.
Aaricultural Development (USS9.4 million. 7.92 of total cost)
6.11        For the full benefit of investments in common headworks and
distribution systems to be realized, many small farmers will require
complementary technical assistance from INDAP. However, irrigation-related
technology for small farmers, particularly those located outside the Central
Valley, is lacking and increased irrigation oriented adaptive research in many
of the sub-project areas will be required. Further, after about 15 years of
inactivity in the agricultural development of irrigation schemes, the Ministry
of Agriculture needs to strengthen its human and support resources to
participate effectively in the project (Annex 4).
6.12        Adaptive Research.  The PROMS would expand existing research lines
and would initiate new specific lines of adaptive research in the areas where
irrigation investments are likely to be concentrated in the Central Zone
(Regions V and VI and the Metropolitan Area), in the Central-South Zone
(Regions VII and VIII) and limited adaptive research in the North Zone
(Regions I to IV) and the South Zone (Regions IX and X). Out of about US$2.8
million earmarked for PROMCi-related adaptive research, INIA has been allocated
US$0.7 million. The remaining US$2.1 million would either derive from the
Science and Technology Development Fund (FONDEF) through a December 1992
bidding, or would be made available through annual provisions of funds by the
Government. INIA and/or other public or private institutions specialized in
agricultural research would be selected to undertake these agricultural
research activities. It would be MAG's responsibility to ensure that these
activities are carried out in accordance with the overall adaptive research
objectives of PROMM in coordination with INIA activities in adaptive research
and technology transfer, and in a man.er satisfactory to the Bank.
6.13        Transfer of Technoloav.  As a complement to its research work,
INIA is also responsible for the initial diWfusion of improved technologies.
In this context, INIA operates demonstration centers (CATTs) that serve as a
basis for technology transfer to small-scale farmers in homogeneous
geographical areas. With IDB support, INIA has already established 25 CATTs
and will expand them to 55 by 1995. CATT programs include demonstration plots
in the fields of lead farmers, field days and discussion groups.  PROM would
support the establishment of some 28 irrigation focussed CATTs (CATT-R) to



- 17 -
cover production technology under irrigated conditions at an estimated cost of
US$1.7 million. Most of the technology to be transferred wo-ld be based on
existing knowledge with results from the adaptive research to be fed into the
program as they become available. In addition to providing direct assistance
to participating farmers, the CATT-R would train both INDAP staff and the
extension workers employed by private companies that provide extension
services to small farmers.
6.14        A draft agreement between MAG and INIA to carry out part of the
adaptive research and the whole technology transfer program was reviewed at
negotiations; signing the agreement would be a condition of effectiveness.
During negotiations. assurances were obtained that the Government would
provide adequate counterpart funds to finance required adaptive research and
technology transfer activities, over five years of project life, covering
topics end in specific areas to be mutually agreed between the Bank and the
Government during implementation, through the yearly POAs.
6.15        Extension.  The extension support to be provided by INDAP would
reach an estimated 14,000 small farmers during the five years of project
implementation, at an estimated cost of about US$4.1 million. This would
include the financing of seven additional technical assistance coordinators
for irrigation (US$1.5 m4ilion for incremental recurrent costs and vehicles),
and consulting services for expanded extension services (US$2.6 million).
Aareement was reached durinf nexotiations, that adequate counterpart funds
would be provided to carry out these activities.
6.16        A draft agreement between MAG and INDAP to carry out extension
services was reached prior to Board presentation; signing the agreement would
a condition of effectiveness.
6.17        Institutional Development.  The capacity analysis indicated, and
preparation confirmed, that the Ministry of Agriculture, specifically the
office of the Undersecretary of Agriculture (SSA), lacks capacity to
participate along with the MOP and the CNR in planning the development of
irrigation or to coordinate effectively the activities of INDAP and INIA. To
help fill this void, the HAG has recently created the Committee for Irrigated
Agriculture (CAR), which would coordinate the agricultural development
activities. The CAR will be chaired by the Undersecretary of HAG and would
include the director of INDAP, the "resident of INIA, the director of the
Agriculture and Livestock Service (SAG) and the director of MAG's Division of
Studies and Budget (DEP). The PROMM would support the CAR by establishing a
technical support unit (UAR) staffed by three professionals with individual
expertise in the planning, development and evaluation of irrigation projects,
assisted by about 26 months of short-term consultants for specific
assignments. Other inputs would include two vehicles and office equipment,
and incremental operating expenses. Costs are estimated at US$800,000. At
the mid-term review, the functioning of the UAR would be reviewed to determine
the appropriateness of incorporating its tasks as regular government
positions. Agreed terms of reference for these positions would be a condition
of effectiveness.



- 18 -
6.18        INDAP would also require institutional strei,thening to implement
effectively project activities in irrigation. It would do this by recruiting,
training and providing operational support for six specialized irrigation
field staff as rechnical assistance coordinators, a new position in the INDAP
structure. The latter would be responsible for supervising the performance of
contracted irrigation extensionists as well as ensuring effective integration
and feedback between INIA and the extension services. As with extension,
agreement was reached at negotiations that these activities would be supported
through adequate counterpart contributions.
Strengthening User Groups (USg2.5 million. 2.1Z of total costs)
6.19        ReaularizinR Water Titles.   The Government has launched an effort
to regularize water rights on a nationwide basis, through the General
Directorate for Water (DGA) (Annex 5). To enhance the returns to investment
under PROMM, the Government would complete the regularization of water use
rights in those areas where most of the rehabilitation and new projects would
be executed. This would include: (a) completion of the surveys of water
users and the inventory of related irrigation infrastructure in the Limari
basin, Section I (right bank) and Section III of the Maipo River basin, Cautin
River basin and Coastal River basins, and; (b) regularization of water rights
in the Limari, Choapa-Quilimari, Maipo, Maule, Cautin and Coastal River
basins. This would require contract surveys in selected areas, computer
hardware and software to improve the efficiency of user surveys and DGA
supervision, and the regularization of titles in selected areas for small
farmers. User surveys and legal inscriptions are carried out by specialized
firms included in the MOP consultant registry.
6.20        User Groups.  To improve operation and maintenance in general and
the irrigation schemes rehabilitated and constructed under the program in
particular, some 450 water users organizations would need to be trained. The
training would be implemented by the DGA and the Irrigation Operations
Division (DE) of DR. It would center on: (a) administrative aspects, mainly
personnel management (work organization and labor relations) and financing and
accounting (budgeting, management of accounts and financial transactions,
accounting systems, organization of collection of water charges and supply and
control of inputs) by DE; (b) technical matters related to system operation
(irrigation programming, water distribution, monitoring and control) and
system maintenance (maintenance programming and implementation, contractual
procedures) by DE; (c) procedural matters, such as water rights, protection of
water rights, suspension of water supply and norms related to constitution,
regularization and relocation of water rights and changes in diversion
structures by DGA; and (d) organizational aspects concerning preparation and
implementation of meetings, report preparation, etc. by DE. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that both the regularization of water titles and the
training of user groups would be financed totally by counterpart funds.



-19-
VII. PROJECT COSTS AND IINANCING
A. Costs
7.01        Project costs, including taxes and duties, are estimated at
US$118.7 million equivalent. Of this about US$45.0 million (38%) represents
foreign exchange costs. Duties and taxes amount to US$19.7 million. Physical
contingencies have been estimated at US$0.2 million based on 5% contingencies
on all components except civil works, research and extension. Price
contingencies of US$11.6 million are based on Bank-projected price increases
of about 3.7% annually during the life of the project (summary project cost
tables are presented in Annex 6).
B. Financiag
7.02        A Bank loan of US$45.0 million equivalent is proposed to finance
45Z of eligible project costs net of taxes and duties. Bank financing, on a
net of taxes and duties basis, would cover 100% of foreign exchange
expenditures. The Bank would finance 41% of total public expenditures on
civil works, including studies and engineering and design (US$43.0 million).
It would also finance 100% of technical assistance to MOP, MAG, CNR and UC
(US$2.0 million). Adaptive research (US$2.8 million), technology transfer
(US$1.7 million) and extension services, including required institutional
strengthening (US$4.1 million) would be carried out entirely with counterpart
funds.  Activities to st:engthen user groups, costing about US$2.5 million,
would be also financed entirely through counterpart funds. Finally, the
government would finance 100% of incremental recurrent costs for the project
coordinating unit and for the UAR (US$300,000).
C. Disbursements
7.03        Loan proceeds are expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1999,
a period of about seven years, the standard disbursement profile for
Bank-financed projects in Chile. Up to US$4.5 million in eligible project
expenditures would be financed retroactively to April 1, 1992, to maintain
momentum gained during preparation and to permit the initiation of works
during the off-season for agriculture.
7.04        To expedite implementation, the Government would establish a
special account in the Central Bank in US dollars to cover expenditures
eligible for Bank financing under the project. The Bank would initially
deposit up to US$2 million into the account, equivalent to an estimated four
months of average disbursements. Disbursements would be made on the basis of
Statements of Expenditure (SOE) for all expenses except those covered by
contracts requiring prior review by the Bank. Disbursements for contracts
requiring prior review would be fully documented. Relevant documentation in
support of SOEs would not be submitted to the Bank, but would be retained by
the executing agencies. Copies of such documents and disbursement
applications would be supplied to the project coordinating unit (para 8.01) by
the executing agencies and would be made available to Bank supervision



- 20 -
missions. The special account would be replenished through normal
reimbursement of project expenditures.
D. Procurement
7.05        The Inter-Ministerial Committee (CDS) (para 8.01) would be
responsible for monitoring all procurement activities and for ensuring
compliance with Bank Procurement Guidelines. Since there are no specific
procurement laws in Chile, the bidding documents for both international and
local procurement agreed with the Bank will regulate the bidding procedures.
Procurement would be undertaken by the three implementing agencies, all three
of which have satisfactory procurement capabilities and experience. For
investment under Law 1123, MOP has submitted to the Bank the first draft of
reference bidding documents for works and the selection procedures for
consulting services. The Bank carried out a preliminary review of these
documents and found them generally acceptable. A final version, incorporating
Bank comments, was prepared and reviewed during ne2otiations.
7.06        Civil Works.  International Competitive Bidding (ICB) among
prequtlified bidders would be used for all civil works contracts in excess of
US$4.0 million; thus approximately 33? of civil works to be contracted through
MOP.  Contracts for civil works estimated to cost between US$300,000 and
US$4.0 million would be awarded on the basis of Local Competitive Bidding
(LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank, subject to an aggregate limit of
US$55.0 million. Civil works contracts for less than US$300,000 would be
procured on the basis of a minimum of three quotations from qualified firms,
subject to an aggregate limit of US$19.1 million. In all cases LCB procedures
would be open to foreign bidders.
7.07        Investments under Law 18450 by private groups and individuals, for
rehabilitation and modernization of schemes, and for on-farm development would
generally be small in scale (para 2.11), dispersed throughout the country and
time-sliced. Since they would consist mainly of civil works, it would be thus
unlikely to attract foreign competition and would be tendered on the basis of
normal procedures of the beneficiaries.
7.08        Services.  Preparation of studies and designs, institutional
strengthening, technical assistance and training activities, amounting to
about US$12.3 million, would be carried out by national and foreign
consultants, hired following Bank guidelines for the use of consultants.
7.09        Review of Procurement.  Prior review by the Bank would be required
for all procurem6nt documents pertaining to ICB contracts and for the first
LCB contract for works, irrespective of its amount as well as all LCB
contracts costing US$1,000,000 and above. The remaining works contracts would
be reviewed by the Bank on a post-award sample basis.
7.10        Because of the nature of the sub-projects to be financed under
this loan, it would be difficult to estimate the precise number and value of
contracts that would fall above the prior review threshold. Of the available
data on possible sub-projects, roughly 55X would be subject to prior review.



- 21 -
7.11         The Bank would review all documentation for consulting services
included in the project. For conaultant contracts of individual assignment.
costing US$35,000 or less, the Bank would review the corresponding terms of
reference before contracting and condJct a selective post-review of contract
documents during supervision.
Summarv of Proposed Procurement Arrantements 1i
(USS million equivalent)
ICB      LCB      Other _/    NBFc/    Total
1. Woc^s:
Infrastructure d/            25.0       55.0       19.1 e/              99.1
(10.3)    (22.7)      (7.9)               (40.9)
2. Consultancies:
Engineering Studies                                 5.0                  5.0
(2.1)                (2.1)
Technical Assistance                                2.0                  2.0
(2.0)                (2.0)
3. Goods:
Equipment and Vehicles                                          0.8      0.8
4. Agricultural Development:
Adaptive Research                                               2.8       2.8
Technology Transfer                                             1.7       1.7
Extension Services                                              4.1      4.1
5. Regularizing Water Rights Titles
and Training to Strengthen                                        2.5      2.5
User Groups
6. Training and Publications                                         0.4      0.4
7. Incremental Recurrent Costs                                       0.3      0.3
Total          25.0       55.0       26.1        12.6    118.7
(10.3)    (22.7)    (12.0)                (45.0)
(a) Totals include taxes and contingencies. Amounts in parentheses show allocation from loan
proceeds. Values rounded.
(b)  "Other" Includes private investment procurement, local shopping and consulting services.
(c) Not Bank-financed procurement.
(d) Kstlmated distribution, actual distribution would be defined during Implementation.
(e) About 701 of this amount would be for private investments.



- 22 -
E. Cost Recovery
7.12        O.eration and Maintenance.  User groups are responsible for O&M in
most irrigation schemes in Chile and collect charges from users to cover the
full cost of these activities. For investments under Law 1123, in order to
ensure against providing perverse incentives for poor O&M, standards for
operation and maintenance would be defined and in some cases provision would
be required for collecting and retaining disaster funds. These standards
would form an integral part of the agreement io be signed between the water
users and the State regarding the construction and financing of the project.
For new works, responsibility for O&M would be transferred to the user group
following the transition period stipulated in Law 1123.
7.13        Investment.  Capital costs would be recovered both directly and
indirectly. Direct cost recovery would be based on the cost of investment,
net of taxes, estimated after final design has been completed. This amount
would be divided by the total number of water rights (acclones) of the project
and beneficiaries would pay in proportion to their share of water rights.
Grace and repayment periods would be negotiated on a project by project basis,
not exceeding four years grace and 25 years repayment. Repayment would be
indexed by either the UP or the wholesale price of wheat at the election of
the farmer. However, to encourage farmers to choose the UF, the rate of
interest offered to those farmers who choose the wheat index would be at least
1.5Z higher than that for the UF index. The rate of interest would be
determined by the Council of the CNR, but in no case could it be less than
that for long-term paper emitted by the Central Bank. The Council would also
establish the level of payments during the grace period. Pre-payment would be
encouraged by a discount to be set by the Council.
7.14        The level of direct cost recovery would be negotiated with the
beneficiaries for each individual investment. It vould be between 100 to 50X
of the cost of investment, net of taxes. If the investment benefited small
farmers in marginal areas (as defined in para 6.05), the level of direct cost
racovery could be below 50Z, subject to Bank approval. Within each
sub-project, commercial farmers would be required to pay a minimum of 50% and
small farmers (less than 12 BIH), a minimum of 252. For omall household plots
and farmers in extreme poverty (minifundistas), direct cost recovery could be
reduced below 252 subject to Government and Bank agreement.
7.15        Negotiation packages with users, including direct cost recovery
proposals, for proposed investments under Law 1123 would have to be reviewed
by the Bank and approved subsequent to negotiations with beneficiaries. If
the overall level of direct cost recovery differs more than 151 from that
proposed, the change would have to be justified and agreed by the Bank before
the agreement could be signed with the beneficiaries. Major divergence would
suggest that assumptions used in internal rate of return calculations were
overly-optimistic and that the net incremental benefit-cost ratio was
incorrect. Consequently, the ERR would have to be recalculated and the
sub-project ranked again (para 6.05).
7.16        For the market to ration demand effectively, beneficiaries must
believe that government will recover its investment costs. Unfortunately,



- 23 -
Bank experience in the housing sector in Chile indicates that public
ministries in Chile, as elsewhere, are simply not credible collectors. In
this case, however, the risk of non-compliance on direct capital cost recovery
would be minimized by having the Treasury collect the debt along with the
property tax, for which the collection rate is about 99x.
7.17        Costs would also be recovered indirectly through taxes on
incremental gross agricultural output (the va-_e-added tax rate is currently
18x) and through the property tax set at 2Z of assessed value. The
combination of direct and indirect cost recovery should ensure full cost
recovery for all investments.
F. Environmental Screening
7.18              Under the proposed project, all sub-projects eligible for
finuncing would be subject to an environmental impact assessment to detect
current and potential environmental problems and recommend appropriate changes
in design or mitigating measures. Such assessments would have to comply with
the corresponding legislation and the Bank's regulations included in its
Environmental Guidelines for Irrigation and Drainage Projects. The procedures
for screening, classifying, assessing and monitoring environmental impacts
would be as follows:
(a)    Initial sub-project proposals submitted to the CDS must include  a
preliminary statement (PES) on possible environmental implications
based on agreed environmental criteria and an assessment of viable
options for meeting objectives;
(b)    Sub-projects approved by CDS for feasibility study must include an
environmental profile to enable classification according to
potential environmental impact: "A" requiring a full-scale EIA;
"B" requiring further environmental study (ES) of specific
aspects; or "C" requiring no further environmental studies;
(c)    Profiles would be submitted for comment to the environmental units
in MOP and HAG and to NGOs concerned with the issues;
(d)    Observations from these entities (point c) would be submitted to
the project coordinating unit (UC), which would be responsible for
revision of the profiles, in association with the prime authors of
profiles. The revised profiles, together with a report on the
external consultation, would be submitted to CDS which would
reject or accept the environmental classification (point b);
(e)    With an "A" or "B" classification the CDS would request DR, SE/CNR
or UAR/MAG to contract the necessary studies to assess
environmental impacts or provide recommendations for mitigating
measures;
(f)    These studies would be taken into account by the CDS in
determining the adequacy of sub-project design and measures to
mitigate impacts. The CDS would then be responsible for ensuring



- 24 -
that environmental impacts are monitored and recommended
mitigating measures are implemented. This would involve local
affected groups and the user organization with their participation
and responsibilities clearly spelled out in the investment
packages and
(8)    the CDS would submit the investment proposal package to MIDEPLAN,
which has the final authority in determining that environmental
procedures have been adequately followed by these agencies as a
prerequisite to approval of public financing.
7.19              The project would complement the 1992-94 program of the
National Commission on the Environment (CONAMA), which seeks to: (a) provide
training in all branches of the government, including MOP and MAG; (b) support
preparation of data bases, surveys, special studies; (c) provide technical
assistance; (d) strengthen the institutional arrangements for better
coordination on environmental issues; and (e) provide equipment to assemble,
process# analyze and disseminate information on the environment. PRONMI would
bolster this effort by providing funds for specialist assistance when required
for environmental screening and assessment of proposed investments. In
addition, limited training activities have also been included: (a) an initial
two-week workshop for eight staff members from DR and DGA, to focus on
,well-kn-v potential issues; and (b) a final one-week workshop for MOP staff
to review and fine-tune the materials developed during the period of
environmental procedures testing.
7.20              A summary of the Sectoral Environmental Assessment is
presented in Annex 7. A draft version of this summary was circulated to
numerous local non-governmental organizations (NGOs) involved in environmental
issues and rural development in Chile, who were invited to participate in a
meeting under the auspices of MIDEPLAN to discuss and comment on the issues
raised.
C.  Rural Women
7.21        Women's participation in the economically active rural population
increased dramatically in the 1980s, and there is a strong association between
rural poverty alleviation and women's work in agricultural production and
processing. Evidence suggests that women are earning an increasing proportion
of the family income and in a growing number of cases are now the principal
breadwinners. It is estimated conservatively that some 152 of poor rural
households in Chile are headed by women. However, until now, economic
planners, legislators and rural development agencies have tended to reinforce
women's domestic role rather than their economic potential. A re-orientation
of the IMDAP extension program to support better the needs of rural women
would be carried out under the recently-approved Small Farmer Services Project
(Ln. 3473-CH) and would directly benefit women involved in irrigated
agriculture.
7.22        Women are guaranteed equality under the law by the Chilean
Constitution and there is no legal discrimination against women in the Water
Code as regards the ownership of water rights and participation in user



- 25 -
organizations. However, to help alleviate non-legal barriers to their
participation in user organizations, the diagnosis of the institutional
support required for such associations would have to review the particular
needs of women and, if required, propose measures to encourage their active
participation. To ensure compliance, these diagnoses and proposed measures
would have to be submitted to the National Women's Service (SERNAM) for
comment.
VIII. PROJECT ORGANIZATION
A. Prolect Coordinatiog
8.01        The Council of the CNR has given permanent status to the ad hoc
preparation group, the Inter-Ministerial Co-mittee (CDS), comprised of the
Undersecretaries of MOP and MAG and the executive secretary of the CNR,
delegating to it all responsibilities and decisions related to the
implementation of the project. The CDS would determine policy and exercise
general supervision over the Annual Work Program (POA) and implementation of
associated activities. The POA for 1992 was reviewed and agreed during
negotiations. Agreement was also reached during negotiations that POAs for
each succeeding year would have to be presented to the Bank for approval by
November 15 of each preceding year and carried out thereafter. It would review
annual operating programs and semi-annual reports and would make proposals for
modifications, as necessary.  In addition, the CDS would arbitrate issues of
an inter-institutional nature or which may not be the responsibility of a
particular executing agency.  It would meet a minimum of six times a year or
whenever necessary. The CDS would be supported by a small coordinating unit
(UC) to provide technical backup and assist the CDS in its decisions. The
executive coordinator of the UC would report directly to the CDS and
participate in its meetings, acting as its secretary and liaising directly
with the Bank. The coordinator would be assisted by a senior staff member of
a complementary profession and support staff. The UC would also require a
vehicle for field travel, three computers, comunication and office equipment,
10 months of specialist consultants, seven months of evaluation consultants,
as well as operating and travel expenses. Assurances were obtained from the
Government that the UC is satisfactorily staffed and operating.
8.02        The UC would:  (a) implement and coordinate the agreements of the
CDS; (b) arrange for the preparation of project proposals, their review and
the preparation of the annual investment programs; (c) prepare project
background information so that the CDS can set annual implementation programs;
(d) promote the efficient coordination of PROMM components among the various
implementing agencies; (e) monitor program implementation and provide periodic
reports to the CDS; (f) recommend measures to resolve divergences of project
components from the program; and, (g) monitor the use of program funds.
8.03        Public investment under Law 1123 would be implemented through the
DR of MOP, which would be responsible for procuring and supervising
construction. Investment initiatives would be gathered at the regional level
by the Regional Irrigation Directorates and the Regional Secretariat of the
Ministry of Agriculture, which would prepare and submit corresponding project
*  *    i n .   I   inufffh IM  Nli I _I   I   111  a      - _1IIE1I11I1 .



- 26 -
profiles to the UC. The UC would analyze and prioritize the proposed project
ideas according to agreed selection criteria (see Annex 2) and then submit
them to the CDS for a decision on whether financing for feaslbility studies is
warranted. The feasibility studies would be carried out by private consulting
firms and be supervised by DR with assistance from the UC. After completion
of corresponding feasibility studies, the UC would again analyze and rank
those projects that meet the minimum economic criteria and environmental
standards, and submit them to the CDS for final approval of those eligible for
final design and construction. The list of selected projects would be
discussed with the Bank during the Annual Reviews and would then be integrated
into the following year's construction program. These reviews would be held
in May-June, three months before the Government discussions on their annual
budget.
B. Accounts and Audits
8.04        Executing agencies would maintain separate accounts to record
their expenditures under the project using an agreed plan of project accounts.
A plan of accounts was reviewed at neactiations. As a condition of
effectiveness, for each respective component of the project each implementing
agency and the UC would have to istablish an accounting procedure acceptable
to the Bank. Each executing agency will maintain records of expenditures and
will send copies of those records to the Project Coordinating (UC), which will
consolidate such records. Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) will be prepared
by the implementing agencies coordinated by the UC. These SOEs will be signed
by the authorized representatives of the respective implementing agency.
Copies of supporting documentation for reimbursement requests provided to the
executing agencies would be maintained by the UC and made available to
visiting Bank missions and independent auditors, who at their discretion would
make direct visits to the executing agencies for the purposes of the overall
audit. Project accounts, including the special account, and SOEs would be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank following
terms of reference approved by the Bank.
C. Monitorina a-ad Evaluation
8.05        As described in Annex 3, the basic tool for monitoring would be
the POA, an instrument that integrates all PROMM management functions into one
single tool: programming, budgeting, work organization and distribution of
tasks, personnel management and monitoring and evaluation. The UC would
coordinate the annual development of the POA to be approved by the CDS and the
Bank. It would have the responsibility for issuing, not later than three
months after the end of each respective period, semi-annual reports on
progress of implementation of the various components, which would be submitted
to the CDS, and through it to the Bank. If implementation progress is not
satisfactory for any of the components, the UC would propose remedial action
to be adopted by CDS in agreement with the Bank. Annual reviews with Bank
participation would be used for setting investment plans and establishing
requirements for complementary services. Performance would also be reviewed
during these missions. A set of key performance indicators is presented in
Annex 8. A mid-term review would be held in November 1994 to: (a) assess
progress in implementation measured by performance objectives; (b) verify the



- 27 -
continued validity of the design assumption in light of implementation
experience; and (c) undertake necessary adjustments in project objectives,
design, and implementation arrangements. This review would be based on a
mid-term evaluation to be carried out by independent consultants contracted by
UC at least two months prior to the meeting.
8.06        Ex-post evaluation of rehabilitated and new projects, and of the
program to transfer the O&M responsibilities of these works to beneficiaries,
would require studies of physical performance of the irrigation systems and
the socioeconomic impact of the investment. These evaluations would be
contracted out to consulting firms or university research centers. A
preliminary evaluation would be carried out during the third year of the
project and presented to the mid-term review meeting. The terms of reference
of the study would be prepared by UC and agreed with .DS and the Bank.
IX.  BENEFITS. ECONOMIC ANALYSI!, ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT AND ISKS
A. Benefits
9.01        The main project benefits would include:  (a) expansion of the
irrigated area benefiting mostly small farmers in marginal rainfed areas;
(b) enhanced environment and efficiency in water allocation resulting from
improved conservation and management of water resources; and (c) greater water
security leading to higher yields, better quality output, and increased
investment in higher-value export crops.
B. Economic Analysis
9.02        An overall economic rate of return has not been calculated due to
the programmatic nature of the project. However, the project would have a
major impact on the quality of life of a significant proportion of the
low-income, small-farmer rural population of Chile. A 12S rate of return is
the minimum required for public investment; however, most projects are likely
to have substantially higher returns. Most potential investments currently
under review have estimated ERRs above 20x. For the economic analysis of
public investments the criteria and assumptions used by the Ministry of
Planning (MIDEPLAN) have been applied. The main assumptions include a shadow
price for unskilled labor estimated at 0.66 of the market wage rate and
semi-skilled labor at 0.73, with the market wage for skilled labor reflecting
its opportunity cost. Border prices were used for all tradeables produced by
the projects based on the projection estimates of MIDEPLAN and main
agricultural exporting firms, which are lower than comparable Bank projections
for wheat, maize and rice. For inputs and machinery, a conversion factor of
0.9 was used except for urea and superphosphate, for which MIDEPLAN has
defined a product-specific conversion factor of 0.95.
C. Environmental Impact
9.03        The project would implement procedures for screening and assessing
environmental impacts of public investment in irrigation, which would
formalize the participation of affected groups in project design and



- 28 -
implementation. The selection process and cost recovery requirements would
help curb excess demand for irrigation and ensure the viability and
sustainability of investments. Rehabilitation of works and the strengthening
of user groups in operation and maintenance would improve water use efficiency
and conservation. Support for research would also enhance efforts to deal
with environmental problems such as salinity. Thus, the project would help to
minimize adverse impacts of irrigation development on the environment.
D. Proiect Risks
9.04        Both the size and complexity of the proposed project appear to be
within the capacity of the public agencies involved. However, because there
has been no public investment in irrigation in the past 15 years their ability
to coordinate and implement the project remains untested. To minimize any
risk an institutional skills gap analysis was undertaken to identify and
recommend actions to strengthen weaknesses. Chile has a supportive policy
environment and a strong institutional framework. The Bank has had positive
experiences with MOP as an executing agency in other sectors. As for
extension services, under the ongoing Bank-financed project, INDAP has proven
to be effective in delivering technical assistance to small farmers; moreover
the expected increment of farmers to be serviced in irrigated areas is small
compared to INDAP'8 overall program. Since 1986, the CNR has been
implementing the Irrigation Development Law. Although administrative
bottlenecks have been reported, most of the problems have been identified and
are currently being resolved so as to streamline existing procedures and
requirements. The CDS, which has proven to be effective during preparation,
will increase the effectiveness of coordination and Bank missions would be
scheduled to participate in formulating and reviewing annual operational
plans. In addition, to avoid delays in implementation, full feasibility
studies for first-year investments were completed prior to Board presentation.
9.05        Given the poor record of capital cost recovery in irrigation
worldwide as well as current difficulties faced by public institutions in
Chile in recovering loans, government commitment to cost recovery is a risk.
While a covenant could be framed to substantiate the current willingness of
the government to recover capital costs of irrigation investment, large
portions of the recovery would likely occur after loan closing. However, the
overall risk of non-collection would be substantially mitigated by having the
Treasury collect the resources concomitantly with property taxes, for which
the collection rate is about 99X.
X. SUMHARY OF AGREEMNTS REACHED AND RECOMMDATION
10.01       The following agreements were obtained prior to negotiations:
(a)    a draft agreement with INIA to carry out adaptive research and
technology transfer (par& 6.14);
(b)    final versions of reference bidding documents, incorporating Bank
comments (para 7.05);



- 29 -
(c)    a capital cost recovery mechanism (para 7.13); and
(d)    a plan for accounts and audits (para 8.04).
10.02       During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a)    adaptive irrigation research and technology transfer activities
would be adequately financed through counterpart funds
(para 6.14);
(b)    extension services for small farmers in areas receiving irrigation
investments under the project would be provided by INDAP through
adequate counterpart contributions (para 6.15) as would the
required institutional strengthening for irrigation activities
(para 6.18);
(c)    both the regularization of water titles and the training of user
groups would be financed totally with counterpart funds
(para 6.20); and
sd)    a satisfactory Annual Work Plan (POA) for 1993 and for subsequent
years would be required by November 15 of the preceding year
(para 8.01).
10.03       The Government submitted the following documents for Bank's review
and agreement:
(a)    a POA for 1992 satisfactory to the Bank (para 8.01);
(b)    full feasibility studies for first-year investments (para 9.04).
Cc)    a draft agreement vith INDAP to carry out extension services
(para 6.16); and
(d)    a letter confirming the project coordinating unit (UC)
satisfactorily staffed and operating (para 8.01).
10.04       The following would be conditions of effectiveness:
(a)    signed agreement with INIA to carry out adaptive research and
technology transfer (para 6.14), and with INDAP to carry out
extension services (para 6.16);
Sb)    agreed terms of reference for the technical support unit (UAR)
(para 6.17); and
(c)    each agency and the UC has established an accounting procedure
acceptable to the Bank (para 8.04).
10.05       With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable
for a Bank loan of US$45.0 million equivalent on standard Bank terms with 17
years' maturity and variable interest rate.
October 26, 1992



- 30 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3
CHILE
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of the 100 Poorest Rural Municipalities
MUNICIPAL
RANK        REGION          NUMBER     PROVINCE         MUNICIPALITY
1    IV  Coquimbo          39       Limarf            Punitaqui
2    IX Araucania         221       Cautin            Galvarino
3    IV  Coquimbo          36       Limarl            Rio Hurtado
4    IV  Coquimbo          43       Choapa            Mincha
5  VIII  Bio-Blo          191       Arauco            Tirua
6    IV Coquimbo           30       Elqui             La Higuera
7     X  Los Lagos        240       Osorno            S. Juan de la C.
a    IX Araucania         200       Malleco           Lumaco
9  VIII  Bio-Bio          158       Ruble             Treguaco
10    IX Araucania         195       Malleco           Lonquimay
11    IX Araucania         218       Cautin            Pto. Saavedra
12    IX Araucania         197       Malleco           Ercilla
13    IV Coquimbo           37       Limari            Monte Patria
14  VIII  Bio-Bio          168       Bio-Bio           Santa Barbara
15  VIII  Bio-Bio          190       Arauco            Contulmo -
16   VII Maule             128       Talca             Empedrado
17    IX Araucania         220       Cautin            Nueva Imperial
18     X Los Lagos         260       Palena            Chait5n
19    VI  B. O'Higgins    109        Cardenal Caro    Navidad
20     X  Los Lagos        261       Palena            Hualaihue
21    IX Araucania         209       Cautin            Curarrehue
22  VIII  Bio-Bio          150       Ruble             El Carmen
23    VI  B.O'Higgins      113       Cardenal Caro    Paredones
24  VIII  Bio-Bio          146       Ruble             San Fabifn
25    IV  Coquimbo          38       Limarf            Combarbala
26  VIII  Bio-Bio          182       Concepci6n        Sinta Juana
27   VII  Maule            118       Curic6            Sag. Familia
28  VIII  Bio-Bio          149       Ruble             San Ignacio
29    IX Araucania         219       Cautin            Carahue
30     X  Los Lagos        229       Valdivia          Panguipulli
31    IX Araucania         201       Malleco           Pur6n
32  VIII  Bio-Bio          175       Bio-Bio           Yumbel
33    IX  Araucania        217       Cautln            Teodoro Schmidt
34  VIII  Bio-Bio          156       Ruble             Portezuelo
35     X  Los Lagos        263       Palena            Palena
36    VI  B. O'Higgins    100        Colchagua         Placilla
37     X  Los Lagos        233       Valdivia          Lago Ranco
38   VII Maule             116       Curic6            Romeral



- 31 -
hmil   1
Page 2 of 3
MUNICIPAL
RANR        REGION          NUMBER     PRovINCE         mUNICIPALITY
39     X  Los Lagos        255       Chiloe            Quinchao
40  VIII  Bio-Bio          188       Arauco            Los Alamos
41    IX Arascania         206       Cautin            Vilcon
42   VII  Maule            142       Cauquenes         Pelluhue
43  VIII  Bio-Bio          181       Concepci6n        Hualqui
44     X  Los Lagos        224       Valdivia          Lanco
45   VII  Maule            131       Talca             Curepto
46    VI  B. O'Higgins    104        Colchagua         Lolol
47   IX  Araucania         202       Malleco           Los Sauces
48  VIII  Bio-Bio          147       Ruble             Coihueco
49  VIII  Bio-Bio          172       Blo-Bio           Nacimiento
50     X  Los Lagos        243       Llanquihue        Cochamo
51    IX Araucania         216       Cautin            Tolt6n
52     X  Los Lagos        259       Chilos            Quell6n
53     V  Valparaiso        45       Petorca           Petorca
54   VII  Maule            124       Talca             Pelarco
55    VI  B. O'Higgins    102        Colchagua         Chepica
56  VIII  Bio-Bio          170       Bio-Bio           Mulchen
57  VIII  Bio-Bio          173       Bio-Bio           Laja
58   VII  Maule            129       Talca             Pencahue
59  VIII  Bio-Bio          171       Bio-Bio           Negrete
60  VIII  Blo-Blo          161       Ruble             Ninhue
61    IX Araucania         193       Malleco           Renaico
62    VI  B. O'Higgins      86       Cachapoal         Olivar
63  VIII  Bio-Bio          164       Bio-Blo           Cabrero
64     X  Los Lagos        225       Valdivia          Los Lagos
65    VI  B. O'Higgins    108        Cardenal Caro    Pichilemu
66  VIII  Bio-Bio          159       Ruble             Cobquecura
67     X  Los Lagos        223       Valdivia          Mariquina
68  VIII  Bio-Bio          157       Ruble             Coelemu
69   VII  Maule            126       Talca             San Clemente
70    VI  B. O'Higgins      87       Cachapoal         Requinoa
71  VIII  Bio-Bio          154       Ruble             Quillon
72  VIII  Blo-Blo          187       Arauco            Curanilahue
73   VII  Maule            122       Curic6            Rauco
74     X  Los Lagos        245       Llanquihue        Maullin
75    VI  B. O'Higgins      83       Cachapoal         Mostazal
76     X  Los Lagos        244       Llanquihue        Calbuco
77   VII  Maule            125       Talca             Rio Claro
78  VIII  Bio-Bio          180       Concepci6n        Florida
79    VI  B. O'Higgins    110        Cardenal Caro    Litueche
80    IV  Coquimbo          42       Choapa            Los Vilos
81     X  Los Lagos        226       Valdivia          Futrono
82   VII  Maule            135       Linares           Longavi
83    VI  B. O'Higgins      99       Colchagua         Chimbarongo
84    IV  Coquimbo          40       Choapa            Illapel
85     X  Los Lagos        254       Chilo6            Curaco de Velez



- 32 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 3
MUNICIPAL
RANK        REGION          NUMBER      PROVINCE         MUNICIPALITY
86  VIII  Bio-Bio           189       Arauco             Caflete
87    VI  B. O'Higgins    105         Colchagua          Pumanque
88  VIII  Blo-Blo           155       Ruble             Ranquil
89  VIII  Blo-Bio           167       Bio-Bio           Quilleco
90    IX  Araucania         208       Cautin            Melipeuco
91   VII  Maule             141       Cauquenes         Chanco
92    IV  Coquimbo           35       Limari             Ovalle
93  VIII  Bio-Bio           145       Ruble             Riqu6n
94  VIII  Bio-Bio           185       Arauco            Lebu
95  XIII  Metropolitana   290         Santiago          Huechuraba
96  VIII  Bio-Bio           162       Ruble              San Nicol&e
97     X  Los Lagos         231       Valdivia           Paillaco
98     X  Los Lagos         257       Chiloe             Chonchi
99   VII  Maule             119       Curic6            Hualafie
100    VI  B. O'Higgins      85        Cachapoal         Machall



LHIE
IRRGATTON DEVELOP!MENT )PROJECT
Criteria for Allocating Funds for Feasibility Studies
Selection Criteria             Weight (Z)   [ Polnts [                            Qualification Concepts
1. Local Interest                           20            20      More than 502 of cost covered by beneficiaries or local and
- Contribution to study costs                                  provincial funds
15     Bore than 302 of cost covered by beneficiaries or local and
provincial funds
10     More than 10  of cost covered by beneficiaries or local and
provincial funds
5      Less than 10  of cost covered by be- ,iciaries or local and
provincial funds
0      No funds contributed
2. Environmental Aspects                    10
- Possible limitations                                 10      No negative impacts foreseen
5      Only easily mitigated impacts foreseen
0      Major impacts foreseen                                                         w
3. Economic Aspects                         10                    Regions                               I to V    R.M to IX   X to XII
- Investment Cost                                                                                                                       I
(US$Iha)                                             10      New works                              <2.000       <1.000        <400
Rehabilitation                           <500         <100         <50
6      New works                              <3.000       <2.000        <800
Rehabilitation                         C1.000         <500        <100
3      New works                              <4.000       <3.000      <1.200
Rehabilitation                         <2.000       1.l000        <500
0      New works                              >4.000       >3.000      >1.200
Rehabilitation                         >2.000         1.000       >500
4. Social Aspects                           20
- Direct beneficiaries                                 10      More than 500 farms or families benefited
6      More than 300 farms or familles benefited
3      More than 100 farms or families benefited
0      Less than 100 farms or families beaefited
- Beneficiaries per hectare                            10      More than 1 0 beneficiaries per irrigated hectare
6      More than 0.7 beneficiaries per irrigated hectare
3      More than 0.5 beneficiaries per irrigated hectare
0      Less than 0.5 beneficiaries per irrigated hectare                            m X
0



IRHIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Criteria for Ailocatin Funds for Feasibility Studies
Selection Criteria             Weight (Z)       Points  |Qualification Concepts
5. Technical Aspects                        10
- Status of available studies                           5       Less than 5 years old with reliable data
3      More than 5 years old with reliable data
I      Insufficient data
O      No data available
- Interference with existing                                    N No interference foreseen
infraestructure                                         3       Only minor infrastructure affected
I      Affected infrastructure easily moved
0      Affects roads, basic services and towns
6. Legal Aspects                            10
- Water rights                                          5       Existing rights held by beneficiaries or held by the state
- Expropriations                                        5       No complex expropriations foreseen
7. Planning Aspects                         20
- Sectors benefited                                     10      High state interest
6      Important group
3      Not important group
0      No interest
- Regional priority                                     10     Major regional inm   t
6      Moderate regional .pact
3      Low regional impact
0      No regional impact
0
t' 3



- 35 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 9
CHILE
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Institutional Development
Backfround and Summary
1.        An institutional capacity analysis was carried out as part of the
preparatory work, to review the current capacity as compared with the proposed
p-ogram requirements. As a result, institutional capacity gaps (ICGs) have
been identified against program tasks in the whole proposed implementing
institutional universe. Although there has been no major construction of
public irrigation works since the 19709, the Ministrv of Public Works (MOP)
has long experience in implementing large infrastructure works and the
National Irrigation Commission (CNR) through its Executive Secretariat (SE)
also has experience in implementing Law 18450 since 1986. Other entities such
as, the Institute for Agricultural Develonment (INDAP), and the Aaricultural
Research Institute (INIA), which are under the Ministry of Agriculture (MAG),
also have a long tradition of well-designed and successful delivery programs
for creating a rural environment conducive to agriculture development and
progress. In other words, the implementing institutional universe for the
proposed program is largely capable, at least in qualitative terms. This
explains why major ICGs found as a result of the systematic institutional
capacity analysis (ICA) carried out during the preparation process, are
limited to a lack of organization at the inter-institutional level--the
inter-institutional distribution of functional responsibilities--and to.
quantitative constraints logically due to the increased activities that would
result from the proposed program implementation l/. Based on the above, a
program of institutional development (PSIDC) was envisaged, with inputs that
would help to systematically address the identified ICGs.  This annex
describes what are the ICGs identified against program objectives and tasks,
and the PSIDC inputs designed to address them, thus enhancing the
institutional capacity up to levels that are necessary to ensure efficient
implementation.
Institutional Capacity Analysis (ICA)
2.        As part of the PROM!P preparation process, an ICA was systematically
carried out to assess the capacity currcatly available in Chile to achieve the
irrigation subsector's development objectives. This assessment was carried
out by every proposed implementing entity under the coordination of the
Executive Secretariat of CNR using a sectoral version of the Institutional
Capacity Analysis and Development System (ICADS). First, the propoded
1/   This increase has been estimated at 40X in MOP/DR; 101 in CNR; 52 in INIA;
31 in INDAP; and the creation of a new coordination unit in SSA for
irrigation-related activities.



- 36 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 9
implementing institutional universe was identified, specific roles defined as
well as the network of inter-institutional relationships necessary to carry
out common or specific tasks. In addition, the way the relationships are
going to function within this network has been described, as well as the legal
and/or regulatory basis for them to work as described (an "Inter-institutional
Relationship Map" is shown in the attached chart). Secondly, involved
entities' functions have been defined (Form A), the resources allocated to
every one of them to achieve their assigned functions and objectives,
quantified and described (Form B), and the way these allocated resources would
be used was specified in work programs disaggregated into tasks (Form C) 21.
Thirdly, against every task, capacity was assessed and ICGs were identified
from five capacity elements viewpoints: (a) legislation, regulations and
norms; (b) inter-institutional relationships; (c) internal organization and
management capacity; (d) personnel poliey and reward systems; and (e)
managers', professionals', and beneficiaries' skills. Fourthly, and finally,
ways and means to mitigate or eliminate identified ICGs were designed in the
form of an ID strategy and inputs included into the PSIDC to be financed under
the proposed PROMM.
Identified Institutional Cavacitv Gavs
3.        Within the implementing institutional universe, major capacity gaps
are concentrated in the PROMM management-related functions, and among the
beneficiaries themselves, including their organizations. Indeed, despite the
long tradition of MOP in infrastructure construction and of CNR in designing
and approving sectoral policies and implementing them, the GOC goal of
transferring to the users most of the operation and maintenance functions and
related activities, a key feature of PRONM, makes it important to upgrade the
current institutional capacity for the irrigation subsector's institutional
complex. This also applies to MAG including INDAP, and INIA, where almost no
past programs were specifically aimed at generating and transferring
appropriate irrigated agriculture technology. Finally, this is also true of
the beneficiaries themselves because they are going to be faced directly or
through their organizations, with new responsibilities, namely the operation
and maintenance of the irrigation infrastructure.
4.        In summary, major identified ICGs include the following items:
(a) general lack of adequate organization, in particular for distributing
functions at the inter-institutional level, so as to avoid duplication thus
ensuring a harmonious and cost-effective policy implementation; (b) lack of
management skills, adequate procedures and sufficient staffing for the
coordination functions both in the irrigation sectoral entities (MOP's DR and
DGA, and CNR's Inter-Ministerial Commission (CDS) and SE), and in the
agriculture entities (MAG, INDAP, and INIA); (c) lack of physical and
financial capacity of them all, as a result of the substantial increase in
activities that would result from PP.ONM implementation; and (d) general and
sometimes absolute lack of management, professional, technical skills among
2/ Forms A, B, and C can be seen in PSIDC's Working Paper (Project File).



- 37 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 9
the beneficiaries themselves, at all levels of their organizations' personnel.
All these ICGs would be systematically addressed using PSIDC's inputs listed
below.
Institutional Strenathenin.
5.        PSIDC's inputs would help strengthen the main GOC institutional
complexes responsible for PROMN implementation, namely MOP, CNR, and HAG; and
beneficiaries, both at the individual and associative levels. These inputs
would specifically address: (a) the organization capacity gaps, both in the
inter-institutional sharing of responsibilities and within the involved
entities themselves; (b) the lack of specific functions and related staff;
(c) the lack of physical and financial capacity; and (d) the lack of relevant
skills at all levels. PSIDC inputs include specialist assistance, training
activities, equipment and vehicles, and recurrent costs. This is described
below.
6.        Strengthenina CUR.  Based on its legal charter!', CNR includes a
Board of Ministers (Economy, Finance, Public Works, Agriculture, and Planning)
and an Executive Secretariat (SE) structured into six departments, namely:
Executive, Law 184501, Studies, Projects, Legal, and Administration and
Finance. In addition, CNR has created Regional Irrigation Committees to act
on its behalf in the seven Regions where irrigation programs are or will be
developed. To improve the analysis of technology transfer and address
farmers' training needs (including credit-related training), and to deliver
the corresponding services more efficiently, INDAP would actively participate
in these Regional Programs.
7.        It was decided during the preparation and appraisal process, that
CNR would be responsible for overall PROMH implementation, with the
construction part of the program under the responsibility of MOP, and the
agricultural development part under MAG. CNR has created the
Inter-Ministerial Commission (CDS) to include the Subsecretaries of MOP, MAG,
and its own Executive Secretary, which is entirely responsible for
orchestrating and supervising PROMM implementation. To enable CDS to perform
this critical responsibility and relevant functions, PROMM would provide
financing for creating a strong coordinating unit (UC) that would become the
technical and operational arm of the CDS. At the highest level, CDS would
play the role of a political board, ultimately approving annual operational
programs (POAs) and monitoring/supervision reports, prepared or consolidated
by UC which would actually perform all technical tasks. The UC would be
staffed with two professionals, and support staff.
3/   More details are found in the Annex 7 of the GOC's Project Document,
prepared with FAO's assistance (Project File).
4/ To implement private investments initiatives for irrigation and drainage
infrastructure and activities.



- 38 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 9
8.        Upgraded as described above, CDS/UC would then be responsible for
coordinating project implementation. The first responsibility would be to
make MOP, SSA, and SE/CNR define their respective POAs in an agreed format so
as to facilitate coordination and the approval process by both CDS and the
Bank. The POA instrument would use a format that integrates all PROMS
management functions into one single tool: programming, budgeting, work
organization and distribution of tasks, pirsonnel management and monitoring
and evaluation. More specifically, UC would be responsible for: (a)
implementing CDS' decisions; (b) reviewing proposed sub-projects generated by
both the public and private sectors; (c) ensuring adequate coordination
between PROMM and implementing entities; (d) ensuring the monitoring and
periodical evaluation of activities and related feed-back as appropriate; and
(e) ensuring the correct financial administration of PROMM-generated funds.
9.        Strengthenin2 MOP.  MOP executing entities include the Irrigation
Directorate (DR) and the General Directorate for Water(DGA). DR's role is to
manage, generally through contracting out feasibility studies, including
environmental impacts, designs and field surveys, as required by CDS. DR
would then, directly contract construction and rehabilitation works as they
are selected by CDS. DR, through its Operations Division (DE), would also be
responsible for operation and maintenance until the corresponding
infrastructure is transferred to users' organizations. DGA's role is to
resolve water use legal aspects in PROMH areas, and to ensure a sufficient
transfer of operation and maintenance skills to water users. DR requires
strengthening through the financing of some equipment and vehicles, recurrent
cost support, and for covering the cost of water users' training in operation
and maintenance. Indeed, water users and their organizations' employees must
be trained in managing the irrigation schemes' operation related to
construction or rehabilitation works under the proposed program. Some 450
water users' organizations would be trained by DE/DR and DGA. This would
include: (a) administrative skills, mainly personnel management (work
organization and labor relations) and financing and accounting (including
budgeting; management of accounts, and financial transactions; accounting
systems; and the organization of water charges collection, and input supply
and control); (b) technical skills related to scheme operation (including:
irrigation programming, and water distribution; and monitoring and control),
and system maintenance (including maintenance programming and implementation
and contractual procedures); (c) norms- and procedures-related skills
(including judicial aspects such as water rights, and the protection of these
rights; suspension of water supply And norms related to the constitution,
regularization, and relocation of water rights, and changes in diversion
structures); and (d) organizational skills (including the preparation avd
implementation of meetings, report writing, and other aspects)5'.
10.       Under the proposed program, all sub-projects eligible for financing
would he subject to such an assessment to detect current and potential
5/ See more details in the training sub-component annex (Annex 5) of the
Project Working Paper (Project File).



- 39 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 9
environmental problems. Such assessments would have to comply with the
corresponding legislation and the Bank's regulations included in its
Environmental Guidelines for Irrigation and Drainage Projects. Support would
be provided in the form of specialist assistance. The corresponding financing
has been included under the consultant category of PSIDC inputs allocated to
the UC. In addition, limited training activities include: (a) initial
two-week workshop for eight staff members from DR and DGA, to focus on
well-known potential issues; and (b) a final one-week workshop for MOP's staff
to review and fine-tune the materials developed during the period of
environmental procedures testing.
11.       Strengtheninx MAG.  It is the responsibility of MAG to ensure that
INDAP provides the necessary extension to small farmers in PROMM areas and
that INIA and possibly other specialized agencies develop the applied research
component under agreements to be entered into with them. The Committee for
Irrigated Agriculture (CAR) has recently been created within the office of the
Undersecretariat of Agriculture (SSA) to help perform these functions and the
necessary coordination of INDAP's and INIA's work programs. CAR, through its
technical arm (UAR) would complement UC functions and activities for all
irrigated agriculture-related matters, and it would ultimately strengthen
overall capacity to promote agriculture development in irrigated areas. The
UAR would be staffed by three professionals experienced in planning and
implementing agricultural aspects of irrigation schemes. INDAP would also be
strengthened under PSIDC in order to undertake its new and increased role in
providing extension for small farmers in irrigated areas.
Organization for Imglementation
12.       As described above, UC would have the overall responsibility for
coordination. To perform all management functions, UC would use the
ICADS-based POA tool. It has been agreed at appraisal, that the POA for the
first year of implementation would be prepared and presented to the Bank
during the negotiation process. An agreement has also been reached about the
POA format and content. The initial coordination requirement would be
achieved through UC's request that DR, DGA, SSA, INDAP, and INIA prepare their
respective POA for the first year, in the agreed format. UC would assist
executing agencies to prepare their respective POAs, including coordination
tasks of their own. UC would then consolidate them all in a single POA
document to be approved by CDS and the Bank. POA Form A would offer a clear
statement of what the yearly objective would be, the corresponding information
presented in the perspective of what the particular component overall five-
year objective is, and of what will have been already achieved at the time of
the new programming cycle. Then, Form B would be used for all financial
management functions from budgeting (strictly related to achieving what is
defined in Fo.-m A) to accounting and auditing.  Finally, Form C would make it
explicit who would do what to: (a) acquire the goods and services included in
Forms B; (b) use them efficiently; and (c) ensure sustainability of the
benefits obtained out of this efficient use of the acquired goods and/or
services. Form C would also include specific columns for monitoring the work
carried out during the reference year. At any time during implementation, the



-40 -
Page 6 of 9
combined information included in Forms A, B and C, may be used to carry out
periodic evaluation work. The whole institutional universe and
responsibilities would be visualized in an inter-institutional relationships
map (chart), to make it clear to all involved, what are their respective
tesponsibilities and how work programs are interconnected.



- 41 -
Qll 3
Page 7 of 9
CHILE
IRRIGATIOW DVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Coordinatium Unit
Detailed Cost Table US8)
TotaLs IncludIng ConttngencIoe
* ---..u------.u.um.u3a.umuu- ---
1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 Total
...................................
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Consultancies
Coordinator               17   53    55    57    59   242
Professional              15    47    48    50    52   212
Specialist                43    55    35    36    37   206
Evaluation                 0     0    35      0    43    78
... ............ .. .... .....  .......  .....  ....... .....
Sub-Total                  75   155   17    143   192   737
8. Equlpmnnt
Office                     5     0     0      0     0     5
Computing                 21     0    12      0     0    33
Commuications             16     0     0      0     0    16
.... ..... .....  ....... .....  ....... ..... ...... .... ..
Sub-Total                  4      0    12      0     0    54
C. Pfck-Up (double cabin)      14     0      0     0     0    14
,..... .... ....... .... ...... ..... ....... ..... .......
Total INVESTNENT COSTS           132   155   184   143   192   806
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Operating Costs
Offico Rental              6     7      7     7     7    35
Adinifstration             6     6     6      7     7    32
.....  ....... .....  ...... .... ....... .... ...............
Sub-Total                  12   13   13    14    14    67
B. Travet                       8    17    18    18    19    80
C. V.hie't IOU                  4     8     9      9     9    40
.....  ..... .... ....... .....  ....... ..... ...............
Total RECURRENT COSTS             25    38    40    41    43   187
su ..  -----   ----   ---   .  
Total                         156   194   224   184   234   92
Value scaled by 1000.0  8/20/1992  11:02



- 42 -
ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 9
CHILE
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Institutional Strenftheninf - Ministry of Public Works
Detailed Cost Table (USS)
Quantity                    Totals Including Contingencies
1992  1993  1994  1995  1996 Total     1992  1993  1994  1995  1996 Total
..... ....... ........................ .. ....................................................................... ..... 
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Equipment
20 PC System                 5    15     0      0     0    20       37   116     0     0      0 154
Field                        1    2      0     0      0     3       32    67     0     0     0    99
Video                        2     3      0     0     0     5       13    20     0      0     0    33
Coawunications                    -        -    '  '                 0    11     0     0      0    11
Plotter                                  -           -     -         0    28     0     0      0    28
Sub-Total                                                            82   242     0     0      0   324
B. Vehicles                       0     3      0     0     0     3        0    57     0      0     0    57
C. Consultancies                              -     -        -           24    24    25    26    27   127
0. Training
Project Evaluation           0     1      1     1     1    4         0     8     S     9      9    35
Enviromnental Assessment     2      1     1    0      0     4       16     8     9      0     0    33
User Organization            0      1     1     1     1     4        0     6     6      6     6    23
Engineering                  0     2      !    2      0     6        0    28    29    30      0    86
Engineering                  0     1      1    0      0     2        0     8     9      0     0    17
Engineering                  0      1     1    0      0     2        0     6     6     0      0    11
Construction                 0     2     2      2     0     6        0    11    12    12      0    35
Construction                 0      1     1    0      0     2        0     8     9      0     0    17
Budgeting                    0     1      1    0      0     2        0     6     6     0      0    11
O&Z                          0      1     1    0      0     2        0     8     9      0     0    17
.....    ....... .....    ....... .....    .......... ...............
Sub-Total                                                            16    97   101    57    15   286
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                     122   420   126    83    43   793
--   ---I'l ==== ats  sa5  == a=w  Ba==
Total                                                                   122  420   126    83    43   793
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  8/20/1992  11:01



- 43 -
ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 9
CHILE
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Institutional Strengthening - National Irrization Commission
Detailed Cost Table (USS)
Totals Including Contingencies
1992  1993  1994  1995  1996 Total
.... ... ... . . .   . .. . . .     . .
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
...._............
A. Technical Assistance            27    55    58    60    62   261
B. Local Consultants               50   100   100   100   150   500
C. Publfcatfons                     9      9    12    12    12    53
..... ..... ....  ... . .... ...... .....
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                85   164   169   172   224   814
Total                              85   164   169   172   224   814
Values scaled by 1000.0  8/20/1992  11:02



- 44 -
MMX 3
Chart I
PROORAMA DE EJECUCION OBRAS DE RIEGO Y DRENAJE
MEDIANOS Y MENORES
MARCO INSTITUCIONAL
CONSEJO DE MINISTROS
COMISION UACIONAL DE RIEGO
Ministro de Economifa (Presidente)
Ninistro de Hacienda
Ninistro de Obras Publicas
Ninistro de AgrMcuLtura
Ministro de Planificacion
y Cooperacfon
I
CONISION DE DIRECCION SUPERIOR
PROGRANA BANCO NUNDIAL
Subsecretarfo de Obras Publ1cas
Subsecretario de Agriculturs
SecretaMro Ejecutivo C.N.R.
UUIDAD COORDINADORA
SECRETRIO EJECUTIVO COISION
NACIONAL DE RIEGO
ICOMRINAOOR EJECUTIVO|
I
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
|   .O.P.   ||                                   C.N.R    |                                       INAGRI |
LEY 18.450
DERECHOS        D.7.L. 1123                                                                INVESTIGACION          SECTOR
Y DESARROLLO        CAMPESINO



- 45 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 11
CHILE
IRRIGATION DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
The Agricultural Development Plan
A. Obiective
1.          The main objective of the Agricultural Development Plan (ADP) is
to improve the overall performance of irrigated agriculture by (a) promoting
agricultural intensification of smallholder production systems, particularly
in areas benefitting from project investments; and (b) enhancing GOC's
capacity to elaborate appropriate policies for the subsector, as well as to
effectively integrate and coordinate both the availability and delivery of
support services required by smallholder farmers in irrigated areas.
B. ADP Comuonents
2.          In order to achieve the stated objectives of the ADP, a series of
specific programs or components will be implemented. These include:
(a) adaptive research; (b) technology transfer; (c) extension; (d) training of
vater user organizations; (e) technical and financial assistance for on-farm
infrastructure; and (f) strengthening of agricultural institutions.
3.          The activities to be delivered under each of the ADP programs will
be focused on irrigated agriculture, with particular emphasis on smallholder
farming in poor rural areas. As well, all direct interventions (extension,
training, and on-farm infrastructure) will be integrated with the civil works
component of the project and consequently targeted to sm&ll farmers located in
irrigated areas either deve1,'ped or rehabilitated under the project.
C. DescriDtion of Individual Components
Adaptive Research
4.          In spite the importance of irrigated agriculture in Chile,
research aimed at developing imrproved irrigation and drainage technologies has
been relatively limited, and almost non-existent in regards to the specific
requirements of smallholder production systems. The Agricultural Research
Institute (INIA), the main organization responsible for agricultural research
in the country, has a professional staff of over 200, of which only eight are
assigned to the Irrigation and Drainage Program (PRD). Similarly, an
estimated 3.5S of INIA's 1990 budget was allocated to research in irrigation
and drainage. Due to the lack of human and financial resources, PRD has been
unable to initiate any research in drainage matters, concentrating exclusively
in irrigation subjects. Furthermore, INIA's mandate until 1985 excluded farm



- 46 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 11
holdings of less than 12 BIH (Basic Irrigated Hectare, a unit developed during
the Agrarian Reform to equate the productive potential of land throughout the
country) and only covered medium and large scale commercial snterprises
5.          In order to achieve the project's objectives, research activities
in all aspects of irrigation and drainage should be increased. The PRONM will
address, at least partially, the current restrictions and limited output of
INIA's PRD through INIA and possibly through other public and private
institutions. The ADP would expand existing research lines and would initiate
now specific lines of adsptive research in the areas where irrigation
investments are likely to be concentrated in the Central Zone (Regions V and
VI and the Metropolitan Area), and the Central-South Zone (Regions VII and
VIII), and limited adaptive research in the North Zone (Regions I to IV) and
the South Zone (Regions IX and X) consisting of:
(a)   development of basic irrigation parameters, such as crop threshold
and response, irrigation schedules, and crop quality;
(b)   development of improved irrigation systems, including distribution
structures, row spacing and land levelling techniques;
(c)   identification and management of soils with salinity problems;
(d)   development of techniques in irrigation management for
horticulture and fruit crops;
(e)   introduction on non-traditional crops under irrigation;
(f)   evaluation of drainage technologies; and
(g)   other required adaptive research approved by the Bank.
6.          Adaptive research would be conducted over a five-year period and
would require inter-alia, the recruitment of researchers, technicians and
field workers, the construction of buildings for laboratories and offices, and
purchase of scientific field and laboratory equipment computers and office
equipment. Vehicles would be needed for field work. Field and lab supplies
would include farm inputs and farm machinery rental.
Technologv Transfer
7.          In mid-1990, as a result of a collaborative agreement with the
Agricultural Development Institute (INDAP) aimed at providing technological
assistance to small-scale farmers, INIA established the Technology Transfer
Contres (CATT). The CATT is generally comprised of 2 or 3 groups, each of
about 15 small farmers.
8.          Based on an initial diagnosis of the area and the results
available from INIA's research, each CATT prepares annual vorkplans which
include on-farm demonstration/validation plots, field days, and discussion
groups. These activities are carried out by an INIA staff member, and are



- 47 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 11
designed to serve as instruments for both direct and indirect transfer of
technologies, as they also provide practical training to INDAP's field staff
and contracted extensionists. At present, INIA/INDAP have established over 25
CATTs in different regions of the country. Unlike the Technology Transfer
Groups (GT4), CATT activities are mainly focused on production systems (rather
than commodity-specific), and predominantly in dryland areas.
9.          In the context of the PROMM, the project will provide the
resources required by INIA to:
(a)   establish a total of 28 irrigation-specific Technology Transfer
Centres (CATT-R), all of which would be located in regions where
project financed civil work. will be constructed; tentatively, 4
of these CATT-R will be located in the Central Zone, 12 in the
South-Central Zone, 4 in the North Zone and 8 in the South Zonel
(b)   conduct 4 annual, on-station training courses on irrigation and
drainage technology, each to be attended by an estimated 40
extensionists and coordinators from INDAP; and
(c)   organize a mass-media extension program, involving the broadcast
of recommendations on irrigation matters through radio stations
reaching rural areas.
10.         To establish and operate the 28 CATT-R, INIA will require an
additional 6 professionals, as well as office space, vehicles, extension and
training materials, and computers. It is expected that the technology transfer
activities financed by PROMM during the 5 years of the project will provide
direct assistance to an estimated 1,200 small-scale farmers (participants in
the CATT-R), and training to approximately 700 extension agents and other
INDAP professionals.
Extension
11.         With assistance from the Bank-financed Small Farmer Services
Project, INDAP is currently in the process of initiating an ambitious
expansion plan that will increase the number of farmers assisted from about
30,000 to 85,000, placing greater emphasis on Integrated Technology Transfer
programs (PTTI) for low-income smallholders.
12.         In order to accommodate the extension requirements of PROMM, part
of INDAP's expansion will be earmarked to provide specially-designed services
to irrigated smallholdings in those areas where physical infrastructure will
be either rehabilitated or developed with PROMN financing. Given the
programmatic nature of PROMM, the exact number and location of beneficiaries
cannot be determined. However, based on the tentative list of irrigation
projects to be financed, it is estimated that a total coverage of
approximately 14,000 farmers can be expected in the five years of the program.



- 48 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 11
13.         The development of a special Technology Transfer Program focused
on Irrigation Technologies (PTTR) will require a series of operational
adjustments to INDAP's current methodologies, in particular to harmonize and
integrate PTTR activities in areas where INDAP traditional (integrated and
basic) extension programs are being implemented.
14.         The resources required by INDAP to undertake the extension
component of the ADP include:
(a)   incorporation of two additional extensionists (specialized in
irrigation technologies) to each of the private companies
currently under contract with INDAP to provide extension
activities in areas where PROMI will finance rehabilitation of
existing irrigation schemes;
(b)   within the same areas, the contracting of the required consulting
firms to expand the coverage to all small-scale farmers;
(c)   establishment of integrated extension systems, which incorporate
crop production and irrigation technology transfer programs, in
newly irrigated areas developed by the project (Cumcumen, Las
Brisas); and
(d)   recruitment of, training, and operational support (officos,
vehicles, etc.) for six specialized field staff (Technical
Assistance Coordinators in Irrigation, or CAT-Rs), a new position
within the INDAP structure, that -would be responsible for
supervising the performance of contracted irrigation
extensionists, as well as ensuring an effective integration and
feedback between INIA's activities (CATT-R) and the extension
services.
On-farm Infrastructure
15.         Recognizing that a considerable proportion of the country's
irrigation infrastructure was in urgent need of rehabilitation and/or
improvement, Law 18450 was promulgated in 1985. The Law, "Ley de Fomento a la
Inversion Privada en Obras de Riego y Drenaje" (LFR) was aimed at promoting
private investment by providing the reimbursement of up to 75X of investments
(maximum of US$250,000) made in construction or rehabilitation of irrigation
or drainage systems. Funds are allocated through a competitive bidding
process, based on project costs, area benefitted, and proportion of total
costs contributed by the beneficiaries.
16.         During the first five years of the LFR, funds were largely
allocated to medium and large-scale agricultural enterprises, mainly due to
the inability of small farmers to obtain the necessary financing for the
non-subsidized portion of the investment. This situation changed in 1990,
when GOC introduced a series of modifications to the law, which allowed the
earmarking of funds for farmers who qualify for technical assistance from
INDAP (i.e. owning less than 12 BIMs).



- 49 -
Page 5 of 11
17.         Although the bidding process and the allocation of funds is the
responsibility of the National Irrigation Commission (CNR), INDAP plays an
important role in the implementation of the program. To fulfil this role,
INDAP has established a specific unit in Santiago, the Subdepartment of
Irrigation (SDR), which coordinates all extension activities to small farmers,
as well as the activities of the field-based Irrigation Coordinators (CRs).
Presently, the unit is staffed by a total of !5 professionals, including four
in headquarters and li CRe.
18.         At present, SDR's professional staff is inadequate to efficiently
handle INDAP participation in LYR. As a result, the tasks performed by the
unit are mainly administrative, with limited input in technical matters
related to the projects being financed.
19.         Moreover, for the full benefit of investment in common headworks
and dLstribution systems to be realized, many small farmers will require
complementary technical assistance from INDA?. Consequently, SDR's staff
structure will be expanded with the recruitment of seven professionals,
ircluding six additional CAT-Rs (see para 14 (d) above) to be based in INDAP's
xegional offices covering PROMS projects and a monitoring and evaluation
specialist at INDAP headquarters.
ADP Coordination
2').        With the exception of the training program for water user
.: t arlzations, all activities composing the ADP will be under the
-c 7irnsibility of MAG.  The successful implementation of the different
co4.ion?nts of the Agriculturul Development Plan will largely depend on
establishing effective mechanisms of coordination and supervision within HAG.
This will not only involve coordinating activities within the ADP (research,
tecnnology tiansfer, extension, on-farm infrastructure), but also with the
various Agencies responsible for the implementation of other project
components (CNR, MOP, DGA and DR).
21.         The above described dual coordinating role will be charged to the
Committee for Irrigated Agriculture (CAR) which has been recently created
within the Ministry of Agriculture. The CAR through it executive secretariat
(UAR), will not only be responsible for coordination activities during project
implementation, but is envisaged to become a much-needed, permanent advisory
body to the Subsecretary of Agriculture in matters related to policies and
developmewa of irrigated agriculture in the country.
22.         The CAR is chaired by the Subsecretary of Agriculture, and will
include the Director of INDAP, the President of INIA, the Director of the
Agriculture and Livestock Service (SAG), and the Director of MAG's Division of
Studies and Budget (DEP).
23.         The UAR will be an operational unit primarily responsible for
project-related duties, including supervision and inter-institutional
coordination, in particular with the project's Coordinating Unit (UC). In
addition, the UAR will provide technical input in the process of



- 50 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 11
identification, preparation, and negotiation of irrigation projects financed
by PROMM.
24.         To undertake the above functions, the UAR vill be staffed by three
professionals with individual expertise in planning, development, and
evaluation of irrigation projects, assisted by short-term consultants for
specific assignments. Based in MAG's headquarters, the UAR team will be
required to travel frequently to project areas and INIA/INDAP regional
offices. Supporting facilities for the unit include two vehicles, office
equipment, and computers.



- 51 -
ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 11
CHILE
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Research
Detailed Cost Table (USS)
Totals Including Contingencies
U=             _       =  = ===_==,=a=============== ,=
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996   Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Research                      71.0    90.0   120.0   228.0   221.0   730.0
B. FONDEF/GOC                   213.0   270.0   360.0   594.0   663.0  2100.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             284.0   360.0   480.0   822.0   884.0  2830.0
=======  ---===   --=====  =w==== ===u ===    = .==-.
Total                           284.0   360.0   480.0   822.0   884.0  2830.0
* Values scaled by 1000.0 10/16/1992 14:37



- 52 -
ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 11
CHILE
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technologu Transfer CATTs
Detailed Cost Table (USS)
Quantity              Totals Including Contingencies
1992 93-96 Total      1992   1993   1994   1995   1996  Total
..... ..................   . .. ...... ........... .. . ....................
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. Pubtfcations                    -     -               11      4     20      6      0      41
B. Adclnistration                 -      -     -         21     22     23     24     25    115
C. Offices                                     -         20     21      0      0      0      41
D. EquIpment
Office                       -     -                 4      3      1      0      0      9
Fiold                                                4      3      0      0      0    8
Computfng                    -     -      -          7      0      0      0      0      7
.. ........ .. .... ...... ...... ..... .. ......
Sub-Total                                            16      7      1      0      0     24
E. Pick-ups                        6     0      6        83      0      0      0      0      83
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                     152     54     44     30     25    305
11. RECURRENT COSTS
.. .............
A. Field Supplies                        -               15     16     16     17      18     82
B. Persomel Expenses               -                     33     34     35     36     38    175
C. VehicltoSM                     -      -     -         31     32     33     34     35    165
. General Expenses                       -     -          4      4      4      5      5      22
E. Sataries
Prof el sonal                 6     6    30         79     82     85     89     92    428
Technical                     4     4    20         41     42     44     45     47    219
Sub-Total                                           120    125    12S    134    139    647
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                      203    210    218    226    234   1091
-----w ----  --ana== naac -"n*wsw  U.#R
Total                                                   355    264    262    256    259   1396
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0   Values scaled by 1000.0  8/20/1992  11:01



- 53 -
ANNEX 4
Page 9 of 11
CHILE
IRRI¢ATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technology Transfer Trainint
Detailed Cost Table (USS)
Totals Including Contingencies
1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 Total
,....................................... .......
:. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. Equipment
FIeld                      I    0      0     0     0      1
B. Publications                24    25    26    27    28   132
C. Radio Programs              20    21    22    23    24   110
D. Consultancy                  1    2       1     2     1    8
.... .....    .....    ....... .....    .......... ...............
Total INVESTMENT COSTS            47    49    49    52    53   250
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Personnel Expenses           9    10    10   10   11   49
S. General Expenses             2     2      2     2     2    11
e ...................... .....  ....... .....  ....... .....
Total RECURRENT COSTS             11    12    12    12    13    60
Total                          58    60    61    65    66   310
*inmuuuuuumumumuuu.um333u333333333333333333-.-=3333=E-3UUs
Values scaled by 1000.0  8/24/1992  10:37



- 54 -
ANINEX 4
Page 10 of 11
CHILE
IRRIGATION DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Institutional Strengtheninit
Ministry  of A_riculture  - Unit  for Irrifated Agricttlture
Detailed Cost Table (USS)
Quantity                     Totals Including Contingences
C=72= coca=wz=      _-------   *C3mmt---------1o---u-1--
1992  1993  1994  1995  1996 Total      1992  193  1994  1995  1996 Total
....................................    .................................................................................
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. ConsuLtancfes
Unit Chief                  0     1     1     1      1     4        8    28    29    30    31   125
Agronomist/Economist        0     1     1     1      1     4        4    22    23    24    25    98
ProjectAnalyst              0     1     1     1     1      4        4    22    23    24    25    98
Specialists                 2     8     8     6     2    26        21    89    92    72    25   298
Sub-Total                                                           38   161   167   149   105   620
B. Equipment
Office                     -           -     -      -     -         5     0     0      0     0     5
Coquting                   -7                                             0.0          0     0     7
Communications             -     -     -     -     -                2     0     0      0     0     2
Sub-Total                                                           15     0     0      0     0    15
C. Vehicles                      1     1     0     0      0     2       14    14      0     0     0    28
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                     67   175   167   149   105   663
11. RECURRENT COSTS
...............
A. Operating Costs
Office Rental              -     -     -            -               6     7     7      7     7    35
Adninistration                         -     -      -     -         6     6     6      7     7    32
Sub-Total                                                           12    13    13    14    14    67
C. Personnel Costs                             -      -     -           11    11    12    12    12    58
C. VehicletOL                   -     -     -     -      -               2     6      7     7     7    29
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                                      25    30    31    33    34   153
------- - *m   woan Szo -
Total                                                                   92   205   198   182   139   816
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0  8/20/1992  11:01



- 55 -
ANNEX 4
Page 11 of 11
CHILE
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INDAP
Detailed Coat Table (USS)
Quantity              Totals Including Contingencies
Ut=U              u=Uu=a====-=u=u......3.......==2===:i=c====g.= ...................=,...=_...====
1992 93-96 Total      1992   1993   1994   1995   1996  TotaL
.............. ....  ........................... ....... .....................
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. Equipment
Office                       -                   18      0      0      0      0     18
Comaunmcatfons                  -     '          11      0      0      0      0     11
Conputing                 -      -               16      0      0      0      0     16
Sub-Total                                         45      0      0      0      0     45
B. Pfek-ups                     6     0     6         77      0      0      0      0     77
C. Extension                   -      -     -         41    333    548    750    954   2625
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                  163    333    548    750    954   2747
iI. RECURRENT COSTS
...............
A. Salaries
TT Coordinator             6     6    30         97    101    104    108    112    523
irrigation Coordinator     6     6    30        97    101    104    108    112    523
Secretaries                3     3    13         13     13     14     14     15     69
Sub-Total                                        207    215    223    231    239   1115
B. Operating Costs                    -     -         16     17     18     18     19    88
C. Personnel Costs                   -                12     13     13     14     14     66
0. Office Rental                -           -          9      9      9     10     10      47
E. Vehicle O&                  -      -     -         22     23     24     25     26    121
...... ............ ........ ......  ......... ......  ......... ......
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                   267    277    287    297    308   1436
= azZs    ==.aU *==-U u:===  O CR===
Total                                                429    609    834   1047   1262   4182
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0 8/20/1992 11:02



- 56 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 4
CHILE
IRRIGATION DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Rexularizint Water Titles
Bac kround
1.        The Water Code (C6digo de Aguas DFL No. 1122 of 1981) establishes
the norms, definitions and concepts governing the ownership and use of water.
Water is a public good with the right to use granted to private parties in
conformance with the dispositions contained in the Code. Water rights are
considered to be private assets which can be sold or mortgaged separately from
the land subject to the Civil Code. After the initial granting of rights, the
State ceases to have the authority to allocate water rights with the
distribution of water among users left up to the free market.
M.        The Water Code distinguishes among several types of water rights,
including consumptive and non-consumptive rights, permanent and temporary,
continual and alternating rights between parties. Consumptive rights allow
the user to consume, whereas non-consumptive require that after it is used the
water be returned to the source in the same state as it was received.
Permanent rights allow the user to take a fixed proportion from a specific
source. Temporary rights, on the other hand, are those that are available
only after permanent rights have been satisfied. Continual rights allow the
user to take the water uninterruptedly on a twenty-four hour basis, while
discontinuous rights only allow for extraction from a source during a
predetermined period of time. Alternating rights are those that are
distributed among two or more users during the same turn.
3.        The State has retained some water rights including:  (a) rights
created by works constructed by the Irrigation Directorate (DR) of HOP that
have not been transferred to the users; (b) reserves retained by the state
for future construction of works; (c) the 1,500 titles seized during the
agrarian reform that have recently been reassigned; and, (d) rights held by
hydroelectric firms in which the state has ownership or shares, now limited to
one firm along the Maule River.
Creation of Water Use Riabts
4.        Articles 140 and 147 of the Water Code govern the establishment of
a right to water. They require an application to the DGA specifying the water
source, the volume and location of the extraction and type of right requested.
The claim must be published and, if there is no counterclaim, the DGA
recognizes the claim subject to the availability of water from the source. If
a counterclaim is presented, DGA auctions off the right between the claimants.
The State can participate in such auctions under the same conditions as the
private parties. In additiont Article 148 enables the President of the
Republic, after informing the General Directorate of Water (DGA) to concede
water rights directly in special circumstances and when in the public
interest. The powers of the State regarding water rights are also found in



- 57 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 4
Law 1123 (the Irrigation Law). Article 6 allows the DR to preside over the
distribution of water rights created from the construction of works by the
State. Transitory Article 1 of this Law permits the DR to maintain water
reserves under the control of the government from works constructed prior to
the enacting of Law 1123 until such rights are conceded to the users by the
DGA.
Water Riehts Titlina
5.        Water rights are only considered to be legally constituted if they
are inscribed with the local Recorder of Deeds (Conservadores de Bienes
RaXces-CBR). The number of claims to water that are not inscribed or
regularized is unknown, but it is likely to be substantial. These would
include water rights that have never been registered in the CBRs. There are
estimated to be numerous rights in this category, especially among small
farmers. They would also include water rights registered in the CBR prior to
1981 which have been transferred without proper documentation.
6.        In order to register water rights that have not been legally
recognized, the party must present to the CBR a document detailing the history
of use or right and subsequent tranbjers. If the CBR rejects the application
because it does not feel a right has been sufficiently demonstrated, the party
can appeal through the regular court. If the judge determines that the party
is the legitimate successor it can order the CBR to effect the inscription.
If the court is unable to make a determination it can refer the matter to the
DGA.
7.        The lack of regularized water titles is due in part to a lack of
information regarding the legislation and the procedures required for
regularizing and constituting water rights, aprticulalrly among small farmers.
The major constraint to regularizing water titles particularly among small
farmers, however, is likely to be the cost. The procedure can be quite
expensive, with the average cost at around US$ 460, regardless of the size of
the title. The costs to the individual can be even higher in those cases
which require extensive information about other users of a watercourse and for
which there is not a reliable cadastre.
The National Program for Reaularizint Water Titles (USS1.48 Million)
8.        DGA has an ongoing program to regularize water rights for users
throughout the country. It is felt that the regularization of titles benefits
not only the individual users, but also the organizations of users which are
then better able to manage the allocation of water and the operation and
maintenance of the common works. There are asscociated activities invloved:
(1) cadastre of users; (2) registration of titles; and (3) regularization of
rights and organization of users.
9.        Cadastre of Users.  The task involves the recompilation of existing
information, maps, and about the rights extracted from the registry of t:.:
local CBR and other sources including new surveys. Mapping of existing
irrigation and drainage networks is undertaken if required. The final
cadastre includes a plan with variable scale depending on the size of farms in



- 58 
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 4
the area of study. This plan shows the hydraulic network, access roads,
derivations, dams, flow stations, coordinates, farms boundaries with number
from the National Tax Service (Servicio de Impuestos Internos) and the
municipality of location. From this a Role of Users is developed for each
canal showing the area irrigated and the source and quantity of water used, as
well as indicating the status of individual water rights and those of the
assoeiation of irrigators.
10.       These cadastre are undertaken by specialized private firms
contracted by MOP and included in its Registry of Consultants. Staff of the
DGA are responsible for procuring these contracts and supervising the work.
The PROMNM would support the implementation of this program in areas where the
potential demand for investment, particularly by small farmers, would be
greatest. These include the following river basins: Limari, Choapa,
Aconcagua, Maipo, Maule and Cautin. Cadastre have already been completed in
the Choapa and Maule, and in parts of the Aconcagua and Maipo. The total cost
of the cadastre stage has been estimated at estimated US$712,000.
1.       Computerized Data Bank of Water Rights.  The cadastre of "qers
would also include the retrieval of background of transfers legally inscribed
in the CBRs. To facilitate future processing and to ease the ability to
transfer titles in the future, this large volume of scattered information
needs to be centralized and computerized. The Studies Department of DGA is
working on perfecting the Banco de Datos del Catastro PGblico de Aguas (CPA).
12.       RegularizinM of Water Titles.  The final step of the process is to
ensure that users have water use rights titles legally recognized and
inscribed in the CBR. The work would be undertaken by specialized firms
inscribed in the Registry of Consultants.  Firms would receive from the DGA
user roles for each canal to be regularized which include: (a) name of the
user; (b) identification of the property receiving the water; (c) irrigated
area and irrigation turns; and, (d) background concerning the distribution of
water from the canal among the users. The firms would be required to visit
the area and meet with the users in order to verify information and with the
collaboration of the users provide data required to amend that held by the DGA
with a view toward facilitating legal steps to constitute water communities.
After identifying those titles held by small farmers and requiring
regularization, the firms would proceed with the legal process of inscribing
them in the Water Title Registry of CBR. Total cost of these activities is
estimated to be US$725,000 over five years.



- 59 -
ARaNx 5
Page 4 of 4
CHILE
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Regularizing Titles to Water Riehts
Detailed Cost Table (USS)
Totals Including Contingencies
Sus
1992   1993   1994   1995   1996  Total
.......... .................... ..... ........  ...... ............ ...
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. User Cadastres                32    277    403       0       0    712
B. Regfstratlon
Colputer Equlpment          44      0       0      0      0      4
C. Regularizatfon               107    222      35    239    124    725
........ ...... .........  ....... ... .... .... ..... ..
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             183    499    437    239    124   1481
a----- --a-- ----aa--  =a     ua= u _  23=
Total                           183    499     437    239    124   1481
inUUU3UU3333UUU3Uua3uu3in=uu33u=a3=.u=amu.muuaua
- Values scaled by 1000.0 7/20/1992 12:17
Strentthenint User Oraanizations  Trainign
Detailed Cost Table (USS)
Quantity                        Totals Including Contingencies
1992  1993  1994  1995  1996 Total        1992   1993   1994   1995   1996  Totat
............................. ....................................   ....... .............. ........ ............... ...........
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. Course PreparatIon           -      -     -     -                      27       0      0       0      0     27
B. Trafning Courses.             0    10    16    20    10    56           0    176    293    379    197   1045
......  ........ ......  ......... ......  ........ .. .....
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                                       27    176    293    379    197   1072
a===== 3.33= 3ma333ss wa3= cancan ====a3
Total                                                                     27    176    293    379    197   1012
Unit Costs Scaled by 1000.0 - Values scaled by 1000.0 8/20/1992 11:02



- 60 -                   ~~~~~ANNEX_ 5
-- -                   ~~~~~~Chart 1
i"t~*. I..Il



- 61 -
Page I of 3
CHILE
IRRIGATION DEVLOPMENT PROJECCT
Proiect Components bv Year
Totals Including Contingencies
Sus
...........................................
1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 Total
A. Irrigatfon Infrastructure
1. Civil Works                       6.6   19.0   25.2   26.1   27.1  104.0
2. Inst. Strengthening               0.4    0.8    0.5    0.4    0.5    2.6
..... ................ .............................   . ........... ;; ..........
Sub-Total                               7.0   19.8   25.7   26.6   27.6  106.6
S. Agrfcultural Development
1. Research                          0.3    0.4    0.5    0.8    0.9    2.8
2. Technology Transfer               0.4    0.3    0.3    0.3    0.3    1.7
3. Extension                         0.4    0.6    0.8    1.0    1.3    4.2
4. Inst. Strengthening               0.1    0.2    0.2    0.2    0.1    0.8
..................... ...............
Sub-Total                                1.2    1.5    1.8    2.4    2.6    9.5
C. Strengthening User Groups
1. Training                          0.0    0.2    0.3    0.4    0.2    1.1
2. Water Rights Titling              0.2    0.5    0.4    0.2    0.1    1.4
........................ ..........................................................  
Sub-Total                               0.2    0.7    0.7    0.6    0.3    2.5
............................... ...........................................
Total PROJECTS COSTS                    8.4   21.9   28.3   29.5   30.5  118.7
............. ......................... .. ......................0 8.0......./    .
Vatues Scaled by 1000000.0 8/20/1992 11:10



- 62 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 3
CHILE
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summarv of Accounts br Year
Totals Including Contingencies
SUs
................................... ............................................. ...
1992   1993   1994   1995   1996  Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
................
A. Construction                       6.6   19.0   25.2   26.1   27.1  104.0
. BuIldingt                           0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
C. Equipment
1. Field                           0.0    0.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1
2. Lab                             0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
3. Offfce                          0.     0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.1
4. Computing                       0.1    0.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.3
.............................................   ..................
Sub-Total                             0.2    0.2    0.r.    0.0    0.0    0.5
D. Vehicles                           0.2    0.1    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.3
E. Technical Assistance               0.2    0.4    0.4    0.4    0.4    1.8
F. Research                           0.3    0.4    0.5    0.8    0.9    2.8
G. Training                           0.0    0.3    0.4    0.5    0.2    1.4
H. Publications                       0.0    0.0    0.1    0.0    0.0    0.2
1. Local Consultants                  0.3    0.9    1.1    1.1    1.2    4.6
. ... .......... ... .... .............................
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                7.9   21.4   27.7   28.9   29.9  115.7
11. RECURRENT COSTS
...................
A. Supplies                           0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.2
S. Persomel Expenses                  0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.4
C. Vehicle O&M                        0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.1    0.4
D. General Expenses                   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.2
E. Salaries                           0.3    0.3    0.4    0.4    0.4    1.8
...........................................
Total RECURRENT COSTS                 0.5    0.6    0.6    0.6    0.6    2.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                   8.4   21.9   28.3   29.5   30.5  118.7
.......................... ................................................... 
Vatues Scaled by 1000000.0 8/26/1992 16:22



CHILE
Irrigation DeveLopmnt Project
Sumary Account by Project Coiponent
$us
Physical           Price
Inst.             Technolo                Inst.               Water                   Contingencies       Contingencies
Civil   Strength                gy      Extensio  Strength              Rights                 .................................
Works    MOP/CNR  Research  Transfer        n       (NAG)   Training   Tit:.rng      Total        X      Amount      X   Amount
1. INVESTNENT COSTS
._ ...._._............. 
A. Construction                        93500          0         0          0         0          0         0          0     93500          0         0       11     10535
B. Cuildings                               0         0          0        40          0          0         0         0         40         0          0       4          1
C. Equipuent
1. Fietd                                  0        90          0         8          0         0          0         0         98         5          5       4          4
2. Lab                                    0        25          0         0          0         0          0         0         25         5          1       6          1
?   'fice                                 0        60          0         8         27          7         0         0        102         5          5       3          3
i.     i.uting                           0        170          0         7         15         7          0        41       240          5         12       4         10
- caL                                      0       345          0        23         42         14         0        41        465         5         23       4         19
D. vehicLes                                0        64          0         78        72        26          0         0        240         5         12       3          7
E. Technical Assistance                    5       970          0          0         0       535          0         0       1510         5         76      11        165
F. Research                                0         0       2830         0          0         0          0         0       2830         0          0       0          0
G. Training                                0       250          0        100         0         0        890         0       1240         5         57      12        143
H. Publications                            0        46          0       158          0         0          0         0        204         1          2       9         19      1
1. Local Consultants                       0       500          0       112       2325         0         27      1260      4224          0          0      10        420
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                 93505      2175       2830       511       2439       575        917      1301    104254          0        170      11      11310
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Supplies                                0        58          0        75          0        58          0         0        191         3          6      10         19
S. Persomel Expenses                       0        69          0       205         60        50          0         0        384         2          6      10         38
C. Vehicle O8M                             0        34          0        150       110        25          0         0        319         1          3      10         32
D. General Expenses                        0         0          0        30        122         0          0         0        152         0          0      10         15
E. Salaries                                0         0          0       590       1016         0          0         0       1606         0          0      10        155
Total RECURRENT COSTS                      0       161          0      1050       1309       133          0         0       2653         1         15      10        259
Total BASELINE COSTS                   93505      2336       2830      1561       3748       708        917      1301    106907          0        185      11      11569
Physical Contingencies                   0        92          0         5          6        35         45         2        185
Price Contingencies                  10536       172          0       140        429        73        110       110      11569         0         17
__ _ _ ............ . ;..-------------------- -------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------
Total PROJECT COSTS                   104041      2600       2830      1706       4182       816       1072      1413    118661          0        202      10      11569
Taxes                                18726       203          0       150        342        35        107       145      19708         0         16
Foreign Exchange                    43284        981          0       294        189       221          0         0     44969          0        66
....... ............  __....... _......... .................. _................................ ....................................................................... ........ ......... ............................... ..... ._.......__
Values Scaled by 1000.0 8/24/1992 14:28
0 |
0 



- 64 -
ANNX 7
Page 1 of 4
CHILE
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Environmental Aspects
Introduction
1.        This text is the "Summary and Recommendations" updated as of
March 3, 1992 of the sectoral environmental assessment entitled "Environmental
Aspects" and included in the preparation report for the "Chile Irrigation
Development Program" dated November 12, 1991, prepared by the FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Program. The report itself can be found in the project file.
2.        The project was classified as an "A" because sub-projects may have
the potential for causing adverse environmental impacts and, therefore, a
esystem was required for screening and classifying them to determine those that
need environmental assessment. A previous version of this summary (in
Spanish) was circulated to numerous local nongovernmental organizations (NGOs)
involved in environmental issues and rural development in Chile, who were
invited to participate in a meetinp under the auspices of the Min.stry of
Planning (MIDEPLAN) to discuss and comment on the issues raised. The summary
was sent to the following NGOs: Consultorias Profesion&les Agraria Ltda.
(AGRARIA), Comite Nacional de Pro Defensa de la Fauna y Flora (CODEFF), Centro
de Investigacion y Planificacion del Medio Ambient. (CIPMA), ',rupo de
Investigaciones Agrarias (GIA), Instituto de Ecologia Politica (IEP).
Instituto de Educacion Rural (IER), and Instituto de Promocion Agraria
(INPROA); the meeting was attended by CODEFF, INPROA, IER and AGRARIA on
December 3, 1991 in the office of MTEDEPLAN.
Summarv and Recommendations
3.        In the development and operation of the irrigation sector, a number
of environmental issues have been identified, including problems in salinity,
water-logging and water quality. Steps would be taken -within the project to
ensure that these issues and all other potential environmental issues are
addressed in the course of feasibility analysis of individual investments
through a process of environmental screening, assessment, monitoring and
mitigation (see para 9). Support would also be given to greater research in
the technical aspects of these issues. On the institutional side,
strengthening of irrigation user organizations (para 8), the rehabilitation of
existing works, and cost recovery provisions and requirements for beneficiary
participation in sub-project design and implementation would promote
sustainable investments with greater efficiency and conservation in water use,
and reduce excess demand for irrigation.
4.        The Water Manag2ment Context.  It is recognized that many of the
above aspects of irrigation development will be conditioned by the broader



-65-
Page 2 of 4
issues of long-run intersectoral conflicts over the use of land and water
determining the overall outcome of resource development in terms of
efficiency, equity and sustainability. Under most scenarios of future
development of water-using sectors in Chile, one may expect accelerating
pressure on the resource and rising intersectoral conflicts. By the year
2050, the population is expected to increase from 13 million to 22 million,
with about 18 million in urban centers, which will have important impiications
for potable water supply and sewage treatment. There will be increased
demands on water by industry, particularly mining in the north. The
Irrigation Directorate (DR) and the Executive Secretariat of the National
Irrigation Commission (SE/CNR) have studied projects which together, if
actually constructed, could add 477,000 ha to the irrigated area. The
continued expansion of all these sectors will call for major investments in
treatment of discharges even to contain contamination at current levels. On
the issue of flow regulation, the prime area affected is the south-central
zone where reservoir storage volume was increased 2401 between 1965 and 1990.
This, combined with planned dams and interbasin transfer for irrigation will
constitute a major factor in managing the intensification of multisector water
use, and the allocation of physical supply.
5.        Institutional Capacity.  The agencies with direct decision-making
autho:ity for irrigation development are the DR, the General Directorate for
Water (DGA), the Ministry of Agriculture (HAG), SE/CNR and MIDEPLAN. Among
these agencies the DR, DGA, HAG and SE/CNR are involved in the design and
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of public and private irrigation projects, and
therefore must have a capacity to ensure that environmental procedures are
used in the project cycle, including post-construction M&E. MIDEPLAN has the
final authority in determining that environmental procedures have been
adequately followed by these agencies as a prerequisite to approval of public
financing. In addition, the DGA and CNR have broad mandates in the area of
water resource policy and irrigation policy respectively. HAG has
responsibilities in development of irrigated agticulture at the farm level.
Thus, in all cases, their requirements go beyond a capacity to apply
environmental procedures on a project-by-project basis, to include resource
management within a river basin context.
6.        Extensive activity is underway to strengthen the capacity of
private and public entities whose mandates impinge on the environment. A
project is being prepared for possible Bank financing to support the work of
the recently created National Environmental Commission (CONAMA) in training on
environmental impact assessment (EIA), information systems and environmental
procedures with central government and regional agencies. The Inter-American
Devolopment Bank (IDB) has a loan to NIDEPLAN to strengthen the public
iavestment system, including EIA and a pre-investment program for river basin
management and development. Many bilateral agencies are also funding
institutional support activities in various agencies and NGOs. In addition,
NGOs have received extensive support from domestic industry and foundations
and external NGOs. One can expect a significant increase in technical
capacity within the country over the next two years.



- 66 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 4
7.        Strengthening Environmental Management in the Irrigation Sector.
Irrigation users in general are not well-prepared to enter into intersectoral
transactions. Capacity limitations are most evident in the case of the water
communities (comunidades de agua), the canal associations (asociaciones de
canalistas), and the river basin authorities (juntas de vigilancia). The lack
of organization of irrigation water users in many river basins would appear to
be the starting place for improving the capacity of the sector to deal with
environmental issues arising from intersectoral conflicts with long-term
consequences. A number of steps should be considered including up-grading the
management capacity of canal associations and river basin authorities. The
latter currently address mainly intra-sectoral irrigation matters, but they
could be converted to management entities fully representative of all users in
the basin. These organizations would also play a more active role in
monitoring water quality.
8.        In view of the overall support to environmental management
(para.5), strengthening of the executing agencies, the project would provide
supplemental training in EIA for selected staff of the Studies Department of
DR and that of the SE/CNR, as well as members of the agricultural technical
support unit (UAR) in HAG in order to ensure that staff are well versed in
environmental issues. This training will be based on EIA for the projects
proposed for 1992/93 and will also focus on environmental procedures applied
by DR, SE/CNR and MAG.
9.        Environmental Reauirements of the Loan.  Within the project cycle,
six steps will be taken to assure environmental procedures are adequately
taken into account in the design and selection of sub-projects (see attached
chart):
(a)  Sub-project proposals prepared at the regiona'l level for submission
to the Interministerial Committee (CDS) will include an assessment
of viable options for meeting objectives and a preliminary
statement (PES) on possible environmental implications based on
agreed environmental criteria.
(b)  For all sub-projects approved by CDS for feasibility study, an
environmental profile will be prepared by DR, SE/CNR or UAR/MAG to
classify sub-projects according to their potential environmental
impact: "A" requiring a full-scale EIA; "B" requiring further
environmental study (ES) of specific aspects; or "C" requiring no
further environmental studies.
(c) Profiles will be submitted for comment to the environmental units
in MOP and MAG and to NGOs concerned with the issues.
(d)  Observations from these entities (point c) would be submitted to
the project coordinating unit (UC), which would be responsible for
revision of the profiles, in association with the prime authors of
profiles (DR, SE/CNR, and UAR/MAG). The revised profiles, together
with a report on the external consultation, would be submitted to



- 67-
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 4
CDS which would reject or accept the environmental classification
(point b).
(e) With an "A" or "B" classification the CDS would request DR, SE/CNR
or UARIMAG to contract the necessary studies to assess
environmental impacts or provide recommendations for mitigating
measures.
(f) These studies would be taken into account by the CDS in determining
the adequacy of sub-project design and measures to mitigate
impacts. The CDS would then be responsible for ensuring that
environmental impacts are monitored and recommended mitigating
measures are implemented. For this it would involve local
affected groups and the user organization with their participation
and responsibilities clearly spelled out in the investment package.
(g) Subject to review by the Bank, the CDS would submit the investment
proposal package to MIDEPLAN, which has the final authority in
determining that environmental procedures have been adequately
followed by these agencies as a prerequisite to approval of public
financing.



IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Flow of Declaim ad Anath f
Eft ,nua   Scvmub ad Aaseamnt
*ECOINENATION ANDI         I
ADVISO    LEVEL                         ANALYSIS LEVEL                                                                DECISION LEVEL
REGIOACT IC ITTEES    |             C N R       D R       N A GUC |                                                                      C D S
(PROECT IDENTIFICATION)
|   PORTFOLIO OF                          SELECT PFROJECTS
P E S               - - -          ~~~~PROPOSED                    I      FOR POSSIBLE
PROJECTS                       I       INESTMENT
00
UTNA, SSS, ONGs                      ENVIRONMNTAL    FILE 
REVIPN AND  OENT
i  I  I   I   |   r   PORTFOLIO OF       CONFIRM
.   .             i           >      ~~~~~~~        ~~SCREENED             ENVIROMNTAL            M C"
PROJECTS                            CLASSIFICATION       PROJECTS
EllVIROiillENTAL |           PREPARE TORs AND CONTRACT
L_ .      t-PACT L       . .  .        REQUIRED ES OR EIA                                    POF CLASSIFED
"A'" AND  B" PROJECTS
PORTFOLIO                   |ISSE RECENDATION
>      OF PROJECTS WITN
COMPLETED ES OR EIA                REJECT THE
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
EVALUATION OF                                                                        AUTHOIZE THE PROJECT
ENVIRONENT ASPECTSF
LIIIIi~~~J



- 69-
CHIL~E
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Key Pwformonce IndleoZo
EXPECTED R ESULT (YEAR)
ACTIVITY                          UNIT        92      93      94      s9       96      TOTAL
A. Clvi Works
1  Feasibility Studies
(a) New Projects                     ProJect          9        4        3              -          16
(b) RehabilitationlModernization    Project           10       5        2       10                27
II. Desian and Construction
(a) New Projects                     Project          2        4        5       5       3         19
(b) RehabilStation/Modernization    Project           4       12        9       2       8         35
B. Operation and Maintenance_
Training Program- -Project                             1       5 -_2           MA      MA         MA
C. RBeularlizna Procedures for Til0os
to WaterRhhtr bvDOAi                    CUSS'000)       180     500      44       240    120      1.480
D. Agricultural DeveloDment
Research (INIA)
- Expand existing lines              Lines            3                                            3
-Initiate new Lines                 Lines22
Research plots                     Plots            15      21       24      20      20        100
Technology Transfer (INIA)
- Estabtish CATT-R                   Centers          3        7        S
- Training courses Cmininm)          Courses          2        2        2       2       2         10
- New extensfonists trained          Staff           53       35       35      35                158
Extension CINDAP)14
- Extensionists recruited            Staff           53       88      123     158    140         140
- PTTRs established                  Programs        26       18       18      18                 70
- Farmers in CATT-R                  Farmers        140     320       240              -          0
- Farmers in PTTRs (o000)            Farmers        5.2     8.8      12.3    15.8   14.0        14.0
- Area Covered ('000 ha)             Hectares      17.3
E. Institutional Deveom2Mnt
ACTIVITY                             DUE DATE                   CONDITIONALITY
POA for Calendar 1993 ready by Nov. 15,    Noveader 1991-                PA Approval
1992 mid subsequent POAs on Nov. 15 of      Novefber 1995
each year therafter.
PROMN Implementation Manual ready (final   January 1993                  PA approval for foltowing year
version).
PROIM Implementation Manual dissemi-        March 1993                   PA approval for following year
nated in the seven Regions In all
entities involved In irpltementatfon.
CDStUC staff positions (3) reflected In    1996 Budget                   None
1996 budget for Instltutfonalizatfon,
IDF installed and one position reflected
In regular budsets of RAG  nd wMP.         __                              ___                  _ __



- 70 -
ANE  9
CHILE
IRRIGATION DEVELOPHENT PROJECT
Procurement Methods and Disbursements
IBRD Disbursements
Loan Allocated         Percentage of Expenditures
Categorv          (USS million equivalent)           to be financed
Civil Works and Studies             43.0                41Z of expenditures
Technical Assistance                 2.0                1OOZ of expenditures
TOTAL                     45.0



- 71 -
ANNEU 0
CHILE
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
(In US$ million)
Disbursement        Cumulative      Balance of
FY/End of Semester        Durint Semester         Amount           Loan
FY 1993
December 31, 1992                -                  -              45.0
June 30, 1993                   7.0                 7.0            38.0
FY 1994
December 31, 1993               2.0                 9.0            36.0
June 30, 1994                   5.0                14.0            31.0
FY 1995
December 31, 1994               5.0                19.0            26.0
Juna 30, 1995                   5.0                24.0            21.0
FY 1996
December 31, 1995                4.0               28.0             17.0
June 30, 1996                   4.0                32.0             13.0
FY 1997
December 31, 1996                4.0               36.0             9.0
June 30, 1997                   4.0                40.0             5.0
FY 1998
December 31, 1997               2.0                42.0             3.0
June 30, 1998                    1.0               43.0             2.0
FY 1999
December 31, 1999                1.0               44.0              1.0
June 30, 2000                    1.0               45.0             0.0



- 72 -
CHILE
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical File
List of Documents
1.   Irrigation Development Programmes  Preparation Report (Volumes 1 and 2),
FAO/CP, November 12, 1991.
2.   Irrigation Development Programme:  Main Characteristics of Irrigation
Research and Technology Transfer Programmes in Chile, Working Paper,
FAO/CP, Novqmber 12, 1991.
3.   Informe Preliminar de las Comunas Rurales Pobres Localizadas entre la IV
y X Region, Ministry of Agriculture, PNUD-FAO TCP/CHI/0051, Santiago
Chile, October 1990.
4.   Proyecto Investigacion y Transferencia Tecnologica en Riego y Drenaje,
Instituto de Investigaciones Agropecuarias (INIA), May 1992.
S.   Programa para el Refuerzo Institucional del Ministerio de Agricultura
Subsector Riego, November 1991.
6. Programa de Obras de Riego y Drenaje Medianas y Menores (PRONM)s
Componente de Desarrollo Agropecuario, Tomas Cox, consultant, February
1992.
7.   Participacion de los Pequefhos Agricultores en los Beneficios de la Ley
No. 18.450, Tomas Cox, consultant, March 1992.
8.   Chile:  Subsector de Riego, Analisis de Capacidad Institucional, March
1992.
9.   Chile:  Irrigation Development Project, Environmental Aspects (Sectoral
Environmental Assessment), Michael Nelson, consultant, March 1992.
10. Aspectos Ambientales del Manejo del Riego en Chile, Gonzalo Vargas Otte,
consultant, September 1991.
11. Chilean Law 1122, 1123, and 18450.



- 73 -
ANNEX-1
Page 1 of 3
CHILE
IIRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Abbreviations
BIN       Basic Irrigated Hectare
(Hect&rea de Riego BUsico)
BOD       Biochemical Oxygen Demand
CAR       Committee for Irrigated Agriculture
(Comite para Agricultura de Riego)
CATT      Demonstration and Technology Transfer Centers
(Centros de Ajuste y Transferencia Tecnol6gica)
CCC       Confederation of Canal Operators of Chile
(Confederaci6n de Canalistas de Chile)
CDS       Inter-Ministerial Committee
(Comisi6n de Direcci6n Superior)
CUR       National Irrigation Commission
(Comisi6n Nacional de Riego)
CONAMA    National Environmental Protection Commission
(Comisi6n Nacional do Medio Ambiente)
DE/DR     Operations Division of the Directorate of Irrigation
(Division de Explotaciones)
DEP/MAG   Department for Studies and Budgeting for Agriculture
(Departamento de Estudios y Planificaci6n)
DGA       General Directorate of Water
(Direcci6n General de Aguas)
DR        Directorate of Irrigation
(Direcci6n de Riego)
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
EIA       Environmental Impact Assessment
(Evalusci6n del Impacto Ambiental)
FmR       Pinancial Rate of Return



- 74 -
ANX 12
Page 2 of 3
FONDEF    Science and Technology Development Fund
(Fondo de Fomento, Ciencia y Teonologia)
FOSIS     Social Solidarity Investment Fund
(Fondo de Solidaridad e Inversion Social)
CDP       Gross Domestic Product
(Producto Interno Bruto)
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank
(Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo)
INDAP     Institute for Agricultural Development
(Instituto de Desarrollo Agropecuario)
INIA      Institute for Agricultural Research
(Instituto de Investigaci6n Agropecuaria)
LYR       Irrigation Development Law 18450
(Ley de Fomento de Riego)
MAG       Ministry of Agriculture
(Ministerio de Agricultura)
MOP       Ministry of Public Works
(Ministerio de Obras PCablicas)
MIDEPLAN  Ministry of Planning and Cooperation
(Ministerio de Planificaci6n y Cooperaci6n)
OECF      Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund of Japan
O&H       Operation and Maintenance
(Operaci6n y Mantenimiento)
PQA       Annual Work Program
(Programa Operativo Annual)
PROMM     Chile Irrigation Development Project
(Programa de Obras de Riego y Drenaje Medianas y Menores)
SAG       Public Agriculture and Livestock Service
(Servicio Agricola y Ganadero)
SEICNR    Executive Secretariat of the National Irrigation Commission
(Secretaria Ejecutiva de CNR)
SERNAN    National Women's Service
(Servicio Nacional de la Mujer)



- 75 -
ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 3
SSA       Underse¢retariat for Agriculture
(Subsecretaria de Agricultura)
UAR       Technical Support Unit for Irrigated Agriculture
(Unidad de Apoyo al Riego)
UC        Project Coordinating Unit
(Unidad Coordinadora del Programa)
UF        Development Unit
(Unidad de Fomento)



C H I L E
-..IES OVER 500.O INHABITA0TS:                                  CENTRAL VALLEY
* 50,000 - 100,000                                          0:  PORTS
L  1oo000 . 0000._                                               ADMINISTRATIVE REGION 300NDARIES
*  300.000 A                                               -'- INTERNATIONAL 0OUNDARIES
Agriculturol          Zone           Iota1      Co aW          r e                                       Region     |   ean Aoseal  Mean An
'C'  ~ ~   ~    ~ Ara            Pa-ter         Are-aias                                                tlprtr          Not
Production              km1 ISOOsI000-5  ha (050's)    ha (000's)
Irrigated oases             I           178           13           11
and river valleys        Desert                                                     Z         t       'n  IQUIQUE
18.31 
Iquu q.
LeoY.-1JJANTOFAGASTA
AnioTagasTDa \  11          .*I
Irrigated river             ll          120          195           13               0             j      >
valleys and oases,        Arid                                                                 c       ( COPMPO
itinerant sheep ond                                                                                      COPIAPO 
goats   shee  an
L.ao Berea ,  , :, ^   3014.40    I                         100
300'
LA SERENA
>\Iv
Fruits, vegetables,        III           93          2160         1050           t                   VAjPAAI                          i
wheat, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ a VdALPARAraiC
grapes.          w         heat, Mediter-                                           "VIa li                                  13.9° - '         367
maize,  eilk,            raneo.nS  Mt.                                                               nhago
sunflower, beef,                                                                  S,0000            tM SNIG
cattle, sheep,                                                                        SRaNIG
sugar, pulses,                                                                      S-n F., do V        ACAGUA
forestry                                                                                    A
LA          VIce        TALCA
Concep6n o      hilIon                           13.0, 2;         1319
Cattle, milk,               IV          102          2990          170        '         eo'
sheep, forestry,       Temperate                                                       T               TEMUCO
barley, oats,                                                                 u
potatoes, fruits,                                                                clediVi.                                    11. n            2507
sugorbeets,                                                                     __       __ _
pulses, wheat
<    QgSoerto Mon  PUERTO
MONTT
Sheep, cattle,              V           248          185            1
forestry                 Humid
Coyhoique                                8.00            2865
\ i   COYHAIQUE 
.           0tGUAYD                                                               xi
\   i____ °_ \1;                                                              PUNTA
0i1               R          600    _                                ARENAS
a'   sea _ sao~ P   _ _                                  _   _        _    _--       * Puita Arenas             6.2°0           2754
.__ _                     _    _    _    _     _    _       _    ___                                 .L
To,
MO-                       -         -



