Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 20065
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan No. 3528-CR)
February 23, 2000
Argentina, Chile and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Environmentally an'l Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America ard the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorizaticn.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Local Currency Unit        Chilean Peso (ChS)
Exchange Rate at
Project Appraisal:         USSI - ChS34S.0
(June 23, 1992)            Chsl -'USSO.0029
Exchange Rate at
Loan Closin:               USSI - ChSS30.0
(June 30, 1999)            ChSt -USSO.0019
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report
FISCAL YEAR
January I -December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BIH               Basic Irrigated Hectare
CAR               Committee for Irrigated Agriculture
CATT              Demonstration and Technology Transfer Centers
CCC               Confederation of Canal Operators of Chile
CDS               Inter-Ministerial Committee
CNR               National Irrigation Commission
CONAMA            National Environmental Protection Commission
DEP/DR            Operations Division of the Directorate of Irrigation
DGA               General Directorate of Water
DOH               Hydraulic Works Directorate
DR                Directorate of Irrigation
ERR               Economic Rate of Return
EIA               Environmental Impact Assessment
FRR               Financial Rate of Return
FONDEF             Science and Technology Development Fund
FOSIS              Social Solidarity Investment Fund
GDP               Gross Domestic Product
IDB               Inter-American Development Bank
INDAP             Institute for Agricultural Development
INIA              Institute for Agricultural Research
LFR                Irrigation Development Law 18450
MAG               Ministry of Agriculture
MOP               Ministry of Public Works
MIDEPLAN           Ministry of Planning and Cooperation
ODEPA/MAG         Office of Agrarian Studies and Policies
O&M               Operation and Maintenance
POA                Annual Work Program
PROMM             Program for Small- and Medium-Sized Irrigation and Drainage Works
SAG               Public Agriculture and Livestock Service
SE/CNR            Executive Secretariat of the National Irrigation Commission
SERNAM            National Women's Service
SSA               Under-secretariat for Agriculture
UAR               Technical Support Unit for Irrigated Agriculture
UC                Project Coordinating Unit
UF                Development Unit (monetary unit adjusted for inflation)
Vice President       David de Ferranti
CMU Director         Myrna Alexander
SMU Director         John Redwood
Team Leader          Steven Oliver



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan No. 3528-CH)
CONTENTS
PREFACE ................................................                                                   VII
EVALUATION  SUMMARY ................................................                                      VII
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .                                             ................................ 1
A.   Statement and Evaluation of the Objectives .................................................   1
B.   Achievement of Project Objectives ................................................                   3
C.   Major Factors Affecting the Project ................................................               16
D.   Project Sustainability ................................................                             16
E.   Bank Performance ................................................                                   17
F.   Borrower Performance ................................................                              20
G.   Assessment of Outcome ................................................                             21
H.   Future Operation ................................................                                  21
I.    Key Lessons Learned ................................................                              22
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION ................................................                            24
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .24
Table 2: Related Bank Loans .26
Table 3: Project Timetable .27
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .28
Table 5: Studies Included in the Project .29
Table 6: Project Costs .30
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants .31
Table 8: Bank Resources: Missions .34
APPENDIX 1. SUMMARY OF THE BORROWER'S REPORT ........................ 39
I.    Introduction ................................................                                     39
II.   Background .................................................                                      40
III.  Analysis by Project Component ................................................                    44
MAP: IBRD No. 23006
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 3528-CH)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Irrigation
Development Project in Chile, for which Loan No. 3528-CH in the amount of US$45.0
million equivalent was approved by the Board on November 17, 1992 and became
effective on February 22, 1993.
2.    At the request of the Borrower, the amount of US$31 million equivalent was
cancelled with effect from July 24, 1997. This cancellation was based on the Borrower's
decision to fund a larger part of the project's expenditures from fiscal resources. The
Loan was closed on June 30, 1999, and the final disbursement was made on September
21, 1999.
3.    The ICR was prepared by Steven Oliver (LCSES) and Edgardo Floto (World
Bank/FAO Cooperative Programme - FAO/CP). It was reviewed by Myrna Alexander
and Asif Faiz (LCC7C). The Borrower contributed to the ICR by providing its own
report, a summarized translation of which is included as Appendix 1, and by providing
comments on a draft of the ICR which were incorporated into the revised text.
4.    Preparation of the ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission in April/May 1999. It is based on material in the project file, interviews with
representatives of the implementing agencies and other government officials, and
discussions with staff of the Bank.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3528-CR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The agricultural sector of Chile is now a much more important and dynamic
source of economic growth than it was in the past. Until the 1960s, it was a stagnant
sector with significantly under-utilized resources. Beginning in the mid-1960s, it began
to respond to a series of policy reforms which have steadily transformed it into a modern,
innovative and technology-absorbing sector of considerable importance to the economy
as a whole. The sustained liberalization of the economy which started in the mid-1970s
and the maintenance of macro-economic stability and a competitive exchange rate,
combined with trade reforms and the deregulation of factor markets, provided the
enabling environment for growth, of which exports have been the main driving force.
2.    More than one-third of the cropped area of Chile depends on irrigation. The main
constraint to intensified land use is the availability of irrigation, but at the time of project
identification less than one-third of the total irrigation potential of the country was being
exploited, and the poor management of irrigation facilities meant that only 1.2 million ha
(out of the total of 1.8 million ha under command) had a secure water supply.
3 .   Within the enabling framework of two laws designed to promote both public and
private investment in irrigation, the Irrigation Development Project was designed to
support beneficiary participation in irrigation development and thereby improve
operational performance and sustainability. The project emphasized investment in
irrigation infrastructure, both to rehabilitate existing works and to build new ones. The
inclusion of agricultural development and the institutional development of water users'
organizations was intended to help realize the benefits of increased output and improved
productivity that investment in infrastructure could bring.
4.    The Project was consistent with the Bank's lending strategy in Chile and the goals
of the Government: (a) to ease bottlenecks to private investment and export expansion;
(b) to alleviate rural poverty, (c) to promote environmentally-sound investments; and (d)
to improve the institutional capacity of the public sector. It was also consistent with the
Bank's Agricultural Sector Review of 1990, which emphasized the need for the public
sector to play a catalytic role in promoting the participation of the private sector in the
rehabilitation, modernization and selected expansion of irrigation.
viii



Project Objectives
5.    The objectives of the project were: (a) to improve the operation and efficiency of
existing irrigation schemes and the future development of the irrigation sub-sector;
(b) to strengthen the capabilities of water users' groups and small farmers; (c) to improve
the allocation and sustainability of investment in irrigation; and (d) to enhance the
welfare of small farmers, particularly those in poor areas of Chile. A further, implicit
objective was related to the achievement of (c) above; this concemed the cost recovery
from project beneficiaries of the public investments to be financed in irrigation
infrastructure.
6.    The objectives of the project were to be achieved through three components:
(a) investment in the rehabilitation and modernization of existing irrigation schemes and
in the construction of new small- and medium-sized irrigation schemes; (b) technical
support for agricultural development, oriented towards small farmers; and (c) technical
support for water users' groups, to regularize water titles and to strengthen their technical
and administrative capacity. All three components included activities aimed at
institutional development and strengthening.
7.    The main benefits of the project were expected to be: (a) an expansion of the
irrigated area, benefiting mainly small farmers in marginal rain-fed areas; (b) an
enhanced environment and improved efficiency in water allocation, resulting from
improved conservation and management of water resources; and (c) greater water
security, leading to increased yields, improved quality of output, and increased
investment in higher-value export crop production.
Evaluation of the Objectives
8.    The objectives of the project were clearly stated, but were rather subjective and
qualitative in nature. They were not modified during implementation. The objectives
addressed the key issues facing the development of the irrigation sub-sector, and were
oriented towards better resource management and economic growth. The project was not
particularly onerous for the implementing agencies, nor was it a complex operation; its
design accommodated the small changes made by the Borrower during implementation.
9.    The project's objectives were in the categories of physical results, institutional
development, and sector policy; they did not include macro-economic policy or financial
sector development. In these three areas, the achievements of the project were
considerable. In physical results, the project made substantial progress in planning and
constructing new irrigation infrastructure, in rehabilitating existing schemes, and in
providing support services (research, technology transfer and support to water users'
organizations) for agricultural development. In institutional development, the results
were surprising; the main positive achievements had not been foreseen at appraisal, and
those that had been anticipated were only partially achieved. The sector policy
objectives, including the transfer of responsibility for operation and maintenance to users
and the initiation of cost recovery of capital expenditures, were substantially achieved.
ix



Implementation Experience
10.   Investment in Irrigation Infrastructure  The project financed the
rehabilitation and modernization of existing irrigation schemes, the construction of new
small- and medium-sized irrigation schemes, on-farm works, engineering studies, design
and construction supervision services, environmental impact assessments, and the
institutional strengthening of the agencies responsible for implementation. Budget
restrictions led to extended implementation periods for individual sub-projects. There
was a tendency to distribute resources among all sub-projects under construction, rather
than to establish priorities; the result was a generalized delay in all sub-projects. The
budget restrictions slowed the pace of the project below the actual demand for works.
11.   The most important contributions of the project to the institutional framework for
irrigation development were: (a) the organization of the Inter-Ministerial Committee
(CDS) to improve coordination between institutions dealing with irrigation development;
(b) the creation of an institutional channel to receive farmers' proposals for irrigation
projects; and (c) the strengthening of farmers' participation in decision-making in the
selection of irrigation projects. This institutional structure has proved very successful, to
the extent that the Government has decided to retain it and use it for all irrigation projects
(including large-sized projects) in future.
12.   The pilot study on cost recovery reviewed the existing system and explored
alternatives to make greater use of the financial and water rights' markets and of
legislation governing private concessions for infrastructure. Proposed operational
changes are being considered by the government. Current legislation establishes that
capital cost recovery for any irrigation scheme should start only after its "provisional
operation" period (usually 2-4 years) has been completed. Only one sub-project financed
under the project has reached that stage of maturity, and farmers are paying their monthly
quotas, on time and in full, via the collection mechanism of the rural property tax. The
system is well understood by project beneficiaries, and it is now an accepted principle
that farmers should contribute to the capital cost of irrigation projects financed by the
State.
13.   Technical Support for Agricultural Development By the early 1990s, Chile
was advanced in the development of irrigated agriculture amongst its most commercially-
oriented producers, but most irrigation remained poorly managed and inefficient. The
project was designed to provide small farmers with technical assistance for irrigated
agricultural development. During project preparation, it was recognized that irrigation-
related technology for small farmers was deficient and that adaptive research was
required. The Ministry of Agriculture (MAG) needed to strengthen itself in order to
participate effectively in the project. The project expanded existing and initiated new
lines of adaptive research, and fully achieved its original objective; specific lines of
research were completed, and technical publications were distributed to extension staff
and project beneficiaries.
14.   The Institute for Agricultural Research (INIA) was poorly developed in irrigation
before the project, but between 1990-1999, as a result of the adaptive research and
x



technology transfer programs, the number of its staff with irrigation qualifications and
experience rose from five to more than twenty. Irrigation was considered as a whole
farming system and not as a series of separate interventions. Anticipating the project's
completion, regional governments have pressured INIA to remain involved in adaptive
research and technology transfer, and there are numerous examples of part regional/part
central government-financed INA activities.
15.   As a complement to its research work, INIA was also responsible for the transfer
of technology in the initial diffusion of research results, and the project was designed to
support the establishment of 28 irrigation-focused demonstration centers to be operated
jointly with the Institute for Agricultural Development (INDAP). However, INDAP did
not receive incremental budgetary resources for this, and withdrew from the arrangement.
As a result, the technology transfer mechanism was modified, and iNIA and the regional
universities assumed full responsibility for it. Validation Centers and Demonstration
Modules, specifically designed for the project, were established in ten locations. They
benefited an area of 91,000 ha of irrigated land, representing about 96% of the irrigated
area rehabilitated or expanded under the project.
16.   Support to be provided by INDAP was expected to reach an estimated 14,000
small farmers during the five years of project implementation. However, INDAP was not
provided with additional funds under the project, the Ministry of Finance arguing that it
should operate within its normal budgetary resources, a view not shared by INDAP. The
areas affected by the Irrigation Development Project did not coincide with the areas given
priority by INDAP based on criteria unrelated to irrigation, and it is estimated that less
than 40% of the project's beneficiaries received MNDAP extension services. Some of
these shortcomings in the provision of extension services were overcome by the transfer
of technology and extension carried out directly by INIA and regional universities.
17.   During project preparation, it was recognized that MAG lacked the capacity to
participate with other ministries in planning the development of irrigation or to co-
ordinate the activities of INDAP and MNIA. To remedy this, MAG created the Committee
for Irrigated Agriculture (CAR) to be supported by the Technical Support Unit for
Irrigated Agriculture (UAR) with expertise in the planning, development and evaluation
of irrigation projects. Although the CAR ceased to function, the UAR was created and
assumed defacto the co-ordination of MAG activities in the irrigation sector.
18.   Strengthening Water Users' Groups  This component supported the
government's efforts to complete the regularization of water titles in those areas where
most of the rehabilitation and new sub-projects would be executed. Regularization of
water rights was completed in six river basins, and the surveys of water users and the
inventory of related irrigation infrastructure in the selected river basins were also
completed. In order to improve operation and maintenance, a program was designed and
implemented to train some 450 water users' organizations.
19.   The changes introduced in the project's components during implementation were
minor, and mainly of an institutional/operational nature; they did not alter the project's
ability to achieve its objectives. The absence of INDAP in the provision of technical
xi



assistance to small farmers using irrigation was the main change that could have had a
negative impact on the project, had it not been offset by the development of a new system
to assist farmers. A Technical Committee for Project Selection was created to assist the
CDS with the allocation of resources between investment proposals. This committee was
not identified at appraisal, but its usefulness became apparent during project
implementation; it accelerated the review process of project proposals and implemented a
selection process based on objective criteria.
Project Results
20.   No economic rate of return (ERR) was calculated for the project at appraisal;
because investments were to be driven by beneficiaries' demand, it was impossible to
define ex ante the project's total investment or to identify the sub-projects that would be
implemented. During appraisal, ERRs were calculated for those sub-projects that were
expected to be implemented during the first year; returns to these investments were
estimated at over 20%. Expost estimates of ERRs for four of these sub-projects that
were implemented confirm the relatively high rates of return projected at appraisal.
21.   The objectives of the project were broad and qualitative, and it is not easy to
measure their achievement. The performance indicators included in the Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR) are limited to mile-stones in terms of studies, construction, training
courses, research program lines, establishment of technology transfer centers, and
numbers of farmers reached through extension. There is no base-line study, nor are there
any monitoring indicators that would allow the imputation of measurable indicators of
impact, such as farm incomes, to the achievement of the objectives. However,
information available from the evaluation of the four sub-projects referred to above is
highly positive. Increases in canal flow capacity of 66%, major reductions in water loss
through infiltration/seepage, and significant increases in water security in the key months
of January and February are among the data recorded.
22.   It is difficult to assess the project's results quantitatively because of the lack of
monitoring and evaluation indicators. In the development of irrigation infrastructure, for
example, the performance indicator is the number of sub-projects implemented.
Examined on this basis, the project has not met its goals. By contrast, measuring the area
under irrigation that was improved or expanded gives a very different picture. The
Preparation Report expected the project to rehabilitate 100,000 ha of irrigated land and to
expand the area under irrigation by 10,000 ha; the areas actually achieved by the project
were 138,500 ha and 10,023 ha, respectively. Based on the population that the project
was expected to benefit, the results are also positive. The SAR estimated that a total of
approximately 14,000 farmers could be reached in the five years of the project; the
number of farmers actually benefited by the project was 14,410.
23.   In 1997, at the request of the Government, US$31 million (69%) of the Loan was
cancelled because of the strong status of public finances and the balance of payments.
Loan disbursement data up to that point provided a very poor impression of the actual
state of implementation. By the Loan's Closing Date, total disbursements were US$12.8
million, 91% of the revised Loan amount of US$14 million. Total actual expenditures on
xii



the project were US$100.87million, 85% of the SAR estimated total cost of US$118.7
million. The original expenditure target would have been exceeded by a large margin if
the government had allocated more resources to the project, as the unsatisfied demand for
small- and medium-sized irrigation projects is far larger than the SAR estimated. The
government decided to develop several large irrigation schemes, which absorbed most of
the public funding ear-marked for irrigation. Total investment in large irrigation schemes
between 1992-1999 was about US$300 million, benefiting some 420,000 ha. Total
irrigation investment during that period resulted in the rehabilitation of 288,000 ha and
the expansion of the area under irrigation by 217,000 ha, of which the project accounted
for 32% and 1.1%, respectively (excluding works under construction).
24.   Only a small part of this total investment was financed by the Loan, but the
project did make a substantial contribution to the sustainable development of the
irrigation sub-sector, which was one of its principal objectives. The contributions of the
project can be summarized as follows:
* A significant improvement in co-ordination between institutions with development
responsibilities in the irrigation sector.
* The introduction of demand-driven investment allocation, through systematic and
transparent selection of irrigation investments based on objective criteria.
* The promotion of an integral approach to irrigation development, ensuring not only
that works were constructed but also that farmers were given adequate technical
assistance to improve irrigated agriculture.
* The initiation of a program to strengthen water users' organizations, enabling them to
participate in the decision-making process on investment allocation and in the
operation and management of irrigation schemes.
25.   More than 450 water users' organizations were reached by the project, as they
became formally established and their water rights were legalized. Water users'
organizations in four out of the thirteen sub-projects currently under operation were
strengthened, and an institutional strengthening program for the remainder is under
implementation by the Hydraulic Works Directorate (DOH).
26.   Prior to the project, the allocation of investment was made on an ad hoc basis; by
contrast, the measures introduced under the project are transparent and are based on the
participation by the beneficiaries in the selection process. The selection and processing
of sub-project proposals was completely demand-driven; only those proposals responding
to farmers' needs were considered under the selection procedures. These measures have
encouraged competition between and within the regions and between water users'
organizations. As a result, the best sub-projects were selected. The performance of
operation and maintenance (O&M) by farmers and the establishment of cost recovery has
made the sustainability of investments more likely.
27.   The impact of the project on small farmers and on poverty has been positive, but
there are no quantifiable measures. In the four sub-projects referred to above, there has
been a significant adoption of the crops demonstrated, an increase in farm incomes, an
xiii



increase in land values and land sales prices, an increase in the demand for labor, and the
transformation of small plots of land into financially-viable units.
28.  In the allocation of investment resources to sub-projects, the original intention
was to reserve up to 30% of funding for the 100 poorest rural municipalities. In practice,
it was decided that this was not necessary if proper weight were given to the poverty
criterion in the sub-project selection process, and this was considered a more transparent
approach. The number of small farmers remained as an important criterion of selection
of sub-projects. In addition, during the early stages of implementation of the project the
Bank and the government started to prepare a poverty alleviation project for rural areas
to be focused on these municipalities.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
29.   The project was affected by several serious droughts. The lack of water in some
storage systems impeded the achievement of the agricultural development objectives, but
at the same time the incidence of drought sharpened interest in the project and helped to
promote the more efficient use of water resources. There were also several floods that
damaged farming operations on irrigation schemes. There was significant earthquake
damage to irrigation structures, including particularly heavy damage to the Buceta
scheme, necessitating some re-building. The decline in prices of many agricultural and
horticultural products affected the profitability of irrigated agriculture but not the demand
for sub-projects; if anything, the fall in profitability gave impetus to the need to increase
efficiency and reduce costs.
30.   The project was constrained by a shortage of budgetary resources. In the
construction of irrigation infrastructure and on-farm works, budget allocations were
consistently below requirements. In support to small farmers and water users'
organizations, several implementing agencies simply were not provided with incremental
resources for the project. There was also a lack of coordination between the different
budgets (allocated to various implementing agencies and ministries) supporting the
project. In the early stages of the project, there were delays and long process periods for
sub-projects being implemented under the Irrigation Development Law, a significant
bottle-neck that has now been removed.
The Bank's Performance
31.   The Bank's performance is considered to have been satisfactory. The process of
identification and preparation of the project, which cannot be separated neatly into two
activities, was long-drawn out; a first effort at preparation was effectively abandoned, and
there were two "lulls" in activity on the part of the Bank of almost eighteen months each.
Project identification began in late- 1984, prompted by the recommendation of a Bank
sector review mission to give priority to small-scale irrigation and rehabilitation. By
February 1988, the Bank began to look at the possible components of a broader loan, and
it was concluded that the Bank could act as a catalyst in legal and institutional change, as
xiv



well as providing resources for investment, in an irrigation sub-sector loan; the concept of
a quick-disbursing component arose, later to be abandoned.
32.   Several further identification missions were carried out in an attempt to identify
the basic objectives of the proposed project and to make arrangements for its preparation.
The Bank insisted that rehabilitation, construction of smaller-sized works and eliminating
constraints to private-sector investment should be the preferred course. There was no
clear consensus in government concerning policy towards the irrigation sector. In March
1991, a significant step forward was taken in identification and preparation by a joint
Bank-FAO/CP mission that finalized arrangements for a Japanese Grant, established
clear arrangements for preparation, clarified the objectives and components of the
project, and defined a work program for preparation. The CDS (which later came to play
a key inter-institutional role in project implementation) was established, to oversee
preparation by a consultant team and FAO/CP.
33.   Pre-appraisal was carried out in November-December 1991, appraisal in March
1992, and post-appraisal in May-June 1992. The key issues were the recovery of costs of
investment from beneficiaries, the Irrigation Development Law (LFR) at that point due to
expire in 1993, the need to support agricultural production through research and
extension, and the size of investment (and therefore the size and shape of the project)
which the government was willing to undertake. The CDS was confirmed as the body
responsible for overseeing project implementation, and a Coordinating Unit was created
as its secretariat. The appraisal had recorded the potential risk that Government might
restrict incremental budgetary allocations for activities it considered to be "non-core"
operations (e.g., research, extension, and institutional strengthening) and Government
was explicitly requested to confirm that sufficient counterpart funds would be made
available. In the event, the Bank's concerns in this respect were fully realized during
project implementation.
34.   The Bank sent a total of fifteen supervision missions, starting with a mission in
December 1992 prior to Loan Effectiveness and ending with a supervision cum
implementation completion reporting mission in May 1999. From the beginning, the
implementation of physical works and the carrying-out of studies and designs maintained
the momentum achieved in the latter stages of project preparation. However, the
agricultural development component from an early stage began to encounter delays. Also
evident from the beginning, and clearly identified by supervision, was the growing
tendency of the Government not to use funds from the Bank's Loan to finance the project.
Limitations on budgetary allocations to project components, in some cases draconian cuts
that could have had no other effect than to render activities inoperable, were clearly
flagged by supervision.
The Borrower's Performance
35.   The Borrower's performance is considered to have been satisfactory. The
extremely long process of project identification and "false starts" on preparation are an
eloquent testimony to the lively debate, both within the government and between the
xv



government and the Bank, concerning the direction in which the irrigation sector should
go and the appropriate role of the public sector in irrigation development. It is clear that
the dialogue, which included significant expertise in many technical and administrative
aspects, contributed to shaping a program which has not only been successful in itself but
has also paved the way for continuing public-private participation in irrigation sector
development. Although it cannot have been anticipated at the out-set that the dialogue
would last for eight years (from the first identification mission through to appraisal), it
must be remembered that this period covered the transition of government from military
to civilian rule and involved very significant changes in philosophy, particularly
concerning the appropriate role of the public sector.
36.   The establishment of the CDS and its Coordinating Unit ensured that a clear
dialogue was held between the Bank and the government. The somewhat arbitrary
intervention of the Ministry of Finance at the time of pre-appraisal concerning the overall
size of the project introduced an element of uncertainty, but the project's design was able
to accommodate the reduction in the total budget envelope. It was felt at the time by the
Bank that the main risk was that institutional strengthening, production support and
training might be eroded to the point that the efficient implementation of the program
would be jeopardized, and this concern persisted until after appraisal.
37.   The implementation of the project was adversely affected by the budgetary
restrictions which applied to its infrastructure investment program and to the operating
costs of many of the entities which were responsible for supporting activities. In extreme
cases, some entities (e.g., INDAP) were unable to participate in some areas benefited by
the project (see paragraph 16). Several implementing agencies of the project did not, in
fact, enter into the project accounting and audit process when, not having received
incremental budget resources, they failed to keep separate records of their expenditures
within the project. However, the major part of project expenditures did enter the
accounting and audit procedures.
Summary of Findings, Future Operation and Key Lessons Learned
38.   The strategy for promoting improved irrigation management and development
and the design of the project incorporated lessons learned from projects in Chile and
elsewhere in the LAC region, as well as the more general lessons from wider Bank
lending. These related particularly to improving the operational performance and the
sustainability of irrigation projects. The project emphasized beneficiary participation in
irrigation development to avoid some of the pitfalls associated with large-scale publicly-
financed irrigation schemes. To ensure that investments did not encourage inadequate
O&M practices by private users, agreements were sought with beneficiaries that specified
standards for O&M as well as remedies for non-compliance.
39.   In order to ensure that only economically sound and environmentally sustainable
investment sub-projects would be supported, eligible investments had to have an ERR of
at least 12% and were screened for potential environmental impacts. The allocation of
investment among eligible sub-projects was based on both efficiency and equity
xvi



considerations. Cohorts of proposed sub-projects were ranked by the net
benefit:investment ratio derived from the net benefit stream used for estimating the ERR.
40.   The Bank's loan supported an innovative approach to coordinating multiple
institutions in the public sector and to harnessing the potential beneficiaries of irrigation
schemes in a highly participatory process of investment allocation and agricultural
development. The project has substantially met its objectives and has made an important
contribution to the development of irrigated agriculture in Chile. In the short space of
five years, the project's name - PROMM - has established itself firmly in the lexicon of
Chilean agriculture.
41.   Before the project's Completion Date (December 31, 1998), the Government of
Chile had already taken the decision to continue operating the PROMM because of the
numerous innovations that it has pilot tested and proven. Budgetary provision has been
made for this, for both the second half of 1999 and for 2000. Over the past two years,
PROMM has been subjected to close scrutiny in several in-depth evaluations. In
addition, at the request of the government, the Bank and FAO/CP are supporting the
preparation of a water resources management project that will treat river basin
development on a coordinated basis among all water users.
42.   Several important lessons have either been learned from or reinforced by the
experience of project implementation. These include the following:
* There is a significant advantage to be gained by working closely with the potential
beneficiaries of public sector investment in irrigation infrastructure. Their
involvement and "ownership" from the beginning of the project cycle is essential,
particularly where cost recovery of investment is a requirement, and contributes
significantly to on-farm development.
* Efficient operation and maintenance of infrastructure is best achieved by paying close
attention to the organization of water users. Institutional development of these
organizations, if properly planned and implemented, is not a costly exercise and pays
handsome dividends. Particular attention should be given to institutional
development and to the training of participants when the beneficiaries are small
farmers.
* It is essential to work closely with sub-national governments, even if these are not the
principal source of the investment funding. Decentralization facilitates farmers'
participation in demand-driven projects.
* Emphasis must be placed on the technical quality of pre-investment analysis. A
project of this nature requires the farmers' commitment at an early stage. Accurate
estimates of cost should be demanded from the earliest stages through to final design,
in order to assist with budget planning and to gain the confidence and commitment of
the eventual project beneficiaries.
xvii



* The development of irrigation infrastructure should only be undertaken as a public
investment when pre-investment analysis demonstrates that it will form the basis for
financially-sound agricultural development. It should then be axiomatic that
investment costs should be recovered, and that beneficiaries should be fully
responsible for operation and maintenance under agreed procedures.
* The project demonstrated that the integration of production support services with
investment in infrastructure and the strengthening of water users' organizations are
essential if the benefits are to be realized in terms of agricultural development.
Support services must be carefully designed and integrated.
* Experience under the project demonstrates once more the need for accounting
frameworks and audit procedures to be defined and tested early in the project cycle.
In particular, the chart of accounts and the audit terms of reference should be
prepared early by specialists and should be the subject of detailed discussions.
* The importance is emphasized of establishing from the very beginning of the project
an effective program of monitoring and evaluation.
v Experience under the project demonstrates the value of developing (and adhering to)
transparent and coherent selection criteria for sub-projects, especially when an
investment project is to be demand-driven.
* The need is once again emphasized for rigorous annual planning in consonance with
the national budget preparation and approval procedures. The detailed preparation of
the Annual Operating Program should be shared with the Bank as early in its
preparation as possible.
* The process of project preparation should recognize explicitly the difficulty, or even
the impossibility, of coordinating the allocation of budgetary resources to multiple
implementing agencies. In this project, many of the needs for budgetary resources to
undertake individual sub-components or activities under the project were not met.
Fragmentation in budgets occurred, with allocation to different ministries, and there
was no mechanism to ensure that the budget was earmarked and therefore treated as a
single coherent project.
* Increased demands for water from different sectors of the economy are leading to
conflicts over scarce supply, which can be best addressed at the level of the river
basin and catchment area. Consequently, future irrigation development should be an
integral part of a broader water management strategy.
xviii



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3528-CH)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Statement and Evaluation of the Objectives
1.    The agricultural sector of Chile is a much more important and dynamic source of
economic growth than it was in the past. Until the 1960s, it was a rather stagnant sector
with significantly under-utilized resources. Beginning in the mid-1960s, it began to
respond to a series of policy reforms which have steadily transformed it into a modern,
innovative and technology-absorbing sector of considerable importance to the economy
as a whole. The sustained liberalization of the economy which started in the mid-1970s,
the maintenance of macro-economic stability and a competitive exchange rate, combined
with trade reforms and the deregulation of factor markets, provided the enabling
environment for growth. Exports have been the main engine of this growth; the share of
the sector in total foreign exchange earnings rose from 8% in 1965 to an average of 35%
between 1988-1990, the years preceding project identification.
2.    More than one-third of the cropped area of Chile depends on irrigation. The
private sector dominated the development of irrigation until the 1930s, since when the
public sector has also played an important role. Private investment in irrigation was
virtually paralyzed during the late part of agrarian reform in the early 1970s and only
began to regain momentum in the 1980s. Public sector investment, responsible for more
than sixty major irrigation works between 1930-1970 and benefiting 600,000 ha of land,
declined abruptly after 1973. From an annual average of US$55 million between 1965-
1970, it collapsed to US$1.6 million in 1990, as the government sought to restore the
predominant role of the private sector. However, during the period 1970-1990
investment in irrigation infrastructure from any source, private or public, was negligible.
3.    The main constraint to intensified land use in Chile is the availability of irrigation,
but at the time of project identification less than one-third of the total irrigation potential
of the country was being exploited, and the poor management of irrigation facilities
meant that only 1.2 million ha of the total of 1.8 million ha under command had a
reasonably secure water supply'. Within the enabling framework of two laws designed to
1 Defined as 85% water security, that is, water flows at the farm level fall below the required amount in thiee or fewer
years out of twenty.



promote both public2 and private3 investment in irrigation, the Irrigation Development
Project4was designed to support beneficiary participation in irrigation development and
thereby improve the operational performance and sustainability of irrigation projects.
The project emphasized investment in irrigation infrastructure, both to rehabilitate
existing works and to build new ones. The incorporation of agricultural development and
the institutional development of water users' organizations was intended to help realize
the benefits of increased output and improved productivity that investment in
infrastructure could bring.
Identification and Preparation
4.      The Irrigation Development Project was consistent with the Bank's lending
strategy in Chile and the desire of the Government: (a) to ease bottlenecks to private
investment and export expansion; (b) to alleviate poverty in rural areas; (c) to promote
environmentally-sound investments; and (d) to improve the institutional capacity of the
public sector. It was also consistent with the Bank's Agricultural Sector Review5 of
1990, which emphasized the need for the public sector to play a catalytic role in
promoting the participation of the private sector in the rehabilitation, modernization and
selected expansion of the area under irrigation. Bank involvement in the project was
expected to facilitate the strengthening of the private sector's role and capabilities, to
improve the allocation of public investment, and to provide support for improved natural
resource management and environmental impact assessment in the sub-sector.
Project Objectives
5.     The objectives of the project as defined in the Staff Appraisal Report6 (SAR) and
the Loan Agreement7 were: (a) to improve the operation and efficiency of existing
irrigation schemes and the future development of the irrigation sub-sector; (b) to
strengthen the capabilities of water users' groups and small farmers; (c) to improve the
allocation and sustainability of investment in irrigation; and (d) to enhance the welfare of
small farmers, particularly those in poor areas of Chile.
2 The Irrigation Law No. 1123 (Normas sobre Ejecuci6n de Obras de Riego por el Estado) of 1981 establishes the
rules and regulations which govern the construction of inigation and drainage works with public funds. Among other
conditions, it stipulates that a project can only be considered for construction if beneficiaries representing at least 50%
of the newly-available water rights accept the project and commit themselves to reimburse the State under terms and
conditions to be agreed dunng negotiations.
3 The Irrigation Development Law No. 18450 (Ley de Fomento de Riego) of October 1985 aims at encouraging private
investment in irrigation and drainage works; it stipulates that the State may reimburse up to 75% of private investment
in the construction and rehabilitation of small irrigation and drainage works, and the acquisition of related equipment,
that increase the irrigated area, improve the efficiency of water use, or reclaim poorly-drained or waterlogged land for
agricultural production.
4 The project supported the Program for Small- and Medium-Sized Irrigation and Drainage Works (Programa de
Obras de Riego y Drenaje Medianas yMenores - PROMM).
".SustainingGrowth:AnAgriculturalSectorReview" ReportNo. 8759ofJune29, 1990.
6 Report No. 10850-CH, dated October 26, 1992
7Loan No. 3528-CH, dated November 20, 1992
2



6.    There was a further, implicit objective described in the SAR which was expected
to contribute particularly to the achievement of the objective defined in (c) above; this
concerned the cost recovery from project beneficiaries of the investments to be financed
in irrigation infrastructure.
7.    The objectives of the project were clearly stated but rather subjective and
qualitative in nature. They were not modified during implementation. The objectives
addressed the key issues facing the development of the irrigation sub-sector, and were
oriented towards better resource management and economic growth. The project was not
particularly onerous for the implementing agencies, nor was it a complex operation. The
project's design accommodated the relatively minor changes made by the Borrower
during implementation.
Project Components
8.    The objectives of the project were to be achieved through the implementation of
three components: (a) investment in the rehabilitation and modernization of existing
irrigation schemes and in the construction of new small- and medium-sized irrigation
schemes; (b) technical support for agricultural development, oriented towards small
farmers, to complement the investment in irrigation; and (c) technical support for water
users' groups, to regularize water titles and to strengthen the technical and administrative
capacity of these groups. All three components included activities aimed at the
achievement of institutional development and strengthening.
Project Benefits
9.    The main benefits of the project were expected to be: (a) an expansion of the
irrigated area, benefiting mainly small farmers in marginal rain-fed areas; (b) an
enhanced environment and improved efficiency in water allocation, resulting from
improved conservation and management of water resources; and (c) greater water
security, leading to increased yields, improved quality of output, and increased
investment in higher-value export crop production.
B.    Achievement of Project Objectives
10.   The objectives were concentrated in the categories of physical results,
institutional development, and sector policy objectives; they did not include either macro-
economic or financial sector development objectives. In these three areas, the
achievements of the project were mixed. In terms of physical results, the project made
substantial progress in planning and constructing new irrigation infrastructure and in
rehabilitating existing schemes, and in providing the supporting services (of research,
technology transfer and support to water users' organizations) to promote agricultural
development. In institutional development, the results were surprising in that the main
positive achievements had not been foreseen at appraisal, and those that had been
anticipated were only partially achieved. Sector policy objectives, including the transfer
3



of operational and maintenance responsibility to users and the initiation of cost recovery
of capital expenditures, were substantially achieved.
11.    In the project's design, seven entities' were to be responsible for implementation,
under the coordination of a newly-created unit. Table 1 illustrates the relationship
between components/sub-components of the project and the implementing agencies.
Table 1
Implementing Agencies
Components/Sub-components       DR      CNR    MH   INDAP   INIA    CAR    DGA
(DOH) I        l                          (UAR)
1. Irrigation Infrastructure
1.1 Civil Works                     X       X
1.2 Institutional Development       X       X
1.3 Cost Recovery Study             X               X
2. Agricultural Development
2.1 Applied Research                                                 X9
2.2 TechnologyvTransfer                                      x        x
2.3 Extension                                                X
2.4 Tistitational Development                                X                X
3. Strengtheriing Users Groups
3.1 Regularization of Water Titles                                                     X
3.2 Strengthening of Users' Groups    X                                                X
12.    In the design of the project, institutional development activities were placed in the
three separate components because the intended targets were different in each case and
because the institutions themselves were to be responsible, in effect, for their own
institutional development.
Implementation Experience
13.    The Bank's loan financed in part only four of the nine sub-components. From the
beginning, difficulty was experienced in identifying the expenditures of several of these
implementing agencies in carrying out their parts of the project. Additional financial
resources were not made available to some of the agencies which, obliged to make their
contribution to the project supported only by their regular budgets either declined to do so
8 These were: the Coordinating Unit (Unidad Coordinadora del PROAMM- UC) of the Executive Secretariat
(Comisi6n de Direcci6n Superior - CDS) of the National Irrigation Commission (Comisi6n Nacional de Riego -
CNR); the Directorate of Irrigation (Direcci6n de Riego - DR) and the General Directorate of Water (Direcci6n
General de Aguas - DGA) in the Ministry of Public Works (Ministerio de Obras Puiblicas - MOP); the Ministry of
Finance (Ministerio de Hacienda - MH); the Institute for Agricultural Development (Instituto de Desarrollo
Agropecuario - NDAP), the Institute for Agricultural Research (Instituto de Investigaciones Agropecuarias -
INIA), and the Committee for Irrigated Agriculture (Comitepara Agricultura de Riego - CAR) in the Ministry of
Agriculture (Ministerio de Agricultura - MAG). The Advisory Unit for Irrigation (Unidad Asesora de Riego - UAR)
was created later and took over from the CAR. The Directorate of Irigation was later changed to become the
Hydraulic Works Directorate (Direcci6n de Obras Hidraulicas - DOH).
9 In the design of the project, only part of the funding for the sub-component was allocated ex ante to INIA; the
remainder was intended to be competed for by other institutions.
4



or did not keep separate records for the expenditures associated with the project. As a
result, these were not included in the project accounts or in the annual audits of project
expenditures, and have proved difficult (or impossible) to construct expost.
14.    Component: Irrigation Infrastructure'0  The project financed the
rehabilitation and modernization of existing irrigation schemes, the construction of new
small- and medium-sized irrigation schemes, and on-farm works, under the provisions of
both Law No. 1123 and Law No. 18450. Additionally, it financed engineering studies,
design and construction supervision services, environmental impact assessments, and the
institutional strengthening of the DR and the CNR, the agencies responsible for
implementing the component. In the case of the CNR, the project supported both the
CDS and the UC that was established to assist it in the implementation of the project.
15.    Sub-component: Civil Works  Investments in civil works financed by the
project under Law No. 1123 included: (a) routine rehabilitation"  (including deferred
maintenance and repairs of main structures to avoid further deterioration) to improve
water distribution and to eliminate water losses; (b) emergency rehabilitation'2, including
repairs of main structures on the verge of collapse; and (c) new small- and medium-sized
works involving the construction of head-works, and conveyance, distribution and
drainage networks.
16.    In those areas benefiting from public investments under the project, financial
resources were guaranteed under Law No. 18450 to ensure that the production potential
of these areas would be realized. Financial support was given to: (a) the construction or
repair of on-farm canal structures; (b) the construction of wells and their respective
pumping equipment; and (c) the establishment of on-farm sprinkler and drip irrigation
systems.
17.    Budgetary restrictions led to extended implementation periods at the level of the
individual sub-projects. There was a tendency to distribute the available resources
among all sub-projects under construction rather than to establish priorities; the result
was a generalized delay in all sub-projects. Construction times for individual sub-
projects varied significantly with respect to the planned time, because of the allocation of
scarce budget resources between them. Overall budget restrictions meant that the project
had to proceed at a much slower pace than the actual demand for works. In addition,
some of the larger sub-projects (e.g., FajaMaisan, Convento Viejo) acted as a "sponge"
for resources and consequently delayed the implementation of a larger number of
relatively less-ambitious schemes.
10Construction of works canied out under the project are referred to throughout this report as "sub-projects".
1 Typical works included the improvement or repair of (i) head-works, such as diversion structures and seasonal
storage facilities; (ii) main water conveyance structures (predominantly siphons, tunnels and aqueducts); (iii) control
and water distribution structures in the secondary and tertiary networks; and (iv) farm outlets.
12 These works typically included the repair of major structures in the main conveyance systems (mainly rehabilitation
of tunnels, siphons and aqueducts).
5



18.   As a result of the project, and in particular the demands of the UC, the quality of
pre-investment studies has improved, although there are cases where a significant
difference exists between the costs estimated at the level of pre-investment study and
those that later emerged in the detailed design stage"3.
19.   Sub-component: Institutional Development  Although at appraisal the
institutional structure to implement the proposed program was considered to be in place,
a sub-component of institutional development was included to correct a number of
weaknesses identified. The major gaps found were a lack of coordinating experience at
the inter-institutional level and the need for more resources because of the increased level
of activities proposed. For the DR, this implied the modernization of managerial and
communications systems with basic hardware. Additionally, the project financed the
acquisition of vehicles and hiring of consulting services to assist in design and
construction.
20.   The most important contributions of the project to the institutional framework for
irrigation development in Chile were: (a) the organization of the CDS to improve
coordination between the various institutions dealing with irrigation development; (b) the
creation of an institutional channel to receive farmers' proposals for irrigation projects;
and (c) the strengthening of farmers' participation in the decision-making process in the
selection of irrigation investment projects. The CDS includes the Under-secretaries of
MOP and MAG and the Executive Secretary of the CNR, and was given the
responsibility (by the Council of Ministers of the CNR) to determine policy and to
supervise PROMM's Annual Work Programs (POAs)'4 and the implementation of
associated activities. In addition, the CDS arbitrates issues of an inter-institutional nature
or which may not be the responsibility of a particular executing agency. The CDS is
supported by the CU, which provides technical support and assists the CDS in its
decisions. This institutional structure has proved very successful and attractive to
government, to the extent that it has decided to retain the structure and use it for all
irrigation projects (including large-sized projects) in future.
21.   With the creation of the Regional Irrigation Commissions'5 farmers were
provided with a local "window" at which to present project proposals, which were
evaluated and selected for financing following well-established and transparent selection
criteria. Under this process, once a sub-project has been selected for construction it can
be implemented only if there exists agreement among more than 50% of potential sub-
project beneficiaries, thus ensuring that only those sub-projects that meet farmers' needs
are implemented.
22.   Sub-component: Pilot Study on Cost Recovery Mechanisms  The study was
intended to review the existing system of cost recovery of public investment in irrigation
infrastructure and to explore alternatives that would make greater use of the financial and
13 This is not unusual in projects involving geotechnical works, such as irrigation infiastructure, particularly where
dams are involved.
14 Programa OperatvoAnual
15 Comisiones Regionales de Riego
6



water rights' markets as well as legislation governing private concessions for
infrastructure. A review of the existing cost recovery system was carried out in 1998. As
a result, some proposed operational changes are currently being considered by
government, including: (a) the way in which subsidies are calculated; (b) the impact of
value-added tax; and (c) the strengthening of beneficiaries' commitment to repay in the
early years of the sub-project (i.e., strengthening of the letter of commitment). Current
legislation establishes that capital cost recovery can start only after the "provisional
operation" period16 of the irrigation scheme has been completed (which usually lasts for
2-4 years). At the moment, only one irrigation scheme financed under the project has
reached that stage of maturity, and farmers are paying their monthly quotas on time and
in full, as agreed during negotiations, via the collection mechanism of the rural property
tax of the Treasury"7 of the MR. The system seems to be well understood by project
beneficiaries, and it is now an accepted principle that farmers have to contribute to the
capital cost of irrigation investment projects that are initially financed by the State. The
rest of the sub-projects are expected to become incorporated gradually into the capital
cost recovery mechanism.
23.    Component: Agricultural Development  In order to enable beneficiaries to
realize the full benefit of investments in irrigation infrastructure, the project was designed
to provide small farmers with technical assistance for agricultural development. During
project identification and preparation, it was recognized that irrigation-related technology
for small farmers (particularly those located outside the Central Valley) was deficient,
and that increased irrigation-oriented adaptive research in many of the sub-project areas
was required. In addition, after about 15 years of inactivity in the agricultural
development aspects of irrigation schemes, MAG needed to strengthen its human and
support resources to participate effectively in the project.
24.    Sub-component: Adaptive Research   The project expanded existing research
lines and initiated new lines of adaptive research in the areas where irrigation investments
were likely to be concentrated. Out of about US$2.8 million earmarked for adaptive
research in the project, INIA was allocated US$0.7 million. The remaining US$2.1
million was to be derived from the Science and Technology Development Fund
(FONDEF)18 through bidding. In practice, INlA's research proposals were accepted by
FONDEF but it financed only part of this amount (50-60%), obliging INIA to finance
part of the cost from its ordinary budget. This activity absorbed a total of US$ 2.23
million (about 79% of the cost estimated at appraisal). The project filly achieved its
original objective; specific lines of research in irrigation technology19 were completed,
16 This is the period of joint operation and maintenance between the DOH and the water users' organization, in which
the latter gradually takes over responsibility for operation and maintenance of the works in both practical and financial
terms.
17 Tesoreffa General de la Republica
18 Fondo de Fomento, Cienciay Tecnologia
19 Specific lines of research in irrigation and drainage technology were carried out to improve and manage irrigation in
fruit and vegetables, to manage irrigation under conditions of water shortage, and to define and manage soil types with
drainage problems.
7



and technical publications were issued and distributed among extensionists and project
beneficiaries.
25.   Even though Chile was already very advanced by the early 1990s in the
development of irrigated agriculture amongst its most commercially-oriented producers,
most irrigation remained poorly managed and inefficient. The implementation of this
sub-component is a good example of institution-building. Pre-project, MNIA was poorly
trained in irrigation, but between 1990-1999, as a result of the adaptive research and
technology transfer programs, the number of its staff with irrigation qualifications and
experience rose from five to more than twenty. As a result of the project, an effort was
made to look at irrigation as a whole farming system and not as a series of separate
interventions. Anticipating the project's completion and the end of the Bank's financing,
regional governments have pressured INIA to remain involved in adaptive research and
technology transfer, and now there are numerous examples of part regional/part central
government-financed INIA activities.
26.   Sub-component: Transfer of Technology  As a complement to its research
work, INIA was also responsible for the transfer of technology in the initial diffusion of
research results. At the time of appraisal, INIA operated demonstration centers20
(CATTs) that served as a basis for technology transfer to small farmers in homogeneous
areas. The project was designed to support the establishment of some 28 irrigation-
focussed CATTs (the so-called CATT-Rs) to cover production technology under irrigated
conditions.
27.   The initial proposal was that the project would support the development and
operation of these additional INIA CATT-R centers and that they would be operated
jointly with INDAP. However, INDAP did not receive incremental budgetary resources
for this new responsibility and, therefore, withdrew from the arrangement. The problems
of INDAP were not limited to financial aspects. The bureaucratic and centralized
structure of INDAP also impeded its participation in the project, especially in the early
years. In particular, its programming systems were not adjusted to the requirements of
the project.
28.   As a result, the concept of transfer of technology was modified, at the initiative of
the CU, and INIA and the regional universities were invited to assume full responsibility
for it. Validation Centers (UVALes)2' and Demonstration Modules (MODEMs)22,
specifically designed for the needs of the project's beneficiaries, were established in ten
locations. They benefited an area of 91,000 ha of irrigated land, representing about 96%
of the irrigated area rehabilitated or expanded under the project; they were particularly
successful in providing resident staff with extensive knowledge of the areas in which they
worked, and gained the confidence of farmers and others through their high level of
commitment. The cost of this component was estimated at US$ 1.71 million at appraisal,
20 Demonstration and Technology Transfer Centers (Centros de Ajustey Transferencia Teenol6gica)
21 Unidad de Validacion de Tecnologia
22 Mdulo Demostrativo
8



but actual expenditures were a total of about US$ 5.34 million. The additional resources
came from budgetary allocations and contributions from regional governments.
29.   Sub-component: Extension  Support to be provided by INDAP was expected to
reach an estimated 14,000 small farmers during the five years of project implementation.
This included the financing of seven additional technical assistance coordinators for
irrigation and of consulting services for expanded extension activities. The cost was
estimated at US$ 4.1 million, and an agreement was reached at negotiation that adequate
counterpart funds would be provided. However, the MH did not allocate additional
funds, arguing that INDAP should be in a position to provide this service from within its
normal budgetary resources, a view that was not shared by INDAP. The areas affected
by the Irrigation Development Project did not coincide with the areas given priority by
INDAP based on criteria unrelated to irrigation, and it is estimated that less than 40% of
the project's beneficiaries received INDAP extension services. Some of these
shortcomings in the provision of extension services were overcome by the transfer of
technology and extension work carried out directly by INMA and some regional
universities through the UVALes and MODEMs.
30.   Sub-component: Institutional Development During the identification and
preparation of the project, it was recognized that the MAG, specifically the Under-
Secretariat of Agriculture, lacked the capacity to participate with the MOP and the CNR
in planning the development of irrigation and to co-ordinate effectively the activities of
INDAP and INIA. To remedy this, MAG created the CAR to co-ordinate irrigated
agricultural development activities. The CAR was chaired by the Under-Secretary of
MAG and included the Director of INDAP, the President of INMA, the Director of the
Agriculture and Livestock Service (SAG), and the Director of the Division of Agrarian
Studies and Policies (ODEPA)23 in MAG, but in effect the CAR was discontinued soon
after its creation because it had little operational value. The project was designed to
support the CAR by establishing a technical support unit, the UAR, staffed by three
professionals with individual expertise in the planning, development and evaluation of
irrigation projects. Although the CAR ceased to function, the UAR was created and
assumed defacto the co-ordination of MAG activities in the irrigation sector; this
resulted in positive support for the implementation of its irrigation policies.
31.   Component: Strengthening User Groups  This component was intended to
enhance the returns to the investments in irrigation infrastructure and to support the
component of agricultural development.
32.   Sub-component: Regularization of Water Titles  This was designed to
support the government's efforts to complete the regularization of water titles in those
areas where most of the rehabilitation and new sub-projects would be executed; it
included the completion of the surveys of water users, the inventory of related irrigation
infrastructure, and the regularization of water rights in a number of river basins.
However, the DGA, the department responsible for water titling, did not receive any
additional budgetary resources from the MH during the first year of project execution and
23 Of icina de Estudios y Politicas Agrarias
9



during the second year, for reasons which are not clear, it did not request any additional
resources. Nevertheless, regularization of water rights was completed in the Limari,
Choapa-Quilimari, Maipo, Maule, Cautin and Coastal River basins, as agreed during
appraisal. Similarly, the surveys of water users and the inventory of related irrigation
infrastructure in the selected river basins were also completed. The DGA is now
improving its Computerized Data Bank24 of Water Rights which is expected to be fully
operational by 2001. Total expenditure under this component was US$1.48 million,
slightly exceeding the amount of US$1.41 estimated in the SAR.
33.   Sub-component: Strengthening User Groups  In order to improve operation
and maintenance in general, and in the irrigation schemes rehabilitated and constructed
under the project in particular, a program was designed to train some 450 water users'
organizations. The training was to be implemented by the DGA and the Irrigation
Operations Division25 of DR, and was to focus on administration and accounting,
technical and procedural matters, and organizational aspects of water users' associations.
Again, as in the case of the sub-component of water titles, the DGA did not receive
incremental budgetary resources and, therefore, it concentrated its activities only on the
legal aspects of the establishment of water users' organizations, rather than on their
strengthening, and institutional strengthening focused only on the water users'
organizations that were direct beneficiaries of the project. The training was carried out
by the DOH under its regular program. As a result, only US$ 384,000 (36% of the initial
budget of US$1.07 million) was spent in the execution of this sub-component, and only
four water users' organizations in the project area were strengthened.
34.   Changes in Design  The changes introduced in the project's components during
implementation were minor and mainly of an institutional/operational nature; they did not
alter the project's ability to achieve its objectives. Apart from the abolition of the CAR,
the absence of INDAP in the provision of special technical assistance to small farmers
using irrigation was the main change that could have had a negative impact on the
project's performance, had it not been offset by the development of a new system to
assist farmers in the project area. Under this system, developed by the UC and
subsequently ratified by the CDS, the transfer of technology was no longer the
responsibility of private extension agents coordinated by INDAP but was implemented
through the newly-created UVALes and MODEMs run by INIA and universities on
selected farms located in the project areas; they were successful in promoting the
adoption of improved irrigation production technologies, particularly among small
farmers.
35.   The project also contributed to the introduction of a change in concept with
respect to technical assistance to the agricultural sector. Agricultural development under
a project involves all the productive land, and the difference in the size of land parcels
has repercussions principally on the type of farm management and, to a lesser extent, on
the type of innovation. The recognition of this is changing the systems of technical
assistance provision towards the establishment of management centers to support small-
24 Banco de Datos de Catastro Pziblico de Aguas, CPA
25 Departamento de Explotaciones, DE
10



and medium-sized farmers in the technical and financial analysis of their farms, and the
formulation of development programs that consider the farming system as a whole.
36.   A Technical Committee for Project Selection26 was created to assist the CDS with
the allocation of resources to the various investment proposals. This type of committee
was not identified at appraisal, but its usefulness became apparent during project
implementation and its creation greatly accelerated the review process of project
proposals and implemented a selection process based on objective criteria.
37.   Quality at Entry  The strategy for promoting improved irrigation management
and development and the design of the project incorporated lessons learned from projects
in Chile and elsewhere in the LAC region, as well as the more general lessons from wider
Bank lending in irrigation. These related particularly to the need to improve the
operational performance and the sustainability of irrigation projects. The project, the first
Bank-financed irrigation investment in Chile, emphasized beneficiary participation in
irrigation development as a means of avoiding the pitfalls associated with many large-
scale publicly-financed irrigation schemes. The Confederation of Canal Operators
(CCC)27 was consulted in project design and played an active role in project preparation,
as did local water users' organizations.
38.   In order to ensure that investments did not subsidize or promote inadequate
operation and maintenance (O&M) practices by private users, agreements were sought
with beneficiaries that specify standards for O&M and remedies for non-compliance.
39.   In order to ensure that only economically-sound and environmentally-sustainable
investment sub-projects would be supported, eligible investments had to have an
economic rate of return (ERR) of at least 12% based on established MIDEPLAN28
methodology, and were screened for potential environmental impacts (and, as necessary,
had environmental impact assessments carried out). The allocation of investment
resources among eligible sub-projects was based on a system that included both
efficiency and equity considerations. Cohorts of potential/proposed sub-projects were
ranked by the net benefit:investment ratio derived from the net benefit stream used for
estimating the ERR.
Outcome/Achievement of Objectives
40.   It is difficult to assess the project's impact because of the lack of adequate
monitoring and evaluation indicators. In the development of irrigation infrastructure, for
example, the performance indicator is the number of sub-projects implemented.
According to the SAR, the target was to design and construct 19 new sub-projects and
rehabilitate/modernize 35 existing sub-projects. The project has actually financed two
new sub-projects and 21 rehabilitation/modernization sub-projects (four of which are still
under construction). In addition, it has 18 sub-projects selected and ready for final design
26 Comite Tecnico de Seleccion de Proyectos
27 Confederaci6n de Canalistas de Chile
28Ministry of Planning and Cooperation (Ministerio de PlaniJicaci6n y Cooperaci6n)
11



or construction, of which six are new areas of irrigation and 12 are schemes of
rehabilitation or of rehabilitation plus area expansion. Examined on this basis, the project
has not met its goals.
41.    By contrast, measuring the area under irrigation that was improved or expanded
gives a very different picture. There were no area targets specified in the SAR but,
according to the Preparation Report29, the project was expected to rehabilitate some
100,000 ha of irrigated land and to expand the area under irrigation by about 10,000 ha;
the areas actually achieved by the project were 138,500 ha and 10,023 ha, respectively30.
Based on the estimated target population that the project was expected to benefit, the
results are positive as well. The SAR estimated that a total coverage of approximately
14,000 farmers could be expected in the five years of the project; the number of farmers
actually benefited by the project is 14,4103'.
42.    In 1997, at the request of the Government, a substantial part (US$31 million, or
69%) of the Bank's loan was cancelled because the strong state of public finances at the
time obviated the need for the Government to draw down loans available to it; as a result,
the project was financed largely from ordinary budget resources. Loan disbursement data
up to that point provided a very poor impression of the actual status of implementation.
However, by the Loan's Closing Date total disbursements were US$12.8 million
equivalent, 91% of the revised loan amount of US$14 million. Total actual expenditure
on the project was US$100.87 million, or about 85% of the originally estimated total cost
of US$118.7 million defined in the SAR.
43.    The original expenditure target would have been exceeded by a large margin if
the government had allocated more resources to the project, as the unsatisfied demand for
small- and medium-sized irrigation projects is far larger than the SAR estimated32. The
major problem was that the government decided to develop some important large
irrigation schemes, which absorbed most of the resources earmarked for irrigation
development. Total investment in large irrigation schemes was about US$300 million
between 1992-1999, benefiting some 420,000 ha. Total irrigation investment
implemented during that period resulted in the rehabilitation of 288,000 ha and the
expansion of the area under irrigation by some 217,000 ha, of which the project
accounted for 32% and 1.1%, respectively (excluding works under construction). While
only a small part of this investment was financed by the loan, the project made a
substantial contribution to the sustainable development of the irrigation sub-sector, one of
the principal objectives of the project.
29 Chile: Irrigation Development Programme. Preparation Report: FAO/CP, Rome 1991
30 About 54,000 ha correspond to sub-projects that are still under construction, with a degree of completion in October
1999 that varies between 16 and 61%.
31 These figures include the four sub-projects under construction (one new and three rehabilitations), which would
benefit 2,162 farmers and 54,032 ha (of which 7,632 ha is new and 46,400 ha is rehabilitation).
32 The UC has identified an unsatisfied demand for investment projects that could benefit about 263,000 ha
(i.e., almost twice the area actually benefited by the project to date).
12



44.    The main contributions of the project can be summarized as follows:
(a) a significant improvement in co-ordination between institutions with development
responsibilities in the irrigation sector;
(b) the introduction of demand-driven investment allocation through systematic and
transparent selection of irrigation investments, based on objective criteria;
(c) the promotion of integrated irrigation development, ensuring the construction of
works and the provision to farmers of technical assistance to improve agriculture;
technology was adopted in the project areas and in the large irrigation schemes; and
(d) the initiation of a program to strengthen water users' organizations, enabling them to
participate in the decision-making process regarding investment allocation and in the
operation and management of irrigation schemes.
45.    These contributions have had a positive impact on all irrigation projects,
regardless of their size and source of financing. It can be concluded that the project
effectively contributed to improving the operation and efficiency of existing irrigation
schemes, as well as to the allocation and sustainability of investment in irrigation in
Chile. The achievements of the project should be rated as satisfactory. This assessment
is shared by the Government, which as a result decided in November 1997 that the
activities of PROMM would continue beyond the Closing Date of the Bank's Loan.
46.    Economic Rate of Return   An ERR was not calculated for the project at
appraisal because it was impossible to define ex ante the project's total investment or to
identify the sub-projects that would be implemented33. At appraisal, ERRs were
calculated for the sub-projects that were expected to be implemented during the project's
first year, and were estimated at over 20%. The minimum ERR required for public
investment was 12%, following which sub-projects were ranked according to their net
benefit:investment ratio in order to maximize overall returns to the project,
47.   Estimates34 of ERRs for those sub-projects implemented confirm the relatively
high rates of return to irrigation investment in Chile that were projected at appraisal.
Irrigation Sub-Project                   ERR at Appraisal (/O)     ERR at ICR (%)
Sif6n La Placa                                   61.0                   119.3
Canal Buzeta                                     25.0                   29.0
Lliu-Lliu                                        40.4                   27.9
Las Brisas"                                      22.5
Convento Viejo                                   n.a.                   18.4
33 These were to be determined by the demand of project beneficiaries.
34 Evaluaci6n delPrograma de Obras de RiegoMedianasyMenores - PROMM, CIMA Consultores S.A., Santiago
35 Although initially selected to be constructed during Year 1, the sub-project of Las Brisas was not implemented as an
agreement could not be reached with potential beneficiaries.
13



The Specific Objectives of the Project
48.   The objectives of the project are broad and qualitative, and it is not easy to
measure their achievement. The performance indicators included in the SAR are limited
to mile-stones in terms of studies, construction, training courses, research program lines,
establishment of technology transfer centers, and numbers of farmers reached through
extension. There is no base-line study, nor are there any monitoring indicators that would
allow the imputation of measurable indicators of impact (such as farm incomes) to the
achievement of the objectives. In general terms, the inter-relationships achieved between
institutions have been good (although not as efficient as they might have been). The
planning and construction of works and the delivery of water to the farmers have been
good, but the level of agricultural development achieved so far is still below its potential.
Objective #1 - to improve the operation and efficiency of existing irrigation
schemes and the future development of the irrigation sub-sector.
49.   At appraisal, no monitorable indicators were specified by which the achievement
of this objective could be measured. However, the information that is available from the
detailed evaluation of the four sub-projects referred to above is highly positive. Increases
in canal flow capacity of 66%, major reductions in water losses through infiltration and
seepage, and significant increases in water security (in the key months of January and
February) are among the data recorded. In terms of operational efficiency, there has been
an overall improvement as a result of the adoption by the irrigation schemes of the
Operation and Maintenance (O&M) manual prepared by the CU. As a result of increased
net farm incomes, there are also more resources available for maintenance. In addition,
there was an improvement in O&M in these four sub-projects as a result of the
strengthening of their water users' organizations.
Objective #2 - to strengthen the capabilities of water users' groups and small
farmers.
50.   More than 450 water users' organizations were reached by the project as they
became formally established and their water rights were legalized. Water users'
organizations in four out of the thirteen sub-projects currently under operation were
strengthened, and an institutional strengthening program for the remainder is under
implementation by the DOH It should be kept in mind that the DGA's work in this
respect was not only related to the project areas.
Objective #3 - to improve the allocation and sustainability of investment in
irrigation.
51    Prior to the project, the allocation of investment had been made on an ad hoc
basis, whereas the measures that have been introduced under the project are transparent
and based fundamentally on the participation of the eventual beneficiaries in the selection
process. These measures have encouraged competition between and within the regions
and between water users' organizations. As a result, the best sub-projects were selected.
Only those sub-projects with an estimated ERR of over 12% were selected.
14



The carrying-out of O&M by farmers and the establishment of the principle of cost
recovery has made the sustainability of investments more certain. The study of cost
recovery was completed, and costs are being recovered from beneficiaries of the only
irrigation scheme to have matured beyond the period of "provisional operation" required
by law.
52.   The selection and processing of sub-project proposals was completely demand-
driven; only those proposals responding to farmers' needs were considered under the
selection procedures.
Objective #4 - to enhance the welfare of small farmers, particularly those in poor
areas of Chile.
53.   The impact of the project on small farmers in general and on poverty in particular
has been positive, but there are no quantifiable measures. In the four sub-projects
referred to above, there has been a significant:
* adoption of the crops demonstrated in the UVALes and the MODEMs
* increase in farm incomes
- increase in land values and land sales prices
- increase in the demand for labor
- transformation of small plots of land (< 1 ha) into financially-viable units.
In the allocation of investment resources to sub-projects, the intention expressed in the
SAR was to reserve up to 30% of funding for the 100 poorest rural municipalities. In
practice, it was decided that this was not necessary if proper weight were given to the
poverty criterion in the sub-project selection process; this was considered a more
transparent approach. However, the number of small farmers expected to benefit
remained as an important criterion of selection of sub-projects. In addition, the Bank
and government started to prepare a poverty alleviation project36 for rural areas that was
supposed to be focused on these municipalities.
54.   There is a visible difference between the "before project" and "after project"
status of the sub-project areas of Buceta, La Placa, and Convento Viejo. In Convento
Viejo, for example, small farmers initially had almost no experience in irrigated
agriculture; now there are more than 500 ha of irrigation with good technology,
introduced under the auspices of the Law No. 18450 and inspired by the demonstration
plots of the project.
36 The Secano Rural Poverty Alleviation and Natural Resource Management Project.
15



C.   Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors not subject to Government control
55.   The project was affected, both negatively and positively, by several serious
droughts. The lack of water in some storage systems impeded the achievement of the
agricultural development objectives, but at the same time the incidence of drought
sharpened interest in the project and helped to promote the more efficient use of available
water resources. There were also several floods that damaged farming operations on
irrigation schemes. There was significant earthquake damage to irrigation structures,
including particularly heavy damage to the Buceta scheme, necessitating some re-
building. The decline in prices of many agricultural and horticultural products
significantly affected the profitability of irrigated agriculture but not the demand for sub-
projects; if anything, the fall in profitability gave added impetus to the need to increase
efficiency and reduce costs.
Factors generally subject to Government control
56.   The implementation of the project was constrained by the restrictions placed on
the allocation of budgetary resources by the government. In the physical construction of
irrigation infrastructure and on-farm works, budget allocations were consistently below
requirements, partly because of the emphasis given to the large-sized irrigation schemes
that absorbed most of the public sector investment allocation to irrigation and crowded
out the small- and medium-sized schemes. In other areas, those of support to small
farmers and water users' organizations, several implementing agencies simply were not
provided with incremental resources for the project. There was also a lack of
coordination between the different budgets (allocated to various implementing agencies
and ministries) supporting the project.
Factors generally subject to implementing agency control
57.   In the early stages of the project, there were delays and long process periods for
sub-projects being implemented under the Irrigation Development Law, a significant
bottle-neck that has now been removed.
D.   Project Sustainability
58.   Over the past two years, PROMM has been subjected to close scrutiny in several
in-depth evaluations (see footnote #44), as a result of which, the Government has decided
that PROMM should continue in existence; budgetary provision was made for this, for
both the second half of 1999 and for 2000. The achievements of the project to date are
considered to be highly sustainable, given the degree of participation and "ownership"
that has been achieved at the level of the individual sub-projects.
16



E.   Bank Performance
Project Identification and Preparation
59.   The process of identification and preparation of the project, which cannot be
separated neatly into two activities, was a long-drawn out one, in which a first effort at
preparation was effectively abandoned and in which there were two "lulls" in activity on
the part of the Bank of almost eighteen months each. Project identification began in late-
1984 with a joint Bank-FAO/CP mission, prompted by a recommendation of the Bank's
recent sector mission to give priority to small-scale irrigation and rehabilitation of
existing irrigation works. The mission encountered "serious difficulties" in project
identification, citing a difference of opinion at senior government levels between the
Ministries of Agriculture, Interior and Finance (which favored the Bank's recommended
course of action) and the CNR (whose first priority was a number of large-scale projects).
The mission concluded that preparation and implementation of a rehabilitation project
(for the reconstruction of existing systems and better water management) would be slow
and would have uncertain prospects of success; it recommended that a program be
prepared to improve and expand a number of small- and medium-sized projects, for
which preliminary studies were showing good prospects of success.
60.   A second identification mission, in March 1985, emphasized the Bank's
determination not to allow inclusion of large-scale irrigation projects in any program to
receive its support. The forthcoming LFR received much attention, and it was agreed to
carry out a survey to estimate the potential level of demand for works to be supported
under the law. A third mission to discuss the identification report was made in
September 1985. The mission was described as successful, with complete agreement
being reached on the project's content and on the preparation program and timetable. The
govemment accepted that a modest-sized project with quick returns was in order, and the
Bank emphasized that in supporting this proposal it saw the project as the beginning of a
program of support to the irrigation sub-sector and not as "a one-off exercise".
Preparation was expected to be costly and time-consuming; basic studies were to be
financed from an FAO TCP, and more detailed engineering studies were to be funded
from a combination of UNDP support and a Bank PPF advance. By this stage, the
earliest anticipated date for the completion of preparation was expected to be the end of
1986, with appraisal proposed for early 1987.
61.   A fourth mission, to monitor progress with preparation, was held in February
1986, and a note of pessimism had crept in. The government had not yet taken a decision
concerning the inclusion of the project in the 1986-1988 investment program; factors
weighing against its inclusion were the shortage of funds, competing inter-sectoral
priorities, and a potentially competing loan being prepared by the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB). The Bank decided to await the government's definition of
project priority before taking any further action.
62.   A fifth mission was held in August 1986, at which point it was understood that the
project would be programmed for 1988. The need to have significant cost-sharing by
17



beneficiaries was emphasized, and funding for detailed studies (of close to US$1 million)
was of main concern, the concept of using a PPF apparently having been abandoned.
63.   The sixth mission was carried out in February 1988, in collaboration with
FAO/CP. Described as preparation (and supervision of the FAO TCP-financed
consultant tearn), the mission began to look at the possible components of a broader loan,
and it was concluded that the Bank could act as a catalyst in legal and institutional
change, as well as providing resources for investment, through an irrigation sub-sector
loan; the concept of a quick-disbursing component arose for the first time, allied to
investment, institutional strengthening and studies. It was noted that 25,000 ha had been
brought under irrigation within small-sized works developed under the framework of the
LFR37 subsidies, but that progress with medium-sized irrigation projects was stalled on a
number of issues and that large-sized works were out of the question for political and
economic reasons. The main issues at this stage were cost-sharing between beneficiaries
and the government, legal obstacles to public investment in irrigation, water rights, public
sector institutional responsibilities, and modifications to the procedures under the LFR.
64.   The seventh mission, in July 1988, was intended to continue the dialogue on these
issues, and it followed closely on an exchange of correspondence initiated by the Minister
of Economy who proposed the separation of the policy and investment components into
two loans because of the government's reluctance to commit itself to a specific medium-
sized investment project (Laja-Diguillin). The Bank insisted that the policy and
investment components should not be separated, but expressed its willingness to see
flexibility in the setting of the investment priorities in the context of a program loan for
the whole irrigation sector. Preparation had stagnated, and a working group was
established to draw up specific proposals on project content, including policy and legal
changes, investment expenditures, institutional arrangements and studies.
65.   Further missions were made in November 1988 and May 1989, but in spite of
apparent commitment on the part of the government no formal proposal or preparation
report appears to have been forthcoming. A further hiatus occurred until (following the
change in government in March 1990) yet another identification mission was carried out,
in August 1990, charged with the responsibility of identifying the basic objectives of the
proposed project and making arrangements for its preparation. This mission was carried
out jointly with the FAO/CP. By this time, the government was proposing an investment
plan including large, medium and small-sized projects without defined priorities either
within or between these categories. The Bank insisted that rehabilitation, construction of
smaller-sized works and eliminating constraints to private-sector investment should be
the preferred course. It was noted that there was no clear consensus in government
concerning policy towards the irrigation sector.
66.   In January 1991, a further identification mission concentrated closely on
reviewing identification and preparation work done to date, and on arranging for a new
37 The LFR had entered into effect in October 1985 with an initial life of eight years.
18



phase of preparation based on the use of a Japanese Grant executed by the Bank on behalf
of the government. At this stage, the project was described as being likely to contain:
(a) support to rehabilitation by farmers under the LFR; (b) the expansion of irrigated
areas under medium-sized schemes; and (c) technical assistance for (i) water rights'
establishment, (ii) strengthening of water users' associations, (iii) improved water
management and cultivation practices. and (iv) the preparation of rehabilitation and
expansion projects to be included in successive years of the project. The Japanese Grant
(for X135 million, then approximately US$ 1.0 million) was of key importance in
preparation.
67.   In March 1991, a significant step forward was taken in identification and
preparation by a joint Bank-FAO/CP mission which finalized arrangements for the
Japanese Grant38, generated adequate institutional arrangements for preparation, clarified
the objectives and components of the project, and defined a work program for the
preparation process. An ad hoc committee, the CDS (which later came to play a key
inter-institutional role in project implementation), was established to oversee preparation,
and a consultant team, together with FAO/CP, was given the responsibility for producing
the preparation document. The project was expected to be fully prepared by August
1991.
68.   A follow-up mission was held in June 1991 to review progress with preparation,
and in September 1991 a full Bank-FAO/CP preparation mission was carried out. In
addition to considering issues of cost recovery and project selection criteria, it moved into
the areas of environmental impact assessment and institutional arrangements for eventual
project implementation: this latter effort was supported by an institutional "capacity gaps
analysis" supervised by specialist Bank staff. The pace of preparation had accelerated,
and this was felt to be indicative of the government's level of commitment to the project,
with start-up now being spoken of for January 1992, perhaps with retro-active financing.
The preparation report39, together with the feasibility studies for potential first-year
investments, was to be ready for November 1991.
Project Appraisal
69.   The pre-appraisal mission was carried out in November-December 1991. The key
issues were the recovery of costs of investment from beneficiaries, the LFR (due to
expire in 1993), the need to support agricultural production through research and
extension, and the size of investment (and therefore the size and shape of the project)
which the government was willing to undertake. A total project cost of US$160 million,
over five years to begin in 1992, had been agreed in March 1991 and ratified several
times since; nonetheless, the Director of Budget at the Ministry of Finance did not
confirm this and proposed instead a project of US$80 million over four years to begin in
1993. At the Bank's request a confirmatory letter was sent by the government which
38 The Japanese Grant Agreement for the preparation of the National Irrigation Development Project was signed on
May31, 1991.
39 Chile: Irrigation Development Programme: Preparation Report (in two volumes) Report No. 131/9lCP-CHI,
16 November 12,1991 FAO Investment Centre: FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
19



appeared to compromise at US$ 120 million over five years to begin in 1992. The CDS
was confirmed as the body responsible for overseeing project implementation, and a
coordinating unit was created as its secretariat. The issue of how this revised project cost
ceiling would affect individual components was to be addressed during appraisal.
70.   The project was appraised in March 1992, and a post-appraisal mission was made
in May-June 1992. Cost recovery of capital expenditures from beneficiaries was a crucial
issue during appraisal, as were the proposals for technology generation and extension to
farmers in support of agricultural development, which had been a relatively late-
identified component under the project. In the Bank's review of the appraisal outcome
prior to negotiations, cost recovery continued to preoccupy a number of observers. In
addition, the appraisal had recorded the potential risk that government might restrict
incremental budgetary allocations for activities it considered to be "non-core" operations
(e.g., research, extension, institutional strengthening), and government was to be
explicitly requested to confirm that sufficient counterpart funds would be made available.
In the event, the Bank's concerns in this respect were fully realized during project
implementation.
Project Supervision
71.   The Bank sent a total of 15 supervision missions, starting with a mission in
December 1992 prior to Loan Effectiveness and ending with a supervision cum
implementation completion reporting mission in May 1999. From the beginning, the
implementation of physical works and the carrying out of studies and designs maintained
the momentum achieved in the latter stages of project preparation. However, the
agricultural development component from an early stage began to encounter delays. Also
evident from the beginning, and clearly identified by supervision, was the growing
tendency of the government to not use the resources of the Bank's loan for project finance
because of the strong balance of payments position of the country. Limitations on
budgetary allocations to project components, in some cases draconian cuts that could
have had no other effect than to render activities inoperable, were clearly flagged by
supervision.
F.    Borrower Performance
Project Identification and Preparation
72.   The extremely long process of project identification and the several "false starts"
on preparation are an eloquent testimony to the lively debate both within the government
and between the government and the Bank concerning the direction in which the
irrigation sector should go and the appropriate role of the public sector in irrigation
development. It is clear that the dialogue, which included significant expertise in many
technical and administrative aspects, contributed to shaping a program which has not
only been successful in itself but has also paved the way for continuing public-private
participation in irrigation sector development. Although it cannot have been anticipated
at the beginning that the dialogue would last for eight years (from the first identification
20



mission through to appraisal), it must be remembered that this period covered the
transition of government from military to civilian rule and involved very significant
changes in philosophy, particularly concerning the appropriate role of the public sector.
Project Appraisal
73.   The establishment of the CDS and its Coordinating Unit ensured that a clear
dialogue was held between the Bank and the Government. The somewhat arbitrary
intervention of the Ministry of Finance at the time of pre-appraisal concerning the overall
size of the project introduced an element of uncertainty, but the project's design was able
to accommodate the reduction in the total budget envelope. It was felt at the time by the
Bank that the main risk was that institutional strengthening, production support and
training might be eroded to the point that the efficient implementation of the program
would be jeopardized, and this concern persisted until after appraisal.
Project Implementation
74.   The implementation of the project was adversely affected by the budgetary
restrictions which applied to its infrastructure investment program and to the operating
costs of many of the entities which were responsible for supporting activities. Several
implementing agencies of the project did not, in fact, enter into the project accounting
and audit process when, not having received incremental budget resources, they failed to
keep separate records of their expenditures within the project. However, the major part
of project expenditures did enter the accounting and audit procedures.
G.   Assessment of Outcome
75.   The Bank's loan supported an innovative approach to coordinating multiple
institutions in the public sector and to harnessing the potential beneficiaries of irrigation
schemes in a highly participatory process of investment allocation and agricultural
development. The project has substantially met its objectives and has made an important
contribution to the development of irrigated agriculture in Chile. In the short space of
five years, the project's name - PROMM - has established itself firmly.
H.   Future Operation
76.   Before the project's Completion Date (December 31, 1998), the Government of
Chile had already taken the decision to continue operating the PROMM because of the
numerous innovations that it has pilot tested and proven. In addition, at the request of the
Government, the Bank and FAO/CP are supporting the preparation of a water resources
management project that will treat river basin development on a coordinated basis among
all water users.
21



L     Key Lessons Learned
77.   Several important lessons have either been learned from or reinforced by the
experience of project implementation. These include the following:
* There is a great advantage to be gained by working closely with the potential
beneficiaries of public sector investment in irrigation infrastructure. Their
involvement and "ownership" from the beginning of the project cycle is essential,
particularly where cost recovery of investment is a requirement, and contributes
significantly to on-farm development.
* Efficient operation and maintenance of infrastructure is best achieved by paying close
attention to the organization of water users. Institutional development of these
organizations, if properly planned and implemented, is not a costly exercise and pays
handsome dividends. Particular attention should be given to institutional
development and to the training of participants when the beneficiaries are small
farmers.
* It is essential to work closely with sub-national governments, even if these are not the
principal source of the investment funding. Decentralization facilitates farmers'
participation in demand-driven projects.
* Emphasis must be placed on the technical quality of pre-investment analysis. A
project of this nature requires the farmers' commitment at an early stage. Accurate
estimates of cost should be demanded from the earliest stages through to final design
in order to assist with budget planning and to gain the confidence and commitment of
the eventual project beneficiaries.
- The development of irrigation infrastructure should only be undertaken as a public
investment when pre-investment analysis demonstrates that it will form the basis for
financially-sound agricultural development. It should then be axiomatic that
investment costs should be recovered, and that beneficiaries should be fully
responsible for operation and maintenance under agreed procedures.
* The project demonstrated that the integration of production support services with
investment in infrastructure and the strengthening of water users' organizations are
essential if the benefits are to be realized in terms of agricultural development.
Support services must be carefully designed and integrated.
* Experience under the project demonstrates once more the need for accounting
frameworks and audit procedures to be defined and tested early in the project cycle.
In particular, the chart of accounts and the audit terms of reference should be
prepared early by specialists and should be the subject of detailed discussions.
* The importance is emphasized of establishing from the very beginning of the project
an effective program of monitoring and evaluation.
22



* Experience under the project demonstrates the value of developing (and adhering to)
transparent and coherent selection criteria for sub-projects, especially when an
investment project is to be demand-driven.
* The need is once again emphasized for rigorous annual planning in consonance with
the national budget preparation and approval procedures. The detailed preparation of
the Annual Operating Program should be shared with the Bank as early in its
preparation as possible.
* The process of project preparation should recognize explicitly the difficulty, or even
the impossibility, of coordinating the allocation of budgetary resources to multiple
implementing agencies. In this project, many of the needs for budgetary resources to
undertake individual sub-components or activities under the project were not met.
Fragmentation in budgets, allocation to different ministries, with no way of making
sure that budget was earmarked and therefore treated as a project whole.
* Increased demands for water from different sectors of the economy are leading to
conflicts over scarce supply, which can be best addressed at the level of the river
basin and catchment area. Consequently, future irrigation development should be an
integral part of a broader water management strategy.
23



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ln. 3528-CH)
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives   Substantial   Partial      Negligible    Not applicable
Macro Policies                 a            El            Cl 
Sector Policies               LI           [RI            [l              aI
Financial Objectives           n                                         [E L 
Institutional Development       l                                          ] L  L
Physical Objectives           [X            5               I 
Poverty Reduction              n            o                            [E
Gender Issues                 C              I            L              X
Other Social Objectives         I            I            L              [
Environmental Objectives      LI            LI            LI             [El
Public Sector Management      LI             I            LI              X
Private Sector                 0           [X             L 
Development
Other (specify)                 I          LI             0              [
(Continued)
B. Project Sustainability        Likely             Unlikely              Uncertain
(e                   (e)                   (e
24



Highly
C. Bank Performance              Satisfactory     Satisfactory          Deficient
(e        ~         (e                    (e)
Identification               Cl                                         E]
Preparation Assistance                            [                     50
Appraisal                                                              E] i  E
Supervision                                                            E ]
D. Borrower Performance              Satisfactory   Satisfactorv    Deficient
(e)          (e)          (e)
Preparation                           0            3            0
Implementation                        0           I3           E
Covenant Compliance                  0            I3           E
Operation (if applicable)            E            E            E
Highly                                   Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome       satisfactory Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
25



Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Project Name and Loan No.                   Purpose                Year of      Status
approval
Agricultural Machinery Project   Agricultural mechanization          1948       Closed
(Ln. 0006-CH)
Rio Elqui Groundwater Resources    Water resource evaluation        1951        Closed
Project
(Ln. 0049-CH)
Livestock Development Project    Extensive pasture improvement and   1963       Closed
(Ln. 0266)                       on-farm construction, purchase of
machinery and livestock.
Milk and Meat Processing Project    Modernization and expansion of   1967       Closed
(Ln. 0367-CH)                    meat and milk processing industry.
Agriculture Rehabilitation Project    Credit for agricultural rehabilitation  1975  Closed
(Ln. 1119-CH)                    and on-farm investnent in post-
agrarian reform period.            1976
Livestock Fruits, Vineyards and
Agro-industry Credit Project
(Ln. 1350-CH)                                                       1980
Second Agricultural Credit Project.
(Ln. 1902-CH)
Agricultural Services and Credit  Credit and Technical Assistance for  1984     Closed
Project                          agricultural development
(Ln. 248 1-CH)
Small Farmer Services Project    Extension and credit for small     1992       Closed in
(Ln. 3473-CH)                    farmers                                      June 1998
Secano Rural Poverty Alleviation  Small-scale on-farm investment    1996      Operational
and Natural Resource Management
Project
(Ln. 3974-CH)
26



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle        Date Planned            Actual Date
Identification                                       December 1984 - March 1991
Initial Executive Project Summary                    April 20, 1988
Revised Initial Executive Project Summary            October 3, 1988
Preparation                                          February 1986 - September 1991
Executive Project Summary                            September 26, 1991
Pre-Appraisal                                        November - December 1991
Appraisal                                            March 1992
Post-Appraisal                                       May 1992
Negotiations                                         August 4 - 7, 1992
Board Presentation                                   November 17, 1992
Signing                                              November 20, 1992
Effectiveness                                        February 22, 1993
Midterm review (if applicable)                    _ April 1, 1995
Project Completion                                   December 31, 1998
Loan Closing                                         June 30, 1999
27



Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
IBRD Fiscal Year:            1993    1994    1995    1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
Appraisal Estimate           7.00     14.00    24.00    32.0   40.00   43.00   45.00   45.00
Actual                       0.00      1.99     5.04     5.04    5.04   7.99    10.64   12.77
Actualas %ofEstimate          -       14.2    21.0    15.8    12.6    18.6   23.6    28.4
Actualas %ofrevised           -        -        -        -       -      57.1    76.0    91.2
Loan amount*
Date of Final Disbursement    September 21, 1999
*With effect from July 24,1997, US$31 million equivalent of the Loan amount of US$45 million equivalent was cancelled.
28



Table 5: Studies Included in the Project
Study               Purpose                  Status              Impact
Cost Recovery    The study was intended to  The study was carried  The conclusions and
under DFL No.  improve the performance of   out by Luis A.      recommendations of
1123/81         the Irrigation Law, by     Jorquera., Ingenieros  the study are being
improving the equity and   Civiles, and was    considered by the
transparency of the award of   completed in March   government.
subsidies and better targeting   1999.
of social benefits.
Evaluation of    An institutional analysis and   The study was carried  The government
the Program for  impact evaluation of the  out by CIMA         took the decision to
Small- and      Program, to improve the    Consultores S.A. and  continue with the
Medium-Sized   framework for irrigation    was completed in     PROMM beyond the
Irrigation and    development and to eliminate  November 1998.  termination of the
Drainage Works  the obstacles encountered in                    Bank's Loan and
- PROMM         its implementation.                             project completion.
29



Table 6: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$ million)              Actual (US$ million)
Local        Foreign        Total        Local        Foreign       Total
Component/sub-component                 Costs         Costs                      Costs         Costs
1.Irrigation Infrastructure
1.1 Civil Works                       60.76          43.28       104.04                          -         85.31
1.2 Institutional Development           1.62          0.98         2.60                          -           0.98
1.3 Cost Recovery Study40
2. Agricultural Development
2.1 Applied Research                    2.83           -           2.83                          -           2.59
2.2 Technology Transfer                 1.42         0.29          1.71                          -           5.35
2.3 Extension                           3.99         0.19          4.18            -             -           4.20
2.4 Institutional Development           0.60         0.22          0.82            -             -           0.58
3. Strengthening User Groups
3.1 Regularization of Water Titles      1.07          -            1.07            -             -           1.48
3.2 Strengthening of Users' Groups      1.41          -            1.41                          -           0.38
Total                                  73.70         44.96       118.66                          -         100.87
40 The cost of the study is included in Sub-component 1.2 Institutional Development
30



Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section  Covenant Present  Original    Revised                     Description of                                 Comments
type    status  fulfillment  fulfillment                 Covenant
date       date
LA          2.02(b)   I        C                              The Borrower shall open a Special Deposit Account on Complied with.
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; deposits
into and payments from the account must be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 of the
Loan Agreement (LA).
LA          3.01(a)   5        CP                             The Borrower shall carry out the Project through the   Partially complied with; some participating entities
Executing Agencies defined in the Annex to Schedule  did not receive the incremental budgets under the
2 of the LA, and shall provide the funds and other  Project needed to carry out certain activities.
resources required for the Project.
LA          3.01(b)   5        CP                             The Borrower shall enter into an agreement with INIA  Partially complied with.
for Parts B. I and B.2 of the Project; INIA shall carry
out these parts of the Project, maintain separate records
and accounts for them, and have them audited.
LA          3.01(c)   5        C                              The Borrower, through MAG, shall enter into Research Complied with.
Agreements with specialized institutions to carry out
activities under Part B. I of the Project which may not
be carried out by 1NIA.
LA          3.01(d)   5        NC                             The Borrower shall enter into an Agreement with  INDAP was unable to maintain separate accounts.
INDAP to execute Parts B.3 and B.4 of the Project; it  Because INDAP did not receive incremental
will maintain separate records and accounts, and have  budgetary resources under the project, it did not
them audited.                                  attempt to isolate any resources that it utilized in
support of the project.
LA          3.02     5         C                              Procurement of works and services financed from the  Complied with
Loan will be carried out in accordance with Schedule 4
of the LA.
31



LA          3.03     2        C                               The Borrower, through the CDS, will submit to the    Complied with
Bank by December 15 of each year the Annual
Operating Program (POA) for the next calendar year,
and will implement the POA as approved by the Bank.
LA          3.04(a)   5        C                              The Borrower, through the CDS, shall submit too the   Complied with.
Bank for approval each Law 1123 sub-project and,
through DR-MOP, the corresponding draft contract to
be entered into between the Borrower and the User
Group. Each such Law 1123 sub-project shall be
selected in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the
Bank, and each contract shall include the terms and
conditions set out in Schedule 6 to the LA.
LA          3.05(a)   5       C                               The Borrower shall maintain, at least until the  Being complied with.
ICR/PCR is delivered to the Bank, the Coordinating
Unit (UC) in the CDS, staffed with qualified personnel.
LA          3.05(b)   5       C                               The Borrower shall establish and maintain the UAR    Complied with.
(Technical Support Unit for Irrigated Agriculture) in
MAG (the Ministry of Agriculture)to coordinate
execution of Part B of the Project. The UAR shall be
staffed with qualified personnel and shall operate
according to terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank.
LA          3.06(a)   9       C                               The Borrower shall provide the Bank with Progress    Complied with.
Reports by April 30 and October 31 on project
progress during the relevant period (October - March,
and April - September, respectively).
LA          3.06(b)   9       C                               The Borrower shall submit to the Bank in November   Compiled with.
1994 a report prepared by consultants containing an
evaluation of progress in the execution of the Project.
LA          3.06(c)   9       C                               The Borrower shall undertake, in December 1994, a   Complied with, in April 1995.
review with the Bank of the progress in the execution
of the Project.
LA          3.06(d)   9       C                               The Borrower shall take remedial measures as a result An Action Plan was submitted to and agreed upon
of the Review.                                with the Bank, and was subsequently
implemented.
32



LA           4.01(a)    I          C                                  The Borrower shall maintain records and separate     Complied with.
accounts of operations, resources and expenditures of
the Project.
LA           4.01(b)    I          C                                  The Borrower shall have the records and accounts.    The Contraloria General de la Republica audits
Including those for the Special Account, audited by  the records and accounts each year for all Bank-
independent auditors in accordance with appropriate   financed projects in Chile. The Special Accounts
auditing principles.                                for all projects are held at the Central Bank and are
audited by a private sector audit firm each year.
LA           4.01(c)    I          C                                  The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts     Complied with.
reflecting expenditures based on SOEs and ensure that
they are included in the annual audit referred to in
4.01(b).
Covenant types:
1. =  Accounts/audits                                    8. = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from      9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                    10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds              11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                       allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing    12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
agency                                                  regulatory/institutional action
6. =  Environmental covenants                           13. = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
8. Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with
33



Table 8: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number                Specialized    Implementation   Development
Stage of        Month/         of      Days in     Staff Skills      Status        Objectives                   Main Findings and Types of Problems
Project Cycle      Year       Persons     Field      Represented
1. Identification  December    3              14    Irrigation                                      Differences among key government officials conceming the project
1984                              Ag. Economics                                  objectives. Lack of legal basis for project implementation. Lack of coherent
(including           Agronomy                                        institutional structure for implementation.
FAO/CP)
2. Identification  March        3             7      Irrigation                                      The CNR continued to emphasize large projects in opposition to the Bank.
1985                              Economics                                      Deficiencies were noted in the Irrigation Development Law (LFR). The
(including           Agronomy                                        potential demand for investments under the LFR was considered to be
FAO/CP)                                                              unknown .
3. Identification  September   4              6      Irrigation                                      Complete agreement was reached on project content and the preparation l
1985                              Economics                                      timetable. There was agreement on the Bank's proposal that a modest first
Agronomy                                       project would be part of a program of Bank support for irrigation in Chile.
(including                                                           Preparation was expected to be completed by November 1986, but that it
FAO/CP)                                                              would be time-consuming and costly. Assistance from an FAO TCP and a
Bank PPF was anticipated.
4. Preparation     February     4             7      Irrigation                                      The GOC had not taken a decision on inclusion of the project in the 1986-
1986        (including            Economics                                       1988 Plan. There were limited for public sector investment for this period.
FAO/CP)                                                              There was also a potential problem with duplication of an investment initiative
under way with IDB.
5. Identification!    August    3             14    Irrigation                                      The decision was made by the GOC to go ahead with the project in 1988. The
1986                              Agronomy                                       GOC insisted that beneficiaries should participate in project financingex ante
Preparation                                                                                       and not through cost recovery mechanisms. Strong interest was being
expressed by farmers in the investments under the LFR, but poor quality
proposals were being received.
6. Preparation     February     2             12    Irrigation                                       The GOC was keen to take new initiatives in irrigation and to have the Bank
1988                              Economics                                      involved. The Bank's role was seen as a catalyst to resolve key legal and
institutional issues. A quick-disbursing adjustment component was introduced
for the first time. The need for the formation of a project preparation unit was
raised. Appraisal was foreseen for June 19189. The main issues were: cost
sharing, legal constraints on public investments, water rights, responsibilities
within the public sector, and the need to modify procedures under the LFR.
34



7. Preparation     July 1988     2              8      Irrigation                                       The preparation of the project appeared to have come to a halt, and no inter-
Economics                                        ministerial discussion or coordination appeared to be taking place. A
"working group" under the CNR was proposed to draw up specific proposals
on content, institutional and other details. The appraisal was estimated to be
in May 1989.
8. Preparation     November    1                5      Economics                                        Preparation delays were still evident. Key changes required in the Ley de
1988                                                                                Riego and in the procedures of the LFR were identified. A Preparation |
Report was to be completed by the CNR and presented to the Bank in January
1989. Laja-Diguillin was expected to be the medium-sized project to be
financed under the loan.
9. Preparation     May 1989    3                5      Economics
Agronomy
10. Identification    August    2             7 (?)    Economics                                        The GOC was proposing an investment plan to include large, medium and
1990                                                                                small sized irrigation works, but priorities had not yet been defined. The bank
(including                                                             recommended rehabilitation and small-sized works, and alleviating the
FAO/CP)                                                                constraints to private investment in irrigation. There was a lack of
govermment consensus on sector policy. A Japanese Grant (JG) was
mentioned for the first time for project preparation.
11. Identification    January   3              7      Irrigation                                        The JG was approved. An ad hoc committee (the CDS) was established to
1991                               Economics                                        take charge of preparation.
(including
FAO/CP)
12. Identification/   March      5             18     Irrigation                                        The bank was asked by the GOC to execute the JG. Preparation
1991         (including            Economics                          .             arrangements, objectives and components , and the work program for
Preparation                  FAO/CP)                Agronomy                                         preparation were defined. The project would now include small sized
irrigation development. Three components were identified: (a) public sector
investment with cost recovery; (b) private investment under the LFR; and (c)
technical assistance to water users' associations.
13. Preparation    June 1991    2              7      Irrigation                                        The JG Agreement was signed on May 31, 1991.
Economics
(including
FAO/CP)
14. Preparation    September    4              14     Irrigation                                        Preparation was well on track for pre-appraisal of the project in November
1991                               Economics                                        1991, with the GOC keen to begin implementation from January 1, 1992.
(including            Institutions                                     Key issues were: public investment and cost recovery, support to private
FAO?CP)                                                                investment, institutional capacity, and legal and regulatory factors.
35



15. Pre-Appraisal   November-   5              21     Irrigation                                        Pre-appraisal: Public investments were to meet a 12% ERR test; the GOC
December                           Economics                                        proposal was that 100% of investment costs should be recovered; there was an
1991         (including            Institutions                                     urgent need to extend the life of the LFR; agricultural support services
FAO/CP)               Agronomy                                         (research and extension) to small farmers were considered a fundamental
element of the project; the CDS was designated to oversee implementation,
and a coordinating unit (CU) was to be created as its secretariat; there was
uncertainty over the total project cost and the proposed starting date of the
project.
16. Appraisal      March        5              ?      Irrigation                                        Appraisal: Agreement was reached on cost recovery. The GOC final
1992                               Economics                                        proposals for institutional strengthening and agricultural development were
(including            Institutions                                     slightly delayed.
FAO/CP)               Agronomy
17. Post-Appraisal   May 1992    3             7      Irrigation                                        Post-appraisal: There were differences of opinion between the Ministry of
Economics                                        Finance (MH) and the project implementing agencies conceming the size and
(including                                                             sources of financing of several project sub-components.
FAO/CP)
18. Supervision    November-   3               8      Agronomy               NR              NR         Several conditions of loan effectiveness still remained to be met.
December                           Economics
1992        (including
FAO/CP)
19. Supervision    June-July     1             8      Irrigation              2               2         Several activities (agricultural development, on-farm-irrigation development,
1993                                                                                technology transfer, research and extension) were behind schedule. The GOC
was already taking steps to reduce foreign exchange inflows and delaying
disbursement requests to the Bank. Large cuts were also proposed by the
GOC in the 1994 budget allocations for the project. The MtI was not
providing funds for some components in order to reduce the role of the public
sector. The accounting system to record project expenditures by the CU and
the project executing agencies did not exist.
20. Supervision    January       2             11      Irrigation             2                1        Disbursement requests were at a very reduced level. Delays were being
1994                                                                                experienced in the bidding process under the LFR, and a low budget allocation
to the project for CY1994 was anticipated.
21. Supervision    July 1994     3             10      Irrigation             S               S         Good progress was being achieved with irrigation works, but delays were
Agronomy                                         being experienced in on-farm irrigation with a lack of INDAP credit and
adequate extension services. Loan disbursement remained at a very low level,
for macro-economic reasons.
36



22. Supervision    January      2             10    Irrigation              S              S         Mid-term review was carried out in September 1994. Good progress
1995                              Agronomy                                        continued to be made with irrigation works. Disbursements and budget
allocation for investment were both low. The agricultural development
component was making good progress using a change strategy, but INDAP's
role was still deficient. LFR investments were still slow in PROMM sub-
projects. Credit was insufficient for on-farm investments. Better coordination
of the POA was needed between implementing agencies. The monitoring and
evaluation system was still deficient.
23. Supervision    July 1995    1             7      Irrigationl
24. Supervision    September   2              5      Irrigation             S              S         The Action Plan from the MTR was perceived as a very important tool for
1995                              Agronomy                                       improving project performance especially in providing agricultural support
services to project beneficiaries. Considerable improvement had been seen in
the bidding process for LFR investments, with demand now far exceeding
supply. The low level of utilization of loan proceeds continued to increase the
disbursement lag. Base-line studies were completed for the first four sub-
projects for monitoring an d evaluation purposes.
25. Supervision    January      4             7      Irrigation
1996                              Agronomy
Economics
26. Supervision    May 1996    1              6      Irrigation             S              S         Pre-investment studies and construction of works continued to make
satisfactory progress but loan disbursements remained very low. Budget
allocations remained tight, and constrained implementation of the project with
respect to actual demand. Support to farmers progressed well and INDAP's
extension improved. Activities under the LFR improved significantly with
demand outstripping the supply of resources.
27. Supervision    January      3             10    Irrigation              S              S         Loan disbursement was expected to increase. INDAP was felt to be not fully
1997                              Agronomy                                       coordinated with the project with respect to the provision of extension
Economics                                      services. Procedures for allocating investment under the LFR continued to
improve. Base-line studies for nine sub-projects had been completed. Cost
recovery began from the first sub-project (Recoleta) to mature beyond
"provisional exploitation". The cost recovery study was delayed until late
1988 in order to allow practical experience to accrue.
28. Supervision    July 1997    3             6      Agronomy               S              S        Pre-investment studies and construction of sub-projects continued to make
Economics                                      satisfactory progress. Promulgation of the regulations on operating
(including                                                          procedures for the new LFR was anticipated. INDAP was to consolidate its
FAO/CP)                                                             collaboration with the UAR and the CU. The CDS prepared terms of
reference for an evaluation of the PROMM.
37



29. Supervision    January       3             11      Agronomy               S               S         Satisfactory progress continued in the preparation and implementation of
1998                               Economics                                        irrigation sub-projects, but disbuTsements continued at a very low level.
(including                                                             US$31 million of the loan was cancelled with effect from July 1997 at the
FAO/CP)                                                                request of the Borrower. A consulting fim, CIMA, was selected by the CDS
to carry out the evaluation study of PROMM.
30. Supervision    September
1998
31. Supervision    January
1998
32. Supervision    May 1999    2                9      Economics              S               S         The GOC had taken the decision to continue the PROMM after the end of the
and                                                                                                     Bank-supported phase of the program, a tribute to the project's success in
Implementation                   (including                                                             introducing a wide range of changes into sector development. The CIMA
Completion                      FAO/CP)                                                                 evaluation report was finalized in December 1998. The cost recovery study
Reporting                                                                                               was carried out by Luis Jorquera Ingenieros Consultores.
33.                September    2               5      Economics
Implementation     1999
Completion                      (including
Reporting                        FAO/CP)
38



APPENDIX 1
SUMMARY4l OF THE BORROWER'S REPORT
I. Introduction
1.     This report is intended to summarize the experience of the Coordination Unit in
the implementation of the Program of Construction and Rehabilitation of Small- and
Medium-Sized Irrigation Schemes (PROMM42), and to make recommendations, within
the framework of an Action Plan, to increase its efficiency and to solve the problems and
limitations that have affected its implementation to date.
2.      The PROMM  has been financed with national resources and a loan from the
World Bank (Ln. 3528-CH). This report, covering the period 1992-1998, has
incorporated many of the conclusions and recommendations presented in a number of
evaluation studies that have been made of the PROMM43.
3.      The PROMM  played an important role in the development of irrigated agriculture
in Chile, contributed effectively to inter-institutional coordination and the reactivation of
the irrigation sub-sector, and made effective the concept of the integrated development of
irrigated areas. The PROMM and its basic concepts are widely known in Chile, and are
supported by producers and by both public and private organizations related to irrigation.
Based on this, the Council of Ministers (CDS44) of the National Irrigation Committee
(CNR45) has approved the continuation of the Program beyond the closing date of the
World Bank's loan, authorizing the implementing agencies of the PROMM to continue to
request funding through their annual budgets to assure the continuity of PROMM.
41 The Report, entitled "PROMM - Experiencias y Perspectivas 1992-1998", dated April 1999, was sent to the Bank in
August 1999 after its approval by the Inter-Ministerial Committee (CDS). The translation and precis of the report was
the responsibility of the author of the ICR.
42 Programa de Construccion y Rehabilitacion de Obras de Riego Medianas y Menores
43 These include:
- Informe Final de Evaluaci6n: Programa de Fomento a la Inversion Privada en Obras de Riego y Drenaje, Ley
18450. Ministerio de Hacienda, Direccion de Presupuestos. August 1997.
- Evaluacion del Programa de Validaci6n y Primera Transferencia de Tecnologia en Riego y Sistemas Productivos de
Riego (PROVALTT): Informe Final. Plon yAsociados Ingenieros Consultores SA. November 1997.
- Evaluacion del Programa de Obras de Riego Medianas y Menores - PROMM. CIMA Consultores. 1998
- Estudio de Seguimiento Evaluaci6n de los Resultados de la Ley 18450 en el Periodo 1986-1996. Consultores
Profesionales Agraria Ltda. 1999
- Recuperacion de Costos segun el DFL 1123. Luis Jorquera G. Ingenieros Consultores. 1999
- Evaluacion de Proyectos Ley 18450 en Areas PROMM Echenique, Rolando, Aguirre. March 1999
44 Comisi6n de Direccion Superior
45 Comision Nacional de Riego
39



II. Background
Status of the Irrigation Sub-Sector prior to PROMM
4.    Any evaluation of PROMM must begin with an appreciation of the status of the
irrigation sub-sector prior to and during the preparation (1991-1992) of the project. As
the result of the suspension of public investment in new irrigation works, and the transfer
of responsibility for operation and maintenance to the private sector, expenditures by the
Ministry of Public Works (MOP) fell from US$55.4 million per year between 1965-1970
to US$5 million per year between 1981-1982 and to US$1.6 million in 1990. No new
public irrigation investment had been made since the new Water Code (DFL46 1222 of
October 29, 1981) and the new Conditions for the Implementation of Public Sector
Irrigation Works (DFL 1123 of December 21, 1981)47.
5.    Government support to the sub-sector was limited to the passing of Law 18450 of
October 30, 1985 which approved the Conditions for Promotion of Private Investment in
Irrigation and Drainage (the LFR48) and the Decree 175 of the Ministry of Agriculture
(MAG) which established the corresponding regulation. Between 1986-1990,
investments under the LFR rose to US$66 million, of which producers contributed
approximately 50%. About 70% of the investments were for on-farm irrigation
improvements.
6.    There were significant conflicts of responsibility and competition for scarce
resources between different public agencies intervening in irrigation. The Government of
Chile (GOC) requested Bank finance and technical support from the FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Program (FAO/CP) for the preparation and evaluation of a project to
reactivate the sub-sector and encourage private sector participation in the development of
irrigated agriculture.
PROMM according to the Staff Appraisal Report and the Loan Agreement
7.    Objectives of PROMM   The Staff Appraisal Report49 (SAR) and the Loan
Agreement50 specify the objectives of the project as: (a) to improve the operation and the
efficiency of existing irrigation schemes and the future development of the irrigation sub-
sector; (b) to strengthen the capabilities of water user groups and small farmers; (c) to
improve the allocation and sustainability of investment in irrigation; and (d) to enhance
the welfare of small farmers, particularly those in poor areas of Chile.
46 Decreto con Fuerza de Ley
47 The Regulation of DFL No. 1123 was published by MOP in September 1991 and modified in 1994 by DS/MOP
285.
48 Ley de Fomento de Riego
49 Chile: Irrigation Development Project. Report No. 10850-CH of October 26, 1992
50 Loan Agreement No. 3528-CH of Novenmber 20, 1992
40



8.   It is important to state that PROMM benefits small, medium and large farmers
alike. However, the Program has specific lines of support for the small farmers,
including extension, credit and training.
9.    Project Components  PROMM rehabilitates and modernizes irrigation
infrastructure, constructs new systems, improves on-farm water management, strengthens
users' organizations and supports agricultural development. It established the concept of
integrated development in which physical investment and support to agricultural
development are locked together. Most of PROMM's investments have been in
rehabilitating existing infrastructure. Medium-sized works cost between US$0.7-12
million and are implemented under the DFL No. 1 123. Small-sized works costing less
than US$700,000 are implemented under the LFR and the Small Farmer Irrigation
Program (SFIP) of the Agricultural Development Institute (INDAP). The Project
Description is presented in Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement.
10.   Coordination  The Council of Ministers of the CNR delegated the responsibility
for the management of PROMM to the CDS which is made up of the Sub-secretaries of
MAG and MOP and the Executive Secretary of the CNR. The functions of the CDS are:
(a) to establish policies for the management of PROMM; (b) to approve the Annual
Operating Program (POA) and supervise its implementation; (c) to approve the Progress
Reports; (d) to select projects for pre-investment study; (e) to define the projects to be
implemented; (f) to approve the hiring of staff for the Coordinating Unit (UCP) of the
PROMM and of consultants; and (g) to arbitrate inter-institutional disagreements.
11.   The UCP is responsible for: (a) implementing the decisions of the CDS;
(b) coordinating the preparation of investment projects and the POAs; (c) providing all
necessary information to the CDS for decision-making concerning the implementation of
the PROMM; (d) coordination between the implementing agencies of the PROMM;
(e) monitoring progress of the program, and preparing periodic reports for the CDS and
for the Bank; (f) recommending measures to resolve inter-institutional disagreements;
and (g) monitoring the use of financial resources in the PROMM.
12.   A Committee for Irrigated Agriculture (CAR) was created in MAG at the
beginning of the Program to coordinate different parts of the Ministry involved in
irrigation. The Irrigation Advisory Unit (UAR) was also created, depending initially
from the Sub-Secretary of Agriculture (SA) and subsequently from the Agricultural
Studies and Policies Office (ODEPA). The UAR eventually took over the functions of
the CAR, including those of internal coordination within MAG.
13.   At the Regional level, the CNR supported the establishment of Regional Irrigation
Committees (CRR) which are composed of the regional representatives (Secretaries) of
MAG and MOP, the Regional Directors of DOH, DGA, INDAP and the Agriculture and
Livestock Service (SAG), local political representatives and producers.
41



14.   Cost and Financing Estimates  In the SAR, the total cost estimate of the
project was US$118.7 million, including physical and price contingency provisions, to be
financed by the Bank (US$45 million) and the GOC (US$73.7 million). According to
this estimate, 80.7% of costs corresponded to works and on-farm irrigation technology,
7.5% to agricultural development and 1.9% to the strengthening of water users'
organizations. The remaining 9.9% represented physical and price contingency
provisions51.
Factors that Affected the Implementation of PROMM, and Main Changes
Introduced during the Implementation
15.   Financial Aspects The decision of the MH to finance the activities of PROMM
with sectoral financial resources allocated to the annual budgets of the executing agencies
(with the exception of the UCP, the UAR, and some activities of the SE/CNR) reduced
the rate of implementation of the program and prevented the achievement of the targets
for investment that had been established in the SAR. Up to the end of 1998, 72.7% of the
total cost estimated in the SAR had been spent, including some 76.8% of projected
expenditures in physical investments. The details are shown in Table 1. The
independence of MH with respect to the Loan Agreement was confirmed in a direct
communication from the Director of Budget dated March 4, 1993 to the UCP confirming
the decision of the MH not to seek reimbursement from the Bank for expenditures made
in 1992. In 1997, the MH agreed with the Bank a reduction in the amount of the loan
from US$45 million to US$14 million. By the end of 1998, disbursements had reached
US$11 million.
16.   The demands for financial resources for the construction, improvement and/or
rehabilitation of medium-sized works far exceeded the availability of sectoral funding
allocated in the annual budgets. According to CIMA Consultores in 1998, if the level of
investment expenditures were to be maintained at US$8.66 million, the average annual
level of the period 1994-1997, the pipe-line of projects being processed by PROMM
would allow investment to continue for fourteen years. Amongst the specific financial
factors that affected the performance of PROMM can be distinguished the following:
The rejection by MIDEPLAN of DGA's proposed investment program presented in
1993 to finance the component of technical assistance and training for water users
from 1994 onwards caused the DGA not to continue with this activity, and only in
1995 was it able to reach an agreement with the DOH to strengthen some water
users' organizations under PROMM within the framework of "provisional use".
* At the beginning of 1993, INDAP informed MAG and the UCP that it was unable to
comply during 1993 with the Letter of Agreement signed between it and the MH
(which had been a condition of Loan effectiveness), because of the lack of
incremental financial resources to carry out its responsibilities as defined in the Loan
51 Editor's note: These percentages are 89.9%, 8.0%, and 2.1%, respectively, when calculated on the basis of total
costs including contingency provisions.
42



Agreement. At that time, it was expected that INDAP would be able to count on the
availability of these resources in subsequent years; this proved not to be the case,
and caused INDAP's contribution to the program to be questioned in several
documents and on several occasions.
* The fulfillment of the terms of the agreement between MAG and INIA (defined in
Section 3.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement) could not be achieved and led, with the "no
objection" of the Bank, to substantial changes in the component of validation of
technology which was only able to begin at the end of 1993, almost one year late.
*  In 1999, the UAR was forced to delay for one year its program of monitoring the
impact of PROMM in agricultural production because of a lack of budgetary
resources.
17. In the future, better coordination must be achieved in the allocation of resources.
Each agency should in coordination with the others establish a line item in its budget to
allow the constitution of an integrated annual financial plan based on annual operating
programs by project consolidated at the level of the CRRs. The UCP would then
consolidate the partial programs into an annual operating program for the whole of
PROMM, for presentation to the CDS for consideration in the light of other factors,
such as regional priorities, availability of financial resources, and institutional capacity.
In this way, financing and implementation would be integrated. The monitoring of
these packages of activity would be carried out by the CRRs. The CDS should seek a
decision in the Council of Ministers to maintain during the year the respective sectoral
budgets; if budget cuts are unavoidable, they should respect the integrated nature of the
annual operating program.
18. Coordination Early in the implementation of PROMM, a Technical Committee
was created to solve those problems of implementation that did not require a decision by
the CDS. The Committee is made up of representatives of the implementation agencies
and is chaired by the coordinator of PROMM. In parallel, a Technical Evaluation
Committee was formed to establish, according to pre-established criteria, the priority
among projects to be the subjects of pre-investment studies. During the implementation
of PROMM, several initiatives were taken to strengthen the CRRs; however, except in
exceptional cases, the CRRs did not meet regularly and their agreements were not
binding on their members. Repeated efforts to activate the CRRs, both in the
identification of projects potentially suitable for PROMM and to coordinate the
activities of PROMM at the regional level, had only partial success.
19. Development at River Basin Level PROMM sub-projects are geographically
dispersed. The mid-term review report of the project concluded that the competition of
different sectors of the economy and urban centers for water resources and growing
problems of pollution are causing conflicts between water users. In the future, the
demands for multi-use water projects will increase, which will require integral solutions
to be found at the level of the river basin. Future PROMM sub-projects should be
located in catchment or micro-catchment areas considered priority at the national and
43



regional level, and should form part of an overall program of water use, development
and conservation.
20.  The UAR gradually incorporated this new orientation into its Program of
Technology Validation and First Transfer (PROVALTT)52 starting in 1998. This
change contributed to an optimal use of water resources and a better articulation
between producer organizations and the first and second transfer of technology, as well
as rationalizing the use of financial resources.
21. Other Factors Amongst the externalities that affected the development of the
PROMM should be mentioned the severe droughts that affected the III to V Regions in
1996 and the III to IX Regions in 1998, the storms of 1997 that affected the central area
of Chile, and the earthquake of 1997 that caused significant damage in the IV Region.
III.   Analysis by Project Component
Medium-Sized Works
22.  The SAR emphasized the need for the PROMM to concentrate 65% of its
investment resources on rehabilitation and modernization of the existing irrigation
infrastructure rather than on new works, given the problems caused by collapsed or
incomplete works that had suffered from the earlier contraction in investment. PROMM
also reiterated the official policy of passing the management operation and maintenance
of irrigation systems to the organizations of water users which implied, on the one hand,
the rehabilitation of infrastructure and, on the other, the need to reach agreement with
the beneficiaries with respect to the recovery of investment costs and the subsequent
operation and maintenance of the works in accordance with the demands of DFL
No.1123 and its regulations.
23.  Basic Data  The procedures for carrying out medium-sized investments in
irrigation financed with fiscal resources are controlled by DFL No. 1123 and its
regulation. The sub-projects originate at the regional level by private or public initiative
and with the participation of the producers who are the potential beneficiaries. Those
projects that need pre-investment study are ranked in order of priority according to pre-
determined criteria, including the level of financial participation by the beneficiaries.
Those projects that need design and construction must pass a threshold rate of return of
12% and must meet the demands of DFL No. 1123. In order to facilitate the
negotiations with beneficiaries at the level of the "letter of commitment", only those
works can be constructed that are backed by an organization of users that is legally
constituted or in formation. The recovery of costs is governed by DFL No. 1123. The
study and implementation of medium-sized projects is connected to MOP through the
DOH (previously the DR) with the involvement of other departments. The first project
52 Programa de Validacion y Primera Transferencia de Tecnologia de Riego y en Sistemas Productivos de Riego
44



to be constructed was the Sif6n La Placa, which was begun in 1992 and handed over to
the users' group ACER53, in 1993.
24.  During the implementation of the project, several conceptual modifications were
made to the procedures, mainly concerning the terms of reference of the pre-investment
studies and the economic and environmental impact analyses, with the objective of
making uniform the criteria and facilitating the monitoring of the project's impact on
agricultural development. In this respect, the UCP and the UAR changed the concept of
an "average farm" for that of a "typical farm". This latter was actually represented by a
real farm in the project area, identified in the registers of the Internal Taxation Service54.
Analysis of the farm made at the beginning of the sub-project is then compared with
subsequent years through monitoring to identify levels of technology absorption and
impact on production.
25.  During the project, changes were made in the criteria employed in the
establishment of priority among sub-projects destined to be the subject of pre-
investmnent study. The objective has been to select areas with higher than average
potential, where the environmental impact is minimized, that benefit farmers whose
organizations and water titles are already established, and that are located in areas of
development priority.
26.  The basic concept behind the establishment of works of irrigation infrastructure is
that of the integrated institutional support of agricultural development based on the
efficient use of soils and water with the participation of the producers operating in a
framework of a strengthened organization. The basic premise was that financial
resources would be available in a sufficient and timely manner to cover the demand for
studies, design, and construction during a period of six years as defined in the Loan
Agreement. The principal objectives of the construction of irrigation works under DFL
No. 1123 are: (a) to rehabilitate and improve existing systems whose deterioration
threatens production; (b) to take emergency measures where structures have collapsed
or are about to do so; and (c) to expand the area under irrigation with at least 85% water
security.
27.  The goal was to construct 19 new works and rehabilitate/improve 35 works. The
actual achievement of the project is summarized as follows:
| Projects       Goal  In use  In construction  In design   Waiting list   Total
New              19      1          1            0                     2
Rehabilitation   35     12          3            6           -         21
Undefined                                                   20         20
Total            54     13          4            6          20         43
53 Asociaci6n de Canalistas del Embalse Recoleta.
54 Servicio de Impuesto Interno
45



The main cause of under-achievement of the goals was the budgetary limitation imposed
by the DOH. Medium-sized works showed important advances in 1993, but have
decreased since because of the commitment of funds to large-sized works. In the period
1992-1998, US$59 million was spent on medium-sized works, significantly less than the
US$104 million projected in the SAR.
Total expenditures on medium-sized works (in US$ million) are shown below:
1992-1993    1994    1995      1996      1997      1998
Annual         16.445     9.966     6.284    8.882     9.287     8.145
Expenditure
Cumulative      16.445    26.411    32.695    41.577    50.864    59.009
expenditure            I         I         I        I _I___
28.   Between 1993-1998, 13 sub-projects were completed at a cost of US$39.2
million which have improved water security on 92,094 ha and have incorporated 2,391
ha of new irrigation. The cost was an average of US$415 per ha, and 12,248 farmers
were benefited. As of December 1998, four sub-projects are under construction with a
cumulative investment of US$10.3 million which will benefit 54,032 ha and 2,162
farmers. Nine projects have been studied which, if implemented, would improve
irrigation on 78,400 ha and bring under irrigation a further 29,900 ha.
29.  Cost Recovery  The SAR did not establish any targets for cost recovery.
According to the law, investment costs can only be recovered once the period of
rprovisional operation" has been concluded and the corresponding presidential decree
signed. In the PROMM, only the project Sifon la Placa (La Recoleta) has reached this
stage, and the beneficiaries of ACER are making their payments on time. As of
December 31, 1998, some 23.2% of the public investment in this project had been
repaid.
30.  The cost recovery study was carried out by Luis Jorquera G. Ingenieros
Consultores and the draft study is being reviewed by the DOH. The study covers the
following areas: the design of a data base of projects constructed under DFL No. 1 123;
the methodology for the calculation of payments and the recovery of investment costs
and subsidies; the analysis of administrative procedures and proposed instruments for
the application of DFL No. 1123 and its Regulation; the analysis of DFL No. 1123 and
recommendations on legal changes to improve its application; and operational manuals.
The study has also generated modified terms of reference for feasibility studies, and
formats for all the legal instruments require (commitment and reimbursement letters,
letters of interest, decrees, etc.).
31   Pre-Investment Studies  PROMM introduced into the traditional terms of
reference for pre-investment studies the concept of agricultural development based on
the efficient management and use of water at the farm level.
32.  The quality and level of detail of the pre-investment studies affect not only the
quality of the project from the technical/financial point of view but also the negotiations
46



with the beneficiaries. Significant differences in investment costs and number of
beneficiaries were seen in different PROMM projects, and these can only be avoided by
making more demands on the consistency of the pre-investment studies. With respect to
the cost recovery study, it is recommended that the concepts of "pre-project" - as the
basis for the letter of interest - and "definitive project" - as the basis for the letter of
commitment - should be re-established. With better and more detailed pre-proj ects and
definitive projects, more precise and complete letters can be prepared. In this respect,
the pre-investment study is not sufficient; more advanced designs are needed to obtain
budgets with the level of detail necessary.
33.  In order to sign the letter of commitment, and prior to the implementation of the
works, it is essential to have: (a) a detailed list of the beneficiaries, their land-holdings
and water rights; (b) a clear understanding of the payment capacity of the different strata
of producers; and (c) cost estimates of the order of +/- 15% accuracy. The importance
of participation by the beneficiaries through their water users' organizations in project
identification and pre-investment studies cannot be over-emphasized, with the objective
of facilitating the eventual negotiations.
34.  Environmental Aspects  PROMM introduced the issue of environmental
impact analysis into the pre-investment studies, as required in the SAR. The basic
guideline (the SRCA)55 was established in March, 1994. This established a set of
criteria specific to the project which was established prior to the Environmental Law56
and the Regulation of the Environmental Impact Evaluation System (the RSEIA)57, and
is fully compatible with them. The DOH is currently reviewing the SRCA to make the
adjustments necessary with respect to the revised RSEIA.
35. Not all of the PROMM projects have followed the methodology and procedures
defined in the SRCA. The inclusion of the register sheets and environmental studies as
part of the feasibility studies resulted in widely-differing text structures, and in some
cases incomplete and occasionally even missing the required environmental
classification. In general, only direct impacts have been included.
36.  The quality of works has been examined each year as part of the audit carried out
by the state audit authority, the Contraloria General de la Republica.(CGR). The works,
in general, are of good quality. This conclusion was also reached by CIMA
Consultores. Procurement was carried out in a transparent manner and in accordance
with the requirements of the Loan Agreement.
55 Sistema de Revisi6n y Clasificacion Ambiental
56 Ley de Bases Generales del Medio Ambiente No. 19300, March 1994
57 Reglamento del Sistema de Evaluacion de Impacto Ambiental
47



Small-Sized Works
37.  The relevant operational agencies are the SE/CNR through the LFR and, to a
lesser degree, INDAP through its Small Farmer Irrigation Program (SFIP)58. The
objective of the LFR is to promote private investment to increase the irrigated area,
improve water supply in zones with deficiencies, improve drainage and generally to
improve the use of water. The law provides investment subsidies, and the beneficiaries
are individual farmers, organizations of producers, and water users' groups. Access to
these benefits of the LFR is via public bidding, in which the unit cost per area improved
and the bidder's own contribution to the investment are important factors in the
adjudication. The SFIP provides technical assistance, finances small investments and
promotes the organization of water users' communities.
38. This component began immediately under PROMM because these activities were
already in operation, but even so there were excessive delays in the first bidding
processes carried out under the LFR. At the time (1994), consultants reported that the
delays in the on-farm and off-farm works, designed to complement the works carried
out under the DFL No. 1123, were having the effects of postponing agricultural
development and, therefore, delaying benefits, making difficult the operations of water
users' organizations that were unable to count on effective systems of water control and
management, and even creating damage by providing water but without the
corresponding improvements in the secondary and tertiary distribution systems.
However, the process periods between the opening of the technical reports and the
publication of results, the responsibility of the SE/CNR, was reduced considerably; the
processing of paperwork after the publication of results also included the time taken by
the CGR in review, and that normally took between 30 and 45 days.
39.  INDAP lacked the necessary financial resources to implement its SFIP because of
the delay in processing the INDAP-FOSIS Agreement and the need to obtain acceptance
at the regional level of its program of projects. To these difficulties must be added
INDAP's delay in hiring the six staff to make up the Regional Irrigation Coordinators
team (and who, four years later, were absorbed by INDAP).
40.  The only institutional changes were in functional aspects of the implementing
agencies of the PROMM:
(a) Law 18450 was modified by Law 19136 in August 1994, favoring a greater
participation in the benefits of the LFR by small farmers;
(b) the ending of the INDAP- FOSIS Agreement, whose rotating fund financed
studies and works among small farmers choosing benefits under the LFR; and
(c) changes in INDAP, discontinuity of the Irrigation Coordinators and
absorption by INDAP of its role in the PROMM.
58 Programa de Riego Campesino
48



There were no targets set for investment funds that would be destined to small works by
SE/CNR and INDAP.
41. Except in the case of new irrigation projects, the medium-sized works are
confined to major parts of irrigation infrastructure (e.g., off-takes, dams, main canals).
Between these and the fields lies a vast distribution system, administered by the users'
association, that frequently needs improvement in order to reduce water losses. The
LFR provides incentives to the private sector to improve this infrastructure.
42.  Neither the Loan Agreement nor the SAR refers to improvement of irrigation on-
farm, but the objectives of agricultural development demand better and more efficient
water use at the field level. The LFR, and the SFIP of INDAP, provide benefits to the
rehabilitation and modernization of infrastructure requested by users' organizations.
Small-sized on- and off-farm works are a key function of the PROMM, helping to
develop agriculture and, thereby, to facilitate eventual cost recovery.
43. Beneficiaries of the PROMM could participate in the open bidding processes for
LFR resources or in bidding processes specific to the PROMM that were established in
1993. Between 1994-1998, there were 19 specific bidding processes of which 17 had
been completed by the end of 1998; of the total, six were for commercial farmers, ten
were for small farmers and one for an example of technically-advanced irrigation. The
17 processes benefited 58,821 ha59 of which only 919 ha was on-farm technical
advance. From 511 projects submitted, only 169 were approved; 132 projects were
excluded because of the limitation on funding available, and this latter problem
worsened in the last three bidding processes. Overall, in the 17 bidding processes, the
amount requested was UF703,000 whilst only UF605,000 was available. In the last
bidding processes, demand for resources exceeded availability by over 200%, indicating
a steadily growing demand for LFR benefits and incentives. In 1999, the resources
assigned to the LFR increased by 82% with respect to 1998.
44. The LFR had only minimal impact on the on-farm improvement of irrigation.
On-farn irrigation development is crucial to the achievement of agricultural
development but was not specifically a focus of the PROMM and was not dealt with in
the SAR. On-farm irrigation development cost on average US$4,070 per ha, compared
to US$253 per ha for the off-farm works with collective benefits. The problem of on-
farm irrigation development becomes more important in those projects that generate
new areas of irrigation. Initiation of irrigation on -farm at the earliest moment is the key
to project profitability, and requires additional financial resources via the LFR or
alternative sources. This could be achieved through CORFO and the financial system.
45. The INDAP SFIP benefited 1,579 producers and 8,205 ha under the LFR, and 402
producers and 1,139 ha with INDAP's own resources. In the former, the costs were of
US$590 per ha (US$3,056 per producer) and in the latter US$5,387 per ha (US$15,267
59 There is a problem of "double counting", of unknown extent, because of the inclusion of areas of land in more than
one sub-project. The best estimate is that about 44,700 ha were in fact benefited.
49



per producer). There is recent evidence60 that there are significant problems related to
the quality of work carried out under this program, related mainly to the lack of
supervision and inspection because of reduced budgetary resources. Part of the funds
assigned to each bidding process under the LFR should be dedicated to technical
supervision and inspection of the works.
Strengthening of Agricultural Production
46.  This was evaluated based on the 13 sub-projects in operation6". The goals
established in the design of the PROMM will be achieved over a much longer time-
frame than the four years of the PROMM. Investments in "primary" infrastructure
presuppose that complementary investments on-farm and off-farm will be made by
farmers and their organizations, and this is affected by many factors. In the relatively
short time that has passed, the combined effects of civil works, technology transfer and
access to the benefits of the LFR have had positive effects on agricultural development
and production.
47.  Only 4 of the 13 projects are sufficiently advanced to allow a first effort at
evaluation; these are Recoleta and Canal Buzeta (Region IV), Lliu-lliu (Region V), and
Convento Viejo (Region VI).
48.  The main objectives of the component were to improve irrigated agriculture and
to improve policy-making in the sector. The strategy was to validate technology under
field conditions, and to extend it to small farmers via INDAP (credit and secondary
technology transfer) and its SFIP. The CAR, with an Irrigation Support Unit, was to be
established in the MAG to coordinate INIA (research) and INDAP, and to develop
policy. First (primary) technology transfer would be done under the INIA-INDAP
Agreement through the CATTs. The budget was projected at US$4.5 million (US$2.83
million for research - of which FONDEF would provide US$2.10 million - and US$1.67
million for technology transfer). The budget for secondary technology transfer was
projected at US$4.18 million.
49.  Several changes were made to this framework. The MH did not provide
incremental resources to the implementing agencies. The transfer of resources for the
MAG-INIA Agreement for primary technology transfer was overtaken by a more open
and competitive focus on the component. There were irresolvable conflicts given the
institutional rigidities and unsatisfied financial needs.
50.  The changes introduced were four: (a) in primary technology transfer, the
UVALes and MODEMs62 were introduced and a whole series of procedural
modifications were made; (b) the INDAP/CATT approach was abandoned, and a direct
and simplified approach adopted through UAR/ODEPA; (c) the UAR replaced the CAR
60 Informe Final de Evaluacion ... Ministerio de Hacienda, op.cit.
61 Sif6n La Placa and Canal Villalon are considered as one project - Recoleta.
62 Unidad de Validaci6n Tecnologica -UVAL, and Mddulo Demostrativo - MODEM
50



in coordination of MAG activities with the PROMM; and (d) the UAR passed from the
Sub-Secretariat of Agriculture in MAG to ODEPA.
51.  Between 1993-1998, a total of US$6.84 million was spent on primary technology
transfer; US$2.23 million came from FONDEF and US$4.61 million from the
PROVALTT Program (INIA and Universities). It was impossible to obtain data from
INDAP on expenditures on secondary technology transfer (i.e., extension to farmers).
52.  It was assumed that close coordination with clearly defined goals was possible
between the implementing agencies, expressed via a POA which is a main instrument of
PROMM. These agencies were INDAP, SE/CNR, and the UAR. A necessary condition
to achieve this is the provision of financial resources on time and in sufficient quantity,
and these resources must be incremental at the level of the agencies.
53.  The main activities under the component were: (a) adaptive agricultural research;
(b) the primary transfer of technology; (c) the secondary transfer of technology
(extension to farmers); and (d) putting land under irrigated cultivation.
54. The goals were: (a) the INIA-FONDEF Agreement for research (US$2.1 million
over four years from 1993); (b) the INIA-INDAP Agreement establishing 30 CATTs
and four intensive training courses per year for INIA technicians; (c) INDAP's
commitment to work with 14,000 farmers over 5 years in PROMM areas; and (d)
INDAP would hire four specialists to strengthen its SFIP in four PROMM areas. The
project's design did not include targets or impact indicators for the agricultural
development of the projects benefiting from the medium-sized works. Once the
PROMM was under way, the World Bank asked the CU to define these indicators based
on the feasibility studies of sub-projects, and a monitoring and evaluation system was
developed based on the first four sub-projects established.
55. By December 1998, the PROMM had benefited 94,485 ha on 12,248 land-
holdings under medium-sized schemes.
56. Adaptive Research The INIA-FONDEF Agreement was signed. A total of
US$2.23 million was spent on adaptive research (US$79,800 from private sources,
US$1.09 million from INIA, and US$1.06 million from FONDEF), compared to the
amount of US$2.83 million budgeted for the program formulated by INIA as a condition
of loan effectiveness demanded by the World Bank.
57. Primary Technology Transfer The INIA-INDAP Agreement did not produce
the expected results because the inclusion of the PROMM in the Small Farmer Services
Project did not concur with the operational framework of the PROMM. The position
adopted by the MH finally justified a profound change in the original strategy. The new
approach was based on the establishment of the UVALes and the MODEMs. The
coverage of PROVALTT by the end of 1996 was 5,065 individuals (446 technicians
and 4,619 farmers) and represent 28% of the farmers in the 12 sub-projects reviewed.
Public and private participants in the validation of technology in the period 1993-1996
51



took the decision to share in the finance and regional coordination of PROVALTT,
assuring its continuation.
58.  Secondary Technology Transfer INDAP received no incremental resources
with which to undertake the task of reaching 14,000 PROMM beneficiaries. In addition,
INDAP's long-term approach did not coincide with PROMM's (relatively) short-term
goals. INDAP established conditions that did not agree with PROMM's operational
framework. INDAP showed no interest in participating in the PROMM; it did not
present a POA, nor did it attend coordination meetings, and it made no effort to
participate in or to use the results generated by the PROVALTT. Small farmers sought
support directly from the PROVALTT, much more so than did INDAP itself. In some
cases, farms judged to be too small to obtain credit and technical assistance from
INDAP showed themselves perfectly capable of becoming commercial enterprises.
59.  Three main factors were responsible: (a) the Regional Directorates' excessive
dependence on the central office of INDAP; (b) the system of programming by areas by
INDAP, and the setting of priorities unrelated to PROMM which left several sub-
projects without any INDAP extension support at all; and (c) the continual changes in
administration and service delivery strategy of INDAP.
60. Monitoring and Evaluation The CU and the UAR established a methodology
based on typical farms and indicators, with "base-line" studies and bi-annual
measurements, By the end of 1998, ten base-line studies had been prepared in the
twelve sub-projects in operation. At the field level, PROMM has already had an impact:
(a) in-field technical advance in irrigation under the LFR and the SFIP has been limited
so far to a few high-efficiency systems (e.g., drip irrigation); (b) numerous anecdotal
examples of highly significant increases in net income, in the ratio of increase in net
income per unit of incremental variable cost, and in profitability at the farm level;
(c) specific examples of improved irrigation technology and its impact on vegetable
production, in beef fattening and dairy production, and in rice; and (d) effects in the
formation if technology transfer groups.
Regularization of Water Rights
61.  The majority of the river basins in which the PROMM operates have a growing
competition for water both between agricultural users and between different sectors of
the economy. Clear water rights are increasingly important. The project, therefore,
included the regularization of water rights in the PROMM sub-project areas and the
provision of support to the national level program via the completion of the irrigation
infrastructure inventory and the regularization of water rights which had been begun in
the 1980s by the DGA.
62. The DGA's first budget request (EB163) under the PROMM was rejected by the
Ministry of Planning (MIDEPLAN) in 1993; the 1994 budget did not, therefore, have
63 Basic Investment Data (Estadisticas Basicas de Inversi6n)
52



the necessary funds and (for unexplained reasons) the DGA did not make the request in
subsequent years. The DGA financed the component from its ordinary budget, and
invested a total of US$1.4 million.
63. The regularization of water rights is important because the sub-projects will be
handed over to the respective users' organizations after the "provisional use" period and
because cost recovery from project beneficiaries will be made on the basis of their water
use rights. The up-to-date water cadaster and rights registry are essential for training,
for equitable water distribution and for cost recovery for capital investments made from
public funds.
64. The infrastructure inventory and the register of water rights in the five river basins
(Limari, Mataquito, Maule, Bio-Bio, and sections III and IV of Aconcagua) were
completed between 1992-1998. The computerized data base of the public water
cadaster (CPA) is being developed by the DGA using its own resources; it began in
1995, and expects to complete the work in 2001.
Strengthening of Water Users' Organizations
65. The PROMM is demand-driven, and responds to the needs of its beneficiaries
who commit themselves to repay the investments made under the DFL 1123. The
PROMM sub-projects need an organization of users that is legally constituted and
properly trained to operate and maintain the irrigation infrastructure. The actual
requirements for training and technical assistance vary between sub-projects, and from
the beginning of the PROMM in 1993 a set of generic problems was detected in the
areas of operation and maintenance, accounting, and legal issues. The CU organized
two workshops/seminars, to identify problems and needs, in 1993 and in 1994.
66. Because of financial constraints, the CU decided to focus on those sub-projects at
the stage of exploitation. The DOH (ex-DR) took the responsibility for training and
strengthening the water users' organizations, and the DGA restricted itself to the legal
constitution of new water users' organizations and the legal formalization of existing
ones. From a legal point of view, the water users' organizations all have the objective of
obtaining and distributing water, but the most advanced among them express interest in
providing technical assistance, agricultural production and marketing. The legal form of
"sociedad" was created with the water users, and began with the ACER.
67. The projected cost of the component was US$1.07 million over five years using
resources incremental to the ordinary budget of the DGA. The rejection in 1993 by
MIDEPLAN of the EBI created by the DGA for its role in the PROMM resulted in there
being no incremental resources in 1994 or in any year thereafter.
68. The original objective of strengthening 450 water users' organizations through
120 training courses was reduced to 56 courses and restricted to those water users'
organizations representing the beneficiaries of the PROMM. In training and
strengthening of water users' organizations, the DOH invested US$344,000 between
53



1995 and 1998, of which US$244,000 corresponded to the PROMM sub-projects, about
23% of the US$1.07 million originally projected at design.
Institutional Strengthening
69.  The institutional design of the PROMM presupposed that the implementing
agencies were adequate to the task of achieving the objectives of the program. The
creation of PROMM implied: (a) the creation of the CDS and a small technical
secretariat, the CU; and (b) the establishment of the CAR and the UAR for internal
coordination within the MAG. The design of the component was the result of consensus
among the executing agencies.
70.  The CDS was created in 1991 (during project preparation). The institutional
structure of the project is based mainly on agreements rather than on "lines of
authority". In each of the executing agencies there existed a strong dependency on the
central authority that was more powerful than the influence of participation in the
PROMM. The changes that were expected in the institutional framework were a
function of the changes in administrations and their strategies. For example, the UAR
passed from the Sub-Secretariat of Agriculture in MAG to ODEPA in 1993. The
PROVALTT program implemented by the UAR under the PROMM passed to the
SE/CNR in 1998 before returning to its original location in 1999.
71.  In 1990, no single institution had the necessary authority to undertake the tasks
necessary to rehabilitate or modernize the irrigation systems, strengthen the water users'
organizations, and use the improved water resources for agricultural development. In
addition, the institutions with responsibility in the irrigation sector had deficiencies in
their individual capabilities and capacities. There was no inter-institutional
coordination. The PROMM, by contrast, has had an integrated approach in which
investment in irrigation infrastructure and agricultural development were intimately
connected. Central and regional coordination was needed between the MOP, the MAG,
and the MEFR. The World Bank also played an important role through its supervision
missions and other links to the project. The institutional development component was
designed to create and maintain the necessary inter-institutional coordination with the
creation of the CDS, the UAR and the UC, as well as the decentralized administration
via the CRRs.
72.  The main institutional problems were in the area of secondary technology transfer
to the small farmers by INDAP, the participation of whose department of Technical
Assistance was practically nil and which did not utilize the outputs of the PROVALTT.
73.  The MH insisted that the agencies participating in the PROMM should do so
using their ordinary budget resources. This affected negatively the participation of the
DGA and INDAP in particular, as well as the funding assigned to medium-sized works.
The MAG-INIA Agreement was the principal victim, and required a substantial change
in the component of technology validation which could begin only in 1994 (i.e., one
year late) and for a shorter period than necessary.
54



74. The programming base for each institution participating in the PROMM is the
POA, which is prepared in Santiago with little or no participation by the regions.
Progress in implementing the project is monitored through two annual reviews of the
POA in effect. There should be more regional participation in the preparation of the
POA and in the multi-year programming at the level of sub-project or group of sub-
projects.
75.  A multi-year program for the PROMM would facilitate the coordination of the
budget with the MH and would become an efficient instrument of coordination,
monitoring and evaluation of the project. However, the difficulties must be recognized
of coordinating for any given sub-project the investments made or to be made under
DFL 1123 and the LFR.
76. The CGR was responsible for the annual audits of the PROMM. The audit was
limited to the medium-sized investments program and several agreements between the
DOH and the SE/CNR.
77.  The mid-term review of the project was carried out based on a consultants' report
of December 1994. The resultant Action Plan was approved by the CDS. In general,
the Action Plan was complied with. However, it was impossible to prepare the draft
POA in June of each year, as recommended, because at that point in the year the
executing agencies are in full discussion of their budgets for the following year with
MH and MIDEPLAN.
55



Table 1. Projected and Actual Costs of the PROMM (USS millions)
Components                           Cost (US$ millions)
Projected          Actual
1. Irrigation Infrastructure.l
1.1  Civil works                                   93.5              71.83
1.2  Institutional development                      2.3              0.98
2. Strengthening of Agricultural Production                                    l
2.1  Adaptive research                              2.8               2.17
2.2  Technology transfer (primary)                  1.7               4.82
2.3  Extension                                      3.7               4.2
2.4  Institutional development                      0.7               0.58
3. Strengthening of Water Users' Organizations                                  l
3.1  Training                                       0.9               0.24
3.2  Regularization of water rights                 1.3               1.48
Physical contingency provision                 0.2
Price contingency provision                   11.6                         l
Total                                             118.7              86.30
56



MAP SECTION






CHILE
CITIES OVER 50,000 INHABITANTS                                     CENTRAL VALLEY
* 50,000 - 100,00                                              .,A  PORTS
A  100,000 300,000                                                   ADMINISTRATIVE REGION BOUNDARIES
* 300,000 +                                                   -   -  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Agriculturol           Zone           Tote         Crep Ind      Irrigated                               I    Region n      M..Arr OOI  Mean An. .R.
Production                         k,r" (000o)    he (000'S)    ha (000's)                    70O  .        Capltos                OC   _tm
Irrigoted oases               I           178            13            11
and river volleys          Desert                                                       .-        r             IQUIQUE
20     4                0                18.3'               2   <
lq.ique. 
* - ANTOFAGASTA
ILL
Irrigated river              11           120           195            13                          I
valleys and oases,          Arid                                                                    c       (  OP/APO
itinerant sheep and
goats
Le Seren                0                   14.4'              100-
'IV ,       LA SERENA
Fruits, vegetables,          III           93          2160           1050                         V       VALPARAISO
grapes, wheat,            Mediter-                                                    valp-iso- I V                                                    367
.p                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~                                            ~       ~~~~~~~~~Vine  13.9'  367-
maize, milk,              ronean                                                      S.n                 rti.ga
sunflower, beef,                                                                      SIrR(MIARSANTIAGOg
cattle, sheep,                                                                            R.
sugar, pulses,                                                                          So, F-.         'RNA U
forestry                                                                                      0              TALCA
C.renp10       n                                    13.0'             1319
Cattle, milk,                IV           102          2990           170                                CONCEPCION
sheep, forestry,        Temperate                                                               co          TEMUCO
barley, oats,                                                                           L
potatoes, fruits,                                                                    C~C
sugorbeets,                                                                      40P                                                       ' i  12
pulses, wheat(
6   M. R t PUERTO
MONTT
Sheep, cattle,               V            248           185            1           CIL.
forestry                   Humid
=                                                                    Coyhaj~~~~~~~~~~~~                                ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ue* j   8.01  2865
BOLIVIA   Zo .                                                                   Ce                                            '5
I                                                                                    panS ~~BRAILCOYHAIQUE
|  t       .AAGUAVE BRA7IL                                                        iW  %XI 
,x(
-      (   A;ROENTINA                                                                 L9\   ')0t;G 
_o                                            _           __                                                      PUNTA
_________________ ______________A 1ARENAS
F                                        0t |   l  0 AIUNTIC   _   o  200  400El:R;    600  800  |O |   r >   s> '-. -
ATLANTIC                             KILOMETERS                             ,v/
c   |B /    q   OCEA/R' |                 5h'aVh.nbRab'R~K00sd.#F*>0mS  ||  >,,?z*;r,to AlenOs          6.2-27542.
BR'    .     H    ROB  IBrO                  A r, aw 8 RBRot0ezoO     aom          ||                          Areno               6.6'             27-
-AW                             ,,W  n.A"' 1A SOVO~, 0 Rn|,~      C,o      Ro-                       I-,i                         6.6'
ol~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _ 4



